berlin ( reuters ) - german drag queens are using satire to spoof a hard-right party s anti-islam election campaign , and german voters are loving it .
they have formed transvestites for germany , or tfd , a name that bears an uncanny resemblance to alternative for germany ( afd ) , the name of germany s leading right-wing party , and launched a facebook campaign that has almost 7,000 followers .
the afd s election campaign focuses on messages that islamic customs don t belong in germany .
that has left a bad taste with many germans , and tfd saw an opportunity to use drag fashion and wit to mock the afd s own election placards .
the afd posters feature white german women in bikinis or raising wine glasses , with captions like burka ?
i m into bikinis and burka ?
i m into burgundy .
the posters are emblazoned with the party s election motto : i dare you , germany !
the tfd version of the posters uses the afd s light blue party color but replaces the anti-immigrant party s red arrow with red stiletto shoes .
guzzle your crap burgundy alone !
i prefer prosecco , reads one poster with a picture of gisela sommer , one of several bearded men dressed like women and raising a middle finger on tfd placards , which include the hashtags # noafd and # nonazipack .
jacky-oh weinhaus the tfd campaign has drawn the attention of several german newspapers and has brought some flare to an otherwise largely dull election .
chancellor angela merkel is expected to win and secure a fourth term in office without much trouble .
i don t think that all afd members are nazis , but there is an appalling racial tone in this party which is for sure shared by many of its members , said tfd leader jacky-oh weinhaus .
buffalo meus , the media manager of the fictional party , said he gets about 50 facebook messages a day from people asking how they can become tfd members .
we just wanted an art project , meus said .
but some people have taken us for a real party .
they ask us , how can i register ?
how can i vote for you ?
not all the messages are pleasant .
other readers have wished the group members death by stoning or by hanging .
the group s main goal is get the 17 million germans who stayed home in the 2013 election to the polls .
they hope their votes will cut into support for the afd , which is forecast to enter parliament for the first time with 8 to 10 percent of the vote .
instead of supporting the afd , the only party that criticizes islam , you go against it , an angry facebook user called hans horn wrote to tfd this week .
if islamisation continues and muslim invaders from africa continue to flood in you will be the first to be thrown from high roofs .
the tfd responded two days later : we love you and wish you a sunny wednesday !