harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president robert mugabe is set to appoint a woman deputy after a special ruling party congress next month , the first lady said on saturday and added that there was nothing wrong if her husband appointed her .
the 93-year-old mugabe has held power in the southern african nation since independence from britain in 1980 and consistently refused to anoint a successor .
he argues that the ruling zanu-pf party would choose his replacement if and when he decides to retire .
grace mugabe told a zanu-pf rally in the second city of bulawayo that the party would amend its constitution this month and the changes would be adopted at a special december congress to ensure that one of mugabe s two deputies would be a woman .
allowing mugabe to appoint a woman deputy could scuttle the presidential ambitions of vice president emmerson mnangagwa , who had been seen as a shoe-in to succeed mugabe .
phelekezela mphoko is the second mugabe deputy , but lacks any political base .
mnangagwa , nicknamed ngwena ( crocodile ) , has seen his political stock plummet in the last few months , on accusations by party rivals that he was plotting to get mugabe to step down in his favor .
he denies the accusation .
on saturday grace cranked up the pressure against mnangagwa , calling him the root cause of factionalism that was gnawing at the ruling party .
she also accused the vice president s supporters of booing her while she gave her speech .
before that special congress , this november we need the constitution to be changed accordingly so that when we are going we will adopt the proposal that one of the vice presidents should be a woman , grace said in a speech broadcast on state tv .
what if i get in ( as vice president ) ?
what s wrong with that ?
am i not in the party ?
if people know that i work hard and they want to work with me what is wrong with that ?
grace said .
a visibly angry mugabe told the same rally that he and his wife were tired of constant insults from people who identified themselves as mnangagwa s supporters .