amman ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed forces said on saturday they had seized a major natural gas field in syria s deir al-zor province from islamic state militants in rapid advances since the start of an operation earlier this month to capture areas east of the euphrates river .
commander ahmed abu khawla told reuters that the conoco gas field was the first of its kind taken by the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , since it began an offensive earlier this month to capture the eastern province .
this is the first gas or oil field in the campaign which we have liberated , said the commander of the group whose campaign is in parallel with an ongoing battle for the nearby raqqa city .
the conoco field is named for the american company which discovered the gas reserves and built a processing plant there .
it has been the target of u.s. strikes and was used to supply cooking gas canisters for household use .
before the conflict it supplied gas to power stations .
in deir al-zor , islamic state is battling two separate offensives , one launched by the sdf and the other by the syrian army and its allies .
syrian troops supported by iranian-backed militias have also crossed to the eastern side of the river , increasing their presence in an area where u.s.-backed militias have also advanced .
the assaults by the russian-backed syrian army and the u.s.-backed sdf have at times raised fears of clashes that could stoke tensions between the competing world powers .
islamic state s last major stronghold , the cities , towns and farms in the fertile strip along the euphrates are fast becoming the focus of syria s war .
abu khawla said the syrian army and their allies were within four km ( 2.5 miles ) of the sdf positions .
russia said on thursday it had warned the united states it would target areas in syria where u.s. special forces and u.s.-backed militia were operating if its own forces came under fire from them , something it said had already happened twice .
[ l5n1m235e ] the russian warning underscored growing tensions over syria between moscow and washington .
while both oppose islamic state , they are engaged , via proxies , in a race for strategic influence and potential resources in the form of oilfields in deir al-zor province .
the syrian army s command said in a statement its forces captured at least 44 villages and towns since launching two weeks ago an assault into deir al-zor city that ended a militant siege which had lasted three years .
on saturday the army also announced it took maadan town , in southern raqqa along the provincial boundary with deir al zor province .
army commanders however say militants in hweija sakr , southeast of the river are slowing their advance , hiding amid thick vegetation and waging hit and run ambushes and suicide bombings .
islamic state s amaq newsagency said they had killed and injured at least seventy army fighters in a suicide bombing attack on an army convoy in the area .
colonel ryan dillon , spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state , denied that washington was in a race with moscow over the oil-rich province , saying contacts with the russian military were intensifying to avoid confrontation .
from the coalition s perspective it has not been a race , we are not in the land-grabbing business , dillon told reuters .
u.s.-backed forces were avoiding the eastern bank of deir al-zor city right now where the syrian army was fighting the jihadists and seeking to expand control in the area northeast of the river still held by the militants , dillon said .
the eventual goal was to move toward the iraqi border near the main militant strongholds of al-mayadeen , about 80 km ( 50 miles ) west of the iraqi border and al-bukamal , both large urban centres where the euphrates flows through .
the sdf are not moving toward the banks of the euphrates river right now ( near the city of deir al-zor ) .
they are moving east toward the iraqi border ... and continuing to push and expand into isis-held territory , he added .
our goal as i have said a dozen times is fighting isis .
we don t have a fight with the ( syrian ) regime .
we are not in a fight with the russians .
we are there to fight isis and that s what we are going to do , the u.s. army spokesman said .