the video hillary and the left will not want america to see today , i was compelled to sit down and write this letter .
not to anyone in particular , maybe even just for myself .
but as a black , female executive at the trump organization , i can no longer remain silent about the repeated and reprehensible attempts to align my boss and his family with racist , hate mongering groups , campaigns and messaging .
as the daughter of man born in birmingham , alabama , who rose against all odds to become one of the most established and respected doctor s at yale university , there is no amount to money in the world that could buy my loyalty to a family that subscribed to such intolerant and bigoted ideologies .
here is lynne patton reading the powerful letter she penned to dispel the lies about donald j. trump , as well as his family : from linkedin : lynn patton , chief of staff to eric trump , ivanka trump & donald trump jr. ( may 2009 present ) : oversee primary assistants for the trump adult children & all internal operations for the 25th floor , trump tower .
provide personal assistance to eric f. trump , donald j. trump , jr. , and ivanka trump , including calendar , travel , expenses , purchases , event coordination , contact/engagements , as well as home & business responsibilities , in conjunction with two ( 2 ) other primary assistants .
handle celebrity talent acquisition/bookings and work in tandem with the executive director of the eric trump foundation to oversee all operations , volunteers , events , outreach , vendors & corporate partnerships ; acquire celebrity donations & experiences for the eric trump foundation on-line charity buzz auction & the eric trump foundation annual golf invitational live auction ; responsible for organizing , executing and overseeing all etf operations , philanthropic events/golf tournaments , social media & websites ; identify and develop viable partnerships and research projects for etf in conjunction with the etf executive director and st. jude children s research hospital .