villavicencio/bogota , colombia ( reuters ) - thousands of victims of colombia s five-decade war will seek blessings , guidance and a path to forgiveness from pope francis on friday , during his visit to a region that for years has been known as an epicenter of violence .
the argentine pope has received a rapturous welcome in colombia , a majority roman catholic nation , bringing with him a message of peace and unity as he seeks to strengthen faith and heal the scars of civil war .
in the city of villavicencio , francis will hold a prayer meeting with 6,000 survivors of a brutal conflict that has left millions scarred by kidnappings , massacres , rape , land mines and displacement .
he will also bless the cross of reconciliation , a plain white memorial to the victims , and hear personal testimonies of those who have suffered .
there has been too much hatred and vengeance .
the solitude of always being at loggerheads has been familiar for decades , and its smell has lingered for a hundred years , the leader of the world s 1.2 billion roman catholics said on thursday .
we do not want any type of violence whatsoever to restrict or destroy one more life , added the pontiff , who delayed visiting colombia until a peace deal between the government and revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) rebels was in effect .
colombians have suffered from war between right-wing paramilitaries , marxist rebels , and government forces since 1964 .
more than 220,000 have been killed and millions more displaced as the war spilled into towns and rural communities .
the 80-year-old francis will also beatify two victims as martyrs .
he will take the first step to make saints of pedro maria ramirez , a priest who was killed in 1948 during the period of political violence known as la violencia , and bishop jesus emilio jaramillo , killed in 1989 by the national liberation army ( eln ) for suspected collaboration with the military .
the pontiff wants his message of reconciliation to resonate with the war victims and he urged his church to help spread the message .
you are not bureaucrats , nor politicians , you are pastors , he said , addressing bishops in bogota .
in villavicencio - the capital of central meta province , a vast cattle ranching area which has been a hotbed of paramilitary and rebel violence - francis will see a destroyed statue of christ brought from western choco province for his visit .
the effigy was recovered from a church attacked by the farc in 2002 in the rain forest village of bojaya .
about 80 people were killed as they sought refuge from rebel bombings inside the humble church .
the plaster figure , without arms or legs , has become an enduring symbol of the bloody war .
forgiveness is pivotal if colombia is to forge lasting peace , break cycles of revenge and rebuild once-hostile communities .
but colombians are deeply polarized as they prepare to receive 7,000 former fighters of the farc into society and aim to repair divisions from the war .
many are furious that under last year s peace deal , farc leaders accused of kidnapping , displacements and murder will avoid jail sentences and instead may receive seats in congress as members of a civilian political party .
but at least during the pope s visit , people seem willing to forgive .
i ll be up at 3 a.m. to queue .
it s so emotional , just to see him on television makes me tearful , said francis alvarez , a 59-year-old housewife , who hopes to attend the mass in villavicencio .
it will consolidate peace in this region that s been so forgotten .