washington ( reuters ) - paul manafort , former campaign manager for president donald trump , had three u.s. passports , millions in assets and ties to russian oligarchs , according to federal court documents after his indictment on tax fraud and money laundering charges .
manafort and associate rick gates pose a significant flight risk because of the serious nature of the charges , the strong evidence of guilt , their wealth and “ their history of deceptive and misleading conduct , ” federal prosecutors said in a filing tuesday in u.s. district court for the district of columbia .
manafort , 68 , and gates , who also worked on trump ’ s campaign , pleaded not guilty on monday in a 12-count indictment , ranging from money laundering to acting as unregistered agents of ukraine ’ s former pro-russian government .
the charges came as part of federal special counsel robert mueller ’ s 5-month-old investigation into alleged russian efforts to tilt the 2016 presidential election in trump ’ s favor and potential collusion by campaign aides .
the allegations are not related to campaign activities but reveal close ties to russia , and include activities from 2006 to 2017 , which overlaps with the mens ’ work on trump ’ s campaign .
the two men are under house arrest and have relinquished their u.s. passports , with a $ 10 million bond set for manafort and a $ 5 million bond for gates .
“ both defendants have substantial ties abroad , including in ukraine , where both have spent time and have served as agents of its government , ” according to the government ’ s memorandum in support of the conditions of release .
“ and both manafort and gates have connections to ukrainian and russian oligarchs , who have provided millions of dollars to manafort and gates. ” the next hearing in the case , set for 2 p.m. ( 1800 gmt ) on thursday , will concern the bail conditions that were set at monday ’ s arraignment .
manafort was a longtime u.s. republican operative before turning his attention to political consulting overseas .
he submitted 10 passport application in the last decade and currently holds three u.s. passports , the memo said .
it is rare but legal to hold three valid passports .
people can apply for more than one passport under limited circumstances , including when a foreign country will deny entry to someone holding a passport showing travel to certain other countries or when a visa request is being processed but a person needs a valid passport for immediate travel , a state department official said on wednesday .
the official could not comment on manafort ’ s passport records but said requests for more than one valid passport are reviewed on a case-by-case basis .
asked about the information in the memo , manafort lawyer jason maloni told reuters on wednesday his client “ looks forward to having these allegations tried before a judge and jury. ” the memo said manafort ’ s financial assets were substantial but difficult to quantify because he listed figures on loan applications and other financial documents since 2012 that ranged from $ 19 million to $ 136 million .
manafort and gates owned or controlled entities and accounts worldwide including in cyprus , grenadines , seychelles and england , it said .
manafort traveled to mexico , china and ecuador in 2017 , prosecutors said .