riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi king salman appointed two new ministers on saturday to key security and economic posts , removing one of the royal family s most prominent members as head of the national guard and boosting the kingdom s young crown prince .
the king also announced the creation of a new anti-corruption committee chaired by crown prince mohammed bin salman which al arabiya tv said had already detained 11 princes , four current ministers and tens of former ministers .
the suspects were not named .
the cabinet reshuffle saw prince miteb bin abdullah replaced as minister of the national guard by khaled bin ayyaf , while economy minister adel fakieh was removed in favor of his deputy mohammed al-tuwaijri , according to a royal decree carried by state-run media .
prince miteb , the preferred son of the late king abdullah , was once thought to be a leading contender for the throne before the unexpected rise of prince mohammed two years ago .
he had inherited control of the national guard , an elite internal security force built out of traditional tribal units , from his father , who ran it for five decades .
prince miteb was the last remaining member of abdullah s branch of the family to hold a position in the upper echelons of the saudi power structure .
the move consolidates crown prince mohammed s control of the kingdom s security institutions , which had long been headed by separate powerful branches of the ruling family .
prince mohammed , the king s 32-year-old son , already serves as defense minister and was named heir to the throne in a june reshuffle that sidelined his older cousin , prince mohammed bin nayef who had also served as interior minister .
he has been responsible at the same time for running saudi arabia s war in yemen , dictating an energy policy with global implications and behind the plans for the kingdom to build a future after oil .
prince mohammed , who has pledged to go after graft at the highest levels , will now also head up the new anti-corruption body , which was given broad powers to investigate cases , issue arrest warrants and travel restrictions , and freeze assets .
the homeland will not exist unless corruption is uprooted and the corrupt are held accountable , the royal decree said .
the country s new economy minister , tuwaijri , is a former saudi air force pilot and former chief executive of hsbc s middle east operations who has led the economy ministry s program to privatize some $ 200 billion of government assets .
he replaces fakieh , who served as the point man for the kingdom s wide-ranging economic reforms since his appointment as economy and planning minister in 2015 .
a former food executive with a reputation for pushing through politically sensitive reforms , fakieh had previously served as labor minister , health minister and mayor of jeddah .
fakieh faced down fierce opposition from the business community as labor minister when he established quotas for foreign workers to boost jobs for saudis .
under prince mohammed , fakieh led the development of a national transformation plan and privatization drive launched last year to end the kingdom s vulnerability to an unpredictable oil market .
his replacement comes as the kingdom makes adjustments to that plan , a process dubbed ntp 2.0 .
the royal decree did not say whether fakieh would hold any other government position .
former ministers often serve in advisory roles after leaving their posts .