vienna ( reuters ) - austrians elect a new parliament on sunday in a test of whether a young conservative star has succeeded in halting the resurgence of the far-right freedom party after a campaign in which immigration has been the dominant issue .
many voters feel the country was overrun in europe s migration crisis in 2015 , when it took in about 1 percent of its population in asylum seekers .
by taking a hard line that has left little daylight between him and the freedom party ( fpo ) , foreign minister sebastian kurz , 31 has dislodged it from first place in opinion polls and he is the favorite to become austria s next leader .
polls show the fpo in a close race for second place with the social democrats , who kurz and his party have been at loggerheads with in the current coalition government .
that gives the fpo , which currently has a fifth of seats in parliament and is in government in two of austria s nine provinces , a good chance of entering a national coalition .
it s still not certain that he ( kurz ) will win with this ( strategy ) .
in my view first place is still open .
we ll have to see what the last-minute movements are , said christoph hofinger , a political analyst and pollster who puts together the most-watched projection on election night .
it could be that in the end , and this has been a theory of mine for a long time , it also serves the fpo that their issues and their views on these issues are firmly at the center of the campaign .
the freedom party has good chance of entering government for the first time since it became a junior partner to the people s party ( ovp ) in 2000 , when it was led by the late joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
that prompted sanctions from the rest of the european union and a wave of street protests .
more than 15 years later , few expect a similar uproar if the fpo did enter government , partly given the rise of similar movements in countries such as france and germany .
heinz-christian strache s fpo wants to shut certain sectors of the economy to non-eu workers , limit the proportion of foreign pupils per classroom and deport foreign convicts to their home countries .
kurz , who triggered the snap election by calling an end to the coalition with the social democrats , has also frequently returned to the theme of immigration , pledging to avoid a repeat of 2015 , when austria and germany threw open their borders to a wave of refugees and other migrants .
he wants to cap benefits for refugees at well below the standard level .
opinion polls have been remarkably similar for months , showing kurz s people s party in first place on around a third of the vote , with the fpo and chancellor christian kern s social democrats competing for second on around a quarter of the vote .
the fpo secured 20.5 percent in the last vote in 2013 .
pollsters have said more than 10 percent of voters are likely to remain undecided until the last moment .
a poll last weekend put the proportion of undecided voters at 27 percent .
social democrats campaign was already struggling to hit its stride when it became embroiled in a smear scandal .
the party chairman stepped down two weeks ago , saying that , without his knowledge , the party had been involved in anti-kurz websites .
despite that setback , poll ratings have barely moved , raising questions about the extent to which the scandal was felt outside the political bubble in vienna .
the spo has also accused a member of kurz s staff of trying to bribe a member of its campaign team , and both sides are taking legal action against each other .
that could play into the hands of the fpo , which denounces the near-duopoly those parties have enjoyed - they have governed together for 44 of the past 72 years , and one or other alone for another 17 years .
in the final election debate between the heads of all five current parliamentary parties on thursday night , the candidates stuck to their core issues .
kern said reaching full employment as his top priority .
he has focused his campaign on economic growth , jobs and social justice , seeking to capitalize on an economic recovery that has put the country on track for its fastest growth in six years .
strache chose stopping immigration itself as his top issue , and kurz picked what he says is a related topic protecting the welfare state .
kern and strache were due to hold their closing rallies on friday afternoon .
kurz made only brief remarks to campaign workers on friday .
( for a graphic on austrian parliamentary election , click tmsnrt.rs/2hkii65 )