ottawa ( reuters ) - canada s finance minister bill morneau said on thursday he will place his assets in a blind trust and divest all his stock in a publicly traded family business , amid opposition allegations that these holdings put him in a conflict of interest .
questions about the assets of morneau , the multimillionaire former chief executive officer of human resources management firm morneau shepell , have dogged the minister and led some to question whether he would be forced to resign .
his plan to adopt a blind trust follow weeks of backlash over a government attempt to reform small business taxes , which have become a major stumbling block for prime minister justin trudeau s two-year-old liberal government .
morneau said he had initially intended to put his assets in a blind trust - as trudeau has - but had changed his mind after consultations with the ethics watchdog .
he said he had naively believed that following the advice of the ethics commissioner was a high enough standard .
what we ve seen over the last week is that i need to do more .
as minister of finance , in this role , it s important to make sure people have absolute confidence , he told a news conference , adding he has about a million shares in the company and would work with a trustee to divest his and his family s holdings .
shares of morneau shepell inc fell nearly 2 percent on thursday to c $ 20.63 , shedding about c $ 21.6 million in market value .
morneau was elected in 2015 when the left-leaning liberals were vaulted to a surprise majority under trudeau , becoming one of the many rookie ministers in trudeau s cabinet .
in a heated session of parliament after the news conference , opposition politicians said morneau s 2016 legislation on pension reform increased the profits of morneau shepell .
the finance minister and his company , morneau shepell , have benefited from the minister s actions , said conservative member of parliament maxime bernier .
morneau said he had been pulled out of government meetings at least twice since becoming finance minister to guard against conflicts of interest between policy decisions and his company .
i don t know the total number of times , but i can remember at least two times being taken out of meetings because of that conflict-of-interest screen , i believe .
of course i don t know what happened in those meetings , he said .
separately , morneau said the government s autumn fiscal update will be released on oct. 24 .