stunning doesn t even come close to describing the department of labor s waste of the american taxpayer s money ! we ve blown $ 113 billion ( yes , that s billion with a b ) to rebuild the islamic country of afghanistan !
among the federal agencies that have disbursed huge sums to famously corrupt afghanistan reconstruction causes is the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) , which has spent more than $ 11 million with the single biggest chunk of money going to a leftist charity whose president earns a stunning $ 600,000 a year.it s a tiny snippet of the $ 113 billion uncle sam has blown on wasteful projects presented to american taxpayers as necessary to rebuild the islamic country renowned as a hotbed of terrorism.in the dol s case , the cash is supposed to fund programs that provide afghans with an education , work and life skills as well as well as job training .
the biggest single portion of the dol investment has gone to the new york-based international rescue committee ( irc ) to provide vocational training for vulnerable afghans and programs that increase wages and self-employment .
the irc claims that it responds to the world s worst humanitarian crises and helps restore health , safety , education , economic wellbeing and power to people devastated by conflict and disaster .
last year a british newspaper reported that the head of irc , former british foreign secretary david miliband , earns a staggering $ 600,000 per year at the nonprofit .
that s nearly four times the salary of the nation s prime minister , the newspaper pointed out , and several hundred thousand more than the president of the united states.americans have given the irc $ 3.4 million , according to the special inspector general for afghanistan reconstruction ( sigar ) and the watchdog wants to know how the money is being spent and if program goals have been met .
in a report issued this month sigar notes that , besides irc , several other groups received lots of money without revealing how it was spent .
unicef got $ 3 million to demobilize child soldiers and provide them with reintegration , psycho-social and medical support .
the rest of the dol money supposedly funded activities that included training afghan women to produce school uniforms for afghan girls , assisting the ministry of labor , social affairs , martyrs and disabled to improve protection of workers rights and reforming labor laws and regulations in the country .
raising awareness of child labor is another popular cause that got generous funding.while the u.s. keeps the flood of cash flowing , there s no follow up to determine if the huge investment has been effective .
as of the end of 2015 , the u.s. has appropriated about $ 113 billion for relief and reconstruction in afghanistan , the watchdog writes in its latest dol report .
the largest portion $ 96 billion has been managed by the department of defense ( dod ) , the state department and the u.s. agency for international development ( usaid ) .judicial watch has reported extensively on this in the last few years and the fact that there s virtually no oversight once the money has been doled out .
the government does a pathetic job tracking programs successes of failures and sigar has faced huge obstacles in the course of its probes even though it s supposed to be an independent watchdog with unlimited access to information necessary to expose government fraud or wrongdoing .
when the watchdog launched an investigation into how afghanistan reconstruction money is being spent agencies provided disparate information , the report states , which required additional follow-up .
read more : judicial watch