denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - a window appeared to be closing on friday for travelers stranded on the indonesian holiday island of bali as airlines cut back on flights , fearing a return of plumes of volcanic ash .
an erupting volcano closed the airport for most of this week , stranding thousands of visitors from australia , china and other countries , before the winds changed and flights resumed .
australian budget airline jetstar said it would cancel nine flights on friday after meteorological officials warned the ash could hit operations at bali airport , about 60 km ( 37 miles ) southwest of the mount agung volcano .
malaysia s airasia bhd said it would only operate out of bali during the day , as the ash could impair visibility at night and wind conditions in the area were unpredictable .
they don t have an answer if they have space for us for the next flight , said martim cazado , a traveler who was trying to get home to portugal via singapore but had been unable to get a flight .
he was worried he might be stuck waiting in front of the bali airport s departure hall for a few days , he added .
a column of white smoke and ash hung above mount agung , where tremors continued , meteorological officials said , although with decreasing frequency , while lava sparks flash at night .
ash was visible to the southeast of mount agung , the darwin volcanic ash advisory centre said on its website .
volcanological sources indicate a larger eruption is still possible , it said .
the wind was blowing the ash toward the east and the airport was clear for normal operations , indonesia s transport ministry said in a statement .
jetstar and its parent , qantas airways ltd , had planned up to 18 flights on friday to ferry 4,300 passengers home to australia , including one by a qantas 747 jet .
but jetstar will cancel nine flights after a sudden change in today s forecast for this evening in bali , it said in a website update .
other airlines with regular bali flights , including singapore airlines ltd and garuda indonesia , have not posted website updates on friday evening s flight plans .
airlines avoid flying through volcanic ash as it can damage aircraft engines , clogging fuel and cooling systems , hampering pilot visibility and even causing engine failure .
a tropical cyclone south of java island altered wind direction in the area , including for bali , where it could bring heavy rains and strong winds until saturday , the indonesian meteorological , climatological and geophysics agency said .
about 10,700 foreign and 6,400 domestic tourists left bali on thursday , airport data showed .
thousands of residents remain in a 10-km ( 6-mile ) danger zone around the volcano , reluctant to leave for religious reasons or unwilling to abandon homes and livestock .
a rescue team escorted 10 people off its southwestern slope on friday , some of whom said they had endured days of falling ash and feared potentially deadly volcanic mud flows .
an estimated 90,000 to 100,000 people live in the danger area near the volcano in eastern bali .