kinshasa , ( reuters ) - congo s electoral commission announced on sunday that long-awaited presidential elections to replace president joseph kabila would take place on december 23 , 2018 .
around 43 million voters have been registered for the vote so far , corneille nangaa told a news conference in democratic republic of congo s capital , kinshasa .
the election will be held on december 23 , 2018 , with the results to be published on january 9 , 2019 , and the president to be sworn in on january 13 , another official from the independent electoral commission ( ceni ) , jean pierre kalamba , told the same news conference .
the election , originally scheduled for late 2016 , has been repeatedly delayed .
those delays have triggered unrest and raised fears the central african nation could slip back into the conflicts that killed millions around the turn of the century , mostly from hunger and disease .
the electoral commission had said last month that the presidential vote could not take place until april 2019 at the earliest , and the opposition had warned that the population would take matters into its own hands .
opposition leaders reacted furiously to the new date .
the predatory regime wants to prolong the instability and misery of the people .
we do not accept this fantasy calendar , exiled opposition leader moise katumbi tweeted .
civil society activist organization lucha on twitter also condemned the announcement .
dozens died in protests against kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december .
u.s. envoy nikki haley said during a visit to meet with kabila last month that the vote must happen in 2018 or it will lose international support .
with no imminent election in sight , a political crisis has set in that is fuelling increasing militia violence and lawlessness in congo s east and center .
clashes between congolese troops and supporters of a renegade colonel in congo s eastern city of bukavu killed seven people on sunday before he surrendered and turned himself in to u.n. peacekeepers .
kabila has ruled congo since his father was assassinated in 2001 .
he says delays are owing to problems registering millions of voters across the vast , forested country .
opponents say he is using them to eventually remove term limits that prevent him from standing again , as presidents in neighboring rwanda and congo republic have done .
he denies that , but has not categorically said he will step aside .