and we wonder how we keep producing snowflakes ?
you know , the kind of college kids that can t take no for an answer .
they live in their own world and don t take direction or follow social mores.just wondering why this mom wouldn t fill this little girl in on how this might now be such a great idea and why not cute but kinda gross , right ? nothing says you love your child more than saying no and gently guiding them to do the right thing it s never too early to start ! future snowflake alert ! a 3-year-old girl in missouri named audrey had every immature adult s dream : a poop-themed birthday party.audrey s mother , rebecca , said she went all out for her daughter s second birthday , decorating a pumpkin patch and going a little crazy , she told babble .
so for the next year , she decided she would do whatever audrey wanted .
for months , every time we mentioned her party , audrey requested poop balloons and a poop cake , the mom told the huffington post .
i tried suggesting other themes , but she always insisted on poop .
so eventually her mom gave in and decided to have a poo-poo party.but , being an enthusiastic and good mother , this mom didn t just settle for balloons and a cake .
instead , she went all out , getting a poop pinata , a poop cake , poop cookies , poop costumes , whoopie cushions and a game called pin the poop , per fox 13 .
think pin the tail on the donkey , but with a toilet and some feces-themed stickers .
audrey herself wore a shirt with the poop emoji on it .
in the pi ata , the mom placed tootsie rolls , hershey kisses and other brown candies .
i expected the grandparents to question it , but they all just laughed when i told them she just happens to really , really like poop .
i don t think it ever even occurred to her that it was a strange request as for those who think such a party may be weird or even disturbing , well , this mom doesn t give a crap .
this party wasn t for me , it was for audrey .
i love that we will look back at pictures , and it will represent her at 3 my funny and quirky little girl i will never forget how excited she was when she came down the stairs and saw everything to see how happy she was , was totally worth whatever embarrassment i felt wearing a poop costume.read more : charlotte observer