new york ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential candidate donald trump and the new york daily news are not clowning around .
trump fired back on twitter on wednesday against the new york daily news , after the tabloid published a photo of trump edited to make him appear similar to “ the joker , ” a clown-like villain from the batman comic series .
“ dopey mort zuckerman , owner of the worthless @ nydailynews , has a major inferiority complex .
paper will close soon ! ” trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) tweeted wednesday .
the front page headline jeered at new hampshire voters for handing the republican presidential candidate a win in the state ’ s primary election , calling the vote “ dawn of the brain dead , ” an apparent reference to the zombie horror movie “ dawn of the dead. ” trump won the new hampshire primary by almost 20 points tuesday night , after finishing second in last week ’ s iowa caucus .
he has been the most popular candidate on social media throughout the campaign , regularly outpacing his competitors in social media buzz during debates .
wednesday ’ s online quarrel is hardly the first time that the tabloid paper and the tenacious tycoon have clashed .
from his politics to his questionable coif , trump has long been a target of the daily news .
on june 17 , the paper reported that trump was running for president with the front-page headline “ clown runs for prez. ” the headline was accompanied by a photo of trump that had been edited to depict him as a clown , complete with a red nose .
that same day , trump tweeted a retort .
“ only a fool would buy the @ nydailynews .
loses fortune & has zero gravitas , ” trump wrote .
“ let it die ! ” trump also came under fire from some twitter users tuesday night , as the former reality tv star gained momentum in the granite state .
the hashtag # trumprunningmate emerged on the social media site , and twitter users cracked wise about who - or what - would join trump ’ s ticket , if he were to win the republican presidential nomination .
“ heavily over-salted takeout that gives you two day bloat .
# trumprunningmate , ” tweeted fledgeling feminist ( @ fledgelingfem ) .
“ # trumprunningmate kanye , and then kim for state , ” tweeted ross burnett ( @ rossburnett ) on tuesday evening .
( reporting by amy tennery ; editing by marguerita choy ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .