why does our government continue to go out of their way to downplay acts of terror in america ?
this is just another shocking example of a government agency ignoring red flag after red flag in an attempt to sugar coat an attack by an extreme muslim against innocent americans more than four months after a black-clad loner with an islamist-themed manifesto and a printed isis flag in his backpack stabbed four people on a california college campus , the fbi wrapped up its investigation thursday by saying it may never be possible to definitively determine what motivated the bloody rampage.the inconclusive findings from the probe of the nov. 4 , 2015 attack at the university of california merced campus followed months of hesitation by local and federal law enforcement to link faisal mohammad s stabbing spree to terrorism .
every indication is that mohammad acted on his own ; however , it may never be possible to definitively determine why he chose to attack people on the uc merced campus , the fbi s sacramento office said in a statement that avoided calling the attack an act of terrorism .
[ quote_box_center ] they go to great lengths to avoid the obvious , that is calling it what it is : radical islamic terrorism .
patrick dunleavy , terrorism expert [ /quote_box_center ] critics say it followed a pattern in which the federal government downplays domestic terrorism even when there are seemingly obvious links .
the flag , the manifesto annotated with reminders to pray to allah in between stabbings all reported in november by foxnews.com , yet not confirmed by the fbi until this week , pointed early on to the 18-year-old mohammad having been radicalized , say terrorism experts .
even the stabbings themselves , which came as a wave of terrorist blade attacks occurred in israel , were indicators of an extremist motivation , say experts .
the department of justice is avoiding stating the obvious , which is that an individual who commits violence in the name of isis is a terrorist , said ryan mauro , national security analyst for the new york-based nonprofit terrorism research institute clarion project .
if someone commits violence and has an isis flag and jihadist manifesto in their backpack , they are telling you what their motive was .
it s as iron-clad as a suicide note .
mohammad was shot and killed by campus police near the classroom where his attack began .
all of his victims have recovered .
in my opinion , this is domestic terrorism at the very least , said john price , father of byron price , a construction manager who was stabbed as he intervened in the attack .
i am glad the fbi investigation did not find any links to outside terror groups , but faisal mohammed clearly paid attention when the islamic state called for these kinds of lone wolf stabbing attacks .
in the days following the attack , local and federal law enforcement repeatedly claimed in a series of press conferences that mohammed was motivated by being excluded from a study group .
foxnews.com , citing documents obtained through a freedom of information act request , reported in november that the narrative clashed with the account his roommate gave merced county sheriff s detectives .
[ quote_box_center ] ali tarek elshekh s told detectives mohammed was a loner and an extreme muslim , who threatened to kill another student if he touched his prayer rug , and who dressed all in black before leaving his dorm to try to kill his fellow students .
[ /quote_box_center ] both the fbi and campus police have declined for months to provide copies of mohammed s manifesto and the photocopied isis flag to foxnews.com , turning down numerous freedom of information act requests by claiming the investigation was ongoing.merced county sheriff vern warnke , who initially was involved in the investigation and told foxnews.com about the manifesto and some of its language , has since refused more than a dozen requests for comment on the case , and also declined to respond to a foia requested submitted by foxnews.com .
via : fox news