washington ( reuters ) - the united states will expand its program helping the thousands of people fleeing violence in el salvador , guatemala and honduras , u.s. secretary of state john kerry said on wednesday .
the announcement follows backlash from democrats in the u.s. congress who called on the obama administration to halt its deportations of families who fled the three crime-infested central american countries and entered the united states without documentation .
the expanded refugee admissions program would offer “ a safe and legal alternative to the dangerous journey many are currently tempted to begin , making them easy prey for human smugglers who have no interest but their own profits , ” kerry said in a speech at the national defense university .
president barack obama previously said the united states would take in 3,000 refugees from latin america by october this year .
a state department spokesperson said the administration does not have plans to take in more than 3,000 refugees from the region , but it may adjust the number “ should conditions require. ” he said the u.s. government would work with the united nations and non-governmental organizations to identify people in need of refugee protection .
he specifically mentioned those targeted by criminal gangs , including human rights activists .
“ we also continue to explore additional options , including for those who may be at imminent risk of harm , ” kerry said .
once the united nations high commissioner on human rights refers a potential refugee to the united states for resettlement , the case is reviewed at a resettlement support center , according to the state department .
the united states operates nine centers globally , but only one is in the western hemisphere - in quito , ecuador .
the state department spokesperson said the quito center operates a branch office in san salvador , el salvador .
kerry did not say whether the united states would deploy any federal workers to the region or had plans to open additional centers .
the department of homeland security has received more than 6,000 applications from minors in central america , some of whom have begun to arrive in the united states as refugees , secretary of homeland security jeh johnson said on jan. 4 .
he said he expected the pace of child refugee arrivals to increase .