in 2008 , jennifer hudson the dream girls star and grammy award winning 34-year-old singer lost her mother , her brother , and her nephew after her sister s estranged husband shot them in a brutal murder a topic she rarely talks about now , except in a healing light .
she s a great girl .
and we re protecting them well , trump told people at a benefit honoring australia director baz luhrman at the museum of modern art monday night .
they are very safe .
peoplein 2008 , hudson performed let s stay together for barack and michelle obama during obama s inauguration ball .
it s not clear if obama and michelle did anything to help her after her family was murdered.two days ago , another dream girls star , broadway sensation jennifer holliday , who had previously committed to performing at trump s inauguration , backed out over bullying and threats she received from the left.ms .
holliday said she was asked on wednesday if she would sing at the concert scheduled for jan. 19 , and she agreed , seeing the request as similar to those she received to sing at the white house during past republican and democratic presidencies .
i just thought of the history part of it , and about singing on the mall where marian anderson paved the way for me to sing as a black american , she said , referring to a 1939 concert that ms. anderson , a popular singer , performed from the lincoln memorial after being denied permission to sing at constitution hall because she was black.ms .
holliday said she had been startled and disheartened on friday by the venom that greeted the news of her participation .
it brought a lot of threats from people already saying i ll never work again , she said .
if that s what america has come to , where we all hate and bully people , there s no more freedom of speech .
she added , i know everybody hates me now , but that shows we are all just hateful people now we don t even want to work together .
ms. holliday said she did not see herself , or her singing , as political , a sentiment echoed by jackie evancho , the 16-year-old classical-crossover singer who will perform the national anthem at mr. trump s inauguration on jan. 20 .
i just kind of thought that this is for my country , ms. evancho said .
so if people are going to hate on me it s for the wrong reason .
ms. holliday said her goal is to support america : are we saying that if there is anything that could be done for america in four or eight years or however long trump is there , we re not supposed to participate or help anybody ?
she asked .
shouldn t we all be praying for the success of america ?
i would like to sing some hope and have my voice not be associated with some kind of label , but i guess that s where we are now .
nyt s