no wonder we ve had the worst democrat president in the history of the united states for 7 long years ! gop consultant rick wilson says gop establishment needs to put a bullet in trump s head.wilson has also hurled insults at trump supporters the past few months.breitbart reported : on tuesday evening , establishment republican consultant rick wilson said the gop establishment donor class must find a way to put a bullet in gop frontrunner donald trump.in an interview with msnbc s chris hayes , wilson conceded that trump is still a very powerful force right now because he appeals to part of the of the conservative base that wilson said was activated by his nativist message .
wilson insisted that the donor class can t just sit back on the sidelines and say , oh well , don t worry , this will all work itself out .
they re still going to have to go out and put a bullet in donald trump , wilson said .
and that s a fact .
republican establishment figures who have underestimated trump since he entered the race are reportedly looking to raise millions to try to derail trump and knock him out of the race .
wilson added that the republican establishment must figure out a way to find a candidate who can successfully post up against hillary clinton because neither donald trump or ben carson is ready to go up against the clinton machine .
wilson claimed that trump and carson are obviously not ready for primetime .
during a september cnn interview , wilson told erin burnett that trump could eat a live baby on television and trump s supporters would think it s the greatest thing in america .
he has also demeaned trump s supporters as low-information rubes and has likened them to post-rational conspiracy theorists.in an interview with cnn s don lemon , wilson said trump s message doesn t have to make sense for his supporters to back him and compared trump to someone who is a conspiracy theorist like your cranky uncle at thanksgiving who always has a theory about the bilderbergers or the world bank , or the imf , or the trilateral commission .
today rick wilson attacked ann coulter for supporting donald trump .
via : gateway pundit