washington ( reuters ) - a congressionally-appointed panel on wednesday called for the creation of a u.s. museum of women ’ s history , with preferred sites on or near washington ’ s national mall .
the american museum of women ’ s history would close a gap in the u.s. capital , which has museums devoted to everything from space and spies to stamps and black history , but none focused on women , its backers said .
“ america needs and deserves a physical national museum dedicated to showcasing the historical experiences and impact of women in this country , ” said the report from the seven-member commission - all women - empaneled by congress in 2014 .
creation of the museum would call for a decade-long effort to gather support and funding and to build it .
the cost for a building of 75,000 square feet ( 6,900 square meters ) to 90,000 square feet ( 8,400 square meters ) would be estimated at $ 150 million to $ 180 million in private funds , the report said .
the commission also recommended that congress donate land free of charge for the museum site or provide an existing building .
the museum would become part of the smithsonian institution , the world ’ s biggest museum complex , overseen by a board also appointed by congress .
the federal government would assume operation and maintenance costs .
the panel recommended three sites for a women ’ s museum on or around the national mall , a vast area stretching two miles ( 3.2 km ) from the u.s. capitol west to the lincoln memorial and often called “ america ’ s front lawn. ” one site is on the side of the mall opposite the national museum of african american history and culture , which opened in september .
the second site is the smithsonian ’ s 19th-century arts and industries building , also on the mall , and the third is on the grounds of the u.s. capitol .
congress declared the mall closed to new building in 2003 , but made an exception for the african american museum .
with the mall already crowded with monuments and museums , washington planners are looking for ways to pay tribute to u.s. historical figures and events away from the area .