reagan explains why the protesters got out of hand to the reporters : all of it began the first time some of you who know better and are old enough to know better , let young people think that they had the right to chose the the laws they would obey , as long as they were doing it in the name of social protest .
compare and contrast reagan s decision to address the unlawful behavior of these protesters , to barack obama hiding from the press , yet meeting with organizers and agitators of these radical groups to offer encouragment to the violent , unlawful protesters we are seeing across the united states today.do you agree or disagree with reagan s approach to stopping the protesters from breaking the law : in his 1966 campaign for california governor , republican ronald reagan promised to to clean up the mess at berkeley .
reagan was referring to the unrest prevalent not just at the university of california , berkeley , but on college campuses throughout state .
students and faculty alike were engaged in protests , demonstrations , and strikes related to issues such as the draft , civil rights , discrimination , and women s liberation.in one 1966 campaign speech , reagan declared that many leftist campus movements had transcended legitimate protest , with the actions of beatniks , radi cals and filthy speech advocates having become more to do with riot ing , with anarchy than academic freedom .
he blamed university administrators and faculty , who press their particular value judgments on students , for a leadership gap and a morality and decency gap on campus , and suggested a code of conduct be imposed on faculty to force them to serve as examples of good behavior and decency .
[ 1 ] six months after reagan took office in 1967 , he wrote this letter to glenn dumke , the chancellor of san francisco state college , one of california s largest public institutions .
dumke served as the public face of the state college system , and he was a staunch opponent of radical student and faculty demonstrations .
in his letter to dumke , reagan criticizes liberal activism on campuses .
he condemns these people & this trash on campuses as well as the excuse of academic freedom & freedom of expression in allowing protests and demonstrations to go on .
we wouldn t tolerate this kind of language in front of our families , reagan writes of campus protesters .
he urges dumke to lay down some rules of conduct , promising that you d have all the backing i could give you .
how far do we go in tolerating these people & this trash under the excuse of academic freedom & freedom of expression ?
please understand , that question isn t made in any tone of accusation .
i mean myself too in that use of the term we .
we wouldn t let a leroi jones in our livingroom and we wouldn t tolerate this kind of language in front of our families .
hasn t the time come to take on those neurotics in our faculty group and lay down some rules of conduct for the students comparable to what we d expect in our own families ?
if we do and the we this time means you d have all the backing i could give you , i believe the people of calif. would take the state college system to their hearts .
[ illegible ] ronvia : the gilder lehrman institute of american history