washington ( reuters ) - the white house is proposing to slash a quarter of the u.s. environmental protection agency ’ s budget , targeting climate-change programs and those designed to prevent air and water pollution like lead contamination , a source with direct knowledge of the proposal said on thursday .
president donald trump has long signaled his intention to reverse former democratic president barack obama ’ s climate-change initiatives .
but the republican president has vowed his planned overhaul of green regulation would not jeopardize america ’ s water and air quality .
the 23-page 2018 budget proposal , which aims to slice the environmental regulator ’ s overall budget by 25 percent to $ 6.1 billion and staffing by 20 percent to 12,400 as part of a broader effort to fund increased military spending , would cut deeply into programs like climate protection , environmental justice and enforcement .
politico and other news outlets reported the staff and overall budget cuts earlier , but the source disclosed new details on the impact the cuts would have on programs and grants to states .
environmentalists slammed the proposed cuts , which must be approved by the republican-led congress .
the agency did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the budget proposal or its counter proposal .
the white house said it had no comment .
under the proposal , which was sent to the epa this week , grants to states for lead cleanup would be cut 30 percent to $ 9.8 million , according to the source , who read the document to reuters .
grants to help native american tribes combat pollution would be cut 30 percent to $ 45.8 million .
an epa climate protection program on cutting emissions of greenhouse gases like methane that contribute to global warming would be cut 70 percent to $ 29 million .
the proposal would cut funding for the brownfields industrial site cleanup program by 42 percent to $ 14.7 million .
it would also reduce funding for enforcing pollution laws by 11 percent to $ 153 million .
the budget did not cut state revolving funds for programs , that congress tapped last year to provide aid to flint , michigan , for its lead pollution crisis .
all staff at a research program , called global change research , as well as 37 other programs would be cut under the plan .
some of the cuts are unlikely to pass the republican-led congress as they are popular with both democrats and republicans .
congress would be unlikely to approve a proposal to cut all staff in a diesel emissions program , for example .
scott pruitt , the new head of the epa , told u.s. mayors on thursday he would make a priority of cleanups of industrial and hazardous waste sites and improving water infrastructure , even as the white house proposed severe proposed cuts to those programs .
“ in this budget discussion that is ongoing with congress that is just starting , there are some concerns about some of these grant programs that epa has been a part of historically , ” pruitt said .
“ i want you to know that with the white house and also with congress , i am communicating a message that the brownfields program , the superfund program and the water infrastructure grants and state revolving funds are essential to protect , ” he said .
greenpeace spokesman travis nichols said : “ as a candidate , trump made a big deal out of epa ’ s failure in flint , but now he ’ s cutting 30 percent out of lead cleanup in his proposed budget .
this is an example of his empty promises to do right by the american people. ” officers of the environmental council of the states , composed of local regulators , raised concerns to the white house and epa about the budget process , which they said lacked input by directly affected states .
ecos officers will meet with the environment team of the office and management and budget , a white house office , on friday and have slated a teleconference with pruitt in march .
ecos head alexandra dapolito dunn said states had been hopeful after pruitt ’ s confirmation hearing that they would get resources to do their work .
“ now they are feeling very vulnerable , ” she said .