washington/moscow ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump dismissed a chinese diplomatic effort to rein in north korea s weapons program as a failure on thursday , while secretary of state rex tillerson said beijing was doing a lot , but could do more to limit oil supplies to pyongyang .
in a tweet , trump delivered another insulting barb against north korean leader kim jong un , who he called little rocket man and a sick puppy after north korea test-fired its most advanced missile to date on wednesday .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said washington s approach was dangerously provocative .
trump s tweets further inflamed tensions reignited this week after north korea said it had successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile in a breakthrough that put the u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons whose warheads could withstand re-entry to the earth s atmosphere .
the chinese envoy , who just returned from north korea , seems to have had no impact on little rocket man , trump said on twitter , a day after speaking with chinese president chinese president xi jinping and reiterating his call for beijing to use its leverage against north korea .
tillerson on thursday welcomed chinese efforts on north korea , but said beijing could do more to limit its oil exports to the country .
the chinese are doing a lot .
we do think they could do more with the oil .
we re really asking them to please restrain more of the oil , not cut it off completely , tillerson said at the state department .
china is north korea s neighbor and its sole major trading partner .
while trump has been bellicose at times in rhetoric toward north korea , tillerson has persistently held out hopes for a return to dialogue if north korea shows it is willing to give up its nuclear weapons program .
however , tillerson may not remain in his job long , with disagreements with trump over north korea being one factor .
on thursday , senior trump administration officials said the white house was considering a plan to replace tillerson with mike pompeo , the director of the central intelligence agency .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said he still had confidence in diplomatic efforts on north korea and that the united states would be unrelenting in working through the united nations .
in spite of trump s rhetoric and warnings that all options , including military ones , are on the table in dealing with north korea , his administration has stressed it favors a diplomatic solution to the crisis .
trump has pledged more sanctions in response to the latest test and , at an emergency u.n. security council meeting late wednesday , the united states warned north korea s leadership would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out .
this administration is focused on one big thing when it comes to north korea , and that s denuclearization of the korean peninsula , white house spokeswoman sarah sanders told a regular white house briefing .
anything beyond that is not the priority at this point , she said , responding to a question on whether regime change was on the administration s agenda after trump s recent tweets and a speech by u.n .
ambassador nikki haley .
lavrov pointed to joint u.s.-south korean military exercises planned for december and accused the united states of trying to provoke kim into flying off the handle over his missile program to hand washington a pretext to destroy his country .
he also flatly rejected a u.s. call for russia to cut ties with pyongyang over its nuclear and ballistic missile program , calling u.s. policy toward north korea deeply flawed .
in a call with trump on thursday , south korean president moon jae-in said the missile launched this week was north korea s most advanced so far , but it was unclear whether pyongyang had the technology to miniaturize a nuclear warhead and it still needed to prove other things , such as its re-entry technology .
a white house statement said trump and moon reiterated their strong commitment to enhancing the deterrence and defense capabilities of the u.s.-south korea alliance and added : both leaders reaffirmed their strong commitment to compelling north korea to return to the path of denuclearization at any cost .
north korea has tested dozens of ballistic missiles under kim s leadership and conducted its sixth and largest nuclear bomb test in september .
it has said its weapons programs are a necessary defense against u.s. plans to invade .
the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea as a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , denies any such intention .
previous u.s. administrations have failed to stop north korea from developing nuclear weapons and a sophisticated missile program .
trump , who has previously said the united states would totally destroy north korea if necessary to protect itself and its allies from the nuclear threat , has also struggled to contain pyongyang since taking office in january .