remember the promise of a fence on our southern border ?
yes , it was the plan but the $ 1.2 billion dollar plan was never executed as proposed .
you can thank obama and a popular republican for that we recently posted this video of an immigration official saying building a border fence isn t possible even though $ 1.2 billion was given in 2006 for a fence : in his speech in el paso on immigration reform on may 10 , 2011 , obama declared that the fence along the border with mexico is now basically complete .
like much of what comes out of the obama administration , that was a lie .
what was supposed to be built was a double layered fence with barbed-wire on top , and room for a security vehicle to patrol between the layers .
except for 36 of the seven-hundred mile fence , what was built looks like the picture above or the one below.obama claimed : we have gone above and beyond what was requested by the very republicans who said they supported broader reform as long as we got serious about enforcement , obama said .
all the stuff they asked for , we ve done .
but even though we ve answered these concerns , i ve got to say i suspect there are still going to be some who are trying to move the goal posts on us one more time .
maybe he s right the goal posts were moved , but to make the job easier.the secure fence act the secure fence act was introduced on sept. 13 , 2006 by rep peter king ( r-ny ) and passed congress on a bi-partisan basis .
in the house of representatives , the fence act passed 283 -138 on september 14 , 2006 .
on september 29 , 2006 , the fence act passed in the senate 80 -19 .
the secure fence act of 2006 s goal was to help secure america s borders to decrease illegal entry , drug trafficking , and security threats by building 700 miles ( 1,100 km ) of physical barriers along the mexico-united states border .
additionally , the law authorized more vehicle barriers , checkpoints , and lighting as well as authorizing the department of homeland security to increase the use of advanced technology such as cameras , satellites , and unmanned aerial vehicles to reinforce infrastructure at the border .
so far less than 40 miles of a real fence have been built most of it during the bush administration.of the almost 700 miles of fencing , dhs reports there are currently 36.3 miles of double-layered fencing , as the bill required , the kind with enough gap that you can drive a vehicle between the layers .
but the majority of the fencing erected has been made from vehicle barriers with single-layer pedestrian fencing , the kind of barriers that are designed to stop vehicles rather than people .
the design specifications vary , depending on geography and climate characteristics , but according to the customs and border patrol website , those include post on rail steel set in concrete ; steel picket-style fence set in concrete ; vehicle bollards similar to those found around federal buildings ; normandy ; vehicle fence consisting of steel beams ; and concrete jersey walls with steel mesh.prominent republican from texas : the first blow against the promised fence was made by kay bailey hutchison , republican senator from texas , at the urging of dhs she proposed an amendment to give the department discretion to decide what type of fence was appropriate in different areas .
the law was amended to read , nothing in this paragraph shall require the secretary of homeland security to install fencing , physical barriers , roads , lighting , cameras , and sensors in a particular location along an international border of the united states , if the secretary determines that the use or placement of such resources is not the most appropriate means to achieve and maintain operational control over the international border at such location .
hutchison s amendment was included in a federal budget bill in late 2007 despite the fact that rep. peter king , r-n.y. , had a cow he argued the amendment effectively killed the border fence promised in the 2006 bill , he was right .
hutchison s intentions may have been honorable , but she didn t foresee barack obama being the next president.when janet napolitano became obama s first dhs she took advantage of ms. hutchison s 2007 amendment , instead of building a fence which look something like the below , she built a fence that was mostly a combination of the two pictures above.when she was still governor of arizona janet napolitano said , you show me a 50-foot wall , and i ll show you a 51-foot ladder at the border .
and she may be right the fence will never stop all illegal crossings .
the purpose of the fence is two-fold , slowing the intruders and making them visible to members of the border patrol .
the rest of the work is done by human beings.very little of the israeli separation barrier erected to keep out terrorists is a wall , most of the 400 miles of the barrier which has received so much international scorn is a two layered fence like section of their barrier below .
the fence has served its purpose , in 2002 , the year before construction started , 457 israelis were murdered ; in 2009 , 8 israelis were killed.the reason it has been effective is not simply the fence itself but how the fence is guarded and patrolled .
and that s what will make our fence along the mexican border work.here s the bottom line .
back in 2006 the people of the u.s. were promised a border fence .
since then thanks to kay bailey hutchison and barack obama 95 % of the fence wasn t built .
the arguments against the fence are bogus especially if you look at israel s history .
it s time for america to demand that its leaders build the fence they promised .
no one can honestly say it wont work , after all it hasn t been tried .
via : the lid