london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may will make a speech on britain s future relationship with the european union on sept. 22 in the italian city of florence , her spokesman said on wednesday .
the speech will focus on what kind of ties britain wants to have with the eu after it leaves the bloc in march 2019 - something british negotiators have been keen to discuss with a so-far reluctant brussels .
the prime minister wanted to give a speech on the uk s future relationship with europe in its historical heart , may s spokesman told reporters .
she will underline the government s wish for a deep and special partnership with the european union once the uk leaves the eu .
negotiations on the terms of the divorce with the eu have made limited progress since may started a two-year countdown to brexit .
that has prompted warnings from the eu that discussions on the future relationship between the two could be pushed back from their intended start time of october .
the september round of brexit talks has been pushed back by a week until the end of the month , in what eu diplomats said was a move designed to allow may to make her speech .
britain said the rescheduling was to allow both sides more time to make progress .
may s speech could add weight to the british push to move talks forward , which ministers say is a crucial step in providing certainty for businesses worried about how brexit will affect their ability to trade across borders .
her choice of venue - a city celebrated as the birthplace of the renaissance period and made wealthy by international trade and banking - is a nod to the kind of free-trading relationship britain wants to maintain with europe and develop globally .
sceptics have said the british approach amounts to cherry picking the benefits of eu membership without paying for them .
the uk has had deep cultural and economic ties spanning centuries with florence - a city known for its historical trading power , the spokesman said .
as the uk leaves the eu we will retain those close ties .
as the prime minister has said many times , we are leaving the eu , not europe .