sean hannity needs a safe space because he can t take a joke.for months , the deplorable fox news host who has been attacking a dead man named seth rich in defense of his good buddy donald trump has been referring to liberals as snowflakes because they are offended by the things trump has done.well , after months of using the term to attack liberals , hannity committed hypocrisy by whining about an article published by the onion , a well-known satire publication.hannity posted the piece on twitter complaining about how the left think these sorts of things are funny .
the article hannity is complaining about features roger ailes corpse and how a bunch of mini sean hannitys burst out of his body .
you know , because hannity is a parasitic nightmare.what is wrong with the left that they think these sorts of things are funny ?
https : //t.co/saxon5xxmh sean hannity ( @ seanhannity ) june 1 , 2017again , this is satire .
it s what the onion does best .
and they don t just make fun of conservatives either .
they make fun of everyone and everything.but hannity couldn t handle it because unlike liberals , he is a true snowflake and a hypocrite .
and twitter users mocked him to oblivion for it.it s simple : you remind the writer of a parasitic symbiote that fed on the corpse of the rapist who ran your soon-to-be-former network home charles bramesco ( @ intothecrevasse ) june 1 , 2017dude it s the onion .
steve schreiber ( @ sschreiber13 ) june 1 , 2017this is so offensive .
the only recently fresh corpse sean hannity would ever desecrate belongs to seth rich .
jon bershad ( @ jonbershad ) june 1 , 2017sean did you read their story about the dog speaking at a recent graduation ceremony ?
it s outrageous .
https : //t.co/u9lpvhubkh ben k. ( @ benyankee ) june 1 , 2017since when is @ theonion part of the left ?
they lampoon stupidity .
if they are lampooning you , find a mirror .
( ( ( ryan wagman ) ) ) ( @ rawagman ) june 1 , 2017what s really funny is all the traffic you re sending toward @ theonion with this tweet .
it s like you want to make them some money .
joshua guess ( @ joshuaguess ) june 1 , 2017i think it s hysterical , snowflake bradley herring ( @ behdc ) june 1 , 2017aw , snowflake sean has been triggered by a satirical publication .
drumpf micropenis ( @ dons_angry_inch ) june 1 , 2017you need a safe space ?
morty heureuse ( @ bnick ) june 1 , 2017the fact that you don t know this is a parody website is so hilarious and shows how terrible your research skills really are .
sam geden ( @ kaisajesta ) june 1 , 2017once again , sean hannity just got his ass handed to him .
now we just need to wait for him to whine about that like the snowflake he is.featured image : paul zimmerman/getty images