jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian president joko widodo swore in a former education minister as jakarta s governor on monday , months after an election that opened up religious and ethnic divisions in the world s biggest muslim-majority country .
anies baswedan was inaugurated as indonesia s reputation for religious tolerance comes under scrutiny due to the rising clout of islamists in a nation with large christian , hindu and buddhist minorities .
baswedan faced criticism after winning april s vote with the support of islamist groups who had agitated for months against his opponent and former governor basuki tjahaja purnama - an ethnic chinese christian - whom they accused of blasphemy against islam .
we will ensure that the governor of jakarta will be the governor of us all , of those who voted for us and those who didn t , baswedan told reporters , wearing a crisp white uniform after a ceremony in the dutch colonial-style state palace .
groups like the hardline islamic defenders front ( fpi ) hope that baswedan will impose a more islamic lifestyle in the city of more than 10 million people .
novel bamukmin , head of fpi s jakarta chapter , said the group would push baswedan s administration to gradually close down bars and clubs in a city known for a freewheeling nightlife because it s immoral and ... not islamic culture .
he told reuters the group would begin by calling for the cancellation of the city s new year s eve celebration , which sees thousands of residents flock to street markets , concerts , and traditional theater performances funded by the city .
a spokesman for baswedan was not immediately available for comment .
sandiaga uno , baswedan s deputy , has previously said the administration would consider setting up sharia-inspired or sharia-compliant entertainment spots similar to those in abu dhabi or dubai .
indonesia is officially secular and its constitution enshrines religious diversity , though the return to democracy two decades ago after the end of the autocratic rule of suharto has allowed hardline groups to flourish .
while religion was an important factor during the election , most jakarta residents are also concerned with issues such as chronic traffic congestion and regular flooding .
the hope is for jakarta to move forward so it s cleaner and the poor receive help , said wisnu , a 42-year-old courier .
i don t feel anies-sandi need to pay back those ( islamist ) groups in any way , he said , referring to the new governor and his deputy .
the fpi led mass rallies in the run-up to the election to urge voters to pick a muslim candidate over purnama .
after being put on trial and losing the election in the second round , purnama was sentenced in may to two years in prison in a ruling that was internationally condemned as unjust .
baswedan made public appearances with the leaders of the rallies and fpi but denied pandering to islamist groups to win support .
baswedan and uno are backed by the main opposition party gerindra , which has now wrenched control of the capital away from widodo s ruling party .
jakarta serves as a national political barometer , said gerindra official arief poyuono .
because of that it is important that gerindra has taken over control of jakarta ... to be able to win in general and presidential elections in 2019 .
the battle for the jakarta governorship was widely seen as a proxy for the 2019 presidential election .
baswedan s main backer is retired general and gerindra chief prabowo subianto who is widely expected to run for president against widodo in 2019 .