tallahassee , fla. ( reuters ) - florida lawmakers on wednesday gave the thumbs-up to living together without being married , sending to the governor a bill repealing the state ’ s reconstruction-era ban on cohabitation by unmarried couples .
the old law made it illegal to “ lewdly and lasciviously ” live together without being married to each other - language that presumably differentiated between romantic couples sharing a bed and non-romantic roommates splitting the rent .
in either case , sponsors said , it is a law that is impossible to enforce but dangerous to have on the books .
“ you shouldn ’ t have statutes that are not being enforced , ” said state representative michelle rehwinkel vasilinda , a tallahassee democrat and bill sponsor .
“ you ’ d have to arrest a half-million people , if we enforced this. ” the repeal statute leaves in place a section of the 1868 law making it a misdemeanor to engage “ in open and gross lewdness and lascivious behavior , ” regardless of marital status .
it is difficult to determine if anyone gets arrested for cohabitation , since the offense is combined in the state with public lewdness , said rehwinkel vasilinda , a law school instructor .
but the law “ could be used in a discriminatory manner ” if a jealous ex-spouse or prosecutor wanted to harass a person or unmarried couple , she said .
the cohabitation ban is the latest in a string of antiquated and rarely-if-ever-enforced sex laws being repealed across the country - either by new laws , referendum , or court action , the most notable being bans on same-sex intercourse struck down by the courts in recent years .
if florida ’ s repeal passes the governor ’ s muster , only mississippi and michigan will be the holdouts on laws requiring couples to marry before sharing roof and bed , according to a staff analysis of the florida bill .
the bill was also sponsored by state senator eleanor sobel , a hollywood democrat .
the repeal earned the overwhelming support of the florida lawmakers , with a unanimous vote in the state senate and five dissenters in the house .
among them was representative jennifer sullivan , a republican from mount dora , who said she “ ran on a pro-family platform ” and could not vote to legalize cohabitation .
“ based on my own faith and what i believe , i voted accordingly , ” she said .
“ my faith affects everything i do and who i am , so i ’ m just being consistent with who i said i was as a candidate . ”