washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump vowed on tuesday to bring federal intervention to bear in chicago to quell the “ carnage ” of gun violence plaguing america ’ s third-largest city unless local officials can curb the murder rate on their own .
trump appeared to be seizing on a story published by the chicago tribune on monday reporting at least 228 people shot in the city so far this year , up 5.5 percent from the same period last january , with at least 42 homicides to date , an increase of 23.5 percent .
a chicago police department spokesman , frank giancamilli , disputed the tribune ’ s numbers , saying there were 182 shootings in the city from jan. 1 to jan. 23 , “ which is exactly flat from last year. ” he said homicides have numbered 38 year to date , compared with 33 for this time in 2016 .
still , the tribune said its latest figures put the city on track to exceed last january ’ s 50 homicides , the most for that month in at least 16 years .
chicago ’ s homicide toll for 2016 as a whole reached 762 killings , the most in 20 years .
“ if chicago doesn ’ t fix the horrible ‘ carnage ’ going on , 228 shootings in 2017 with 42 killings ( up 24 % from 2016 ) , i will send in the feds ! ” the president said in a twitter post .
it was not clear what trump meant by “ the feds , ” or what kind of unilateral government intervention he could order to address the issue .
chicago police superintendent eddie johnson responded by saying he was “ more than willing to work ” in partnership with u.s. law enforcement and to help “ boost federal prosecution rates for gun crimes in chicago. ” civil rights leader rev .
jesse jackson said in a twitter post : “ we need a plan , not a threat .
we need jobs , not jails. ” urban violence , drug trafficking and poverty were recurring themes in trump ’ s campaign appearances , and he periodically has cited chicago as an example of rising inner city crime , which ticked up nationally in 2016 after a two-decade decline .
speaking in his inauguration address about drugs and crime that “ have stolen too many lives , ” trump declared : “ this american carnage stops right here and stops right now. ” chicago , with a population of 2.7 million , posted more shootings and homicides last year than any other u.s. city , according to fbi and chicago police data , and its murder clearance rate , a measure of solved and closed cases , is one of the country ’ s lowest .
on jan. 2 , trump tweeted about chicago ’ s effort to lower its murder rate , saying : “ if mayor can ’ t do it he must ask for federal help ! ” a spokesman for mayor rahm emanuel , former chief of staff to trump ’ s democratic predecessor , barack obama , said then that the mayor welcomed the prospect of working with trump and that the two men had previously spoken together on the issue .