london ( reuters ) - lawmakers from britain s ruling conservative party vented their anger on wednesday against prime minister theresa may s pursuit of welfare reforms , reinforcing doubts about her authority over a party divided by brexit .
several members of may s party spoke out against the government during a symbolic debate in parliament by demanding changes or even an outright halt to the implementation of a new welfare payment system which has been dogged by design problems .
may leads a minority government , propped up by a small northern irish party , faced with the task of delivering a smooth departure from the european union - something which requires a deeply split parliament to approve large amounts of new legislation .
the opposition labour party won a symbolic vote on a motion calling for the welfare plan to be paused , but may s party avoided a full blown public rebellion by ordering its lawmakers to abstain , thereby masking the extent of internal unrest .
the labour motion passed by 299 votes to zero with one conservative rebel , but does not force the government to act .
nevertheless , conservative lawmakers openly criticized the government s approach and demanded changes during the debate why are we undermining a policy with the potential to change lives for the better by not addressing a fundamental flaw at its heart ?
said sarah wollaston , the only conservative lawmaker to formally vote against the government s orders .
the defeat comes as ahead of debates on brexit legislation , which had been expected to start this week but have yet to be scheduled .
ministers are sifting through hundreds of proposed changes , some of which are backed by enough conservative lawmakers to inflict a more damaging defeat on may s government .
labour , which wants to topple may s government and take control of the troubled brexit process , had urged conservative lawmakers to rebel on the welfare vote and later called the tactical abstention a sign of the government s weakness .
yet again the prime minister and the tories ( conservatives ) can not command a majority in the house of commons .
the prime minister is in office but not in power , said labour s welfare spokeswoman debbie abrahams after the vote .
welfare minister david gauke accused the labour party of trying to wreck the reforms and vowed to listen to lawmakers concerns but proceed with the policy .
the welfare reform , known as universal credit , is designed to simplify payments to claimants by consolidating six different types of state benefits into one .
the policy was first implemented for a small number of claimants in 2013 under may s predecessor david cameron , but the expansion of the program to more people has been beset by long delays and criticism that it risks harming vulnerable citizens .
the government is pressing ahead with the latest phase of the program despite concerns voiced by lawmakers from all parties that claimants must wait six weeks for payment .
the government says they have taken measures to stop this happening .