( reuters ) - hurricane irma knocked out power to nearly 4 million homes and businesses in florida on sunday , threatening millions more as it crept up the state s west coast , and full restoration of service could take weeks , local electric utilities said .
irma hit florida on sunday morning as a dangerous category 4 storm , the second highest level on the five-step saffir-simpson scale , but by afternoon as it barreled up the west coast , it weakened to a category 2 with maximum sustained winds of 110 miles per hour ( 177 kph ) .
so far , the brunt of the storm has affected florida power & light s customers in the states southern and eastern sections , and its own operations were not immune , either .
we are not subject to any special treatment from hurricane irma .
we just experienced a power outage at our command center .
we do have backup generation , fpl spokesman rob gould said on sunday .
fpl , the biggest power company in florida , said more than 3.2 million of its customers were without power by 10 p.m. ( 0200 gmt monday ) , mostly in miami-dade , broward and palm beach counties .
more than 200,000 had electricity restored , mostly by automated devices .
the company s system will need to be rebuilt , particularly in the western part of the state , gould said .
that restoration process will be measured in weeks , not days .
fpl is a unit of florida energy company nextera energy inc. large utilities that serve other parts of the state , including units of duke energy corp , southern co and emera inc , were seeing their outage figures grow as the storm pushed north .
duke s outages soared to 390,000 from 60,000 in a span of four hours on sunday evening , and the company warned its 1.8 million customers in northern and central florida that outages could ultimately exceed 1 million .
the company updated its website on sunday evening with a warning to customers that outages may last a week or longer .
emera s tampa electric utility said the storm could affect up to 500,000 of the 730,000 homes and businesses it serves , and over 180,000 had already lost power .
the utilities had thousands of workers , some from as far away as california , ready to help restore power once irma s high winds pass their service areas .
about 17,000 were assisting fpl , nearly 8,000 at duke and more than 1,300 at emera .
tampa electric told customers on sunday , however , that response crews were halting work because of the high winds .
fpl said on friday that irma could affect about 4.1 million customers , but that was before the storm track shifted away from the eastern side of the state .
its customers are concentrated in miami-dade , broward and palm beach counties .
the utility said its two nuclear plants were safe .
it shut only one of the two reactors at its turkey point nuclear plant about 30 miles ( 48 km ) south of miami on saturday , rather than both , because the storm shifted .
it plans to leave both reactors in service at the st. lucie plant about 120 miles ( 193 km ) north of miami because hurricane-force winds are no longer expected to hit the sites .
there is also spent nuclear fuel at duke s crystal river plant , about 90 miles ( 145 km ) north of tampa .
the plant , on irma s current forecast track , stopped operating in 2009 and was retired in 2013 .
in a worst-case scenario , the spent fuel could release radiation if exposed to the air , but a federal nuclear official said that was extremely unlikely .
that fuel is so cold , relatively speaking , it would take weeks before there would be any concern , said scott burnell of the u.s. nuclear regulatory commission .
as the storm has come ashore , gasoline stations have struggled to keep up .
in the atlanta metro area , about 496 stations , or 12.2 percent , were out of gasoline , according to information service gas buddy .