middelburg , south africa ( reuters ) - two white south african farmers who were filmed pushed a wailing black man into a coffin were sentenced to jail on friday for attempted murder , assault and kidnapping .
the 20-second video , widely circulated on social media last year , shows the victim , victor mlotshwa , cowering inside a coffin as one man pushes the lid down and the other threatens to put petrol and a snake inside .
the defendants - theo jackson , sentenced to 14 years , and willem oosthuizen , sentenced to 11 years - had pleaded not guilty .
they said they had caught mlotshwa trespassing on their farm in possession of stolen copper cables .
the case , heard at a court in middelburg , about 160 km ( 100 miles ) east of the capital , pretoria , has caused outrage in a country where deep racial divides persist 23 years after the end of apartheid .
when she handed down the sentences , judge segopotje mphahlele said she was appalled that the accused had put mlotshwa into a coffin .
the evidence before court indicates that the seriousness of the offence far outweighs the mitigating factors and the personal factors of the offenders , she said .
the conduct of the accused fueled social division and racial tension .
the defense immediately requested that it be allowed to appeal the sentence , but mphahlele dismissed their application .
the defense then said it would lodge their appeal directly to the supreme court of appeal , saying that the sentence was too harsh , since no one had been killed .
south africa s justice minister michael masutha said the sentence could serve as a deterrent to others .
south africa is no longer prepared to treat racism with kid gloves and we are ready to act , justice minister michael masutha said in an interview with enca .
a large crowd formed outside the packed courtroom .
the police presence around the court was heavy .
what they did was painful to us , qgoga mnyamezeli said outside the court .
hundreds of members of the country s main political parties , including the ruling african national congress and the main opposition democratic alliance party , gathered outside carrying placards , some which said black lives matter !
, and shouting slogans in support of mlotshwa .
black people make up 80 percent of south africa s 54 million population , but most its wealth remains in the hands of whites , who account for about 8 percent of the population .