tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s prime minister has vowed to make education and childcare a priority over balancing the budget after winning a new mandate from voters on sunday , as a rapidly-ageing population threatens to undermine his efforts to reflate the economy .
prime minister shinzo abe s ruling coalition scored a landslide victory at the polls , boosted by his campaign promises to invest more heavily on education and childcare , aimed partly at encouraging more women to join the workforce .
abe also made clear he would continue to press cautious japanese firms to spend their record cash piles on boosting employees wages to stoke a virtuous growth cycle .
with his abenomics recipe centered on hyper-easy monetary policy likely to continue , abe s solid election win also raised expectations he would reappoint bank of japan governor haruhiko kuroda in early april when his five-year term expires .
abe 's election victory lifted world stocks and the dollar on monday , sending japan 's nikkei share average .n225 to 21-year highs .
the index ended up 1.1 percent at 21,696.65 , up for a record 15th straight session .
abe swept to power in late 2012 , pledging to pull japan s economy , the world s third largest , out of nearly two decades of deflation and stagnation .
the economy is recovering gradually but sluggish wage growth keeps consumer spending and inflation from accelerating , while corporations face labor shortages due to a low birth rate and fast-ageing population .
the premier promised to offer free pre-school for all children aged three to five and for children aged two or below from low-income households .
the key to japan s sustainable growth is how we respond to ageing of the population , which is the biggest challenge for abenomics , abe told a news conference .
we aim to exit deflation by accelerating wage growth through innovation on productivity .
if free pre-school education is applied to all children now , it would cost 1.2 trillion yen ( $ 10.54 billion ) , government estimates show .
smbc nikko securities estimates that free pre-school education would relieve households of a financial burden of around 1 trillion yen .
if half the reduced cost is spent on consumption , that would push up real gross domestic product by 0.1 percent , the securities firm said .
furthermore , abe has vowed to expand education benefits with the aim of offering free higher education for low-income households .
abe said he would go ahead with a planned sales tax hike to 10 percent from 8 percent in 2019 and use some of the revenue to create a social security system for all generations , by diverting the funds to education instead of paying down public debt .
the premier had earlier admitted that would make it impossible to meet the pledge to balance the primary budget excluding debt-servicing and new bond sales by the year ending march 2021 .
while abe s plan to spend more on education and childcare has helped buoy stocks of some related companies such as jp-holdings inc that operates nursery schools , the specter of bigger spending raises concerns about looser fiscal discipline .
fiscal reform is a matter of urgency .
japan s public debt tops twice the size of its $ 5 trillion economy , making it the industrial world s heaviest debt burden .
nonetheless , abe , who prioritizes growth , has pushed back the primary budget-balancing target without setting a new goal yet , while vowing to compile by the year-end an extra spending plan worth around 2 trillion for human capital investment .
simply boosting benefits for all generations means politically putting off the pain to future generations , which can be criticized as pork-barrel spending , said yasuhide yajima , chief economist at nli research institute .
diverting sales tax revenue could open the door to expanding fiscal spending further .
in order to prevent fiscal discipline from slipping , japan must continue efforts needed to restore public finances .