harare ( reuters ) - a high court judge in zimbabwe said on thursday the state s case against a u.s. citizen charged with trying to subvert president robert mugabe s government lacked facts and ordered that she be granted bail .
martha o donovan has been in prison since saturday , a day after she was arrested on accusations of insulting mugabe in a twitter post .
police later leveled the more serious charge of subversion , which carries a possible 20-year jail term .
she denies both charges .
o donovan works for magamba tv , which describes itself as zimbabwe s leading producer of political satire .
in granting her bail , high court judge clement phiri said there was a patent absence of facts in the state s case .
the applicant has demonstrated that she should be granted bail .
it is my finding that it is in the interests of justice that the applicant be given bail , phiri said .
o donovan was not in court .
phiri ordered her to deposit $ 1,000 with the court , surrender her passport and report to the criminal investigations department twice a week as part of her bail conditions .
her lawyer obey shava said o donovan would be released on friday after completing administrative procedures .
amnesty international said in a statement the case showed that zimbabwean authorities had contempt for freedom of expression .
the state s case centers on a twitter post it says she wrote in october calling mugabe a selfish and sick man .
the government set up a ministry of cyber security last month .
zimbabwe is facing acute shortages of foreign exchange and cash .
the country is also concerned with who will succeed mugabe , 93 , who has ruled since independence from britain in 1980 .
he plans to contest next year s election .
this week mugabe fired his deputy emmerson mnangagwa from the government and ruling party for disloyalty .
mnangagawa was seen as a potential successor .
formal opposition to mugabe is limited but the government is wary of social media .
last year , activists including pastor evan mawarire used it to organize the # thisflag movement .
its stay-at-home demonstration was the biggest protest in a decade .