kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - two women accused of killing the estranged half-brother of north korea s leader at the kuala lumpur international airport are expected to plead not guilty when their trial begins at a malaysian court on monday .
indonesian siti aisyah , 25 , and doan thi huong , 28 , from vietnam , are charged with murdering kim jong nam at the airport on feb. 13 by smearing his face with vx , a chemical the united nations describes as a weapon of mass destruction .
the pair , however , have told their lawyers they did not know they were participating in a deadly attack and believed they were carrying out a prank for a reality tv show .
they face the death penalty if convicted .
they ( the women ) will maintain their innocence , hisyam teh , huong s lawyer , told reuters .
monday s much-anticipated trial is expected to run until nov. 30 at the shah alam high court on the outskirts of the malaysian capital .
lead prosecutor muhamad iskandar ahmad declined to comment on details of the case , but said between 30 and 40 witnesses , including 10 experts , would be called to testify .
the prosecution is expected to call expert witnesses such as pathologists and chemists early on , hisyam said .
he declined to comment on the defense s strategy , but said huong was in good hands .
she ( huong ) has a good defense and we have the evidence to support it , he said , without elaborating .
south korean and u.s. officials have said that kim jong un s regime was behind the murder .
kim jong nam , who was living in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule of north korea and his brother had issued a standing order for his execution , according to some south korean lawmakers .
four other people , who have not been apprehended or named , have been charged along with siti aisyah and huong .
four north koreans , who police named as suspects in the case , left kuala lumpur for pyongyang on the day of the killing .
an interpol red notice , an international alert just short of an arrest warrant , has been issued for the four , who were caught on airport cctv cameras observing the murder , police said .
naran singh , who is also on huong s defense team , has asked prosecutors to release the names of the four suspects charged with the women .
gooi soon seng , siti aisyah s lawyer , did not respond to an emailed request for comment .
he has previously said the presence of other suspects would change the case completely .
we believe the main suspects are the four north koreans that have left the country .
if we were able to arrest them , everything would be as clear as daylight , gooi told reporters after a pre-trial hearing in july .
the once cozy ties between malaysia and north korea have been frayed after north korea questioned malaysia s handling of the investigation into kim jong nam s murder .
the malaysian government expelled the north korean ambassador .
in response , pyongyang barred all malaysians from leaving the country .
malaysia only secured their release in exchange for returning kim jong nam s body to north korea and safe passage home for three north korean men wanted for questioning in the case .
malaysia on thursday banned its citizens from traveling to north korea , citing security concerns from pyongyang s nuclear tests .
the travel ban follows a visit earlier this month to washington by prime minister najib razak , who told u.s. president donald trump malaysia has stopped doing business with north korea , in line with u.n. sanctions .
north korea is not a member of interpol , and pyongyang was unlikely to entertain any request from malaysia to return the suspects in the absence of an extradition treaty between the two countries , said ahmad martadha mohamed , an associate professor at universiti utara malaysia .
indirectly , this will make it very difficult for malaysia to put any pressure on north korea to send the suspects back , he said .