ankara ( reuters ) - iran s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei , told iraq s u.s.-backed prime minister on thursday that he should not rely on the united states in the fight against islamic state , seeking to drive a wedge between washington and one of its close allies .
unity was the most important factor in your gains against terrorists and their supporters , khamenei told the visiting prime minister haidar al-abadi , according to state tv .
don t trust america ...
it will harm you in the future .
iraq is one of the only countries in the world that is closely allied to both the united states and iran .
both countries have armed and trained pro-government forces in iraq in the battle against islamic state militants .
the united states , which installed the shi ite-led government in baghdad after toppling saddam hussein in 2003 , now has 5,000 troops in iraq and provides air support , training and weapons to the iraqi army .
iran , the predominant shi ite power in the middle east , funds and trains iraqi shi ite paramilitaries known as popular mobilisation , which fight alongside government troops .
for years , baghdad has carefully avoided antagonising either washington or tehran .
but a confrontation between the iraqi central government and its kurdish minority in recent weeks has threatened to tip the balance in iran s favour .
the kurds are also funded and trained by washington which has considered them allies for decades .
after the kurds staged a referendum on independence last month , abadi responded by sending his troops to swiftly seize territory from kurdish forces .
this week , abadi rebuked u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson for demanding he send iranian fighters in pro-government shi ite militia home .
abadi s office issued a statement saying no country should give orders to iraq and calling the paramilitaries patriots .
he has since travelled to both turkey and iran to seek support for his hard line towards the kurds .
the kurdish regional government proposed on wednesday an immediate ceasefire , a suspension of the result of last month s kurdish independence vote and starting an open dialogue with the federal government based on the iraqi constitution .
the offer was rejected by abadi s government , which said the independence referendum result must be annulled , rather than merely suspended , as a pre-condition to any talks .
we will preserve iraq s unity and will never allow any secession , iran s state news agency irna quoted abadi as saying during his meeting with khamenei .