jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel s defense minister said on tuesday president bashar al-assad was winning syria s civil war and urged the united states to weigh in as damascus s iranian and hezbollah allies gain ground .
avigdor lieberman s comments marked a reversal for israel , where top officials had from the outset of fighting in 2011 until mid-2015 regularly predicted assad would lose control of his country and be toppled .
i see a long international queue lining up to woo assad , include western nations , including moderate sunnis .
suddenly everyone wants to get close to assad .
this is unprecedented .
because assad is winning , everyone is standing in line , he told israel s walla news site .
in late 2015 , russia helped assad turn the tide with a military intervention that put moscow s forces in the field alongside israel s most potent foes - iran and the lebanese guerrilla group hezbollah - opposite syrian rebels .
the united states has focused its syria operations on fighting rebel jihadis like islamic state - dismaying israel , which has tried to persuade both washington and moscow that iran s expanding clout is the greater threat .
in its decades under assad family rule , syria has been an enemy of israel , with their armies clashing in 1948 , 1967 , 1973 and 1982 .
while largely keeping out of the syrian civil war , israel has tried to sway the world powers involved in the conflict and cautioned it could strike militarily to prevent iran and hezbollah entrenching further on its northern front .
we hope the united states will be more active in the syrian arena and the middle east in general , lieberman said .
we are faced with russians , iranians , and also the turks and hezbollah , and this is no simple matter to deal with , on a daily basis .
lieberman did not elaborate on what actions he sought from the donald trump administration , which israel has been lobbying for reassurances that iranian and hezbollah forces will not be allowed to deploy near its border or set up bases within syria .
the united states has quite a few challenges of its own , but as a trend - the more the united states will be active , the better it will be for the state of israel , lieberman said .
( the story is refiled to add dropped source in third paragraph )