islamabad ( reuters ) - more than 300 baloch separatist militants have surrendered over the past few months , pakistani government officials said , after a ceremony to mark the downing of guns and militants return to civilian life .
the surrenders are part of government efforts to end a decade-long insurgency in the southwestern baluchistan province by offering amnesties and financial rewards to soldiers and commanders to help them re-integrate into the society .
in a high-profile ceremony on the lawn of the baluchistan provincial assembly in the western city of quetta , the regional capital , some 313 militants from three separatist movements handed over weapons to nawab sanaullah zehri , the chief minister of the province .
i will hug all that who believe in integrity and sovereignty of pakistan but will not tolerate ( those ) who will challenge the writ of the state , zehri said at the ceremony on saturday .
pakistani government officials say about 2,000 militants have surrendered over the past 18 months .
in april , the government held a similar ceremony where about 400 militants handed over their guns .
the latest ceremony saw surrenders by 143 militants from the baloch republican army ( bra ) , 125 fighters from the baloch liberation army ( bla ) and 17 from baloch liberation front ( blf ) , according to officials .
under the agreement , foot soldiers are given 500,000 rupees ( $ 4,700 ) and the top-level commanders receive about 1 million rupees ( $ 9,500 ) to help them and their families build a life after militancy .
baluchistan s government and the powerful army , which has a huge say in the running of pakistan s poorest province , tout the amnesties as an effective way to reduce the power of separatists who accuse islamabad of exploiting baluchistan .
while security has improved in baluchistan over the past few years , critics and human rights groups say the army has crushed dissent and free speech , while separatists accuse security officials of extra-judicial killings and enforced disappearances .
the military denies abuse claims .
pakistan s desire to dismantle the insurgencies has grown in urgency amid vast chinese investment from beijing s belt and road infrastructure splurge .
china has frequently urged pakistan to improve security , especially in baluchistan .
a new transport corridor ( cpec ) through baluchistan , linking western china with pakistan s arabian sea port of gwadar , is due to become operational in late 2018 .
separatists have vowed to disrupt cpec , and earlier this week china warned its citizens of a security threat inside pakistan .