moscow ( reuters ) - russia is within its rights to restrict the operations of u.s. media organizations in russia in retaliation for what moscow calls u.s. pressure on a kremlin-backed tv station , a russian foreign ministry spokeswoman said on sunday .
russian officials have accused washington of putting unwarranted pressure on the u.s. operations of rt , a kremlin-funded broadcaster accused by some in washington of interfering in domestic u.s. politics , which it denies .
the foreign ministry spokeswoman , maria zakharova , said the full weight of the u.s. authorities was being brought to bear against rt s operations in the united states , and that moscow had the right to respond .
we have never used russian law in relation to foreign correspondents as a lever of pressure , or censorship , or some kind of political influence , never , zakharova said in an interview with russia s ntv broadcaster .
but this is a particular case .
she cited a 1991 russian law which , she said , stated that if a russian media outlet is subject to restrictions in a foreign country , then moscow has the right to impose proportionate restrictions on media outlets from that country operating inside russia .
correspondingly , everything that russian journalists and the rt station are subject to on u.s. soil , after we qualified it as restriction of their activities , we can apply similar measures to american journalists , american media here , on russian territory , zakharova said .
she did not identify any specific u.s. media outlets that would be targeted .
she said it made no difference from the russian government s point of view if those outlets were backed by the u.s. state , or privately-funded .
late last month , russia s state communications regulator accused u.s. tv channel cnn international of violating its license to broadcast in russia and said it had summoned the broadcaster s representatives in connection with the matter .
the watchdog did not publicly disclose the nature of the violation .
the head of the regulator said it was a technical matter and denied that politics was involved .
u.s. intelligence officials , in a report in january this year into allegations of russian interference in the u.s. presidential election , said rt was part of a state-run propaganda machine that supported a kremlin campaign to influence u.s. politics .
russia today , and russian officials , have denied any attempt to interfere in u.s. politics .
they say that political forces in the united states are whipping up hysteria about russia s influence to discredit president donald trump .