hillary is failing miserably with the young voters .
in her wildest dreams , she couldn t have imagined running neck-and-neck with a 74 year old rumpled socialist .
more importantly , she couldn t have imagined sanders would run away with the youth vote .
bernie sanders has endeared throngs of young voters by offering taxpayer funded free sh * t , but in the last few rounds of primary votes , it appears that isn t enough , as he continues to fall behind the candidate who is under fbi investigation .
it sure makes one wonder what dirt hillary is holding over obama s head , as this recent shift of allegiance to team hillary comes as a surprise to many .
it s been pretty clear for the past seven years that there is no love lost between barack and the clinton s.in unusually candid remarks , president obama privately told a group of democratic donors last friday that senator bernie sanders of vermont was nearing the point at which his campaign against hillary clinton would end , and that the party must soon come together to back her.mr .
obama acknowledged that mrs. clinton was perceived to have weaknesses as a candidate , and that some democrats did not view her as authentic.but he played down the importance of authenticity , noting that president george w. bush whose record he ran aggressively against in 2008 was once praised for his authenticity.mr .
obama made the remarks after reporters had left a fund-raising event in austin , tex. , for the democratic national committee .
the comments were described by three people in the room for the event , all of whom were granted anonymity to describe a candid moment with the president .
the comments were later confirmed by a white house official.mr .
obama chose his words carefully , and did not explicitly call on mr. sanders to quit the race , according to those in the room .
still , those in attendance said in interviews that they took his comments as a signal to mr. sanders that perpetuating his campaign , which is now an uphill climb , could only help the republicans recapture the white house.mr .
obama s message came at a critical juncture for mr. sanders , who had just upset mrs. clinton in the michigan primary and has been trying to convince democrats that his campaign is not over , despite mrs. clinton s formidable lead in delegates .
via : nyt ssen .
bernard sanders call for a political revolution has resonated with a growing segment of democratic voters who are committed to his message but who , party leaders fear , will walk if he s not the eventual presidential nominee.some of those voters tell pollsters they doubt they could support hillary clinton , mr. sanders chief competition for the party s nod , saying she s part of the very establishment the maverick vermont senator is fighting against .
other democrats say mrs. clinton would only earn their grudging support , leaving the party fearful of a catastrophic split .
via : washington times i don t think there s going to be a lot of change if clinton wins , said cronk , 21 .
like many younger voters , he s especially alarmed by income inequality , the issue that sanders has made a centerpiece of his campaign .
the clintons don t really stand in that position very well.clinton s weakness with younger voters has stood out consistently this year she lost democratic primary voters who are aged 18 to 29 by 70 points in iowa , 68 points in new hampshire and 25 points on super tuesday , when she won seven of the 11 states in play for democrats .
hillary s weakness with millennials has to be very worrisome for the democratic party , said simon rosenberg , president of the new democrat network , a center-left advocacy group .
what you re seeing is the millennial generation has essentially seceded from the democratic establishment .
obama s presidential campaigns showed the power of voters under 30 , who gave him 2-1 support in both 2008 and 2012 .
in 2016 , even more millennials than baby boomers are eligible to vote , and they make up a large share of potential voters in battleground states such as ohio , pennsylvania and iowa , demographers say.for months , clinton tried to connect with younger voters through famous supporters such as singer katy perry and actor lena dunham .
she embraced the anti-police-brutality movement black lives matter , spearheaded by young african-americans , and vowed to expand president obama s deportation relief for young people in the country illegally and their families .
she promised debt-free college for all , only to be one-upped by sanders pledge of free college for all.clinton has acknowledged she s fallen short , saying she has to work harder to convince young people she will help them .
when an iowa college student asked her in january why so many other youths found her dishonest , clinton blamed decades of republican attacks .
via : florida politics