what a treat !
laura ingraham interviewed president trump senior policy adviser stephen miller tonight : miller has been spot on from the beginning of his tenure as senior adviser to trump he often warmed up the trump rally crowds with incredibly uplifting speeches .
he also gave a great speech about why not to vote for hillary : trump spokesperson stephen miller just hammers hillary clinton !
you will love every minute of this ! the guy is so dialed in on immigration and what needs to be done to reform it .
one million people come into the u.s. yearly !
300k in the 70 s , 500k in the 80 s and now 1 million !
nuts ! ingraham pivots to speak about polls and the media note that he calls the media the extreme media lol !
who doesn t love that new term ? ingraham discusses trump s agenda and the populist movement .
it s about trade , immigration , public safety to help all americans.uplifing everyone is the key ! some background on miller s rise to trump s inner circle : when jeff sessions first looked at stephen miller , he saw potential in the recent duke university graduate.miller , then in his early 20s , took up an offer from the conservative author david horowitz to visit capitol hill to introduce him to members of congress .
horowitz believed that miller , who penned conservative columns at duke and in horowitz front page mag , would be a capable d.c. staffer .
a meeting with sessions was on the top of miller s washington wish list .
what was supposed to be a 15-minute meeting became an hour-long meeting with the senator , stephen boyd , sessions former communications director who eventually hired miller .
sen .
sessions immediately saw that stephen miller was an extraordinary young man who had a deep grasp of conservative politics .
it wasn t only sessions who saw something in miller.when donald trump takes the oath of office on friday , the 31-year-old miller will be one of the president s closest confidants , serving as a senior white house advisor .
that title , announced last month , comes after miller worked as a senior policy advisor for the better part of a year on the trump campaign .
trump also tasked miller with writing his speech to the republican national convention , and initial reports indicated that miller would be writing the inaugural address .
the trump camp is now saying that the president-elect wrote that one himself , although new york magazine poked some holes in that claim.while sessions did not have an opening for miller at the time of that first meeting nearly 10 years ago , he told boyd to put him on his radar .
he came out and he said to me , i want you to keep an eye on him and see if he can be a part of our team one day , ' boyd recalled .
after working as a press secretary to two house members , miller was hired as a communications staffer on the judiciary committee , where sessions was the top republican .
i remember setting up a staff and it was friday afternoon , and i got the go-ahead to hire a press secretary just to work on judiciary .
[ sessions ] directions were very clear and he and i discussed it that it was obvious this was a kid with a lot of talent , boyd said.miller would move up the ranks from a judiciary committee staffer to press secretary for sessions office , eventually rising to communications director when boyd departed to become chief of staff to rep. martha roby , r-montgomery , in 2012 .
miller could not be reached for this story.on the surface , there didn t seem to be much in common between sessions , who grew up near selma , and miller , who was raised in liberal southern california.the turning point for miller came after the sept. 11 attacks , when he was disgusted with how his high school in santa monica ridiculed president george w. bush and how the liberal-leaning faculty banned conservatives like horowitz and talk show host larry elder from speaking at the school but allowed leftists and a communist to address the student body , according to an interview he gave to the los angeles times .
during that dreadful time of national tragedy , anti-americanism had spread all over the school like a rash , miller wrote in a 2003 essay , how i changed my left wing high school , which horowitz published .
the co-principal broadcasted his doubts about the morality of the air strikes against the taliban to the entire school via the pa system .
one teacher even dragged the american flag across the floor as we were sending off brave young men to risk their lives for it .
it was then that i first took action , writing to prized radio personality larry elder .
he invited me to discuss these issues on his program , which immediately drew the ire of the teachers , administrators , and even my fellow students .
their resistance only strengthened my resolve .
miller continued his conservative advocacy at duke , when he gained attention for defending the white lacrosse players accused of raping a black stripper ( the players were ultimately exonerated ) at a time when public opinion was against them .
his position led to appearances on cable news , further raising his profile .
three of our fellow students are being put on trial not because of evidence but because of a da s incompetence and malice , he wrote in the university s student paper .
sadly , many in the community have shown that they are not fair minded but would rather hunt for witches than search for justice .
miller s writings were one of the main factors in boyd hiring him .
i focused on his material he had written for the other two members of the house .
i was very impressed he had a column in college and he was a very good writer , boyd recalled .
i was impressed with his intellect , i was impressed with his grasp of politics .
i was impressed with his ability to get the core of the matter and articulate it in a way [ the public would ] understand .
sessions office later found out that miller had an uncanny ability to channel the senator s when dealing with the press .
colleagues of miller s and sessions told politico that the two had a mind meld , a quality that boyd also attested to .
miller has demonstrated an ability to capture the voice of his boss in a way that is very important and also exceeds the ability of most capitol hill staff , boyd said.that voice was mostly flexed on immigration , where explained sessions views to the public.when his boss was accused by pro-immigration groups of being a demagogue for his opposition to an unsuccessful 2010 bill to grant illegal immigrants amnesty for enrolling in college or enlisting in the military , miller stuck to the issue instead of responding with another attack .
the dream act is a proposal for mass amnesty that would even include those who have committed serious criminal offenses , he told al.com in november 2010 .
it would add millions of newly authorized workers at a time when americans are struggling with high unemployment and recession .
besides being a conduit between the senator and the media , miller also played a role on policy matters ; he was instrumental in helping sessions derail the gang of eight immigration reform bill in 2014 that would have given illegals a pathway to citizenship .
miller helped put together a briefing book for republicans filled with talking points and data to bolster their case .
we had been working on the ideas in it for months , and stephen put it in the handbook in a very quick time in a very cogent fashion , sessions told politico .
it was very timely and it impacted the outcome of the vote .
boyd said miller s involvement on policy was unusual for a communications staffer .
it is rare , although in his case i think it speaks to his grasp on the issues and his understanding as they impact the average man and woman , boyd said .
there s no doubt that there was a great trust between sen .
sessions toward stephen miller and they made a great team .
miller s having switched to a high-level position on trump s team at a relatively young age does not come as a shock to boyd , who said his former colleague has adeptly articulated trump s views .
i think personally that miller was one of the first people to really understand the deep frustration that the american working class is feeling , their concerns with open borders and trade policies that hurt them more than they help , and also brought an ability to channel that energy toward president-elect trump , he said.steve bannon , former breitbart news ceo and trump s campaign manager who will join miller in the white house as chief advisor to the president , said sessions work in the senate with miller s input paved the way for trump s candidacy .
whether the issue was trade or immigration or radical islam , for many years before donald trump came on the scene , sen .
sessions was the leader of the movement and stephen was his right-hand man , bannon told politico in their june profile of miller.what started out as the potential of a recent college graduate has turned into high expectations for miller .