beirut ( reuters ) - lebanese president michel aoun , who has refused to accept saad hariri s resignation as prime minister unless hariri returns from saudi arabia , welcomed comments from hariri that he plans to come home soon , palace sources and visitors said on monday .
hariri , who threw lebanon into political crisis by reading out his resignation on nov. 4 from riyadh , gave his first public remarks since then in an interview late on sunday , saying he planned to return within days .
he suggested he could even withdraw his resignation , provided the shi ite group hezbollah allied to saudi arabia s regional rival iran renounces interference in conflicts across the middle east .
the crisis has thrust tiny lebanon where sunni , shi ite , christian and druze groups with backing from regional powers fought a 1975-1990 civil war to the forefront of the rivalry between riyadh and tehran being played out on battlefields from syria to yemen .
aoun has said he believes hariri does not have free control over his own movements while in saudi arabia , and that this casts doubt on any statements hariri makes .
nevertheless those close to aoun said the president welcomed hariri s comments .
president aoun expressed his pleasure at hariri s announcement of his return to lebanon soon , a source said .
aoun said that hariri was leaving all doors open including rescinding his resignation , according to one of a group of visitors who met aoun .
the visitors declined to be identified while discussing the closed-door conversations .
the visitors quoted aoun as saying that hariri s remarks showed that the political deal underpinning lebanon s coalition government which includes both hariri s sunni party and the heavily armed shi ite movement hezbollah still stands .
aoun has been convening high level meetings with lebanese politicians and diplomats since hariri stepped down , and the visitors said the president believed that hariri s comments showed such efforts were working .
nearly 24 hours after hariri s interview , which appeared on a tv station he owns , hezbollah had still not commented on his remarks .
hezbollah s allies in iran said hariri s remarks gave hope he would return to lebanon .
in his resignation speech hariri , whose father , also a former prime minister , was killed by a bomb in 2005 , said he feared assassination .
he said in his interview eight days later that he was free to leave saudi arabia but that his movements were also guided by concern for his family s safety .
hariri s future movement political party said on monday it saw his plan to return to beirut within days as a good sign and a step on the road to repairing lebanon s foreign relations .
in a televised statement , future movement lawmaker ammar houri said it supported hariri s statement that lebanon should stay out of regional conflicts and reject iran s interference .
saudi arabia denies that it coerced hariri into resigning or has kept him from leaving .
it has accused lebanon of declaring war on it because of hezbollah , and has advised saudi citizens to leave lebanon .
hezbollah says it was the saudis who have declared war on lebanon .
hariri s comments encouraged a recovery on monday in lebanese dollar bonds , which slumped last week .