the clintons always blame somebody else .
now it s fbi director james comey s turn to embody their all-purpose bogeyman , the vast right-wing conspiracy .
somebody , sometimes everybody , is out to get them , unfairly of course.the victim card is a clinton family heirloom , but there are major problems playing it over comey s sudden reopening of the e-mail probe.clinton created the mess with her incredibly stupid decision to use a private server as secretary of state .
virtually every major issue dogging her , including her reputation for chronic dishonesty , was started or exacerbated by that decision , including the current one.even as her top aides remain mystified about why she did it , the result fits the family pattern now that huma abedin , her most loyal body person , is on the hook .
it was , by all accounts , the fbi s criminal investigation into abedin s pervy husband , anthony weiner , that led to the new cache of suspect e-mails found on a computer the couple shared.clinton is in a no-win situation either way this plays out this is serious and real but the clintons don t deal well with with serious and real .
the live in their own entitled world that s about to come tumbling down on them one way or the other catherine herridge had this to say about the fbi : catherine herridge , fox news chief intelligence correspondent : chris , a law enforcement source tells fox news that thousands of records are involved .
the new york fbi team assessed them as relevant , telling their colleagues on the clinton e-mail case , quote , we think we ve come across some documents pertinent to your investigation .
clinton wants the evidence public , which is not standard in ongoing cases.herridge : a source close to the fbi probe could not recall issuing a subpoena for abedin s records , adding they did not believe the device shared by abedin and weiner was searched by agents .
abedin told the fbi in april that she sent state department e-mails , including this one from clinton , to her personal yahoo account , where it was easier to print .
in june , abedin swore under oath in a freedom of information act lawsuit that she looked through all her devices that could old government e-mail.on thursday , fbi director james comey was briefed on the findings .
and that same day , he decided to reinitiate the e-mail case and notify congress .
the director s decision is described to fox news as driven by the sheer volume of records and the commitment he made under oath.that s the reality it s bad ! read more : nyp