rome ( reuters ) - former prime minister silvio berlusconi , marking a formal return to italy s political stage , laid out his policy priorities on sunday for the forthcoming election , portraying himself as a pro-european moderate .
speaking at a meeting of his forza italia ( go italy ) party , berlusconi said he wanted to lead the group into the national ballot , which is expected by next march , promising hefty tax cuts if the center-right regained power .
subsumed by sex scandals and legal woes , berlusconi largely vanished from politics after being ousted from power in 2011 .
but he has emerged from the shadows this year and forza italia , with its traditional rightist allies the northern league and brothers of italy , have combined backing of some 35 percent , according to polls , making them the largest single bloc .
we predict a great victory for the center-right , said berlusconi , 81 , looking thin and fit during a speech near rome that effectively launched the forza italia election campaign .
while his allies have repeatedly denounced the european union , berlusconi said he wanted more europe , not less , calling for common defense , foreign , industrial and fiscal policies .
i do not think we can leave the euro , he said , further underscoring how the anti-euro rhetoric once heard from many italian parties is receding as the vote nears .
berlusconi , who had open heart surgery last year , can not run for office due to a 2013 tax fraud conviction .
but he hopes the european court of human rights overturns this ban when it reviews his case in november .
i expect that europe completely restores my honor ...
but court or no court , i promise you that i will take part in the election campaign , said the four-times premier .
if forza italia won power , he said he would introduce a flat tax and eliminate inheritance tax , hike minimum pensions , offer pensions to housewives and give more to impoverished families .
berlusconi dismissed the chances of the ruling center-left , saying the left was in retreat across europe , and also took aim at the anti-establishment 5-star movement , which polls say is italy s largest single party , with support under 30 percent .
the 5-star is expected to chose the 31-year-old lawmaker luigi di maio as its prime ministerial candidate next weekend .
berlusconi dismissed him as a little political meteorite with no practical know-how .
highlighting his own long experience in business and politics , he said he wanted to make a pact with the devil to take 20 years off his life .
he joked this his tan , brown hair and slim figure showed a deal might have been struck .
he also looked to swat down the hopes of northern league leader matteo salvini , who has put himself forward as the natural prime ministerial candidate for the center-right .
we have always had respect for their ideas , but we created the center-right and we have always been the leader to put its program into action , berlusconi said .