raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias expect to push all islamic state fighters out of their former syrian headquarters of raqqa in less than a month , a kurdish commander told reuters on monday .
under the banner of the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , the militias have hemmed the jihadists into a few districts in the north of the city .
the kurdish and arab militias pushed into the city in june after fighting for months to encircle it with the help of u.s.-led jets and special forces .
as the noose tightens , the reaction of daesh gets fiercer , said jihan sheikh ahmed , spokeswoman for the raqqa offensive , using the arabic acronym for islamic state .
in the coming days , the battles will be at their most intense ... we expect , under our plan , that we will be able to liberate raqqa in less than a month .
islamic state has lost much of its territory in syria this year under separate offensives by the sdf and the russia-backed syrian military .
its fighters have fallen back to its last major footholds , the cities and towns in the fertile strip along the euphrates river downstream of raqqa .
the sdf said last week that , after seizing 80 percent of raqqa , the battle for the city had entered its final stages .
with the kurdish ypg militia at its forefront , the sdf has closed in from three directions .
islamic state militants put up tough resistance , planting scores of mines around their districts , ahmed said .
sdf forces sought to meet up from several axes to squeeze the islamic state enclave , said a field commander in the northeast of raqqa .
shefkar hemo said his fighters had faced fewer mortar shells and car bombs recently , with the jihadists relying more heavily on snipers .
the breach of enemy lines is clear on the ground ... daesh are hiding behind civilians , he said .
another field commander in the city said the latest phase of the battle had proved difficult .
sdf officials estimate that 700-1,000 islamic state fighters are holed up in a pocket in the city .
ahmed said she did not expect them to surrender and the sdf would never allow them passage out .
thousands of civilians remain trapped there too , and ahmed accused islamic state snipers of targeting them .
daesh is also entrenched in the national hospital , which they consider a main position , she said .
our forces besieged the hospital , but were being cautious to avoid damaging it , she said .
earlier this month , physicians for human rights said that poorly-equipped hospital was the last medical facility operating in the city .
the new york-based group said intense bombing by the u.s.-led coalition had hit civilian facilities .
the coalition says it is careful to avoid civilian casualties during bombing runs in syria and neighboring iraq .
the caliphate that islamic state declared in 2014 , spanning both countries , lost its de-facto iraqi capital of mosul in july when iraqi forces took the city .