paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron said on tuesday that bashar al-assad was the enemy of millions of his own people and in no position to lecture france , after the syrian leader accused paris of supporting terrorism .
after a string of strong comments by french officials blaming assad s government for atrocities and failed talks , assad said on monday france was supporting bloodshed in syria , making it unfit to talk about peace settlements .
france spearheaded support for terrorism and their hands are soaked in syrian blood from the first days and we do not see they have changed their stance fundamentally , assad was quoted in state media as saying .
those who support terrorism have no right to talk about peace , assad added .
despite being a leading backer of the syrian opposition , france has sought a more pragmatic approach to the conflict since the arrival of macron , saying that assad s departure was not a pre-condition for talks to end the six-year war .
speaking alongside nato secretary general jens stoltenberg , macron hit back at assad .
i don t think syria boils down to bashar al-assad , macron said .
the syrian people have an enemy .
there are millions of syrians outside of syria and they have an enemy who is bashar al-assad .
that s the reality .
on the military front we have a priority which is war against daesh ( islamic state ) and that s why his ( assad s ) statements are unacceptable because if there is someone that has fought and can defeat daesh ... it is the international coalition .
france and other members of a u.s.-led coalition have launched air strikes against islamic state targets .
macron said on monday he would push for peace talks involving all parties , including assad , promising initiatives early next year , although it remains unclear how any french proposal would relate to existing united nations efforts .
he criticized separate russian talks in astana with iran and turkey meant to reduce violence and possibly pave the way to syrian talks in sochi next year .
those initiatives would fail , macron said , because they did not include assad s opponents and were an attempt to impose a solution on syrians .
i don t believe in a resolution of a conflict by external forces that want to impose a peace ... and i don t believe in indulging someone that thinks their country boils down to them .