berlin ( reuters ) - german politicians visited their country s troops at an air base in turkey on friday but some lawmakers said they would not extend the airmen s mission to take part in nato air patrols unless an underlying dispute over visiting rights was resolved .
germany s armed forces are under parliamentary control and berlin insists lawmakers must have access to them , but turkey has repeatedly prevented visits from taking place .
friday s visit was arranged by nato , sidestepping ankara s objections .
some of the lawmakers , who were flown to the konya air base on a nato plane from the alliance s brussels headquarters , said germany s parliament would only extend the troops mandate if future visits were more straightforward .
the current mandate expires at the end of this year .
the conflict over visiting rights must be dealt with before parliament votes again on the mandate , said green lawmaker tobias lindner , a member of the delegation .
flying via brussels can not be a long-term solution .
relations between ankara and berlin were already strained by turkish president tayyip erdogan s crackdown on opponents after a failed coup last year , and turkey s refusal to let german members of parliament visit airmen based in the country has exacerbated tensions .
it must be possible for us to visit our soldiers serving abroad , said henning otte , a lawmaker for chancellor angela merkel s ruling conservative party .
germany has a parliamentary army .
seven german lawmakers visited the handful of german troops serving in a nato air surveillance mission at konya .
the delegation was led by nato s deputy secretary general rose gottemoeller .
there are usually around 25 german soldiers based in konya although only a handful were present at the base on friday .
some more arrived with the lawmakers in the nato plane .
turkey had objected particularly strenuously to the participation of a member of germany s far-left left party whom ankara accuses of supporting terrorists .
repeated refusals by ankara to let lawmakers visit german soldiers at incirlik , another base in turkey , prompted berlin to relocate those troops to jordan in july .
turkey and germany are also at odds over berlin s refusal to extradite asylum seekers ankara accuses of involvement in last year s failed coup against erdogan , while berlin is demanding the release of an imprisoned turkish-german journalist .
the deterioration in relations has led german chancellor angela merkel to say she will seek to end turkey s membership talks with the european union .