washington ( reuters ) - joe biden on thursday ramped up white house efforts to get a senate confirmation hearing for supreme court selection merrick garland , as the u.s. vice president offered the most vigorous defense yet of his 1992 comments that senators should not consider a nominee in a presidential election year .
senate republicans have used biden ’ s 1992 comments as ammunition for their opposition to holding hearings on any supreme court nominee until obama ’ s successor takes office next january after the nov. 8 presidential election .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell reiterated that position after obama on march 16 selected garland , an appellate judge and former prosecutor , to replace justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
biden spoke at georgetown university law school , seeking to increase pressure on republicans to allow confirmation hearings and a vote .
biden emphasized garland ’ s moderate record and that republicans previously had suggested garland would be a consensus supreme court candidate .
in june 1992 , when the possibility existed of a retirement on the nine-member court , then-senator biden declared on the senate floor that if a vacancy occurred that election year , republican president george h.w .
bush should not put forth a nominee until after the november presidential election .
if bush did so , biden added , “ the senate judiciary committee should seriously consider not scheduling confirmation hearings on the nomination until after the political campaign season is over. ” biden , then chairman of that committee , was speaking hypothetically and no vacancy materialized .
he said on thursday his words 24 years ago had been selectively quoted by republicans .
he noted that he made them a year after the contentious 1991 confirmation of justice clarence thomas and that they were intended to address “ the dangers of nominating an extreme candidate without proper senate consultation. ” biden scoffed at republicans ’ current reference to a “ biden rule , ” meaning no hearing in a presidential election year .
he said no such rule exists .
iowa republican chuck grassley , the current judiciary committee chairman , accused biden of trying to “ rewrite history ” on the 1992 remarks .
“ while the vice president and others have tried to recast his 1992 speech as merely a call for greater cooperation , ” grassley said , “ they neglect to mention that such cooperation , according to chairmen biden , was to occur ‘ in the next administration , ’ and only after the presidential election. ” in a quinnipiac university poll of 1,451 registered voters released on thursday , 62 percent said the senate should consider garland ’ s nomination rather waiting for a new president ; 33 percent said senators should wait .