hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong s public broadcaster rthk dropped a 24-hour bbc world service channel from its airwaves on monday , replacing it with state radio from china in what critics say is a sign of encroaching chinese control in the former british colony .
tensions between hong kong and beijing s ruling communist party leaders have grown in recent years , particularly over the occupy civil disobedience movement in 2014 when tens of thousands of protesters blocked roads for 79 days demanding full democracy .
hong kong returned from british to chinese rule in 1997 with the promise of wide-ranging autonomy under a one country , two systems formula .
an online petition , titled rthk : give us back our bbc world service , had been signed by nearly 1,000 people in a bid to keep the british broadcaster s round-the-clock programming , saying the switch would make hong kong feel more parochial and inward-looking .
however , radio television hong kong ( rthk ) , the city s main public broadcaster , went ahead with scrapping the exclusive bbc channel at midnight on sunday .
instead , china national radio - a state-run outlet carrying no sensitive or critical reporting on china - would be broadcast on its own rthk channel .
the broadcasts are mostly in mandarin , rather than the city s main cantonese dialect .
amen ng , a spokeswoman for rthk , told reuters earlier there were no political considerations in the decision and said the chinese broadcaster would enhance cultural exchanges .
she said there would still be bbc world service broadcasts , although only overnight from 11 pm to 7 a.m. and occasionally on weekends .
other rthk staff said the move had been forced through without broader consultation .
nobody knew anything about it .
we were told in a meeting just before it was announced , said a senior rthk editorial employee who declined to be identified because he wasn t authorized to speak to the media .
people see it as a negative thing .
the bbc is generally regarded as independent , and ( chinese ) state media is not , he said .
some listeners said the move could hurt rthk s trusted place in the public eye with its self-professed mission for editorial independence , not unlike the bbc after which it was modeled .
i m quite disappointed .
it s a shame but i don t know what we can do , seriously , said dorothy tang , an it consultant .
others said the move was in line with a gradual mainlandization of hong kong that has seen beijing s creeping influence in many sectors , including local government , law enforcement , politics , education , the judiciary , and the media .
gladys chiu , the head of rthk s program staff union , said there had been several recent incidents that had challenged rthk s editorial independence , including staff being heckled by pro-beijing voices on radio talk-shows and at public forums .
sometimes the pressure is very direct , chiu said .