washington ( reuters ) - a vote to block the obama administration ’ s ambitious climate regulation was one of antonin scalia ’ s last acts as a supreme court justice .
his sudden death may have opened a new path to the rule ’ s survival .
scalia died saturday .
four days earlier , he voted with the other conservative members of the high court to put a hold on the administration ’ s plans to implement the clean power plan while it is litigated .
the regulation is designed to lower carbon emissions from u.s. power plants by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels .
the rule is the united states ’ main tool to meet the emissions reduction target pledge it made at u.n. climate talks in paris in december .
it was challenged by 27 states , along with business and industry groups , in a case now before an appeals court in washington , d.c .
the supreme court could be asked to weigh in again later this year .
without scalia , the conservative members of the court no longer have a majority , at least in the short term .
the sudden shift has given a boost to the supporters of the emissions rule .
“ last week , the clean power plan was basically dead , ” said brian potts , a lawyer with the foley & lardner law firm who represents companies on environmental regulatory issues .
“ but with scalia ’ s death , everything has changed. ” environmental lawyers involved in the litigation who support the regulation told reuters monday that even before scalia ’ s death they had been hopeful the supreme court would ultimately uphold it upon close consideration .
but they said the change in the high court bolsters the rule ’ s chances .
“ there are still no guarantees , but the clean power plan faces much better odds now than it did on friday , ” said jack lienke , a lawyer with the institute for policy integrity at new york university school of law , which backs the regulation .
industry lawyers said they remained confident the regulation will be struck down .
“ while justice scalia ’ s untimely passing creates more uncertainty , the clean power plan is still predicated on an extraordinarily shaky legal foundation , ” said scott segal , a lawyer with the bracewell law firm , which represents companies that oppose the regulation .
in january , a three-judge panel of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit had unanimously rejected the same request for a stay that the supreme court granted last week .
the appellate panel has set oral arguments on the merits of the case for june 2 .
the randomly-drawn appeals court panel is viewed by lawyers on both sides as relatively favorable for the administration , featuring two democratic appointees and one republican appointee .
one of the democratic appointees is sri srinivasan , a judge many legal experts see as a leading candidate for president barack obama to nominate to replace scalia .
if the appeals court upholds the rule and the challengers take the case to the supreme court , they would face an uphill battle in getting the five votes needed for a win without scalia .
the four liberal justices are seen as likely to uphold the rule .
so , the best result the challengers would be likely to get is a 4-4 split .
when the court is evenly divided , the lower court ruling stands , meaning the regulation would survive .
an unknown factor is how soon a ninth member will be appointed and whether it will be a democratic or republican president who makes it .
some republican leaders have said obama should not appoint a successor , leaving it to the next president , who would take office in january 2017 .
obama has said he plans to announce a nomination but will face an uphill ban to win confirmation in the republican-controlled senate .
if a democratic appointee replaces scalia , it would tilt the balance of the court leftward for the first time in decades .
a republican appointee would extend the narrow conservative tilt the bench had until scalia ’ s death .
if srinivasan were appointed , he would have to step aside on the clean power plan case because of his involvement in the case at the appellate level .
that would increase the chances of a 4-4 split .
( this version of the story corrects date when new president takes office to january 2017 in paragraph 15 )