warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s ruling conservatives named in an expected move finance minister mateusz morawiecki as the country s new prime minister on thursday as they gear up for a series of elections in the coming years .
morawiecki , who has also been a deputy prime minister , will replace the largely popular beata szydlo , marking the midpoint of the parliamentary term and in what is the beginning of an expected broader government reshuffle .
sources told reuters this week that morawiecki , 49 , was the most likely candidate to replace szydlo , 54 , to prepare the party - led by jaroslaw kaczynski , poland s paramount politician - for elections due in the next three years .
local elections will be held in 2018 , parliamentary in 2019 and presidential in 2020 .
morawiecki , an ex-banker , is broadly favoured by kaczynski , while szydlo lacked the full trust of the party s chairman , analysts say .
it is obvious that jaroslaw kaczynski is the leader of this camp and he is the one who distributes the cards regardless of who is the prime minister , henryk domanski , from the polish academy of sciences , said .
dramatic changes in poland s economic policy are not expected with observers saying morawiecki will keep strict control over poland s finances and economy .
local market reaction has been muted this week amid speculation about his new role .
but it remains to be seen whether poland , once a champion of democratic changes after the fall of communism and now at loggerheads with the european union over sweeping changes to state institutions , which critics say have subverted democracy and the rule of law , will change its relations with brussels .
three sources told reuters on thursday that foreign minister witold waszczykowski may be replaced with krzysztof szczerski , a top adviser to president andrzej duda , who wants to have a greater say on poland s foreign policy .
the parliament is to vote on a new government at its next session on tuesday and any ministerial changes are expected to be announced after that .
despite the criticism from abroad , szydlo s eurosceptic government , in power for two years , was one of the most popular in poland since the 1989 collapse of communism , largely due to low unemployment , increases in public spending and a focus on traditional catholic values in public life .
earlier in the day , the lower house of parliament rejected a vote of no confidence in the government , submitted by the opposition , and the visibly changed szydlo was awarded with an enthusiastic round applause and flowers from her party .
the last two years - it was an extraordinary time for me and the service to poland and poles was an honor , szydlo said on twitter after the decision of her replacement was announced in the evening .
szydlo and morawiecki have fought for months for control over the largest state-owned companies .
the conflict became public this year during the selection process for the chief executive of pzu , central europe s biggest insurance company .
analysts say that although the talk of the government reshuffle has been going on for weeks , the replacement of szydlo , a loyal party member who made few mistakes , is surprising .
the explanation may be that in the eyes of jaroslaw kaczynski , beata szydlo turned out to be too weak and that the government was seeded by internal conflicts and factional struggles , domanski said .
beata szydlo was a predictable politician and therefore there were fewer risks associated with her premiership .