brussels ( reuters ) - the european commission said a newspaper report that jean-claude juncker had disparaged theresa may s despondent demeanor after a dinner last week was a deliberate smear intended to disrupt brexit negotiations .
it was the second time in six months that a correspondent for germany s frankfurter allgemeine zeitung who is respected for his access to juncker s team has published an account of the eu chief executive s reactions after a dinner meeting with the british prime minister on britain s eu withdrawal .
but unlike in april , the commission hotly denied leaking the story , which painted an unflattering picture of a british leader worn down by party in-fighting and pleading for the eu s help .
nothing is true in all of this , president juncker told the bbc , adding that may had been in good shape and not tired .
the denial came after juncker s chief-of-staff got into a twitter spat with his former counterpart in may s team , denying the briton s allegation that he was the source and pointing a finger at unnamed interests out to hurt relations with london .
it seems some have interest in undermining constructive relations @ junckereu & pm may , martin selmayr tweeted after the accusation by nick timothy .
who ?
is the real question .
timothy , who resigned as may s chief-of-staff after an election upset in june , had accused selmayr , the german head of juncker s office , of briefing the faz to undermine improved relations between may and eu leaders after a summit last week .
after constructive council meeting , selmayr does this , he tweeted .
reminder that some in brussels want no deal or a punitive one .
selmayr said neither he nor juncker made the reported comments .
this is false .
i know it doesn t fit your clich , @ nickjtimothy .
but @ junckereu & i have no interest in weakening pm ...
it s an attempt 2 frame eu side & 2 undermine talks .
commission spokesman margaritis schinas told reporters : some people like to point at us to serve their own political agendas ... or even to undermine our own negotiating position .
we would appreciate if these people would leave us alone .
he declined to say who might wish the commission ill .
the newspaper stood by its story .
some of the most vocal opponents of may s negotiations have been fellow conservatives urging her to reject eu demands for money and other concessions and just walk away without a deal .
may s spokesman declined comment but recalled that may and juncker had described the dinner as constructive and friendly .
london was irritated that after the earlier dinner , at 10 downing street in april , the faz reported that juncker told aides he thought may was in another galaxy with her demands for favors from the european union after britain leaves .
at the time , eu officials did not contest the thrust of that story .
may , who was then expecting the election to strengthen not weaken her , dismissed it as brussels gossip .
but officials on both sides said the april report had been a setback to creating an atmosphere of trust needed to reach a deal .
it prompted reports that german chancellor angela merkel was also irritated by the leak for the same reason .
on friday , eu leaders moved to speed up talks and spoke of opening a new phase in december .
some said they understood may s difficulties in forging consensus in london .