new york ( reuters ) - the raucous , passionate and unpredictable 2016 u.s. presidential election is on track to notch another distinction : the most wagered-upon political event ever .
with many opinion polls showing a tight race just one day before tuesday ’ s election , record numbers of bettors are pouring millions into online platforms from ireland to iowa in the hope of capturing a financial windfall from a victory by democrat hillary clinton or republican donald trump .
uk-based internet betting exchange betfair said on sunday its “ next president ” market was set to become the most traded it had ever seen and expected to surpass even brexit , the contentious uk referendum to leave the european union .
by sunday , roughly $ 130 million had been traded on who will become the next u.s. president , compared with $ 159 million on the brexit referendum , betfair spokeswoman naomi totten said .
the amount bet so far on the 2016 contest dwarfs the roughly $ 50 million laid on the 2012 race .
“ we think it is because ( of ) how raw the brexit ( vote ) is in people ’ s minds - they ’ re not convinced yet that it ’ s a done deal , ” totten said .
most polls leading into britain ’ s june 23 referendum predicted britons would choose to remain in the eu .
instead , they voted to leave by a 52 percent to 48 percent margin .
betfair ’ s “ next president ” market was by far the largest of more than 70 markets on the site related to the u.s. election .
as of friday , some $ 140 million has been put into play on markets ranging from who will win the popular vote to how many states each party will carry .
on ireland ’ s paddy power , which merged with betfair earlier this year , the u.s. presidential election “ is definitely on course to be the biggest political event , ” said spokesman féilim mac an iomaire .
the site has had about $ 4.38 million bet on the race so far .
for paddy power , sporting events remain the site ’ s “ bread and butter , ” with politics more of a “ niche market , ” mac an iomaire said .
nonetheless , he expects the 2016 race to be among the top 10-most-traded events on the site .
even people with no knowledge of politics know who trump is , said mac an iomaire said , explaining the runaway popularity of the u.s. election in betting markets .
“ trump is such a huge celebrity. ” ladbrokes , a uk-based gambling company , said about 5 million pounds , or a little over $ 6 million , had been bet on the 2016 presidential election since its markets on the race opened four years ago .
a ladbrokes spokesman said that amount was “ at least double ” the amount wagered on the 2012 election .
the three sites all reported an 83 percent probability of a clinton victory on tuesday .
her probability shot up a few percentage points on sunday after the fbi stood by its earlier recommendation that no criminal charges were warranted against clinton in her use of a private email server .
the vast majority of big-dollar political betting occurs outside america .
wagering on elections in the united states is limited by law to relatively small trading platforms connected to universities , which use data from the markets for academic research .
still , the sites are abuzz with activity as the election nears , albeit in small amounts .
on predictit , launched in 2014 and jointly run by victoria university in wellington , new zealand , and washington , d.c.-based political consulting firm aristotle international inc , the five most-active markets all related to the presidential election .
predictit is not legally permitted to disclose the amount of money traded , but its top three markets have all reached the maximum number of participants .
trading on the older iowa electronic markets , launched by the university of iowa in 1988 , has also been brisk , although a spokeswoman said she could not say if 2016 was seeing substantially more volume than in 2012 , when president barack obama won re-election against republican mitt romney .
the latest reuters/ipsos poll showed clinton with a 5 percentage point lead over trump in the national survey - 44 percent to 39 percent - while races in the swing states of florida , north carolina had shifted from clinton ’ s control to being too close to call .
the predictit market gave clinton an 81 percent probability of winning the white house .
iem ’ s “ winner takes all ” market showed her with a 71 percent chance .
betfair said on friday that trump was emerging as the clear favorite among one group of players in particular - brexit backers .
two-thirds of its customers who had supported a brexit outcome were also backing trump on betfair .
paul krishnamurty , a professional gambler for 15 years who works as an analyst at betfair and a columnist at politico , is not one of them .
he told reuters he stood to lose $ 28,000 if trump wins on tuesday .
krishnamurty , who said he had earned roughly half a million dollars during his betting career , has laid money on several election-related markets this year .
he took a winning position on trump ’ s selection of indiana governor mike pence as his running mate and bet against jeb bush during the republican nominating contests .
he said he believed clinton would likely to win both north carolina and florida and that a trump victory was unlikely .
“ i personally believe she will win in a landslide , ” krishnamurty said .