berlin ( reuters ) - german interior minister thomas de maiziere said he favors extending a temporary ban on syrian migrants bringing their families to germany , a move that reflects growing popular opposition to family reunifications .
de maiziere , a member of chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , told the heilbronner stimme newspaper that a huge number of syrians were expected to enter germany unless the ban was extended when it expires in march 2018 .
officials expect every refugee to bring at least one family member to germany , he said in an article published on thursday .
bild newspaper said this week that internal government estimates showed that about 390,000 syrians who had been recognized as asylum seekers could request visas for family members when the two-year ban on reunifications expires next march .
merkel , who is expected to win a fourth term in sept. 24 elections , has said the government will decide the issue after the election .
the government has sought to tighten asylum rules after suffering regional election losses over merkel s 2015 decision to leave borders open to over a million migrants .
concern about migration has fueled support in particular for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which is expected to win seats in the national parliament for the first time at the election .
a poll conducted by the insa institute for daily newspaper bild this week showed that 58.3 percent of germans opposed family reunifications for recognized asylum seekers , although they are allowed under german law .
the poll showed that 95.8 percent of afd supporters and 66.8 percent of supporters of the pro-business free democrats opposed family reunifications .
about 54.3 percent of conservatives were also opposed , compared to 42.7 percent of backers of the social democrats , junior partners in the current coalition government .
richard hilmer , head of the berlin-based policy matters think tank , said migration remained a key issue for german voters in the 2017 election .
he said german law allowed family reunifications to help ensure good integration of asylum seekers whose applications were accepted .
otherwise you wind up with single men who are not integrated into the social fabric , and in the worst cases , even a sort of ghettoisation , he said .