bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand ’ s prime minister said on tuesday he had told officials to prepare for changes in u.s. trade policy under president donald trump , but it was too soon for the big exporter to worry .
as in other asian countries which run large trade surpluses with the united states , concern has spread in thailand since trump last week said he had ordered a study of the causes of u.s. trade deficits .
“ we should take it easy as there are no formal words about that yet , ” junta leader prayuth chan-ocha told reporters .
“ i have asked deputy prime ministers and relevant agencies to look into it as we have to be prepared ... but don ’ t worry too much about that now. ” thailand ran a surplus of about $ 18 billion in trade with the united states last year , the thai commerce ministry says .
that puts it 11th globally - well behind china ’ s $ 347 billion surplus or even nearby vietnam ’ s $ 32 billion - but the united states is thailand ’ s biggest export destination at a time the military government is struggling rekindle growth .
at a meeting in bangkok on monday , a senior u.s. trade official set out the trump administration ’ s trade agenda , the office of the united states trade representative said .
topics of discussion included “ barriers to u.s. exports to thailand related to customs , agriculture , intellectual property , labor , financial services , and other issues , ” it said .
commerce minister apiradi tantraporn said the ministry would meet businesses this week to discuss the potential impact of trump administration policies , but it was sticking to its export growth target of 5 percent for now .
thailand ’ s top five export goods to the united states last year were computers and computer parts , rubber products , jewelry , radio and television receivers , and automobiles and parts .
exports , one of thailand ’ s few drivers of growth , are just starting to recover .
they rose slightly in 2016 after three years of contraction and were up 2.5 percent from a year earlier in the first two months of this year .
the central bank last week raised its 2017 export forecast to 2.2 percent rise from no growth and upgraded its economic growth outlook to 3.4 percent from 3.2 percent .
southeast asia ’ s second-largest economy expanded 3.2 percent last year .