abuja ( reuters ) - a police official defended a unit of the nigeria police force that has been accused of human rights violations , saying many claims of brutality were unfounded and the country needed to be defended against violent crime .
a social media campaign has called for the special anti-robbery squad ( sars ) to be disbanded .
it has gathered pace in recent days as people shared stories of alleged maltreatment by the unit s officers , as well as photographs and videos .
lawmakers in the senate , the upper house of parliament , voted on tuesday to open an investigation into the allegations .
nigerian police have been dogged by accusations of human rights abuses for years .
the police force has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing .
when you check most of these allegations ... it is somebody else that is saying that something happened to another person , said abayomi shogunle , who heads the nigeria police force s complaints unit .
we have reached out to all these people : tell us who this victim is , tell us the place where it took place , tell us the date and time .
they are not forthcoming , said shogunle , an assistant police commissioner .
the social media campaign gathered pace after a video was circulated on social media of a youths chasing police after a man was allegedly shot dead by officers in the commercial capital , lagos .
reuters could not verify whether the incident took place or details of when and where the video footage was filmed .
the campaign , which has seen the endsars hashtag trending on twitter , on monday prompted the head of the police force to announce an immediate re-organisation of sars nationwide and an investigation into abuse allegations .
shogunle said a specialist crime unit was needed in a country where kidnapping for ransom is a common problem in some regions , along with burglary .
clashes between semi-nomadic herdsmen and farmers over herding rights have also led to bloodshed in central and northern parts of the country .
more than 30 people were killed in such clashes in a northeastern town last month .
the question is what do we replace them with ?
who will perform those tough , difficult , life-threatening duties that sars are performing at the moment ?
he said .
street protests are also being planned in nigerian cities .
this has been going on for a long time and it s crazy that the people actually supposed to be your friend , to protect you , are the ones assaulting and abusing you , said charles oputa , who is planning to hold an event in the capital , abuja .
he said he did not believe the restructuring announced by the country s police chief would take place .