earlier today , white house correspondent mark knoller was tweeting out the info from obama s announcement about goodies for criminals and i just couldn t believe it .
i know , i know it s really not hard to believe for some but this is such a blatant slap at the rule of law and to the law abiding american taxpayers it really is shocking : obama plans several things via executive order that will benefit criminals .
one executive order installs a program called ban the box where government agencies can t ask about criminal history when hiring .
the second thing obama s doing for inmates is to give them education grants and housing assistance .wth !
ever in search of benefits to hand leftist constituencies , democrats have decided to give goodies to their most natural constituency of all : criminals .
according to the associated press , president obama will announce executive orders monday attempting to prevent screening for prior criminality in government hiring .
the so-called ban the box program would prevent government agencies from asking about criminal history until later in the interview process .
former secretary of state hillary clinton ( d-ny ) , vermont senator sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt ) ( d-loonbag ) , and former maryland governor martin o malley have all joined obama in calling for banning the box meaning the check box for criminal conviction .
obama also wants to prevent public housing from hindering the ability for convicted criminals to gain access to subsidies .
so , in short , we all get to hire unhireable employees with criminal backgrounds , and subsidize those who wouldn t be able to find housing because they have committed crimes .
all of this merely represents the latest in a string of attempts by democrats to reach out to those at odds with law enforcement .
last summer , obama visited a federal prison , where he told prisoners that as a former user of both marijuana and cocaine , he could have ended up in prison , too .
these are young people who made mistakes that aren t that different from mistakes i made , obama said .
the difference is they did not have the support structure , the second chances , the resources that would allow them to survive these mistakes .
actually , the difference is that obama didn t get caught , tried , and convicted .
and while obama finds pandering to convicted criminals cute , those who live in the neighborhoods such drug dealers destroy might find it less endearing .
meanwhile , just days ago , hillary clinton said she would sign a law that would ban racial profiling .
she did not explain how the legal standard of racial profiling would be proved , thus placing every arrest of a person of color at risk of potential legal liability .
she also said she would use executive action to destroy sentencing differentials between crack and powder cocaine , despite the fact that crack cocaine and powder cocaine use differs widely , and that black legislators originally sought the sentencing differential to rid drug-ravaged inner cities of the crack scourge .
the same day , clinton demonstrating her own belief that crime and ethnicity are inherently tied launched african americans for hillary at clark atlanta university after lunching with vicious jesse jackson .
we have to create those channels of opportunity so that we go from childhood to adulthood pursuing your dreams , instead of cradle to prison and seeing them die , she intoned .
this weekend , obama echoed that message .
i believe we can disrupt the pipeline from underfunded schools to overcrowded jails , he said in his weekly address .
i believe we can address the disparities in the application of criminal justice , from arrest rates to sentencing to incarceration .
obama did not explain how school funding leads people to become criminals , because there is no information suggesting that it does .
nor did he present statistics showing systemic bias against people of color in the criminal justice system as opposed to white people with the same criminal histories and same crimes .
and he certainly didn t discuss the welfare-driven collapse of the black family , which has contributed to criminality in the black community more than any other single factor .
no , he pandered , just as he has over and over again with regard to anti-police militancy .
obama s pattern is simple : the police are always wrong at first glance , and even if they re not wrong based on the eventually revealed fact pattern , their innocence is an outlier .
after all , obama is fond of saying , black americans aren t making up issues with law enforcement .
read more : breitbart