b b b but that doesn t happen in america does it ?
a henry ford hospital emergency room doctor has been arrested and charged in connection to performing female genital mutilation on young girls.jumana nagarwala , 44 , of northville michigan is accused of performing female genital mutilation on underage girls.according to a criminal complaint , nagarwala performed the procedure on girls ages six to eight years old at a medical clinic in livonia.some of the children were brought from out of state for the illegal procedure .
female genital mutilation ( fgm ) is considered the complete removal or partial removal of the clitoris , known as a clitoridectomy .
fgm is internationally recognized as a violation of the human rights of women and girls.the investigation revealed that in one particular case , a 7-year-old was brought by her family from minnesota .
an investigation into phone records revealed their location .
the child was interviewed on april 10 .
she stated that she was brought to detroit for special girls trip .
the child victim also stated that she said she had to go to the doctor to get the germs out .
upon a medical exam on april 11 , a doctor determined that the child s genitals had been altered or removed .
the child identified dr. nagarwala as the doctor who performed the procedure.some consider fgm as a religious and cultural practice .
the purpose of this illegal practice is to suppress female sexuality in order to reduce sexual pleasure.in the criminal affidavit , nagarwala performed fgm on girls who were approximately 7 years old at the time at a clinic in livonia .
according to the complaint , despite her oath to care for her patients , dr. nagarwala is alleged to have performed horrifying acts of brutality on the most vulnerable victims , said acting assistant attorney general blanco .
the department of justice is committed to stopping female genital mutilation in this country , and will use the full power of the law to ensure that no girls suffer such physical and emotional abuse .
female genital mutilation constitutes a particularly brutal form of violence against women and girls .
it is also a serious federal felony in the united states .
the practice has no place in modern society and those who perform fgm on minors will be held accountable under federal law , stated acting united states attorney daniel lemisch .
the allegations detailed in today s criminal complaint are disturbing .
the fbi , along with its law enforcement partners , are committed to doing whatever necessary to bring an end to this barbaric practice and to ensure no additional children fall victim to this procedure , said special agent in charge david gelios.via wxyz tv