21st century wire says based on their own reports and public statements , it was clear that both google and facebook , and others , were engaged in formulating a wide program of censorship in order to tackle what the corporations deem as offensive speech or hate speech .
although based on the political biases of members of these corporations , the actual administration of this will be done by fully hidden and unaccountable automated computer algorithms .
according to new reports , the new methods are not merely the manipulation of metrics used to downplay content .
these are incredibly clandestine and very sinister measures : without visibly shutting down an account , this new automated censorship process will simply make an account holder s posts invisible to their friends , fans and followers , in what google/youtube is calling a limited state in order to isolate and contain a targeted user even if they have not violated the user terms of services .
this is designed not only to disappear important opinions and information but also to frustrate users , in the hopes that they will eventually abandon the platform as a viable content distribution network.we believe that facebook may also be implementing similar restrictions on political speech .
mark zuckerberg s admission to angela merkel that facebook was working on eliminating hate speech was an early indicator , and undoubtedly the election of donald trump , and the subsequent scapegoating of fake news by clinton supporters , has since pushed many progressive silicon valley executives over the edge .
however , things may have advanced considerably since then .
on august 5th , 21stcenturywire.com editor patrick henningsen had his personal facebook newsfeed for 21wire articles disappeared : update : sunday afternoon gmt , it seems that the invisible admins at facebook has ( quietly ) re-opened his profile s newsfeed which seems to be visible to some of my friends now , although yesterday s posts are still hidden ( you can see them by scrolling down his timeline ) .
they did not respond to henningsen s written complaint via customer service however no surprise there , as they never have done before .
the important aspect to focus on here is that these secretive measures are all part of a wider political agenda .
with silicon valley corporations clearly determined to preside over an all-encompassing social media monopoly , such restrictive politicized policies become even more dangerous .
the following story which broke yesterday details an apparent backlash from a google employee against the company s diversity policies has gone internally viral at the company .
this was reportedly filed by vice magazine s tech section , motherboard : the person who wrote the document argued that the representation gap between men and women in software engineering persists because of biological differences between the two sexes , according to public tweets from google employees .
it also said google should not offer programs for underrepresented racial or gender minorities , according to one of the employees i spoke to .
the 10-page google doc document was met with derision from a large majority of employees who saw and denounced its contents , according to the employee .
but jaana dogan , a software engineer at google , tweeted that some people at the company at least partially agreed with the author ; one of our sources said the same .
while the document itself contains the thoughts of just one google employee , the context in which they were shared google is currently being investigated by the department of labor for its gender pay gap and silicon valley has been repeatedly exposed as a place that discriminates against women and people of color as well as the private and public response from its workforce are important .
see gizmodo s review of the 10 page google doc.listen to this incredible analysis by mister metokur exposing the highly unethical , discriminatory , collusive and ultimately illegal practices which are being implemented by google , facebook , twitter and other social media cartel platforms in order to erase political speech which they seek to suppress : support 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv