( reuters ) - new zealand s two main parties are neck and neck in opinion polls after the appointment of a charismatic leader boosted the opposition labour party , threatening the governing national party s decade-long hold on power .
the election is on sept 23 .
below are the main parties positions on key issues : economynew zealand s once booming economy is facing some capacity constraints .
unemployment is at an eight-year low and a labor shortage , most noticeably in construction , threatens to curb growth .
both main parties plan to be fiscally prudent and maintain a budget surplus , but would differ on monetary policy .
national plans to cut net debt to 10-15 percent of gdp by 2025 , while labour and the green party both plan to cut it to 20 percent of gdp within five years of taking office .
labour proposes adding full employment to the existing inflation mandate of the reserve bank of new zealand , which economists say could lead to easier monetary policy and fuel longer-term inflation .
to form a government , national may be more dependent on new zealand first , which favors greater currency intervention - something new zealand has been reluctant to do in the past .
national is planning to adjust tax thresholds , or effectively deliver tax cuts , from april 2018 to boost family income .
labour wants to do away with national s planned tax cuts and boost tax credits and subsidies .
new zealand s house prices have risen more than 50 percent in the past decade as the construction industry failed to keep up with demand from a growing population , fueled by record migration and an increasing number of new zealanders staying home .
labour criticizes national for leaving the housing crisis unresolved after nine years in government .
it wants to ban overseas buyers from purchasing existing homes and build 100,000 affordable homes over 10 years .
it also plans to create a housing authority to speed up residential development .
national questions labour s ability to build so many houses while curbing immigration .
it plans to make nz $ 1 billion available to speed up the development of 60,000 houses .
new zealand first wants to ban foreign non-residents from owning a home in new zealand , except in particular cases , and to provide government assistance for first-home buyers .
the green party wants to provide 10,000 new houses over 10 years for low-income groups through a rent-to-buy scheme .
the national party tightened eligibility criteria this year for immigration and believes current levels of immigration are about right to meet the economy s needs .
labour plans to reduce net immigration by up to 30,000 from record levels of over 70,000 annually and to charge every visitor a nz $ 25 fee , which would be ring-fenced for a nz $ 75 million infrastructure fund .
the greens want to review immigration policy to make sure migrants match the skills employers need , in line with labour s policy .
new zealand first wants to curb immigration by ensuring new zealand workers have the first chance at jobs and by capping the number of older migrants .
national wants to expand new zealand s international trade .
among other plans , it wants to complete the trans-pacific partnership trade deal , launch a free trade deal with the european union and britain post-brexit and upgrade its free trade agreement with china .
labour wants to reconsider new zealand s role in the trans-pacific partnership trade pact if provisions on foreign investment are not changed to allow the new zealand government to restrict investment into the country .
new zealand first wants to renegotiate the tpp .