( this version of the october 31st story corrects date of trump s visit to asia to november 5 in 8th paragraph ) washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump will not go to the heavily fortified demilitarized zone ( dmz ) on the border of north korea and south korea during his asia trip , a senior administration official said on tuesday .
the president is not going to visit the dmz .
there is not enough time in the schedule , the official told reporters in a background briefing .
instead , trump will be the first american president to visit camp humphreys , a military installation south of the south korean capital of seoul .
we thought that would make more sense in terms of its messaging , in terms of the chance to address families and troops there , the official said .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis visited the demilitarized zone that divides the korean peninsula last week and vice president mike pence made the same trip in april .
the official , speaking on customary condition of anonymity in briefing reporters , noted the two trump administration forays to the zone .
it s becoming a little bit of a cliche , frankly , the official said .
trump leaves for his first trip to asia this week and is expected to arrive on november 5 in tokyo .
separately , two u.s. officials said a decision may be made for the three aircraft carriers currently in the asia pacific region to carry out an exercise to coincide with trump s trip .
the officials said no decision had been made , but it would be the first exercise with three u.s. aircraft carriers in the region since 2007 .
a senior state department official , speaking on the condition of anonymity , said the buildup of naval forces was part of the military component of the trump administration s strategy to put maximum pressure on north korea , which includes sanctions and diplomatic isolation .
earlier on tuesday , the state department welcomed a decision by china and south korea to resume normal ties after a year-long standoff over a decision by seoul and washington to deploy a missile defense system to counter north korea s nuclear program .