paris ( reuters ) - france offered on thursday to mediate in a political crisis pitting iraq s government against kurdish regional authorities , and promised to maintain a military presence there until islamic state was defeated .
the offer by president emmanuel macron coincided with a visit by iraq s prime minister haider al-abadi , his first abroad since its kurdish-held northern regions last month voted for independence in a referendum declared illegal by baghdad .
the iraqi government has imposed sanctions in response to the independence vote , but abadi said on thursday he could understand the kurds aspirations provided they were expressed in accordance with the constitution and wanted to avoid violence .
we do not want an armed confrontation , we don t want clashes , abadi said , speaking alongside macron .
but the federal authority must prevail and nobody can infringe on the federal authority .
the outcome of the referendum has raised concerns in iraq and abroad that a conflict might break out there along ethnic lines , potentially weakening a u.s.-backed campaign against islamic state , which still holds pockets of territory in iraq and syria .
macron , whose country is the second-biggest contributor to the campaign , said french forces would remain until the militant group s defeat was total .
it is vital in the coming weeks and months that a dialogue begins that respects the unity , integrity and sovereignty of iraq within the framework of the constitution and recognizing kurdish rights , macron added .
france is ready , if iraqi authorities wish , to actively contribute to the mediation launched by the united nations .
iraqi-kurdish tensions were ratcheted down a notch on wednesday when the central bank in baghdad eased financial restrictions imposed after the vote , after receiving a pledge of cooperation from kurdish banks , an iraqi banking source said .
the central bank had said on tuesday it would halt all foreign currency transfers to the region , banking and government sources told reuters .
all but four kurdish-owned banks were on wednesday again allowed to send and receive dollar and foreign currency transfers , the first banking source said .
[ nl8n1mf2om ] abadi , in paris for bilateral talks , said the iraqis and kurds had a common interest in maintaining peace .
he had on tuesday called for a joint administration of oil-rich kirkuk and other areas claimed by both his government and the autonomous kurdish region , provided baghdad had ultimate authority in any such arrangement .
kurdish peshmerga fighters took control of kirkuk in 2014 , when iraqi forces collapsed in the face of islamic state s advance across northern iraq .
i call on the peshmerga to remain an integral part of the iraqi forces under the authority of the federal authorities , to guarantee the security of citizens so that we can rebuild these zones , abadi said , referring to areas taken back from islamic state militants .
we respect the aspirations of all citizens , including the kurds , i respect those aspirations , but we must work together .
we are in one country .