sydney ( reuters ) - the loss of a state election in queensland has stepped up pressure on australian prime minister malcolm turnbull , who risks losing control of parliament at a by-election next month .
three australian prime ministers have been ousted by their own parties since 2010 , and a splintering of the conservative base in queensland has raised questions over how long turnbull s premiership can survive .
opinion polls already show his popularity at a record low .
queensland s liberal national party ( lnp ) , which replicates the federal coalition made up of turnbull s liberal party and its partner the national party , was hurt by voters , particularly in regional and rural areas , defecting to pauline hanson s right-wing , populist one nation party .
vote counting is still underway , but the conservative divide has left the labor party on track to form the government in the coal-rich northeastern state .
smarting from this latest setback , turnbull reminded voters on monday that if they backed one nation at the next federal election it could play into the hands of the center opposition .
everyone is entitled to cast their vote as they see fit but the voting for one nation in the queensland election has only assisted the labor party , turnbull told reporters in the city of wollongong , south of sydney .
the next federal election is due either in late 2018 or early 2019 .
but first up is the bennelong by-election on dec. 16 .
should the liberals lose the seat in sydney s north , turnbull would have to negotiate with independents and small parties to retain control of the house of representatives , where the government is formed .
it could heighten chances of deadlock between the two houses of parliament , which might force turnbull to call an early election , just as he did last year .
regarded as a moderate , turnbull has trouble holding on to voters leaking to the right following the resurgence of hanson s anti-immigration party , according to queensland university of technology political science expert clive bean .
in recent times queensland has often been one of the states that has made the difference when it comes to whether the coalition wins government or not , said bean .
the seats that tend to bleed votes to one nation do tend to be seats where the lnp is traditionally stronger .
forecast to win just one seat in queensland , one nation polled almost 14 percent of the vote , spoiling the lnp s chances of taking the state off labor .
at the federal level , the ruling coalition s fragility has been exacerbated by rules forcing lawmakers holding dual nationality , which is prohibited , to recontest seats .
bennelong is one such seat , and should defeat there lead to the coalition losing control over the house of representatives it would immediately undermine the prime minister s efforts to stave off an inquiry into australia s scandal-hit major banks .
while turnbull has distanced himself from the queensland election result , maverick coalition member george christensen tweeted an apology to voters who switched allegiance to one nation , blaming the federal government for not standing up for conservative values .
a lot of that rests with the turnbull govt , it s ( sic ) leadership & policy direction , the tweet said .