washington ( reuters ) - puerto rico would get substantial debt relief and other new aid to help it recover from destruction inflicted by hurricanes irma and maria in september , under legislation unveiled on tuesday by leading liberals in the u.s. senate .
senator bernie sanders , an independent , and senator elizabeth warren , a democrat , called for a new “ emergency credit facility ” of up to $ 57.2 billion for puerto rico and $ 5 billion for the virgin islands , according to a summary of the bill .
the bill would also extend the deadline for individuals to apply for assistance from the federal emergency management agency .
the legislation can not advance without the support of republicans , who hold a slim majority in the senate .
congressional republicans and the trump administration have approved some $ 51 billion in aid to the u.s. territories of puerto rico and the virgin islands and u.s. states hit by hurricanes and wildfires , with a new round expected to be approved in december .
the effort has been criticized as lackluster by many democrats in congress , with large swaths of puerto rico still without power and clean water .
puerto rican governor ricardo rossello is seeking more than $ 94 billion in disaster recovery aid , including $ 31.1 billion for housing and $ 17.8 billion to rebuild and bolster the power grid .
the legislation would put congress on record in support of relieving puerto rico ’ s $ 72 billion debt .
the island has a further $ 50 billion in unfunded pension liabilities .
kenneth mapp , governor of the u.s. virgin islands , said the island had requested $ 7.5 billion to cover uninsured hurricane-related damages to the public sector .
the hurricanes devastated the island ’ s healthcare sector , destroying two already struggling hospitals .
mapp also asked for a waiver to use $ 226 million in unspent medicaid funding provided under obamacare .
the island was unable to spend the money because the local government could not provide its share of matching funds .
the sanders-warren plan would also restore the u.s. minimum wage for certain young workers in puerto rico , open some federal food and nutrition programs to the two territories and improve benefits under the medicare and medicaid health programs .
the legislation as well would provide more federal aid for rebuilding puerto rico ’ s electric grid , with an emphasis on beefing up solar , wind and other “ clean ” energy capabilities .