madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - the secessionist leader of catalonia called for international mediation on monday in the region s dispute with madrid , a day after hundreds of people were hurt as police swung truncheons and fired rubber bullets to disrupt an independence referendum .
results showed voters had overwhelmingly backed independence in the referendum , which spain has ruled illegal and which opponents of secession mostly boycotted .
the vote was valid and must be implemented , said catalan leader carles puigdemont .
it is not a domestic matter , he told a news conference on monday .
he said it was obvious that we need mediation , adding : we don t want a traumatic break ... we want a new understanding with the spanish state .
prime minister mariano rajoy met leaders of other political parties and his conservative government issued a statement saying he was seeking a joint response to the crisis .
he also spoke to other european leaders and thanked them for supporting spain s constitutional order , the statement said .
in barcelona , hundreds of students gathered in a central square to protest at sunday s police crackdown , chanting pro-independence slogans and waving catalan flags .
the government crackdown had provoked an unacceptable totalitarian situation using state violence , student albert lopez said .
another protest was held later outside the headquarters of the spanish national police in barcelona .
elsewhere , life in the city returned to near normal , but the violence had clearly left people in shock and may have hardened attitudes among those who favor independence .
there is no possibility of dialogue now with the government .
we are clear on that , said a 51-year-old retired worker who declined to give his name .
spain s wealthiest region , wedged in the northeast on the mediterranean coast below the mountainous border with france , has its own language and culture , and a growing minority there have nurtured hopes of independence for years .
madrid says the constitution prohibits secession and is non-negotiable .
the crisis could deepen further if the catalan regional parliament uses the vote as justification for a unilateral declaration of independence , as foreseen in the referendum law enacted by the region but rejected by madrid .
with 95 percent of the vote counted , authorities said the yes vote stood at 90.1 percent , on a turnout of 2.26 million out of 5.34 million registered voters .
polls before sunday s vote put support for secession at only around 40 percent , but most opponents were expected to boycott the vote .
the spanish government has taken the risk that its violent crackdown could increase support for the secessionists .
puigdemont , who held the vote in defiance of a court order , urged rajoy to say whether he was in favor of mediation , which he said should be overseen by the european union .
he said brussels had been timid and lacked courage on the matter .
an eu spokesman declined to say whether the union would mediate , although it would be unusual for brussels to take such a step within one of the bloc s own member states .
other european leaders have mostly shied away from commenting on what they consider an internal matter , although some have expressed alarm at the violence .
rajoy held meetings on monday with pedro sanchez , leader of the opposition socialists , and centrist albert rivera .
rivera called on rajoy to suspend catalan autonomy and hold elections in the region to change the nationalist-led government there , something madrid has not ruled out .
sanchez urged the prime minister , who takes a hard line against catalan separatism , to start a dialogue with puigdemont .
he disapproved of the police charges which left many injured on sunday , a socialist party statement said .
spain s two biggest trade union federations , the general union of workers ( ugt ) and workers committees ( comisiones obreras ) , distanced themselves from calls by pro-independence groups and trade unions in catalonia on sunday for a general strike in the region on tuesday .
elsewhere in spain , catalonia s bid for independence is fiercely opposed and led to pro-unity demonstrations in many cities from zaragoza to madrid over the weekend .
i don t agree with the police charging at people but , on the other hand , when you do something illegal you have to take responsibility for the risks , said madrid resident gemma lopez .
any move to impose central control over the region of 7.5 million people risks hurting spain s emergence from years of recession .
financial markets were rattled .
spain s borrowing costs surged and its blue-chip stock index fell 1.2 percent .
[ .eu ] ratings agency fitch said the confrontational nature of the vote in catalonia increased spain s near-term political risks and would make a negotiated solution more complicated , but said it views catalonia s secession from spain as very unlikely .
catalonia is a center of industry and tourism accounting for a fifth of spain s economy , a production base for major multi-nationals from volkswagen to nestle , and home to europe s fastest-growing sea port .
although it already has extensive autonomy , its tax revenues are crucial to spain s state budget .
the events in catalonia have forced rajoy to delay talks over next year s budget after a key political group withdrew support for his minority government until the issue is resolved .
but other parties sharing his opposition to catalonia s secession suggests that his position is not in danger .
the ballot , which asked voters if they wanted an independent republic , has no legal status as it was banned by spain s constitutional court for being at odds with the 1978 constitution , which states spain can not be broken up .