brussels ( reuters ) - nato is set to agree on thursday to increase its afghanistan training mission by some 3,000 troops , alliance officials said , after the united states switched tack in long-running efforts to defeat taliban militants and end the conflict .
fresh nato personnel will not have a combat role but the alliance hopes more soldiers can train the afghan army and air force to complement u.s. president donald trump s strategy to send more american counter-terrorism troops to the country .
we have decided to increase the number of troops ... to help the afghans break the stalemate , to send a message to the taliban , to the insurgents that they will not win on the battleground , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg told a news conference on tuesday .
nato defense ministers are expected to approve the deployment in the latter part of a two-day meeting that starts on wednesday .
the troops would be deployed from the start of 2018 , a nato official said .
the west says it is determined to stabilize a country facing resurgent rebels 16 years after the united states sought to topple the taliban rulers who had harbored the al qaeda militants behind attacks on new york and washington .
stoltenberg said an attack on tuesday on a television station in kabul underlined the importance of fighting militants and supporting afghan security forces .
islamic state claimed responsibility for the assault , without giving evidence .
trump s envoy to nato , ambassador kay bailey hutchinson , said the u.s. goal was to show taliban militants they could not win in military combat .
trump s strategy in afghanistan , unveiled in august , rests on providing more troops , a stronger afghan army , support from regional allies such as india and a harder line with pakistan .
u.s. officials say pakistan provides refuge and support to the taliban and other extremist groups , which pakistan denies .
we d like to see pakistan come in , in a positive effort to help stabilize afghanistan , hutchinson said .
there have been several attempts in recent years to broker a settlement between the western-backed government in kabul and the taliban , but all have failed .
without the militants at the table , experts say it is hard to envisage a peace settlement .
nato allies have already promised almost $ 3 billion to help the united states fund the afghan military until 2020 , which is developing an air force to complement its ground forces .
troop contributions had rested on nato allies seeing more details about trump s strategy , diplomats said .
the nato contribution would boost the training mission , called resolute support , to around 16,000 troops , stoltenberg said .
about half the additional troops would come from the united states and the rest from nato allies and partner countries .
u.s. army general john nicholson , the commander of the resolute support mission and of u.s. forces in afghanistan , said in february that a few thousand more troops would make a difference .
about 11,000 u.s. troops are serving in afghanistan , the pentagon said in august , including almost 7,000 in resolute support , according to nato data .
under trump s new strategy , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said in september that more than 3,000 additional u.s. troops would be deployed to afghanistan .
taken together , the new deployments could take the total number of western troops in the country to above 20,000 , according to current and projected troop numbers well below a 2011 peak of more than 100,000 .