( reuters ) - lawmakers in kansas on monday failed to override republican governor sam brownback ’ s veto of a bill expanding eligibility for medicaid for the poor under the federal affordable care act ( aca ) .
the kansas house of representatives voted 81 to 44 in favor of overriding the veto , falling three votes short of the 84 needed to advance the override .
state lawmakers in the republican-controlled senate voted in favor of the measure last week , just days after president donald trump ’ s efforts to repeal and replace the aca , also known as obamacare , ended with the bill being pulled from a vote .
the republican-controlled house also voted in favor of the measure , but brownback quickly vetoed the bill on thursday .
the house took up a debate on overriding the veto that day , but postponed a vote until monday .
“ it is disappointing that the kansas house failed to override the veto because a small group of representatives chose to side with the governor instead of the 82 % of kansans who support expanding kancare and the vast majority of their colleagues in both chambers , ” david jordan , the executive director of the alliance for a healthy kansas , a coalition of groups that backed medicaid expansion , said in a statement on monday .
brownback said the measure failed to eliminate waiting lists for disability services , did not add work requirements and was not budget neutral .
it also continued to support planned parenthood , which provides a range of reproductive services including abortions , which brownback opposes .
kansas was not among the 31 states that in 2016 had opted to expand medicaid , with the federal government footing much of the cost under obamacare .
with the aca ’ s enhanced federal funding , medicaid expansion in kansas , effective jan. 1 , 2018 , would cost the state an estimated $ 31 million in fiscal 2018 , which begins july 1 , according to estimates cited in a legislative report on the bill .
it would cost $ 67 million in fiscal 2019 with more than 180,000 additional recipients , the report said .
without enhanced federal matching funds , the state ’ s costs would balloon to $ 465 million by fiscal 2019 .
kansas tax collections fell $ 11.6 million below estimates for march mainly due to lower-than-expected personal income taxes , the state ’ s revenue department reported on monday .
however , tax revenue so far in fiscal 2017 was $ 57.5 million ahead of projections .
( the story was refiled to delete “ reports ” source from headline ; the vote is on kansas legislature ’ s public record )