shanghai ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping s vast belt and road infrastructure project was unexpectedly included in the ruling communist party s constitution on tuesday , giving it greater policy heft and added pressure to succeed .
the party s amended charter , approved at the close of its twice-a-decade congress , pledged to pursue the belt and road initiative , a further sign of xi s expanding power and evidence that the ambitious silk road -like initiative will endure beyond xi s tenure .
it also underscores how the communist party has increased its attention to foreign policy and reflects xi s growing desire for china to take a global leadership role , analysts said .
everyone knows that the belt and road is very important to xi , it has his personal stamp and authority , said peter cai , a non-resident fellow at sydney-based think tank lowy institute .
but to have major policy , especially an external engagement policy , to be written into a party constitution , at least in recent memory , it is something quite significant , he said .
first mentioned during a speech xi gave to university students in kazakhstan in 2013 , the plan is a vehicle for china to take a greater role on the international stage by funding and building global transport and trade links in more than 60 countries .
xi has heavily promoted the initiative , inviting world leaders to beijing in may for an inaugural summit at which he pledged $ 124 billion ( 94 billion ) in funding for the plan .
local chinese governments as well as state and private firms have rushed to offer support by investing overseas and making loans .
some critics argue that china is exporting excess industrial capacity to spread its influence , and that the initiative , which has seen developing countries take on heavy debt , needs higher standards of governance and transparency .
china has made commitments and pledges to many developing countries and it will take that length of time , 10 years or more , to complete the initiative , said rajiv biswas , asia pacific chief economist at ihs markit .
this has also strengthened china s soft power globally , so it wouldn t make sense for china s point of view to suddenly pull away from all of this , he said .
other analysts said its inclusion could be a double-edged sword that adds pressure for the initiative , which remains broadly defined and leaves much to interpretation , to succeed .
the danger of having given it greater visibility is that actually there are going to be more of those efforts to play to the policy in a political way rather than considering carefully the costs and benefits of each portion of what one is doing , said dali yang , a professor at the university of chicago .
many private investors have jumped on the bandwagon to describe their projects as belt and road-related , while local governments have rolled out individual belt and road plans .
the heads of chinese firms including china communications construction co and china aerospace science and industry corporation [ sasaai.ul ] told reuters during the week-long congress that they would place greater focus on developing their overseas businesses in support of the belt and road initiative .
the party congress saw xi cement his power ahead of a second five-year term and put him in the same company as the founder of modern china , mao zedong , with the enshrinement of his political thought into the country s constitution .