manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on wednesday heaped praise on visiting chinese premier li keqiang for what he said was china s critical role in expediting the end of a five-month war with islamist insurgents in a philippine town .
duterte credited china with supplying what he said was the rifle that on oct. 16 killed islamic state s regional point man , isnilon hapilon , and said he would present that weapon to china as a mark of appreciation for its help in the war in marawi city .
i am going to return to you the rifle so that the chinese people would know , it was critical , it is a symbol of the critical help , duterte told li , the first chinese premier to visit the philippines in a decade .
there are doubts , however , about if it really was a chinese sniper rifle that killed hapilon , and uncertainty about whether the military has used any of the 6,100 guns beijing has donated since june .
the philippine defense minister recently said all those weapons were given to the police .
hapilon was killed by members of the 8th scout ranger company .
scout ranger books , a facebook page of one of the ranger officers , gave a blow-by-blow account of the operation and said the shot that killed hapilon came from a gun mounted on an armored vehicle .
members of the unit also told media the shot came from a fixed weapon controlled remotely .
such weapons are typically 50-calibre machine guns .
the arms you gave us , helped abbreviate , shorten the military fight there , duterte said .
on friday , he said something similar to russian president vladimir putin .
he told him russia had helped us turn the tide and to shorten the war by supplying weapons that philippine soldiers used to kill militant snipers in marawi .
the russian arms were actually delivered two days after military operations were declared over .
the conflict was the biggest and longest battle in the philippines since world war two .
more than 1,000 people , most of them rebel gunmen , were killed and 353,000 were displaced .
duterte told li china s help came at the crucial moment when we needed most and there was nobody to help us at that time .
his remarks may not sit well with the united states and australia , which from the early stages of the conflict were providing technical support to philippine forces , including surveillance aircraft to pinpoint locations of militants .
li said china would provide 150 million yuan ( $ 22.7 million ) to help with reconstruction in marawi .
he praised duterte for last year putting aside festering disputes with china and visiting beijing , a trip he said was an ice-breaker .
philippine security analyst renato de castro said the information duterte gave to li was inaccurate , but consistent with his policy of total appeasement of china .
i m really surprised , i don t know whether it s flattery or an outright lie , he told news channel anc .