sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said on wednesday his government s future was at risk if it lost a sydney by-election this weekend and failed to regain its one-seat majority , forcing it to rely on independents to survive in power .
turnbull s conservative voter base in the harbourside seat of bennelong , usually a safe blue-ribbon seat , has collapsed , according to an opinion poll on tuesday .
the newspoll in the australian newspaper said turnbull s liberal-national coalition and the opposition labor each have a 50 percent chance of winning on a two-party preferred vote , with liberal voters deserting to a newly formed conservative party .
it is a tight race .
it is very high cost .
if labor were to win in bennelong , then ( labor leader ) bill shorten would be very close to becoming prime minister , turnbull told reporters in sydney .
if turnbull loses bennelong , it would only take the loss of support from key independents in a vote of no confidence to see his minority government topple .
centre-left labor has not held power since 2013 .
turnbull has led a minority government since october after his deputy prime minister was forced to quit parliament for holding dual citizenship .
under australia s constitution , national politicians can only have australian citizenship .
the deputy prime minister was re-elected on dec. 2 after renouncing his new zealand citizenship , but turnbull failed to regain his one-seat majority because bennelong s liberal incumbent , former tennis champion john alexander , quit parliament because he believed he might hold dual australian-british citizenship .
turnbull s future now rests on the voters of the affluent bennelong electorate , where 13 percent of electors were born in either china or hong kong .
but a strain in relations between australia and china in the past week may cost turnbull votes .
turnbull announced last week a ban on foreign political donations aimed at preventing external influence in domestic politics .
he singled out china in announcing the ban , prompting a rebuke in china s people s daily newspaper .
australia must recognise china is now leading the world .
the government s attitude towards china will cost them votes , said cao gui dong , a candidate for the christian democrat party in bennelong .
a loss in bennelong would also see turnbull s grip on the prime ministership again come under scrutiny , with one liberal politician already calling for him to quit before christmas .
turnbull has fought off leadership speculation for most of 2017 , amid a slump in polls as voters flock to far-right parties , but has vowed to lead his government to the next election due in 2019 .
( this version of the story fixes typo paragraph six )