berlin ( reuters ) - germany is worried that u.s. president donald trump will decide this week that iran is not respecting a two-year-old deal to curb its nuclear programme and fears such a step will worsen the security situation in the middle east .
foreign minister sigmar gabriel said germany was prepared to work with the united states to change iran s behaviour in the region but we do not want to see this agreement damaged .
we are looking with great concern towards the united states , gabriel told reporters in berlin .
we urge the white house not to call into question such an important achievement that has improved our security , he said in reference to the 2015 accord reached under trump s predecessor barack obama , who sought detente with tehran .
we are also offering to help influence iran s behaviour in the region .
germany is ready to do this , but not at the price of sacrificing the nuclear deal .
trump is expected to decertify the landmark agreement between iran and britain , china , france , germany , russia , the united states and european union despite advice from senior members of his own cabinet and u.s. partners to stick with it .
if he does say iran is not respecting the deal , the u.s. congress would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions that were lifted in exchange for curbs on iran s nuclear programme .
even if congress does not take that step , the deal could be at risk of unravelling if washington and tehran resort to tit-for-tat retaliatory steps .
the u.n. nuclear watchdog has repeatedly certified that iran is in compliance with the deal s terms .
gabriel called the accord a great diplomatic success , saying it had prevented iran from developing nuclear weapons and headed off a military conflict between iran and israel .
we are worried , based on the signals coming out of the united states , that the president will tell lawmakers that the nuclear deal with iran is not being fulfilled , gabriel said .
this runs counter to the view of all the european countries that participated in the deal as well as the eu .
gabriel said he had made clear to u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson in recent conversations that europe , due to its relative geographical proximity to iran , would see its own security interests as damaged if the nuclear deal collapsed .
he also drew attention to the signal such a step would send to north korea .
our big concern , with regard to north korea , is that it is very unlikely that the north korean dictatorship would sign an international agreement in which it agrees to renounce nuclear weapons when the one agreement like this ( with iran ) is being called into question , gabriel said .