rapper killer mike , will appear in front of a sold out audience at the prestigious mit university today .
here s a clip from an interview with jew hater and racist louis farrakhan : he s a follower and admirer of this racist jew hater .
he s clearly one of the most angry black men in the entertainment business .
after watching this interview , you will better understand the mentality of the protestors on the streets who are getting in the faces of cops ( of whom the majority are good men and women protecting and defending the citizens within their jurisdiction ) .
it should be noted , that killer mike s dad was a police officer or dirty pig as he likes to call them.killer mike views rap as social activism , and never shies away from sharing his opinions on race and abuses of power .
whether he s condemning institutionalized corruption in reagan or speaking out against police brutality with run the jewels close your eyes , if killer mike thinks it s messed up , he s going to let you know.this friday , april 24 , mit students will have the chance to hear how messed up race relations are , when killer mike delivers a lecture titled race relations in the u.s. at the school .
according to the press release , he ll be talking about how current and advancing technology are shaping race relations .
( we re guessing that he doesn t regard drone surveillance as a democratizing agent . )
chances are pretty good that killer mike will also be addressing the spate of well-publicized police shootings of young unarmed black men and their systemic social consequences.here is an example of the most recent music video by killer mike .
* * * * warning * * * * violence and strong language * * * killer mike s lecture is the second in mit s new hip-hop speaker series , which opened with young guru .
the series is the result of a collaboration between the arts at mit and taptape , an mit-based music startup .
the series stated goal is to bring together leaders in hip-hop with leading faculty and students at the massachusetts institute of technology .
that s a perfect opportunity for a mathematics seminar featuring dr. octagon and dr. roman bezrukavnikov , professor of algebraic geometry.while killer mike s lecture certainly sounds intriguing , friday s lecture is exclusively available to mit students and is already sold out .
but if you re jonesing to hear killer mike drop some heated words , there s always the extremely-nsfw big beast video , featuring bun b and t.i.we were going to include the big beast video , but after viewing this disturbing video , which includes nudity , horrific acts of violence and an attempted rape scene , we decided against it .
the driver in the video is wearing a ronald reagan mask because killer mike believes that all of the problems plaguing the black community are as a result of ronald reagan s presidency .
please feel free to view it ( if you are an adult ) and you can stomach it at this link : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=z8-rmm5py1cvia : av club