munich/potsdam , germany ( reuters ) - more than 8,000 people including hecklers blowing whistles showed up in munich for one of german chancellor angela merkel s final speeches before sunday s national election that is expected to sweep her into a fourth term .
merkel , whose conservatives have a solid double-digit lead over the social democrats , largely ignored jeers from hundreds of left- and right-wing demonstrators to deliver a stump speech focused on stability , security and a promise to avoid tax increases .
get lost , merkel must go , shouted some demonstrators as curious foreign tourists , in munich for its famous oktoberfest , snapped photographs of the german leader first elected in 2005 .
merkel , who has faced down similar heckling at many other rallies , especially in the former communist east , admonished the peaceful but boisterous crowd : whistling and yelling certainly won t ensure the future of our country .
merkel defended her 2015 decision to allow in about one million migrants as a humanitarian necessity but said she would prevent a repeat of the migrant crisis by doing more to fund programs in at-risk countries to keep people from fleeing .
what happened in 2015 can not and will not be repeated , merkel said , saying she would protect europe s borders .
at berlin s gendarmenmarkt , merkel s main rival , spd leader martin schulz urged supporters to make their voices heard , saying that high voter turnout could help offset growing support for the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
schulz , flanked by hundreds of red balloons , decried the afd as gravediggers of democracy , and said his party , which also opposed the rise of nazis in the 1930s , would do all it could to fight the anti-immigrant group .
you are our enemies and we will defend democracy in germany , he said .
the more people vote , the smaller will be the share of the far-right .
schulz told bild newspaper he had not given up hope of victory and 37 percent of voters were still undecided .
support for the afd , which was founded in 2013 during the euro zone crisis but has won support since 2015 with its anti-immigrant rhetoric , is running around 11 percent .
that means it will become the first far-right party in more than half a century to clear the 5 percent hurdle and enter parliament .
the afd , which has already won seats in 13 of 16 state legislatures , promised to reenergize debate there after four years of grand coalition rule by the two major parties .
it must get into the bundestag lower house so that debates happen again , the afd s top candidate alexander gauland told reuters in brandenburg s regional parliament .
this parliament ... has become totally boring .
gauland said the afd would bring in completely different political suggestions after four years of agreement between the parties of merkel and schulz on issues ranging from sanctions against russia , the nsa spying scandal or on the refugee issue .
schulz described gauland as shameless .
gauland provoked outrage by saying at a recent rally that germans should no longer be reproached with the nazi past and should take pride in their world war two soldiers .
the language that he speaks is the language of the harzburger front , schulz said , referring to a radical right-wing alliance in weimar germany .
the gravediggers of the weimar democracy , they spoke like mr gauland .
the mainstream parties have ruled out working with the afd , which may emerge as the third largest party ; but gauland said it would ultimately work toward being able to govern in the medium or long-term .
electoral arithmetic might yet push merkel into another grand coalition with the spd , or she may enter a three-way alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmental greens .
the forsa poll showed support for merkel s conservatives holding steady on 36 percent , while the spd ceded 1 percentage point to 22 percent .
an emnid poll put merkel s cdu and its bavarian sister party at 35 percent , while the spd was at 22 percent .