ajaccio , france ( reuters ) - corsican nationalists on monday demanded the french government enter into negotiations over greater autonomy for the mediterranean island after they won almost half the votes in a local election .
the nationalists - split between those who seek greater autonomy and those who see full independence from france as the end-game - emerged as corsica s main political force for the first time in french regional elections in december 2015 .
in a vote on sunday for a newly created local assembly , the pe a corsica ( for corsica ) , an alliance of the two main nationalist parties , won 45.36 percent of the ballot , putting it in a commanding position for the second round vote on dec. 10 .
in the wake of catalonia s recent independence referendum , corsican nationalists have downplayed any ambitions for secession , saying the island lacked the demographic and economic clout of the spanish region .
corsica has a population of just 320,000 people and a tiny 8.6 billion euro ( $ 10.2 bln ) economy .
the nationalists less ambitious demands , and dissatisfaction with the central government in france , probably helped the nationalists attract more votes on sunday .
pe a corsica , which unites the moderately autonomist femu a corsica and the committed separatist corsica libera , has drawn up a 10-year road-map during which it hopes to obtain a new status giving the island greater autonomy and pave the way for stronger economic development .
paris must at last open dialogue with corsica , said gilles simeoni , the outgoing president of corsica s executive council and a member of femu a corsica .
corsican people have their own identity and this must be recognized .
the french government said it would not comment on the corsican vote until after the second round .
france is a highly centralized state and its demands for more autonomy have often been met with irritation and a refusal to negotiate by past governments .
but support for the nationalist political movement has gained support since the most active clandestine group , the national front for the liberation of corsica ( flnc ) , laid down its weapons in 2014 after a near four-decade long rebellion .
corsica s nationalists oppose france s political and cultural dominance over the island , the birthplace of napoleon annexed by paris in 1768 , and their demands for independence fueled years of bloodshed .
at some point , the wishes of corsican people will have to be taken into account , jean-guy talamoni , the president of the corsican assembly and leader of the pro-independence corsica libera movement , told france inter radio on monday .
however , he acknowledged those backing all-out independence were still in a minority .
if a majority of corsican people want independence in 10 years , in 15 years time , no one will be able to get in their way , he said .
french president emmanuel macron s ticket came in fourth in sunday s vote with 11.26 percent .
his republic on the move party said the vote showed corsicans loss of confidence in paris and that it aimed to rebuild trust everywhere in france .
( $ 1 = 0.8430 euros )