a u.s. official said that the russians were warned before the u.s. launched at least 59 tomahawk missiles aimed at syria at donald trump s orders , but the alleged president did not seek congressional approval .
trump was reportedly affected by the pictures of children who were harmed or killed after a deadly gas was unleashed on civilians , but oddly , the former reality show star was never disturbed by the pictures of syrian refugees fleeing from terror at the hands of isis.trump was not in the situation room when addressing the strikes .
he was at his florida mar-a-lago resort again .
using a deadly nerve agent , assad choked out the lives of helpless men , women and children , trump said of the chemical attack .
it was a slow and brutal death for so many .
even beautiful babies were cruelly murdered in this very barbaric attack .
no child of god should ever suffer such horror .
however , trump opposed president barack obama s attempt to strike when a sarin nerve gas attack left more than 1,400 dead outside of damascus in 2013.trump tweeted at the time , what will we get for bombing syria besides more debt and a possible long term conflict ?
obama needs congressional approval .
what will we get for bombing syria besides more debt and a possible long term conflict ?
obama needs congressional approval .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 29 , 2013in contrast to trump s move on syria last night , obama went to congress to get approval to strike , but the majority of republicans opposed him .
in the newest attack under trump s administration , 70 died from the gas attack .
again , over 1,400 were left dead in 2013.thinkprogress reported at the time that 183 republicans were against bombing syria .
only 12 republicans , and that includes then-house speaker john boehner ( r-ohio ) , sided with the obama to launch a strike .
in the end , obama decided to postpone the vote since congress was strongly opposed to the strike with 243 congressional members seemingly deciding towards voting no .
the huffington post reports : rep. jason chaffetz ( r-utah ) was one of the members of congress who was against obama s plan .
but he didn t seem to have much to say in response to the news of trump s strike .
god bless the usa ! , chaffetz tweeted.god bless the usa !
jason chaffetz ( @ jasoninthehouse ) april 7 , 2017weird , because before an attack , other religious extremists would shout , allahu akbar !
senator marco rubio tweeted : '' be sure of this : the wicked will not go unpunished '' proverbs 11:21 # syriachemicalattack marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) april 7 , 2017sens .
lindsey graham ( r-s.c. ) and john mccain ( r-ariz. ) , both of whom never met a war they didn t like , backed trump s decision .
unlike the previous administration , president trump confronted a pivotal moment in syria and took action , the two senators said in a joint statement .
for that , he deserves the support of the american people .
statement with @ senjohnmccain on military strikes in syria .
pic.twitter.com/kszaebifhi lindsey graham ( @ lindseygrahamsc ) april 7 , 2017unlike the previous administration , trump did not seek congressional approval.in 2013 , mccain and graham said that they might vote no because obama s plan was too limited .
we can not in good conscience support isolated military strikes in syria that are not part of an overall strategy that can change the momentum on the battlefield , they said in a statement at the time.to his credit , sen. rand paul ( r-ky. ) said on thursday night that trump needs congressional authorization for military action in syria.photo by mario tama/getty images .