londonderry , northern ireland ( reuters ) - william jackson remembers the exodus vividly , when over 10,000 protestants fled the west bank of londonderry s river foyle for the city s suburbs as northern ireland s troubles erupted .
almost 50 years on jackson is among some 250 protestants who stayed and carved out a tiny enclave known as the fountain , a tight , fiercely pro-british community that is separated by high walls and fences from the surrounding irish nationalist heartland .
you are not talking one or two families , you are talking hundreds and hundreds and hundreds , jackson said , recalling the flight which began in 1969 when british troops were sent to the city to quell unrest over a civil rights campaign launched by the catholic minority .
three decades of bloodshed followed between catholic irish nationalists , seeking to unite with ireland , and pro-british protestant loyalists , who want to remain part of the united kingdom .
around 3,600 people were killed before a 1998 peace agreement .
much of northern ireland has since been transformed , yet in many areas the two sides remain separated by so-called peace walls .
the fences of up to 15 meters set up in the years after 1969 were supposed to be temporary but many still remain .
in the fountain , the metal gate in the wall between it and the nearby bogside area - home to the late irish nationalist hero martin mcguinness - is locked at 9 p.m. each night and it remains one of the province s flashpoints when sporadic violence breaks out .
we stayed here because we re hardcore , said jackson .
we managed to stay as a small community and it s always been that way .
nationalists wouldn t be welcome to live here , even today .
just the same as protestants wouldn t be made welcome in the bogside .
it s just one of those things unfortunately .
social codes are so ingrained that it is virtually unheard for people to spend time in the opposing community s neighborhood but anyone who did could face threats or a beating from local hardliners .
outsiders , as locals refer to protestants not originally from the area , have moved in but only last around five or six years , according to jackson , who runs the local heritage tower museum , one the smallest galleries in northern ireland .
you have families that come and spend a year and they go because of the way of life here , he said .
some of the police have actually referred to us as like rats living in a cage .
the area remains blighted by poverty and many houses remain derelict .
some residents say they disconnect their electricity periodically to save money .
at the fountain s cathedral youth club , jeanette warke has spent the last 45 years providing an education and recreational outlet to three generations of youngsters who went from dodging bullets to fighting unemployment .
warke has seen the fountain change over that time and now concentrates on better integrating local catholic and protestant children .
last year she brought them to dublin for the centenary of the irish uprising that led to independence from britain and to france for a commemoration of the world war one battle of the somme .
we ve really opened up big avenues for these young people , protestant and catholic to look at their history , said warke , who still works at the age of 73 and has been honored by britain s queen for her services to young people .
you re not looking to change young people s mindsets and to take them away from their own culture , that s not what we are about .
we re looking to create a better understanding and also respect for each other and that to me is very , very important .
however jackson , warke and other locals think it s still too soon to tear down the walls between protestants who call their city londonderry and catholics who refer to it simply as derry .
there s more work to do , warke said .
until then , the fountain community will remain as tight as ever .
my mother says the only time she will leave the fountain is in a box , said 38-year-old daphne atkinson , a fellow youth club worker .
she s proud of where she s from which is a good thing so she ll not leave only when it s her time to go .