washington ( reuters ) - economic sanctions are a powerful policy weapon but should not be wielded “ frivolously , ” u.s. treasury secretary jack lew said in an interview to be aired on tuesday .
sanctions - blacklisting individuals and organizations , effectively barring them from the global financial system - have become a favored tool for the united states .
it has used them against challenges as varied as drug trafficking , cyber attacks and jihadist financing .
but the impact has to be weighed as carefully as those of military force , lew said in an interview with public television host charlie rose , according to a transcript of the interview released on tuesday .
“ we can ’ t shy away from using sanctions because it will slow down growth , but we can ’ t do it frivolously either , ” lew said .
“ it ’ s a serious step , and it ’ s something that has to be guarded in order to have it in the future when you need it. ” u.s. sanctions have evolved over time from broad embargoes - such as the one imposed for decades on cuba - to more targeted actions , he said , citing measures imposed on specific russian industries in response to russia ’ s intervention in ukraine .
“ they ’ re targeted at the centers of power , where the decisions are being made , ” lew said .
the united states also should reward countries that change their behavior by removing sanctions , lew said , pointing to measures against iran that he credited with leading tehran to agree to curb its nuclear program .
iran reached a deal with the united states and other world powers last july , winning relief from the harshest sanctions in return for limiting its nuclear program , which the west feared was aimed at building a weapon .
“ when you have an agreement that ’ s predicated on ‘ change your policy and get relief from the sanctions , ’ there has to be relief from the sanctions , ” lew said .
“ otherwise , no one will ever respond to a sanctions regime by changing their policy. ” reversing the iran nuclear deal under a new administration - as republican presidential candidate and u.s .
senator ted cruz has pledged to do - would be “ destabilizing and dangerous , ” lew said .
a broad economic embargo remains in place against cuba , although president barack obama has used executive authority to allow commerce not specifically banned by congress , as washington and havana move closer toward normal relations .
those improved ties are “ going to be a force for change ” in cuba , lew said .
“ we weren ’ t getting it done the old way . ”