berlin ( reuters ) - one month away from a national election , germany s social democrats are struggling in their efforts to narrow a yawning gap in support behind chancellor angela merkel s conservatives .
the left-leaning social democratic party ( spd ) is languishing on around 24 percent support , polls show , far behind merkel s conservatives bloc , on some 38 percent .
germans go to the polls on sept. 24 .
the spd is having difficulty in differentiating itself from the conservatives , with whom it rules as junior partner in a grand coalition - an alliance the party wants to avoid repeating , but which polls suggest is the only partnership that can guarantee a majority .
we need to get more emotional , to fight and force merkel to speak in clear terms so that the differences become clear , spd labour minister andrea nahles told business daily handelsblatt .
nahles accused merkel , who is campaigning for a fourth term on a platform of economic stability , of trying to cruise through the election without staking out clear positions .
last year , germany s refugee crisis threatened merkel .
but with the migrant flow now stemmed and unemployment at a record low , she is able to project herself as an anchor of stability in an uncertain world .
trying to rock her , spd leader martin schulz has grown increasingly critical of merkel this week , accusing her of blocking his party s efforts in the ruling coalition to win better pay for temporary workers and improve workers rights .
on thursday , schulz takes his campaign to essen , in the heart of the ruhr area of north rhine-westphalia that was at the center of germany s post-war economic miracle but which is now a rust-belt .
germany s most populous state , north rhine-westphalia has traditionally been an spd stronghold but the party lost there in a state election in may - one of three regional votes merkel s conservatives won earlier this year .
schulz , 61 , led the spd to a brief poll surge after the party selected him as leader at the start of the year .
but the revival quickly fizzled as his campaign for social justice failed to gain traction .
a former european parliament president , he can not match the clout of merkel , 63 , gained in 12 years of experience as leader of europe s biggest economy .
searching for another point of difference , schulz pledged on tuesday to have u.s. nuclear weapons withdrawn from german territory if , against the odds , he defeats merkel .
schulz s election campaign is jumping around so many areas that it is impossible to discern a theme , the daily sueddeutsche zeitung wrote in an editorial .
striking a defeatist note , schulz said earlier this month he wanted to stay on as spd leader even if his party loses the election .