beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china accused the united states on thursday of interfering in its internal affairs and said it had lodged a complaint after u.s. president donald trump signed into law an act laying the groundwork for possible u.s. navy visits to self-ruled taiwan .
tensions have risen in recent days after a senior chinese diplomat threatened china would invade taiwan if any u.s. warships made port visits to the island which china claims as its own territory .
on monday , chinese jets carried out island encirclement patrols around taiwan , with state media showing pictures of bombers with cruise missiles slung under their wings as they carried out the exercise .
on tuesday , trump signed into law the national defense authorization act for the 2018 fiscal year , which authorizes the possibility of mutual visits by navy vessels between taiwan and the united states .
such visits would be the first since the united states ended formal diplomatic relations with taiwan in 1979 and established ties with beijing .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said while the taiwan sections of the law were not legally binding , they seriously violate the one china policy and constitute an interference in china s internal affairs .
china is resolutely opposed to this , and we have already lodged stern representations with the u.s. government , lu told a daily news briefing .
china is firmly opposed to any official exchanges , military contact , or arms sales between taiwan and the united states , he added .
proudly democratic taiwan has become increasingly concerned with the ramped up chinese military presence , that has included several rounds of chinese air force drills around the island in recent months .
taiwan is confident of its defenses and responded quickly to the chinese air force drills this week , its government said , denouncing the rise in china s military deployments as irresponsible .
taiwan presidential spokesman alex huang , speaking to taiwan media in comments reported late on wednesday , said the defense ministry had kept a close watch on the patrols and responded immediately and properly .
taiwan can ensure there are no concerns at all about national security , and people can rest assured , huang said .
both sides of the narrow taiwan strait , which separates taiwan from its giant neighbor , have a responsibility to protect peace and stability , he added .
such a raised military posture that may impact upon and harm regional peace and stability and cross-strait ties does not give a feeling of responsibility , and the international community does not look favorably upon this , huang was quoted as saying .
relations have soured considerably since tsai ing-wen , who leads taiwan s independence-leaning democratic progressive party , won presidential elections last year .
china suspects tsai wants to declare the island s formal independence , a red line for beijing .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security .
taiwan is well equipped with mostly u.s. weapons but has been pressing for more advanced equipment to deal with what it sees as a rising threat from china .
the united states is bound by law to provide the island with the means to defend itself .
china has never renounced the use of force to bring taiwan under its control .