while donald trump was campaigning , he slammed what he called political correctness in america s culture .
as usual , the amateur president took to his twitter account this morning to unleash more nonsensical messages , likely just a distraction from his mounting scandals .
it is amazing how rude much of the media is to my very hard working representatives .
be nice , you will do much better ! , he tweeted.it is amazing how rude much of the media is to my very hard working representatives .
be nice , you will do much better !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 13 , 2017in the following tweet , trump wrote , obamacare is imploding .
it is a disaster and 2017 will be the worst year yet , by far !
republicans will come together and save the day .
obamacare is imploding .
it is a disaster and 2017 will be the worst year yet , by far !
republicans will come together and save the day .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 13 , 2017first off , obamacare is not imploding and trumpcare will largely affect trump supporters .
trump s tweets went down as well as can be expected on the social media site .
@ realdonaldtrump you 're making it implode , and then blaming obama .
ben wikler ( @ benwikler ) march 13 , 2017fixed ! .
@ realdonaldtrump fixed .
pic.twitter.com/xtsktqag5x travon free ( @ travon ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump will trumpcare be as stupid as your dumbass description of it : pic.twitter.com/8u3zbcfkns rod blackhurst ( @ rodblackhurst ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump your presidency is imploding if you think you can take health care away from millions and not pay a price you 're nuts ?
( @ jaytay777 ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump `` save the day '' lol erick fernandez ( @ erickfernandez ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump pic.twitter.com/rtsjc0sgij nasty mouse ? ? ? ?
( @ ajabs4258 ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump trumpcare pic.twitter.com/d5zareqwrd blobert ?
( @ blobert ) march 13 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump fixed pic.twitter.com/b2fvg6to9k sam weiner ( @ sam_weiner ) march 13 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you 're a liar .
it is not imploding .
it could be made better if you gave a shit about the usa .
stop trying to tarnish obama !
robert thomson ( @ 50madeuce ) march 13 , 2017trump telling the media to be nice is like guy fieri giving cooking advice .
@ oppstn jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) march 13 , 2017trump launched a war on the media and now wants them to be nice and not rude .
that s rich coming from a guy whose vile attacks are well documented .
trump calls outlets critical of his alleged presidency fake news while he reads infowars and breitbart .
republicans have had 7 years to come up with a viable replacement for obamacare and they presented the public with a godawful plan which will leave millions of americans without coverage.trump repeatedly vowed to repeal obamacare and replace it with a republican alternative that would provide insurance for everybody at a lower price but that s not what s happening .
it does give a healthy tax break to the wealthy , though .
it s a great plan if you re rich , but if you re of low-income status and/or older , you re fucked.each crazy-time tweet of trump s is well calculated .
it s a distraction from his many scandals .
let s see now : russia , conflicts of interest , lack of transparency and profiting greatly from the presidency.meanwhile , the intelligence panel wants trump to provide evidence of his claims that former president barack obama had his phones wiretapped before the election .
they want that today .
tick tock , mr. trump .
and by the way , infowars is not evidence .
photo by david becker/getty images .