( reuters ) - voters in four u.s. cities will decide on tuesday whether they would like to tax sugary drinks , the latest in a series of such measures as officials and nutritionists seeks ways to address obesity , diabetes and other health epidemics .
the following are some cities and states around the united states that have taxes or are considering imposing them for soft drinks , sugary beverages and sellers of sodas ( population sizes are estimates from the u.s. census ) : voters in this small city in the san francisco bay area will be voting on a penny-per-ounce soda tax tuesday .
population : 4.86 million proponents are pushing for lawmakers in birmingham to consider a penny-per-ounce tax on sugary beverages to fill a shortfall for medicaid .
population : 2.98 million the southern state has levied taxes since 1983 on soft drinks and syrups and related products ranging from 0.16 to 1.56 cents per ounce .
voters in berkeley voted in favor of a penny-per-ounce soda tax in november 2014 .
the tax took effect in 2015 .
voters in this small city in the san francisco bay will be voting on a penny-per-ounce soda tax on nov. 8 .
population : 2.72 million the city taxes people who sell canned or bottled soft drinks , including soda and sports drinks , at 3 percent of the gross receipts of soft drinks sold at retail .
population : 5.24 million cook county ’ s board of commissioners is expected to vote in mid-november on a proposed penny-per-ounce tax on sugary drinks as part of its fiscal 2017 budget .
population : 12.86 million lawmakers in the state , home to 12.9 million people , this year renewed an effort for a penny-per-ounce soda tax .
in 2015 , the navajo nation in the u.s. southwest passed a 2-percent sales tax on soda and junk food .
voters will decide on penny-per-ounce soda tax on nov. 8 .
population : 1.57 million this month , philadelphia became the biggest u.s. city to introduce a tax for each ounce of soda and other sweet beverages .
it also applies to diet sodas .
the law is due to come into effect in 2017 , but the american beverage association ( aba ) , which represents soda manufacturers , is fighting it in court .
voters will decide on penny-per-ounce soda tax on nov. 8 .
population : 1.84 million west virginia has taxed bottled soft drinks , syrups and dry mixtures for decades .