harare ( reuters ) - a zimbabwean judge freed ousted finance minister ignatius chombo on bail on thursday in a ruling that underlined judicial independence just three weeks after the army helped depose robert mugabe .
chombo , a senior member of the g40 faction of the ruling party that was targeted in the military s nov. 15 intervention , was dragged from his home in the middle of the night and held incommunicado by soldiers at an undisclosed location for a week .
during that time he was beaten , according to his lawyer .
he was arrested by police on his release and charged with fraud and abuse of office relating to his time as a government minister over a decade ago .
the harare magistrate s court denied him bail .
however , high court judge edith mushore condemned that ruling as littered with mis-directions and wading into the muddy court of public opinion after the massive army-backed protests that helped topple mugabe after 37 years in power .
chombo , 65 , was ordered to be released on $ 5,000 bail , surrender his passport and the title deeds of his harare mansion and report to a police station in the capital three times a day .
the tone and substance of mushore s ruling also sent a stern message to the army-backed administration of president emmerson mnangagwa about the independence of the courts and the primacy of the law , aspects of public life often ignored by mugabe .
during his detention by the military , chombo had been denied basic rights enshrined in the constitution such as access to justice and presumption of innocence , mushore said .
in particular , she said zimbabweans needed to know they can sleep at night without the fear of arbitrary detention in secret locations beyond the reach of lawyers or family - a common feature of the police state run by mugabe .
the public in zimbabwe needs to know that they have a right to access to justice , she said .
chombo was one of several g40 figures detained during the military s operation restore legacy that was officially launched to remove criminals around mugabe .
most zimbabweans interpreted this as meaning mugabe s 52-year-old wife grace , who was positioning herself as a successor to her 93-year-old husband at the expense of mnangagwa , who was purged from the ruling party in early november .
chombo s lawyer says he will deny the charges when his trial starts .
in a cursory analysis , mushore characterized the state s case against him as mere allegation .