brussels ( reuters ) - european union leaders called on malta on thursday to carry out a full investigation with international help over the killing of the country s best-known journalist , and the eu parliament agreed to hold a debate on media freedom on the island .
malta s prime minister joseph muscat has already called in foreign investigators to help look into the car bomb that killed daphne caruana galizia , who wrote about widespread breaches of the rule of law and corruption on the island .
malta is the smallest eu country but is home to a disproportionately large financial services sector and is the continental hub for the flourishing online gaming industry .
muscat , who himself had sued caruana galizia after she accused him and his wife of wrongdoing , promised a thorough investigation of the killing .
we will not exclude any sort of path , any sort of measure to make sure we get to the bottom of it , muscat told reporters arriving to the eu summit in brussels .
the president of the european parliament antonio tajani said he raised the issue in a meeting with eu leaders .
i called for an international investigation to fully clarify an event of unprecedented gravity , he said , adding that the leaders broadly shared the view .
during the meeting , german chancellor angela merkel backed an international investigation , eu officials said .
diplomats said that france , spain and portugal had also stressed the need for involvement of foreign investigators .
before the meeting muscat said the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) and dutch investigators would help in the case and other security forces , including london s scotland yard , could join .
the chief of the maltese police later denied possible involvement of the british police .
political leaders of the eu parliament agreed to hold a debate next tuesday on protection of journalists and the defense of media freedom in malta , according to a draft agenda adopted on thursday .
malta is a mecca for money launderers and tax avoiders , greens eu legislator sven giegold said .
malta s center of power suffers from a culture of impunity unlike hardly any other country in the eu .
europe must no longer turn a blind eye to the way in which the rule of law is flouted in malta .
muscat has rejected criticism that he has allowed wealthy foreigners to hold great sway over malta , and says the financial services sector is as transparent and compliant as any other european jurisdiction .