vienna ( reuters ) - austria s new coalition government will press ahead with plans to offer citizenship to the german-speaking minority in northern italy , it said on tuesday , but pledged to consult rome on the project , which risks reopening century-old wounds .
the dual-citizenship plan for the northern italian region of alto adige was included in a 180-page coalition agreement published over the weekend by chancellor sebastian kurz s conservative people s party and the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) .
alto adige was ceded to italy by austria after world war one .
fascist dictator benito mussolini tried to settle thousands of ethnic italians there in the 1920s , but german-speakers still outnumber italians by around two to one .
italian and german speakers have their own schools and largely frequent different bars and restaurants .
but the region enjoys enormous autonomy and generous handouts from rome , which have helped dampen secessionist sentiment in the province .
kurz has said the scheme , which the fpo has long pushed for , is only meant to encourage cooperation between european states .
that is something that of course we only plan to do in close cooperation with italy and with the government in rome , kurz told a joint news conference with fpo chief and vice chancellor heinz-christian strache after their government s first cabinet meeting .
italian politicians have already roundly condemned austria s plan , calling it a gesture to nationalism and saying it will threaten the delicate ethnic balance in alto adige , also known as south tyrol .
italy s foreign minister was quoted by italian news agency ansa on monday as saying that discussing the issue would be a conversation that requires enormous delicacy .
kurz , however , downplayed any tension .
we have excellent contact with rome .
i am a personal friend of the head of government .
i am a personal friend of the foreign minister s , said kurz , who was foreign minister until his new government was sworn in .
in our government program , we have complied with a wish of south tyroleans that was expressed by all parties in south tyrol and that above all was also expressed by the south tyrolean provincial government , kurz said .
strache said italy already has a similar arrangement in place for italian minorities in slovenia and croatia .
the italian foreign ministry website lays out conditions under which people who lost their citizenship when some territories became part of yugoslavia can apply for an italian passport .
the issue did not feature in austria s parliamentary election in october , which kurz s party won with a hard line on immigration that often overlapped with the fpo s. austria took in a large number of asylum seekers during europe s migration crisis .
both parties pledged to stop another such influx .
in austrian tyrol , however , where maps of the province often still show the region to the south that is now part of italy , it is still an emotional issue .
that province , a stronghold of kurz s conservatives , is due to hold an election for the local parliament in february .
the head of alto adige s government , arno kompatscher , said he supported the plan as long as it was put in a european context of uniting nations rather than dividing them - a possible reference to any objections italy might have .
it therefore has nothing to do with secession or moving borders or anything else .
rather it has to do with this expression of personal connection ( to austria ) and the debate should take place in this context , he told a news conference .
the criteria on which citizenship would be offered were still open and should be the subject of discussions between austria and italy , he added .. austria and italy have clashed repeatedly in recent years over austria s threat to introduce controls at the brenner crossing , a vital transport link on their shared border , if the number of migrants arriving there from italy rises sharply .
so far that has not happened .