beijing ( reuters ) - the speech was long , the refreshments austere , but zhang weiguo , a communist party official from hubei province in central china , was thrilled .
it was strongly persuasive , infectious , cohesive , and had rally-appeal , zhang said after chinese president and party boss xi jinping gave a nearly three-and-a-half hour speech in beijing s cavernous great hall of the people to kick off the 19th communist party congress .
i came out of the auditorium feeling infected , my motivation infinitely enhanced .
the scene is a far cry from a convention of the democratic or republican party in the united states , with their rock concert-like atmosphere , balloons falling from the rafters and raucous cheering crowds .
instead , most delegates wore conservative business suits , turned pages of the speech in unison , and clapped politely on cue , giving the start of china 's most important political event in five years the vibe of an academic conference .
this is party politics with chinese characteristics .
delegates from china s dozens of ethnic minority groups were required , as always , to wear traditional costumes , often with elaborate headgear - and news photographers swarmed .
an olympian wore the national team s jacket .
military men and women , as well as police , donned crisp uniforms .
all , including xi , wore red identifications badges .
entering the great hall for the event required airport-level security checks , with x-ray machines and metal detectors .
outside food and drink were not allowed .
journalists , many of whom had queued in the rain since before dawn , were permitted one mobile phone each .
inside , xi laid out a vision for a strong and confident china stretching decades into the future .
the speech will be the subject of intensive study by party members across the country in coming months and serve as a model for its content and language .
still , it was a marathon even by chinese politicians standards , and some in the audience dozed off .
for those needing a refreshment , uniformed servers standing in order by height poured tea and hot water into great hall of the people paper cups outside the main auditorium .
one server who had been present for the 18th party congress five years ago said nothing had changed .
everything s the same .
our service is getting better , though , he said .
on stage , where the party s powerful central committee and former leaders sat , hosts and hostesses periodically marched from the wings in unison to pour fresh steaming water into porcelain mugs .
at the two-hour mark , some started taking toilet breaks .
luo jialin , a member of the sichuan province delegation , rushed to the post office at the great hall of people and bought five books of congress-themed stamps with the great hall postmark for 450 yuan ( $ 68 ) .
they are very commemorative , so i want to bring some back home , said luo .
the speech was broadcast live and images of groups of people watching it quickly circulated on social media - doctors at a hospital , tibetan monks , prisoners in a detention center , and even children in kindergarten .
one posting showed a cat sitting in front of a tv broadcasting the speech .
printed copies of xi s speech for foreign reporters were produced in 12 languages , including lao and portuguese , up from eight five years ago .
the chinese version ran to 68 pages .
pictures of the seldom-seen 91-year-old former president jiang zemin peering at his copy through a chunky magnifying glass flew across the internet .
later , someone identified jiang s magnifying glass as german-made and posted a picture of an ad for it on taobao .
price tag : 1,598 yuan , or about $ 240 .
( $ 1 = 6.6219 chinese yuan renminbi )