cairo ( reuters ) - egypt s foreign minister sameh shoukry will visit addis ababa next week for talks with his ethiopian counterpart , a foreign ministry spokesman said , in a bid to end a standoff over a multi-billion dollar dam project on the nile river .
the dispute , which also involves sudan , centers on control of a share of the waters of the nile that stretches 6,695 km ( 4,184 miles ) from lake victoria to the mediterranean and is the economic lifeblood of all three countries .
cairo says the dam would threaten water supplies that have fed egypt s agriculture and economy for thousands of years .
ethiopia says the grand renaissance dam , which it hopes will help make it africa s largest power exporter , will have no major effect on egypt .
it accuses cairo of flexing its political muscle to deter financiers from backing other ethiopian power projects .
delegations from egypt , sudan and ethiopia met in cairo in november to approve a study by a french firm commissioned to assess the dam s environmental and economic impact .
but negotiations stalled when they failed to agree on the initial report with each blaming others for blocking progress .
sudan s irrigation minister moataz moussa said egypt was unwilling to accept amendments to the report put forward by khartoum and addis ababa .
sudan and ethiopia had expressed concern over several points , especially the proposed baseline from which the study would measure the dam s impacts , moussa said in november .
another source of disagreement is whether ethiopia plans to complete construction before negotiations over water flows have finished .
it s clear they don t want to reach conclusions quickly .
we believe they probably want to start filling the dam and complete construction while there are still some ongoing discussions , said mahmoud abou zeid , arab water council chair and former egyptian irrigation minister .
he said this would violate an agreement signed by all three countries in khartoum in 2015 meant to ensure diplomatic cooperation and stem fears of a resource conflict .
cairo fears the 6,000-megawatt dam , being built by italy s largest construction firm , salini impregilo spa , and due for completion next year , will reduce the flow it depends on for drinking water and irrigation .
egyptian officials say safeguarding the country s quota of nile water is a matter of national security .
no one can touch egypt s water ... ( which ) means life or death for a population , president abdel fattah al-sisi said last month .