hanoi ( reuters ) - tensions are high on the south china sea as vietnam faces off against china over their overlapping maritime claims .
but for the boatmen on the junks cruising the calm expanse of vietnam s ha long bay , another growing chinese presence in the region is very welcome indeed .
more than half our tourists are chinese now , said nguyen van phu , 33 , who has spent six years working on the boats that chug between the bay s spectacular stone towers .
if they stopped coming it would be a big problem , if not a disaster .
the number of chinese tourists in vietnam has surged this year , just one sign of the growing economic ties between two long-time enemies .
chinese investment in vietnam is also increasing rapidly , as is trade between the two countries .
but while tourists , trade and investment are being welcomed , they also present a challenge for a fiercely independent country like vietnam , which has been wary of china s growing influence in the region .
the rising economic dependence on china makes it more difficult for vietnam to decide how far to confront china on the south china sea , said nguyen khac giang , a researcher at the vietnam economics and policy research institution .
vietnam would suffer far more than china economically in the event of political instability given its smaller size , he said .
china exports more goods to vietnam than any other country in southeast asia , sending textiles to be made into shirts and sneakers , and electronic components for mobile phones and large flat-panel displays .
those completed products are exported around the world , as well as back to china .
vietnam also makes electronics components for factories in china , and exports computers for chinese consumers .
manufacturers see vietnam as an attractive base , with wages as little as a third of those in coastal regions of china , according to employment consultants .
and while proximity has historically been a source of friction between the two countries - they fought a border war as recently as 1979 and armed clashes flared for years afterwards - for manufacturers it s a boon .
we strategically invested in vietnam because of its geographical advantage closer to china and hence lower cost on materials , transportation and relatively shorter production lead time , said bosco law , chief executive of the hong kong-based lawsgroup .
the company makes clothes for brands such as gap , whose global operations include scores of outlets in china .
businesses contacted by reuters declined to talk openly about the risks for them of tension between vietnam and china .
chinese trade and investment has surged across southeast asia in recent years as companies search out new bases for manufacturing and consumers for their goods .
china has also invested in infrastructure and plans to pour development funds into southeast asia as part of its sprawling belt and road initiative .
that has already had a political effect .
big recipients of chinese investment such as cambodia and laos are promoting china s line on the south china sea at regional meetings .
president rodrigo duterte of the philippines , meanwhile , has cited chinese investment pledges as he softens his country s stance on its maritime disputes with china .
tensions between beijing and hanoi have been high since mid-june , when chinese pressure forced vietnam to suspend oil drilling on a block that overlaps the line china says marks its claim to almost all the south china sea .
as vietnam has emerged as the most vocal regional opponent of china s maritime claims in southeast asia , it has drawn beijing s ire .
its growing defense links to the united states , japan and india also make china suspicious .
the vietnamese government has also had to contend with public pressure at home .
a row over chinese oil drilling in disputed waters in the south china sea in 2014 sparked anti-china riots in vietnam in which foreign factories thought to be chinese were set on fire , before the rig was removed .
tourism dipped in the aftermath , but quickly bounced back .
trade has also risen steadily since then .
exports to china jumped nearly 43 percent to $ 13 billion in the first half of 2017 from a year earlier , according to customs data .
imports rose more slowly , climbing 16 percent .
chinese tourist arrivals , meanwhile , soared 60 percent to nearly 1.9 million in the first half of 2017 to account for around one third of all foreign visitors .
for the most part , the government has welcomed the boost from chinese tourism , as it strives to meet a 6.7 percent target for annual economic growth .
vietnam is also welcoming chinese investments , if cautiously .
we should be careful but at the same time we should take advantage , said nguyen mai , the president of vietnam s association of foreign invested enterprises .
the biggest foreign direct investors in vietnam have long been from south korea and japan , particularly in the electronics sector .
more than 100,000 vietnamese work for samsung alone in vietnam .
however , chinese investment is growing quickly , nearly doubling last year to almost 8 percent of total foreign direct investment .
investment went into solar panel and plastics factories , among other areas .
direct u.s. investment accounts for about 2 percent of the total so far this year ; the united states is also vietnam s second-largest trade partner .
for a graphic on vietnam-china trade , click : tmsnrt.rs/2fihfyc