washington ( reuters ) - the supreme court , two days after hearing a major abortion case from texas , on friday temporarily blocked a louisiana law imposing regulations on doctors who perform abortions in a move that would allow two recently closed clinics to reopen .
in a brief order , the court granted a request by abortion providers seeking to reinstate a lower-court injunction that blocked the republican-backed 2014 law , which required doctors to obtain a formal affiliation with a local hospital .
the abortion providers contend the law was designed to shut down abortion clinics by requiring hospital “ admitting privileges ” that are difficult for their doctors to secure .
louisiana will now have four clinics in total .
the order noted that one of the eight justices , conservative clarence thomas , said he would have denied the application .
the order said the court ’ s action was in line with its decision in june to temporarily block part of a texas abortion law that was challenged by abortion providers in a high-profile case .
the justices heard oral arguments in that case on wednesday .
the louisiana law mandates that physicians who perform abortions have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles ( 48 km ) of the abortion clinic .
the regulation matches one in the texas law .
u.s. district judge john degravelles in january granted a preliminary injunction sought by abortion providers , finding the law violated the constitutional right to an abortion established by the supreme court in 1973 .
the 5th u.s .
circuit court of appeals blocked that decision on feb. 24 , allowing the law to go into effect .
the high court ’ s action sent mixed signals on how it might rule in the texas case , in part because the justices previously allowed the texas admitting privileges provision to go into effect .
the action could suggest the court has greater concerns about admitting privileges requirements than were indicated during wednesday ’ s argument in the texas case .
friday ’ s move effectively put louisiana ’ s law on hold while the justices prepare a ruling , expected by the end of june , in the texas case .
nancy northup , president of the center for reproductive rights , which represents abortion providers in both cases , welcomed the court ’ s action .
“ these underhanded tactics to cut off women ’ s access to safe , legal abortion simply can not stand , ” northup said .
the texas case also involves a separate provision that requires clinics to have costly , hospital-grade facilities .
the louisiana law was signed by republican then-governor bobby jindal in 2014 .