rome ( reuters ) - italy s parliament will be dissolved between christmas and the new year , a parliamentary source said on wednesday , opening the way for national elections in early march that look unlikely to produce a clear winner .
the source said the most likely date for the vote was march 4 but added that march 11 remained a possibility , with a final decision due shortly .
a national election must be held by may , but most political parties are keen to hold elections as soon as possible , with the last major piece of legislation , the 2018 budget , scheduled to be approved before the end of the year .
a vote on march 4 ?
that would be excellent .
the sooner we go to the polls the better , said matteo salvini , head of the far-right northern league party .
italy s 10-year bond yield rose to a two-week high on the election reports , with investors concerned about political uncertainty in the euro zone s third biggest economy .
former prime minister silvio berlusconi s center-right alliance is seen winning the most seats at the forthcoming ballot , opinion polls say .
but he looks unlikely to secure enough votes to hold an absolute majority .
the anti-establishment 5-star movement is predicted to emerge as the largest single party in the next parliament , but it has repeatedly ruled out joining any coalition .
berlusconi said at a book presentation on wednesday that italy should return to the polls if the vote produces no clear majority , with current prime minister paolo gentiloni carrying on for at least three months during a new election campaign .
the often fractious alliance between berlusconi and salvini creaked on wednesday when salvini threatened to break off talks after berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy ! )
party declined to back a league proposal to toughen sanctions for violent crime .
the two parties have no common platform and have not settled on a commonly agreed candidate for prime minister .
support for the ruling center-left democratic party ( pd ) , headed by former prime minister matteo renzi , has fallen steadily in recent months , with the group heavily penalized by deep schisms and personality clashes .
the parliamentary source , who was in contact with president sergio mattarella , said the head of state would almost certainly dissolve both houses after gentiloni had held a traditional end-of-year news conference , set for dec. 28 .
gentiloni will remain as a caretaker prime minister until a new government is formed , helping to guarantee political stability in the interim .
italy s economy is finally pulling clear of years of recession and is expected to post growth of 1.5 percent this year and next still lagging most of its euro zone peers .
employers association confindustria warned on wednesday that the recovery could be jeopardized by political uncertainty .
the next elections will be very important , placing the country at a crossroads , with one path leading to a continuation of reforms and the other leading nowhere , it said in a report , warning parties against pursuing demagogic measures .
political leaders have already made a rash of promises that economists warn could damage the country s fragile finances , including pledges of generous handouts for pensioners and large tax cuts .