washington ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson asked saudi arabia to ease its blockade of yemen , two sources said , just days before the saudi-led military coalition announced on wednesday it would let aid flow through the yemeni port of hodeidah and allow u.n. flights to the capital .
it was not clear if pressure from washington was the direct cause of the saudi change of heart but the request from tillerson to saudi arabia s crown prince , mohammed bin salman , was one of several u.s. attempts this month to have riyadh soften its hawkish foreign policy .
tillerson asked for a loosening of the blockade on yemen during a roughly 45-minute phone call at the beginning of this week , according to a source familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity .
r.c .
hammond , a top adviser to tillerson , confirmed the exchange with prince mohammed .
the secretary of state has brought the request to ( the ) saudis attention several times over the past months , he added .
the trump administration , according to u.s. officials and a european diplomat , also pressed the saudis to allow lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri to return to beirut after he flew to riyadh on nov.4 and abruptly announced his resignation .
the efforts to take the edge off saudi arabia s foreign policy reflect growing u.s. concern about riyadh s direction despite high-profile attempts by president donald trump to improve relations with the longtime u.s. ally .
publicly , trump , his top aides and senior saudi officials have hailed what they say is a major improvement in u.s.-saudi ties compared with relations under former president barack obama , who upset the saudis by sealing a nuclear deal with their arch-foe iran .
privately , however , u.s. diplomats and intelligence analysts express growing dismay over riyadh s foreign policy , especially toward yemen and lebanon , as saudi arabia aims to contain iranian influence .
it is my understanding that the administration is frustrated .
there has been of course varying degrees of frustration from different members of the administration , u.s .
senator todd young said of the situation in yemen .
young , a republican member of the senate foreign relations committee , spoke before the saudi-led military coalition s decision was announced on wednesday .
the coalition , which is fighting houthi rebels , said it would allow humanitarian aid access through hodeidah and u. n. flights to the capital sanaa , more than two weeks after blockading the country to stop the flow of arms from iran .
yemen , in civil war and under bombardment by a saudi-led coalition , faces a deep humanitarian crisis and aid workers warn of famine if the blockade were not lifted .
a senior saudi official told reuters that even before tillerson and prince mohammed spoke recently , senior white house officials had communicated to the saudi ambassador in washington the importance of taking those two steps .
they stressed the importance of addressing the humanitarian situation in yemen and we said that we understood and that the closures were temporary while we work on a comprehensive aid and access plan , the official said .
an administration official , speaking on condition of anonymity , confirmed that white house and national security council officials worked on easing the blockade with senior saudi officials , including prince mohammed and his younger brother khalid , the saudi ambassador to the united states .
much of the u.s.-saudi relationship , multiple u.s. officials say , is conducted in a tight circle and led by trump s son-in-law and senior adviser , jared kushner , who has established a direct channel with prince mohammed .
kushner did not oppose the pressure on the saudis and united arab emirates to ease humanitarian suffering in yemen , said one u.s. official .
but the official added : in no way does this change the position that jared and the crown prince evidently share that the main objective is reversing iranian influence in yemen and elsewhere .
on lebanon , the u.s. message to saudi arabia about hariri was conveyed in statements by tillerson and in private conversations between u.s. and saudi officials .
those officials included the saudi state minister for gulf affairs , thamer al-sabhan , who was in washington recently , a senior administration official said .
we ve encouraged ... the saudis that it will be good for lebanon s political stability for hariri to return back to beirut as soon as is practical , the official said last week .
hariri has since returned to lebanon and shelved his decision to resign as prime minister , easing a crisis that had deepened tensions in the middle east .
top lebanese officials have said saudi arabia forced hariri to quit and held him in the kingdom .
riyadh and hariri deny this .