brasilia ( reuters ) - a top brazilian federal prosecutor defended the size of fines levied against companies involved in the nation s graft probes , saying that despite a public outcry some were too low , it was more important to dismantle the schemes than punish firms .
fines of different sizes and different terms have raised concerns that brazil s sweeping anti-corruption investigation may not be dishing out equal justice for all .
marcelo muscogliati , the coordinator of the anti-corruption committee within brazil s federal prosecutors office , told reuters on wednesday that the main aim of the leniency deals which include the fines was to root out corruption .
the deals are a tool to seek evidence , not to hand out fines , muscogliati said .
the fine and reparations are secondary .
what is important is dismantling criminal organizations , mafias .
brazilian prosecutors came under withering criticism after they signed a 10.3 billion-real ( $ 3.3 billion ) leniency deal with the holding company running jbs sa , the world s largest meatpacker , in relation to kickbacks it paid politicians to win government investment deals and contracts .
prosecutors gave the billionaire batista family , which controls the company , 25 years to pay the fine and pegged it to brazil s consumer price index , sharply reducing the penalty s net present value .
according to reuters calculations , the fine s net present value is 5.45 billion reais - about 47 percent less than in nominal terms .
by contrast , a 3.9 billion-real fine that engineering group odebrecht sa agreed to pay over 22 years will be adjusted by the benchmark overnight selic interest rate , currently running well above annual inflation .
a state attorney is investigating whether the batistas leniency deal harmed taxpayers interests .
federal prosecutors are working on creating clearer rules for future leniency deals to ensure more equal treatment in investigations into graft at top levels of private business , government and state-run enterprises .
earlier this week , the federal prosecutors office released 18 new guidelines for reaching the accords , but nothing fresh on the size of fines companies should pay , telling prosecutors to refer to an existing law allowing fines of up to 20 percent of a company s net revenue .
muscogliati said that if there were concrete guidelines on the fines for leniency deals , it would signal to firms a price tag they would pay if caught in corruption , money they would simply set aside .
instead , prosecutors must focus on making leniency deals with companies making internal changes so that they halt carrying out ( corrupt ) action and do not try to do it again .