tokyo ( reuters ) - the pace of approvals for nuclear reactor restarts in japan , where most plants remain shut following the fukushima disaster , is unlikely to pick up in the coming years , the new head of japan s nuclear regulator said in an interview on tuesday .
the comments from nuclear regulation authority ( nra ) chairman toyoshi fuketa suggest japan may not make headway in meeting its electricity generation targets .
by 2030 , the country was expecting nuclear to power about one-fifth of its generation .
however , utilities are having difficulty grappling with tougher rules on protecting reactors from natural disasters in the earthquake-prone country .
following the fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011 , the world s worst since chernobyl in 1986 , the nra was set up in 2012 to draft new safety standards that have been described as among the world s toughest .
since then , 12 reactors at six nuclear plants have passed the safety requirements needed to restart , but only four reactors are currently operating .
one more reactor that resumed operations after meeting the requirements has been shut down for scheduled maintenance .
most of the approvals have been for reactors in western japan and not on the east coast where tokyo electric power co s fukushima daiichi station was located .
the plant suffered multiple reactor meltdowns after an earthquake on the northeast coast caused a tsunami that swamped the site .
we have accumulated experience in safety reviews , but comparatively speaking , many of the plants in eastern japan that we are reviewing now have difficult natural conditions , fuketa , 60 , said in the interview .
it s doubtful the pace of approvals would quicken .
a majority of japanese oppose nuclear power after fukushima and restarts are a delicate political issue rather than just a matter of meeting technical safety requirements .
when asked if he could place a number of how many reactors may be approved for a resumption of operations in the next five years , fuketa said : i honestly do not know .
about a dozen other reactors are going through safety checks as part of a relicensing process under the new rules .
fuketa is known for taking tough positions during safety reviews of reactors and has been instrumental in directing the clean-up of the wrecked fukushima plant .
japan s government set an energy mix plan in 2015 that forecasts relying on nuclear power to generate between 20 to 22 percent of the country s electricity in 2030 .
that requires having about 30 reactors operating by then .
japan s nine regional power utilities and a wholesaler , japan atomic power co , have 42 nuclear reactors for commercial use , with a total generating capacity of 41,482 megawatts .