( reuters ) - former u.s. representative corrine brown of florida was found guilty in federal court on thursday of fraud for helping to raise $ 800,000 for a bogus charity and using the funds for concerts and golf , u.s. justice department officials said .
brown , 70 , was convicted on 18 counts of participating in a conspiracy involving a fraudulent education charity , concealing material facts required on financial disclosure forms and filing false tax returns , the justice department said in a statement .
“ former congresswoman brown chose greed and personal gain over the sacred trust given to her by the community that she served for many years , ” acting u.s. attorney stephen muldrow said after a jury reached a verdict in jacksonville .
brown , a democrat who served 24 years in congress , lost her re-election bid last year after being indicted .
her sentencing date has not been set .
james smith , her attorney , told reporters outside the federal courthouse in jacksonville that he would seek a new trial .
“ she maintains her innocence , ” he said .
“ this is just part one of a very long process. ” prosecutors said brown participated from 2012 to 2016 in a conspiracy and fraud scheme involving the one door for education fund , along with her chief-of-staff elias “ ronnie ” simmons and the charity ’ s president , carla wiley .
the group solicited more than $ 800,000 in charitable donations that they said would be used to pay for college scholarships , computers for schools and other charitable causes , prosecutors said .
the money instead was spent by the three for their own personal use , including for a golf tournament honoring brown and for luxury box seats at a beyonce concert .
the charity awarded only two scholarships totaling $ 1,200 to college students , according to trial evidence .
simmons and wiley previously pleaded guilty to charges stemming from their involvement in the scheme .
brown , known as a talkative politician who does not shy away from the media , stayed silent as she left the courthouse on thursday .
brown was elected to congress in 1992 as one of the first three black members of florida ’ s congressional delegation since the reconstruction period following the civil war .