muzdalifa , saudi arabia ( reuters ) - two million muslims gathered at mount arafat on thursday for a vigil to atone for their sins , then descended to muzdalifa to prepare for the final stages of the annual haj pilgrimage .
pilgrims clad in white robes spent the previous night in an encampment at the hill where islam holds that god tested abraham s faith by commanding him to sacrifice his son ismail and where the prophet mohammad gave his last sermon .
other worshippers who had been praying in the nearby mina area ascended in buses or on foot from before dawn as security forces directed traffic and helicopters hovered overhead .
some of the faithful carved out seats on the craggy hillside , carrying umbrellas to protect themselves from the sun .
others filled nearby roads , with temperatures approaching 40 degrees celsius ( 104 fahrenheit ) .
men and women from nearly every country in the world gathered side by side , some crying on their neighbor s shoulder .
an elderly syrian pilgrim sitting on the hilltop shouted out , oh god , take revenge on the oppressors .
others assembled around him responded , amen .
awfa nejm , from a village near homs , said : we ask god to protect syria and its people and return it to the way it was before .
twenty-seven-year-old amin mohammed from nigeria said he was praying for peace in his country .
saudi arabia said more than 2.3 million pilgrims , most of them from outside saudi arabia , had arrived for the five-day ritual , a religious duty once in a lifetime for every able-bodied muslim who can afford the journey .
sheikh saad al-shathri , a senior saudi cleric , delivered a midday sermon denouncing terrorism and violence against civilians .
sharia came to preserve the security of nations and cultivate benevolence in ( people s ) hearts , he said , referring to the islamic legal and moral code derived from the teachings of the koran and the traditions of the prophet .
he urged pilgrims to set aside politics during the haj and come together with fellow muslims .
this is no place for partisan slogans or sectarian movements which have resulted in great massacres and the displacement of millions , he said .
still , violence in the middle east , including wars in syria , iraq , yemen and libya , and other global hotspots are sure to be on the minds of many pilgrims .
as the sun set , they began moving to the rocky plain of muzdalifa to gather pebbles to throw at stone columns symbolizing the devil at another location called jamarat on friday , which marks the first day of eid al-adha ( feast of sacrifice ) .
a crush in 2015 which killed hundreds occurred when two large groups of pilgrims arrived together at a crossroads in mina , a few kilometers east of mecca , on their way to jamarat .
it was the worst disaster to strike haj for at least 25 years .
saudi arabia stakes its reputation on its guardianship of islam s holiest sites - mecca and medina - and organizing the pilgrimage .
king salman visited mina to review the services offered to pilgrims , state media showed .
officials say they have taken all necessary precautions this year , with more than 100,000 members of the security forces and 30,000 health workers on hand to maintain safety and provide first aid .
saudi state television on thursday morning showed a new kiswa , the cloth embroidered with verses from the koran , being placed over the kaaba in mecca s grand mosque .
pilgrims will return to pray there at the end of haj .
abdelhadi abu gharib , a young egyptian pilgrim , prayed in muzdalifa before collecting stones for friday s ritual .
the scene today in arafat confirms that muslims are not terrorists and that islam is the greatest religion , he said .
god has blessed us with islam .
for a graphic on the haj journey , click : here for a graphic on the haj stampedes , click : here