beijing ( reuters ) - chinese officials trying to hide dishonest spending with tricks such as throwing extravagant parties in private will be targeted in a sustained campaign to root out hedonism , the top anti-graft watchdog said on monday .
concealing spending by holding lavish dinners in private homes , passing off pampering at a spa as recuperation from work and going sightseeing while on business trips are all in the sights of the graft busters .
president xi jinping has waged a five-year war on graft at all levels of the ruling communist party , from high-level tigers to lowly flies and has pledged to keep up the fight until officials dare not , can not and do not want to be corrupt .
a crackdown on hedonism and extravagance in a drive to improve professionalism is to go on in xi s second term , an unidentified official from the central commission for discipline inspection told the official xinhua news agency .
efforts to address such misconduct should not be stopped and the work to improve the party s conduct and work styles should never end , xinhua cited xi as saying in a personal stamp of approval .
petty corruption such as trying to hide extravagance in concealed locations will be targeted , as will the use of public funds to organize holidays in the name of recuperation , the official said .
officials have been trying to get big spending through by organizing things such as weddings and funerals bit by bit , staggering gift giving and accepting electronic gift cards or red packets of money via online payment platforms , the official said .
although the anti-graft drive had improved the atmosphere in society , there could be no intermission and no rests , the official said .
the ccdi official also warned that officials still suffer from excess formalism and bureaucratism , communist party terms for failing to carry out central party orders .
when hosting visiting officials , some local-level cadres just take them on the same tourist trail where they speak to the same people as if watching a fashion show , said the official .
some attempt to cook the books , or beautify their data , to claim success and secure a quick promotion without actually getting the job done , while others simply take a laissez-faire attitude to improving work style .
cadres fond of formalism and bureaucratism who create a negative influence or grave results will be strictly punished , without tolerance , the official said .