tokyo ( reuters ) - the governor of the japanese capital , tokyo , whose opposition party of hope came a distant third to prime minister shinzo abe s ruling party in a general election last month , said on tuesday she would quit as party co-leader .
governor yuriko koike , a former ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) lawmaker sometimes mentioned as a possible first female japanese premier , launched the party to great fanfare ahead of the oct. 22 lower house election and absorbed a big chunk of the failed opposition democratic party .
but despite her bid to create what she called a reformist , conservative rival to abe s ldp , koike s party won only 51 seats in the 465-member lower house .
that tally was not only dwarfed by the ldp s 283 seats but also lagged the 54 seats taken by the constitutional democratic party of japan ( cdpj ) , a group hastily formed by liberal-leaning former democratic party members .
koike announced her decision at a televised meeting of her party legislators , also attended by yuichiro tamaki , who was recently elected as party of hope co-president .
i want to step down as party leader and support you all , she told the meeting .
i want to leave things to president tamaki .
a media-savvy former tv announcer and veteran lawmaker who served as environment and defense minister , koike defied the ldp to run for tokyo governor last year and trounced her ruling-party rival .
she then led her party to a historic victory over the ldp in a july tokyo assembly poll .
but support for the party of hope faltered after koike said she would exclude liberal members of the democratic party and decided not to seek a seat in parliament herself .
she also confused many voters by seeming to leave open the possibility of a tie-up with the ldp after the general election .
support for the party of hope was a mere 3.2 percent against 9.3 percent for the cdpj and 37.1 percent for the ldp , in an nhk survey released on monday .
abe has had a bounce in his ratings , a series of public opinion polls published this week indicated , but his support remains below 50 percent .
the nhk survey put support for his cabinet at 46 percent , a seven point rise from a september survey , with the most frequently given reason being it s better than other cabinets .