berea , ohio ( reuters ) - after a critical win on his home turf , ohio governor john kasich begins a new phase of his long-shot presidential campaign that his aides hope will ultimately propel him past republican front-runner donald trump by triggering a rare contested convention .
kasich ’ s victory in ohio ’ s primary on tuesday , along with the departure from the race of u.s .
senator marco rubio , makes him the party establishment ’ s last hope of stopping the new york billionaire businessman from winning the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election .
trump and his closest rival , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , are deeply unpopular among republican insiders .
“ i want you to know , the campaign goes on , ” kasich , 63 , told a victory rally near cleveland .
in a reference to trump ’ s fiery campaign rhetoric , kasich added : “ i will not take the low road to the highest office in the land. ” trump , 69 , notched wins in florida , illinois and north carolina on tuesday and was projected by msnbc to win a close race with cruz in missouri .
but losing ohio ’ s winner-take-all contest for 66 delegates complicates his attempt to clinch the 1,237 delegates needed to win his party ’ s nomination before the party ’ s july convention in cleveland .
with most of the remaining states allocating delegates proportionally , kasich ’ s aides believe he could prevail at a convention at which no candidate enters with a majority .
“ the plan is to win ohio , and some other states , and if that happens , nobody is going to have enough delegates to win the nomination on the first ballot , ” said john weaver , kasich ’ s chief campaign strategist , who also worked on republican senator john mccain ’ s losing presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2008 .
kasich ’ s plan , according to aides , is to leverage the momentum to gather more endorsements from mainstream party insiders and republican donors .
with the wind at his back , he hopes to score more victories in upcoming primaries including pennsylvania , maryland , wisconsin , connecticut and california , where he believes the terrain is friendlier to his brand of republican moderation .
to become the nominee who faces democratic contenders hillary clinton or bernie sanders — in the november election — a republican needs to win a majority of the 2,472 republican delegates .
after last night ’ s contests , excluding missouri ’ s , trump leads with 619 delegates , followed by cruz with 394 .
kasich has 136 .
if no candidate reaches that threshold by the close of the last primary on june 7 , the convention will almost certainly be contested — a recent historical rarity that would signal deep party rifts .
no convention , by either party , has gone beyond a first ballot since 1952 .
kasich has almost no hope of winning enough delegates to secure the nomination outright .
ohio is the lone state he has won .
but if he can succeed in blocking trump from getting a majority , he can make a case to convention delegates that he is more electable than trump or cruz , 45 , a conservative evangelical and , to date , trump ’ s most successful republican rival .
signs of the republican establishment rallying behind kasich were on show this week .
mitt romney , the republican presidential nominee in 2012 who recently blasted trump as a “ fraud ” in a scathing speech , campaigned with kasich in ohio on monday .
“ he has the kind of record that you want in washington , ” romney said in north canton , ohio , on a stage next to kasich , who spent 18 years as a republican congressman and six as ohio governor .
“ you look at this guy , and unlike the other people running , he has a real track record. ” on wednesday , kasich heads to a campaign event in pennsylvania and then holds three events in utah on friday — where romney , the former massachusetts governor , is popular with republicans .
utah , with 40 delegates , votes on march 27 .
pennsylvania is one of five states voting on april 26 .
ford o ’ connell , a republican strategist who has stayed neutral in this year ’ s nominating fight , said kasich ’ s victory should earn him more help from party insiders .
“ there are really just two options left : either trump gets enough delegates , or nobody does , ” o ’ connell said .
“ kasich ’ s win in ohio means trump must now win roughly 60 percent of the remaining delegates before the convention .
i would say we now have a 50-50 chance of a brokered convention. ” o ’ connell said that under republican party rules , a candidate must receive a clear majority of primary votes overall to become the nominee .
the history of republican nominating fights is littered with candidates who received a plurality of the votes , but not a majority , and never became the nominee .
kasich ’ s aides are looking to history as a guide , particularly wendell willkie ’ s path to the 1940 republican nomination .
that year , three leading candidates – robert taft , thomas dewey and arthur vandenberg – each arrived at the convention without enough delegates to win .
willkie - a businessman and former democrat who had never before run for public office - opposed the republican party ’ s isolationists and was a supporter of britain ’ s war efforts .
his cause gained momentum after the nazi blitzkrieg in europe in may 1940 .
after six ballots at the convention , delegates in pennsylvania , new york and michigan deserted other candidates and switched to willkie , giving him victory .
trump , cruz and kasich could face the same scenario this year , which would force to them to lobby delegates on the convention floor until one emerged with a majority .
“ a lot of people who do not want trump have been sitting back to see how kasich and rubio do in their home states on tuesday , ” said republican strategist charlie black , who signed up on tuesday night as a kasich adviser .