new york ( reuters ) - new york city mayor bill de blasio will back a $ 2.5 billion plan to create a light rail service linking the city ’ s outer boroughs when he gives his annual keynote speech on thursday the 16-mile track would run from astoria in queens , tracing a line along the east river and new york ’ s upper harbor to link up with sunset park in brooklyn .
it would pass through popular neighborhoods like williamsburg and brooklyn heights .
the plan is not new but the mayor ’ s emphasis reflects the growing importance of the outer boroughs .
it also makes good on his pledge to address the gap between wealthy manhattan and the rest of the city , a longstanding gripe with many new yorkers .
“ this is about equity and innovation .
we are mapping brand new transit that will knit neighborhoods together , ” de blasio said in a statement .
the introduction of a light rail service would be a new development for the city .
it would mirror the increasing use of such services in new jersey , especially connecting the growing commuter towns along the hudson river , an area real estate developers have dubbed the “ gold coast. ” the mayor ’ s office said the city will offset costs with tax revenues from increased property values along the proposed line .
major upgrades are being planned to aging transport infrastructure throughout the state .
governor andrew cuomo has embraced around $ 100 billion of projects including a $ 20 billion rail tunnel under the hudson river .
de blasio , who comes from the liberal wing of the democratic party , has emphasized social issues since taking office in 2014 such as free schooling for four year olds and reforming the city ’ s police .
he will likely use thursday ’ s state of the city address to hone in on some of those issues .
homelessness will likely be a focus after the mayor faced accusations he was not doing enough to address the problem .
de blasio is also likely to revisit public safety .
he and his police commissioner , bill bratton , cited new statistics on wednesday showing this january was the safest ever .
de blasio shifted thursday ’ s speech to 7 p.m. from its usual daytime spot in the hope of reaching more new yorkers .
it will be held at the lehman center for the performing arts , a concert venue in the bronx .
( this version of the story corrects day of speech in paragraphs 1 , 9 and 11 )