islamabad ( reuters ) - prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi on tuesday reconfirmed pakistan s commitment to the war on terror during a meeting with u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson , saying his country had produced results fighting the region s islamist militants .
relations between uneasy allies united states and pakistan have frayed in recent years , with washington accusing islamabad of turning a blind eye or helping afghan taliban and haqqani network militants who stage attacks in afghanistan .
pakistan denies doing so .
president donald trump has vowed to get tough with pakistan unless it changed its behavior , with u.s. officials threatening further reductions in aid and mooting targeted sanctions against pakistani officials .
tillerson , on a tour of asia and the middle east , arrived in pakistan on tuesday afternoon and met with abbasi , as well as pakistan s powerful army chief , general qamar javed bajwa .
we are committed in the war against terror , , abbasi told tillerson , as the two men sat facing each other on a long table .
we have produced results .
and we are looking forward to moving ahead with the u.s. and building a tremendous relationship , added abbasi , who sat next to bajwa .
during a short part of the meeting available to media , tillerson told the pakistani delegation that the nuclear-armed nation was an important u.s. ally in the region .
( pakistan is ) important regionally to our joint goals of providing peace and security to the region and providing opportunity for greater economic relationship as well , tillerson said .
as well as support for the afghan taliban and the haqqani network , another sticking point in the relationship has been growing closeness by the united states to india , pakistan s arch-foe and neighbor .
tillerson said last week that the trump administration wanted to dramatically deepen cooperation with new delhi , partly to offset chinese influence in asia .
trump has also called for greater indian role in afghanistan .
but this deepening in ties has alarmed pakistan , which has rejected a greater political role for india for afghanistan as a red line for islamabad .