( reuters ) - u.s. army sergeant bowe bergdahl had devised what he told a military investigator was a “ fantastic plan ” to leave his post so he could inform higher-ups about problems in the ranks , but that fell apart when he realized he took on more than he could manage .
bergdahl , 29 , who walked away from his post in afghanistan in 2009 and became a taliban prisoner for five years , is facing a court-martial with a potential life sentence on charges of desertion and endangerment of u.s. troops .
in a 371-page interview made public on wednesday , bergdahl said he was frustrated and concerned about the command at his post in afghanistan , seeing it as incompetent , immoral and putting soldiers ’ lives in danger .
he devised a scheme to leave and travel by foot to a military command about 20 miles away , with his disappearance causing a full-scale search .
when he arrived , he thought this would get him an audience with a general to air his grievances .
“ i came up with a fantastic plan , ” he told the military investigator in 2014 about three months after his release .
“ i was seeing things heading in a very dangerous direction .
so , i had to do something. ” he left at night and was captured the next day by the taliban .
“ by daylight , i will admit i was in over my head , ” he said in the transcript released by bergdahl ’ s lawyer eugene fidell , of an interview with army investigator , major general kenneth dahl , in 2014 .
at the end of the interview , dahl mentioned desertion , awol and fraudulent enlistment offenses to bergdahl but made no mention of the more serious charge of endangering u.s. troops , which carries up to a life sentence , according to the transcript .
at an evidentiary hearing in texas in september 2015 , dahl said he did not believe bergdahl should be jailed for what he did .
he said bergdahl was not a taliban sympathizer and characterized him as an unrealistically idealistic soldier .
dahl also said no soldiers directly involved in the search for him were killed .
u.s. military prosecutors have said bergdahl sneaked off his post , resulting in a 45-day search that put soldiers ’ lives at risk and diverted attention from the fight against the taliban .
bergdahl was freed in a prisoner swap in may 2014 involving the release of five taliban leaders held by the united states .
the deal drew heavy criticism from republicans .