brussels ( reuters ) - poland s new prime minister said on thursday he expected the european commission to launch an unprecedented punishment procedure against warsaw next week after months of wrangling over the rule of law .
several thousand people gathered in poland s largest towns on thursday evening to protest against a judiciary system overhaul , while the upper chamber of parliament discussed the proposed legislation .
mateusz morawiecki , who took over as poland s premier this week , has defended the judicial changes pushed over two years by his predecessor from the same law and justice ( pis ) party , saying they were necessary to heal the courts .
western european union peers , the bloc s executive commission , opposition at home and democracy advocates say the reforms undermine court independence by putting them under more direct government control .
under the legislation , parliament would have a virtual free hand in choosing members of the national judiciary council ( krs ) , a body that decides judicial appointments and promotions - a right earlier reserved chiefly for the judges themselves .
a second bill envisages lowering the mandatory retirement age for supreme court judges to 65 years from 70 , which would force a significant part of them to leave .
this , as well as the eurosceptic , nationalist pis s changes to the state media , have prompted the commission to threaten for many months to launch the so-called article 7 against warsaw .
pis faced renewed accusations that it was muzzling free media after poland s media regulator slapped a $ 415,000 fine on a leading , u.s.-owned news broadcaster tvn24 over its coverage of opposition protests in parliament last year .
morawiecki rejected the view that the penalty amounted to an assault on the freedom of media in poland , saying the country of 38 million people enjoyed full media pluralism .
he expected tvn to challenge the move in courts which would make the final call .
pis has also locked horns with the eu over large-scale logging in the unique bialowieza forest , which warsaw says is necessary to keep the woods healthy but brussels and environmental groups say violate wildlife protection laws .
bitter feuds over migration - which morawiecki on thursday called a political hot potato - have added to the growing isolation of the bloc s largest ex-communist country since pis won elections in late 2015 .
article 7 would see poland s government denounced as undemocratic and could lead to the suspension of warsaw s voting rights in the eu .
the latter , however , is unlikely as it would require the unanimous backing of all the other eu states , something pis ally hungary has vowed to block .
but morawiecki , speaking ahead of his first summit of eu leaders in brussels , seemed to accept that the blow was coming .
if a process has started and , as far as i understand , the decision has already been made that next wednesday the european commission plans to start ( the procedure ) , then it will most likely be triggered , he told reporters .
from the start of such an unfair procedure for us , until it ends , we will certainly talk to our partners .
a senior eu official said the commission s head , jean-claude juncker would still seek to dissuade warsaw from going ahead with the two judiciary laws , which were passed by poland s lower chamber of parliament .
they must still go through the pis-dominated upper house and be signed by the pis-allied president to take effect .
if the court changes go through then we will trigger article 7 , the senior official said .
if the changes are postponed until january , then we will see .
morawiecki stuck to his guns over the courts and poland s refusal to host some of the refugees who reach the bloc .
he said poland would respect the final ruling of the bloc s top court on the bialowieza forest .
so far , warsaw has continued the logging despite an interim order by the court to stop immediately .
morawiecki added he would seek to convince france to soften its stance on a reform of the bloc s labor laws .
president emmanuel macron wants them tightened because he sees them as giving too much of a competitive edge to cheaper labor from the poorer eastern europe at the expense of france s own workers .