beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s shi ite hezbollah group on sunday accused saudi arabia of forcing lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri to quit , and called for calm in an effort to contain the political crisis unleashed by his resignation .
sayyed hassan nasrallah , the leader of iran-backed hezbollah , said there should be no political escalation in response to hariri s declaration on saturday , which was made from saudi arabia and came as surprise even to his aides .
hariri , in a televised speech , said there was a plot to kill him , and accused hezbollah and its iranian backers of sowing strife in the arab world .
nasrallah said legitimate questions were being asked over whether hariri had been detained in saudi arabia , where news emerged on sunday that royals , ministers and investors had been arrested in an anti-corruption purge .
aides to hariri , whose family made their fortune in the saudi construction industry , strongly denied he had been detained or had been forced to resign .
speaking in a televised address , nasrallah said : the resignation was a saudi decision dictated to prime minister saad al-hariri and was forced on him .
nasrallah said lebanon s political leaders expected hariri to return to lebanon on thursday if he is allowed to travel .
sunni muslim saudi arabia , a political ally of hariri , is locked in a bitter tussle for power across the middle east with shi ite iran and its allies , including hezbollah .
lebanese president michel aoun will not accept hariri s resignation until he returns to lebanon to explain his reasons , palace sources said on sunday , delaying for now the politically difficult consultations over his successor .
nasrallah said he would not comment on accusations leveled against hezbollah by hariri , describing his resignation announcement as a saudi statement .
hariri s resignation toppled a coalition government that included hezbollah , thrusting lebanon back into the frontline of the saudi-iranian regional rivalry and risking an open-ended political crisis .
the government was formed late last year in a political deal that ended years of deadlock , and last month it produced lebanon s first budget since 2005 .
nasrallah said he had thought things were going well and had not wanted hariri to quit .
hariri allies in lebanon have denied suggestions he had been detained and a photograph was published on his twitter account showing him with saudi arabia s newly appointed ambassador to lebanon , walid al-yaaqoub .
news of high-level arrests in saudi arabia fueled social media speculation in lebanon that hariri , a saudi national , was a target .
nasrallah said there was legitimate concern , asking if hariri had anything to do with this internal struggle between the princes .
saudi oger , the construction firm owned by the hariri family , has faced a multibillion-dollar debt restructuring .
the company was hit by a decline in oil prices led to sharp state spending cuts in the kingdom .
saudi-owned newspaper asharq al-awsat cited unnamed sources close to hariri as speculating that he would probably remain outside lebanon because of the security threat against him .
central bank governor riad salameh sought to calm fears the political turmoil would hit lebanon s already fragile economy , issuing a statement to reaffirm the stability of its currency , which is pegged against the u.s. dollar .
in lebanon s sectarian system the president must be a maronite catholic , the prime minister a sunni and the speaker of parliament a shi ite .
hariri is lebanon s most influential sunni politician .
his father , rafik al-hariri , was prime minister after lebanon s 1975-1990 civil war and was assassinated in a car bombing in 2005 .
a u.n.-backed tribunal has indicted five hezbollah members for the killing but the group denies any involvement .
saudi media have published reports of a plot to assassinate hariri in recent days , but all of lebanon s main security branches have said they have no information about such a plot .
a saudi minister said on saturday that hariri s personal security detail had confirmed information about the plot .
thamer al-sabhan said in an interview with a lebanese tv station on saturday that there were threats against the prime minister and the kingdom is keen for his security .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres was concerned by hariri s resignation and hoped all sides in the country would back its state institutions , his spokesman on lebanon stephane dujarric said in an emailed statement .