former fox anchor alisyn camerota just jumped on the sexual harassment train with stories of roger ailes treating her in a grossly inappropriate manner .
sour grapes or does she have a case ?
we think sour grapes clue : when asked what she did about this she said she just went home if you believe what camerota said in the video above then watch her get called out for her unbelievable questions aka lying/spinning : sean spicer runs circles around political hack camerota it gets good around the 3:30 mark i know it s frustrating for you that we re doing it in a logical way , sean spicer to allison camerota https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=_6mzc5kpr3sif you doubt camerota is a political hack then watch the video below : cnn commentator van jones stood by his praise of president trump on cnn s new day wednesday .
after trump s joint address to congress , jones called moments of the speech extraordinary and said that trump became president of the united states .
asked by new day host alisyn camerota if he wanted to amend his comments at all , jones declned the opportunity .
in that moment , i m proud , i m human , i can still get teary-eyed even in a trump speech , jones said.what exactly defines sexual harassment ?
the definition has gotten broader and broader to include anything you deem to be offensive .
well , that s not fair to people like bill o reilly who s been the subject of numerous accusations he can not discount because he has no way to prove the women wrong .
it s his word against all of the women who claim he harassed them.please listen to the latest accuser to come forward claiming o reilly harassed her and you ll see what we mean : the last accuser who could have been the nail in the coffin for bill o reilly spoke on the view about her sexual harassment lawsuit .
perquita burgess and her lawyer were on the view for their 15 minutes of fame .
attorney lisa bloom should know better than to send her client on to speak out about her allegations .
lisa bloom has a track record as a high profile lawyer for cases like this she should know better but it could be that she s trying to gain sympathy for her client.please listen to the video and let us know what you think about what she said and about sexual harassment in the workplace : o reilly settled with other women over sexual harassment but how do we know if any of them has any credibility ?
how does a man protect himself from such charges ? if this could be brought up on charges , then every high profile man out there needs a witness when he walks around anywhere.are the comments ( if true ) that this woman said bill o reilly made considered sexual harassment to you ?
what exactly is sexual harassment ?
if it s how you feel then men are in big trouble because of all of the offended women out there .
should the definition be broader or should it be more narrowly defined .
we feel with our litigious society , the cases for sexual harassment should be very closely scrutinized .