pacaraima , brazil ( reuters ) - an indigenous tribe that journeyed hundreds of kilometers to flee the economic crisis in venezuela has been trapped in limbo near the border in brazil , after it was moved off the streets of the amazon city of manaus .
driven by hunger and illness from their traditional homeland on the orinoco river delta in northeastern venezuela , more than 1,200 members of the warao tribe migrated to northern brazil to live and beg on the streets .
brazilian authorities , nongovernmental organizations and churches have helped provide temporary shelter on the border , but the warao s future remains uncertain .
the tribe insists it will not return to venezuela , where a deep recession has led to shortages of basic goods under president nicolas maduro s socialist government .
the children were dying in venezuela from illness .
there was no medicine , no food , no help , said rita nieves , a cacique , or chief , of the matrilineal warao .
members of the tribe are still making the arduous journey .
nieves was wearing her best clothes to cross back into venezuela to bury a 3-month-old warao baby that had just died in its mother s arms on the 1,000-km ( 620-mile ) bus ride to brazil .
we are staying here because things have not changed in venezuela , she said , sitting in a warehouse turned into a living space for 220 warao in the small border town of pacaraima .
children played among dozens of hammocks hanging from metal structures erected by u.n. refugee agency unhcr .
outside , women cooked broth on wood fires and men sat listening to their shaman talk about the virtues of the moriche palm used to weave baskets and hammocks , as he puffed on a straw cigar .
the warao have lived for centuries on the orinoco delta , but some began to leave when fish supplies were depleted by the diversion of the waters to deepen shipping lanes for venezuelan iron ore and bauxite exports .
many went to venezuelan cities to sell craftwork and beg on the streets .
however , when the economy tipped into crisis , they began moving to brazil last year , often just walking across the border without documents .
they were already begging in venezuela , but those who gave them money are themselves asking for help today , said sister clara , a missionary from brazil-based humanitarian organization fraternidade that runs two shelters for the warao .
who in today s crisis in venezuela is going to buy warao arts and crafts ?
she said .
around 500 warao arrived on the streets of manaus last year , where they begged from drivers and sold craftwork at traffic lights .
many slept under a highway overpass until city authorities stopped the begging and moved them into shelters they did not like .
some then traveled down the amazon to santarem and belem , while others returned to frontier towns , from which they can go back and forth to their delta homeland when they raise enough money .
they started staying here , sleeping in the streets , and caused a humanitarian emergency , said pacaraima social services secretary isabel davila .
the town provided an abandoned warehouse with toilets , showers and a kitchen , built with funding from the mormon church .
like a similar shelter in the nearby city of boa vista that houses 500 warao , these are temporary landing places , where the warao can live while they get documents to legalize their status so they can find work , davila said .
but chief rita has no plans to move .
pacaraima s mayor promised land to grow crops and materials to make warao craft work , she said , and she wants the warao children to learn portuguese .
half of the land in roraima state is reserved for indigenous peoples , but an attempt to ask local communities to cede territory to the warao met with a firm rebuttal .
we think they might be here for a decade , said danusa sabala , a spokeswoman for brazil s indian affairs office funai , which sees no short-term solution for the warao .
ramon gomez , a warao chief in the boa vista shelter , said their ancestral homeland in the delta was finished and the situation in venezuela was deteriorating rapidly .
when ... this president maduro took over , everything ended , food , medicine , g mez said .
we will be here until venezuela changes .
it will get worse before it gets better .