don t turn off your paid internet service quite yet .
if you have a job and contribute to our tax base , you won t qualify .
you also have to be living in cities the obama regime considers worthy of free internet service .
those cities have likely provided some form of support for obama s radical agenda for america.because internet service is a human right or something like that calling the internet a 21st century necessity , president barack obama on wednesday unveiled a program to bring faster internet connections to more low-income households , particularly to help students living in public and assisted housing stay ahead in school.under connecthome , the public , private and nonprofit sectors have pledged to work together to provide high-speed connections and digital devices to more families at lower cost.more than 90 percent of households headed by a college graduate have internet access , obama said .
but fewer than half of low-income households have similar access.in this day and age , obama said the digital divide puts these individuals at a disadvantage by limiting their educational and economic opportunities because the internet is increasingly needed to find a job , finish homework or keep in touch with family and friends .
in this digital age , when you can apply for a job , take a course , pay your bills with a tap of your phone , the internet is not a luxury .
it s a necessity , obama said in durant , oklahoma , on the first day of a two-day visit to the state .
you can not connect with today s economy without having access to the internet , he said.connecthome is similar to connected , a federal program that obama said is on track to wire 99 percent of k-12 classrooms and libraries with high-speed internet by the end of 2017.connecthome will begin in 27 cities and the choctaw nation of oklahoma , which is headquartered in durant .
with about 200,000 members spread across much of southeastern oklahoma , the choctaw nation is the nation s third-largest native american tribe.the choctaw nation was also among the administration s first promise zones , a designation that makes it eligible for tax incentives and grants to help fight poverty.the only federal money expected to be spent on connecthome is a $ 50,000 agriculture department grant to the choctaw nation , officials said.the 27 cities the u.s. department of housing and urban development selected for connecthome are : albany , georgia ; atlanta ; baltimore ; baton rouge , louisiana ; boston ; camden , new jersey ; cleveland ; denver ; durham , north carolina ; fresno , california ; kansas city , missouri ; little rock , arkansas ; los angeles ; macon , georgia ; memphis , tennessee ; meriden , connecticut ; nashville , tennessee ; new orleans ; new york ; newark , new jersey ; philadelphia ; rockford , illinois ; san antonio ; seattle ; springfield , massachusetts ; tampa , florida ; and the district of columbia.obama was spending the night in oklahoma and on thursday continuing a weeklong focus on making the criminal justice system fairer.he planned to meet thursday with law enforcement officials and inmates during a historic tour of the el reno federal correctional institution , a medium-security facility west of oklahoma city that holds about 1,300 male offenders .
i will be the first sitting president to visit a federal prison , obama said in a speech tuesday to the naacp meeting in philadelphia .