( this oct. 9 story has been refiled to add a dropped word in the headline ) by sonya dowsett bilbao , spain ( reuters ) - as spain and catalonia head toward a constitutional collision over the region s claim to independence , lawmakers on both sides of the crisis are pointing to a way out : north , to basque country .
among the verdant mountains of basque country , which borders france , a once-violent campaign for independence has petered out , with generous fiscal autonomy from madrid helping to keep popular agitation for independence in check .
we don t have that economic resentment , aitor esteban , organizer for the basque national party in spain s parliament , told reuters in an interview at party headquarters in bilbao .
people don t feel that need to act upon a grievance about money ; that makes a big difference .
the catalan government is not calling for a basque-style deal , insisting instead on independence after declaring overwhelming support for secession in an oct. 1 referendum banned by madrid .
but the most moderate lawmakers in the region s ruling coalition privately say they could drop independence claims if they were given the tax autonomy that basque country enjoys .
in madrid , some socialists have suggested it could serve as a model for a compromise that would defuse spain s biggest political crisis since a failed coup in 1981 , although the cost to the central government would be significant .
basque staged modest protests over madrid s violent crackdown on catalonia s referendum , but the crisis has failed to rekindle secessionist fervor on the streets of bilbao , the basque capital nestled on the banks of the nervion .
catalan flags hang from balconies alongside the basque flag in a sign of solidarity , but bilbao is prosperous and peaceful .
where once unionist politicians needed bodyguards and car bombings were a constant fear , tourists now crowd the taverns of the old town and the world-famous guggenheim museum .
just 17 percent of basques want independence and less than half would like to hold a referendum on the issue , according to a poll carried out by the university of deusto .
basque militant group eta , which killed more than 850 people in a decades-long campaign to carve out a separate state , effectively ended its armed resistance this year when it surrendered its weapons .
the region now has one of the highest economic outputs per capita and one of the lowest unemployment rates in spain .
the independence debate is on standby in basque country because of great fatigue after years of violence and uncertainty after the economic crisis , said xabier barandiaran , professor of sociology at deusto university .
basque s fiscal autonomy is among the most generous of any region in europe , dating back to the 19th century and enshrined in spain s 1978 constitution .
if it were to be extended to catalonia , an economically more powerful region accounting for a fifth of national production , the spanish state would lose about 16 billion euros , according to a 2014 study by research house csic .
that would equal about 13 percent of next year s budget and affect spain s deficit and borrowing costs .
for that reason , spanish prime minister mariano rajoy has ruled out such generous treatment for catalonia .
under basque s accord with madrid , the region collects nearly all its own taxes , which are forecast to total 13 billion euros ( $ 15 billion ) this year .
it is due to return 800 million euros to madrid in what is known as an annual quota to cover the costs of national expenses such as defense or infrastructure .
rajoy has sweetened that arrangement since he regained power at the head of a minority government last year , as the price of securing basque national party support for his 2017 budget .
it has proved unpopular with other regions who would almost certainly oppose any similar deal for catalonia , as it would mean cutting their share of state revenue .
typically , regions pass taxes to madrid which redistributes money back to them according to a formula that favors the poorer regions .
former catalan leader artur mas tried to hold talks with rajoy in 2012 about granting catalonia powers to raise and spend its own taxes , but the prospect of negotiations in the current climate look bleak .
catalonia has long said it pays a disproportionate level of taxes to madrid in relation to the central funding it receives .
a study backed by the budget ministry says catalonia pays to the state 9.9 billion euros more than it receives .
the catalan economy ministry says this is even higher .
economists say an overhaul of the fiscal relationship between madrid and the regions is overdue because the current system has led to intense tax competition between regions .
some autonomous communities have become under-financed , resulting in cuts in public services .
now the situation is so critical , there might just be the political momentum needed to tackle it , said antonio garcia pascual of barclays capital .