shawn helton 21st century wireorlando s pulse nightclub shooting is said to be the largest mass shooting in american history and in less than 24 hours , investigators already determined the incident to be an isis-related attack prior to a full forensic analysis.in this report we will attempt to answer a number of questions about a number of anomalies and unlikely coincidences surrounding this global media event.we re told that this tragic attack was carried out by an international security firm employee turned radicalized gunman but is there more to the story ?
selfie obsessed shooter omar mateen is the alleged orlando nightclub shooter ( image source : nbcnews ) question : is this is another , in a long line of daily shooter events designed to evoke an emotive , polarized and highly politicized response , rather than a rational and reasoned one ? the orlando shootingin the early hours of sunday , june 12th , omar mir seddique mateen , also listed as omar mateen by media outlets , was said to have killed 49 people , wounding some 53 others at the pulse nightclub in orlando , florida , in what is being described as the deadliest mass shooting in america.according reports , mateen is also said to have pledged allegiance to isis via a 911 call while carrying out the apparent large scale mass shooting and hostage situation , having been utterly cool and calm as suggested by some larger media outlets upon finishing his rampage.related : ( video ) active shooter and terror drills : the truth will shock youadditionally , mateen , was first stated to have used an ar-15 rifle , along with a small handgun ( legally obtained through two security licenses ) .
however , reports later changed and updated the alleged shooter s weapons of choice to the sig sauer mcx .223 caliber rifle and a glock 17 9mm semi-auto pistol.the following is an extensive rand corporation evaluation of the nypd and it reveals the following statistics as they relate to firearm accuracy : according to a 2008 rand corporation study evaluating the new york police department s firearm training , between 1998 and 2006 , the average hit rate during gunfights was just 18 percent .
when suspects did not return fire , police officers hit their targets 30 percent of the time.21wire , was able to track down an individual trained in all types of firearm training , who also questioned the alleged shooter s ability to to be so accurate , confirming the study above.continuing the orlando shooting timeline we were then told mateen , took club goers hostage while carrying out the alleged terror related shooting around 2am.the shooting occurred at pulse nightclub a popular lgtb venue , was thought to have had some 300 people inside of the club during the time of the shooting .
we ve also been told that authorities were unable to stop the gunman for until 3 hours after the initial attack.the washington post reported : three hours after mateen first began shooting , they breached the building detonating an explosion on an exterior wall and ramming it with an armored vehicle .
traumatized club-goers escaped into the night , and then the gunman appeared in the opening , heavily armed and seemingly ready for what is known in law enforcement as suicide by cop .
while some 30 lives have said to have been saved , how many were injured due to the explosive charge set of by police during the breach ? according to a timeline of events , police were able to notify 24 of the victims families just two hours after the shooting at 7:30 am .
this appears to be a significant detail when you consider the meticulous nature of crime scene investigation , as detectives are tasked with the time consuming and often difficult process of properly identifying individuals.in the orlando shooting case , there would have ( particularly in this scenario ) been great bodily harm and perhaps unrecognizable victims who may or may not have had proper id ( fake id s ) on their person during the shooting.there appears to be a lack of footage surrounding the shooting itself , rescue operations performed or bodies at the stated crime scene extremely strange in the age of social media .
show of force a full-scale militarized response to the pulse crime scene shooting .
did club goers become victims of friendly fire or was something else at play ?
( image source : radaronline ) the times union stated the following after the pulse nightclub shooting : orlando police chief john mina says an extra officer was working at the pulse nightclub in full uniform .
the officer engaged with the shooter near an entrance .
additional officers entered , and engaged the suspect in another gunbattle .
the shooter retreated to the bathroom.mina says , at that time we were able to save and rescue dozens and dozens of people and get them out of the club .
officers then secured everything , and the swat team was brought in .
mina says officers then set up for an explosive breach on the bathroom wall .
mina says he made the decision to breach the wall , which created a hole through which dozens of clubgoers were rescued .
then the suspect exited through the same hole , and engaged in another gunbattle with officers .
shooter omar mateen was then killed .
why do early reports state that police engaged with the suspect , prior to the gunman shooting anyone or reportedly calling 911 this appears to directly contradict the main media narrative ? additionally , by police chief john mina s admission , a fully uniformed officer was working at pulse nightclub .
while it is not that unusual for police be at or sometimes moonlight at clubs as security , the details of how and exactly when the shooting occurred remain partially obscured in mainstream media reports.while isis media arms and social media accounts reportedly praised the attack , there has been wide scale condemnation of the shooting the world over including the 57-nation organization of islamic cooperation who discussed this horrible act , but warned of political campaigning and self-serving agendas , following the tragic events.continuing the article stated the following : saudi arabia s interior ministry spokesman maj. gen. mansour al-turki told the associated press in a text message monday that mateen first visited saudi arabia for 10 days in march 2011 and again a year later in march 2012 for eight days .
not since the san bernardino shooting last december , has the public s perception been so arrested by a media-driven wave of hyperreality following what appears to be another confusing heavily coordinated incident , with an uncanny police and emergency response.crime scene questions , multiple shooters witnessedthough the orlando shooting attack was officially stated to have been carried out around 2am , the daily mail published facebook posts from people apparently inside the club that contradict the main timeline , suggesting the shooting happened much earlier.here are the facebook comments featured in the daily mail for review if these time stamps are correct and the posts have not been doctored in any way , then these posts present a pretty major crack in the official timeline of events at pulse nightclub.here s the animated youtube personality peekay truth outlining the daily mail time discrepancy associated with the orlando shooting .
the uk s independent published an article displaying an eyewitness account that directly contradicts the lone gunman theory pushed by all major media outlets in the aftermath of the shooting : police did not immediately name the gunman or provide a possible motive for the attack but officials have classified the rampage as a domestic terrorism incident , orange county sheriff jerry demings said .
javer antonetti , 53 , told the orlando sentinel newspaper he was near the back of the dance club when he heard gunfire .
there were so many ( shots ) , at least 40 , he said .
i saw two guys and it was constant , like pow , pow , pow , .
from a logistical stand point mateen s ability to carry out the shooting by himself seems to be another questionable aspect to an increasingly troubled case.another club eyewitness jon alamo , heard 20 , 40 , 50 shots , and then the music stopped .
while the stress of the incident could account for some differences , forensically it s hard to believe mateen would have been able to have the ability to shoot over hundred people with only 50 some shots.according to multiple eyewitness accounts people inside the club mentioned that there was possibly as many as four shooters in around the area .
the witness seen in the image below described the following : then he [ mateen ] called someone he knew and he mentioned that he was the fourth shooter , and there were three others .
the witness also stated that the alleged shooter may have called police or a news agency stating that america should stop their bombing campaign on isis .
security background & alleged abusethe 29-year old mateen , an afghani-american was located in port st. lucie , florida , about 120 miles outside of orlando .
in 2013 , mateen was placed under a terror watch list for 10 months ( interviewed two to three times by the fbi 2013-14 ) and had worked for one of the largest security firms in the us since 2007 , g4s secure solutions , headquartered in jupiter , florida and formerly part of a cia-linked government contractor and security firm , wackenhut corporation.g4s , as it turns out , was the very first designated and certified department of homeland security ( dhs ) contractor and recently secured a $ 234 million dollar contract with the federal cabinet department .
in addition to apparently providing security solutions for 90 percent of u.s. nuclear facilities , g4s , according to border patrol sources has also been tasked with the transportation and release of illegal immigrants inside the interior of the united states.at least one of mateen s roles with g4s , was to transport and provide security for prisoner youths in florida .
in 2012 , g4s congratulated mateen for five years of service according to a company newsletter.zero hedge reported the following concerning g4s : and this is where the mateen-g4s link emerges : as jw reported previously , a security company contracted by the u.s. government is driving the otms from the border patrol s tucson sector where they were in custody to phoenix , sources said .
the firm is the abovementioned g4s , the world s leading security solutions group with operations in more than 100 countries and 610,000 employees .
g4s has more than 50,000 employees in the u.s. and its domestic headquarters is in jupiter , florida .
mateen remained on staff to guard prisoners despite media reports that he harassed a co-worker and expressed hateful views in the workplace and was the subject of a federal investigation for terrorism between 2013-14 for some 10 months .
according to reports , the fbi dropped the investigation after mateen admitted to the work place harassment , adding that he was responding to harassment from others over his beliefs.mateen is also stated to have previously worked at martin correctional institution from 2006-07 , prior to being featured in a short interview ( as an actor ? )
in a major hollywood designer documentary called the big fix in 2012 , discussing the bp oil spill at deep water horizon.here you can see mateen at the 36 minute mark , taking what appears to be a quasi-albeit scripted activist-type stance , even though he works for the world s largest security contractor .
clearly , mateen was acting in this real documentary .. what is the public to make of mateen s own acting and film background as it relates to america s largest mass shooting are we again seeing a clear link between hollywood and military/security services ? indeed , mateen has been featured in another documentary from 2013 , called love city jalalabad , a feature supposedly depicting progressive afghani youth and a quest for social change.also according to times union : the security company that employed the orlando nightclub gunman says it has no record of a co-worker s complaints that the shooter was angry , profane and threatened violence.the company , g4s , says in a statement monday that it has no record of any complaint by daniel gilroy against omar mateen .
mateen died in a gun battle with police after a mass shooting that left 49 people .
however , gilroy has maintained that mateen began harassing him , sending as many as 20 or 30 text messages a day and more than a dozen phone messages .
gilroy said his employer , g4s , did not intervene .
after gilroy left g4s , according to the security firm : gilroy told company officials in june 2015 , shortly after he left the firm , that his co-workers were good men and women that put in an honest day s work and genuinely like to work as a team and contribute .
further adding to confusion surrounding mateen s character , mateen s ex-wife sitora yusufiy , has publicly stated that she was abused during their brief marriage .
( photo illustration by shawn helton @ 21wire ) return of the daily shooterduring most of 2015 if you remember , there was a barrage of active shooter crimes seen domestically within the us as well as parts of europe , with many of the apparent shooters already known to authorities.21wire dubbed 2015 the year of the daily shooter , as string of unreal shooting events rippled across america , many of which took place over the summertime , bleeding over into the chill of fall.while the public was still trying to comprehend the shocking and questionable charlie hebdo attacks in early january of 2015 , things began heating up in early may , when it was reported that two islamic gunmen allegedly opened fire outside of a cartoon art exhibition and alleged free speech contest featuring provocative images of the prophet muhammad in garland , texas.while the incident was quickly labeled a terror attack , along with the vague and forensically undefined isis inspired tag for dramatic effect , reports stated that a pair of shooters , elton simpson ( shadowed by a paid fbi informant ) and nadir hamid soofi , targeted a bizarre muhammad art exhibit and cartoon contest that was organized by the american freedom defense initiative , led by anti-islamic israeli lobbyist , pamela geller.it was a staged event that clearly echoed the charlie hebdo story line , with the usual trial by social media tweets suggesting guilt before all evidence was in.within a short period of time following the suspicious events in garland , it was revealed that simpson , one of the alleged suspects in the garland shooting , had been under the watchful eye of the fbi for nearly a decade and was in close contact with an undercover informant during that time , similarly outlining the intelligence-linked kouachi brothers who were implicated in the charlie hebdo incident.and just as the dust was settling after high profile shootings in the spring , we learned there was even more trouble in the homeland with yet another alleged terror inspired individual named mohammad youssuf abdulazeez .
as bizarre and conflicting reports emerged regarding a shooting on july 16th at a us marine corps strip mall recruitment center and a secure navy operational support center in chattanooga , tennessee , the focus of media coverage gave the false perception that people were shot within the mall area out in the open .
however , only 48 hours later , it was revealed that victims of the shooting event were actually shot and killed inside of a secure navy reserve training facility .
by then the national media narrative had already been disseminated and set into the minds of the public.as we ve said before , whether it s the grafting of an overseas terror based story line or the concept of a rogue patriot-like lone wolf persona , we see a psychic assault on the masses , one that could potentially convince the public into giving up their civil liberties .
candid camera omar mateen s father s ( seddique mateen ) media presence and congressional/cia company has caused quite a stir concerning the background of the orlando shooter .
seddique posted facebook pictures from last year featuring political connections and reps. charles rangel , dana rohrabacher , and ed royce .
( image source : buzzfeed ) similarly , during the aftermath of 2014 s canadian parliament shooting , here at 21wire , we outlined many of the primary markers used in certain terror related events and mass shootings.the incident like other events such as the boston bombing , sandy hook and other bizarre attacks in recent years , have often distorted public opinion , pushing the populace towards new security measures in the wake of heavily coordinated and stylized events .
( left image : therightscoop ) the suspected parliament hill and national war memorial shooter michael zehaf-bibeau , had the perfect modus operandi and r sum to be an informant for either a law enforcement or intelligence agency.historically , government operators have often made use of low-life criminals , and mentally disturbed individuals as part of a larger agenda domestically and abroad : according to the globe and mail , zehaf-bibeau was already designated as a high risk traveller by the canadian government s security services who had also seized his passport .
could this be the reason why the shooter had snapped ?
was he being targeted or being pressured into becoming an informant ?
much was made of zehaf-bibeau s recent conversion to islam , especially from the reactionary neoconservative tribe on fox news , while those on the left called for tighter gun restrictions.we should make note of the formulaic scripting often seen following these kinds of events : alleged connections to terror or terror networks , as with security links suspect recently radicalized views on religion .
sensational media projections bring in additional storylines for dramatic effect .
an unknown motive for the crime said to be committed followed quickly by a presumed motive without evidence .
politicians , law enforcement and media call the incident a terror attack before all evidence is reviewed.time and time again , we ve seen this same choreographed narrative pushed by mass media and authorities only to be exposed at a later date.readers should refer to the informant game we outlined in 2014 here at 21wire , which provided historical context about the fbi s confidential informant past , as it relates to the orlando shooting : human rights watch explains , the 214-page report , illusion of justice : human rights abuses in us terrorism prosecutions , examines 27 federal terrorism cases from initiation of the investigations to sentencing and post-conviction conditions of confinement .
it documents the significant human cost of certain counter-terrorism practices , such as overly aggressive sting operations and unnecessarily restrictive conditions of confinement .
the list of terror informants and puppets is as long as it is colorful , starting with the infamous underwear bomber , who was allowed to travel to the us without a passport and was accompanied by an intelligence agent on his flight from amsterdam to detroit.who can forget the fbi s ill-fated 1993 world trade center bombing attempt , where fbi handlers trained the driver and gave them explosives and worst of all stood by and watched as their sting subjects went ahead and detonated their concoction underneath the world s tallest building in new york city .
incidentally , after the 1993 attack , the fbi was said to have tried to lure emad a. salem , ( played role in 1993 wtc bombing ) a former egyptian army officer who was a prized undercover operative back into a role as a confidential informant , with agents suggesting he should go into the witness protection program .
( graphic : uk column ) other recent fbi terror stooge/informant nightmares include : tamerlan tsarnaev ( see his informant story here ) buford rogers ( see his informant story here ) jerad miller ( see his informant story here ) naji mansour ( see his informant story here ) quazi mohammad nafis ( see his informant story here ) mohamed osman mohamud ( see his informant story here ) timothy mcveigh ( see his informant story here ) elton simpson ( see his informant story here ) but how does this relate to the orlando club shooting ? drills & informants shortly after the pulse shooting attack it was revealed that mateen had been attending services at a mosque , meeting with a known fbi informant named marcus dwayne robertson ( image , left who also played role in 1993 wtc bombing ) , a former us marine turned bank robber turned radical imam .
here s this passage from fox news describing robertson s role : it is no coincidence that this happened in orlando , said a law enforcement source familiar with robertson s history of recruiting terrorists and inciting violence .
mateen was enrolled in [ robertson s online ] fundamental islamic knowledge seminary.robertson and several associates were rounded up for questioning early sunday , according to law enforcement sources , a development his attorney refused to confirm or deny .
another intriguing part of the orlando shooter case was the fact that orlando s orange county had been running a number of mass casualty drills in recent years.for those unfamiliar , these emergency response drills often take place prior to a real-life active-shooter scenario .
the orlando sentinel reported in october 2nd , 2015 , one day after the oregon shooting , which also saw drills prior to the campus shooting at umpqua community college : during the emergency nurses association s annual meeting on friday , a mock shooter blew himself up , killing and injuring 100 local volunteer actors.there was blood , screams and moans , wounds and dead people all fake to create a realistic training environment for more than 40 nurses who had signed up for the exercise.they quickly began tending to patients , assessing the extent of their injuries.the nurses association had worked with several orlando-based companies for nearly a year to set up the drill on at the orange county convention center , which by coincidence took place a day after the shooting at a community college in roseburg , oregon , where 10 people died and seven were wounded .
branding crisis ( left side ) hashtag frenzy another huge hashtag campaign in less than 24 hours after a major attack .
( image scource : heavy ) while the apparent orlando shooting attack on the surface appears to be another tragedy in america , one should take note at the breakneck speed at which media marketing campaigns have been rolled out globally since the violent incident , including ready-made hashtag slogans as reported by cbs news : immediately after reports of the incident surfaced online , alarmed social media users began posting concerns and condolences under the hashtags # prayfororlando , # prayersfororlando , and # pulseshooting .
within hours of the orlando shooting , many celebrities took to twitter to politicize and polarize the event before all the evidence had been properly reviewed.media hoaxing , crisis actors & other anomaliesthere have been many methods used to shutdown critical thinking in the aftermath of a crisis , as media organizations , politicians and celebrities are often used to misdirect the public s attention to detail.in an article entitled , where have all the crisis actors gone ?
, written by dr. james tracy , we see a clear connection between forms of social media and law enforcement when a coordinated an active-shooter event is about to go live .
here s an excerpt below : yet there may be much more to the visionbox crisis actors project reverberating through the flurry of alleged shooting incidents taking place since the early 2010s .
for example , visionbox is proficient in using social media such as facebook and twitter to broadcast a catastrophic event to both participant actors and the public at large .
in addition , the theatric entourage/ is also knowledgeable at crowdsourcing , or monitoring how an event is relayed and interpreted through the body politic via facebook , twitter , and so on .
in december 2012 visionbox crisis actors produced a detailed 73-page syllabus , social media in emergency management , an instructional class foregrounding the central role of social media to coordinate and convey a catastrophic event .
the youtube channel stranger than fiction news displays media interview with an eyewitness janiel gonzales , who stated that there was another person preventing people from leaving pulse nighclub.additionally , the youtube video montages another interview with a professional actor and model named luis burbano admitting he was blocking an exit at the time of the shooting .
here s another youtube video from end times headline news , which raises important questions concerning the crime scene the politics of mass shootings like other mass shooting events , there appears to be deliberate attempt to radically manipulate public opinion following each major incident , the orlando shooting is no exception .
we ve already seen the orlando shooting attack send political rivals donald trump and hillary clinton into campaign overdrive.this type of subliminal propaganda has become a doorway for all hot button socio-political issues including gun control/reform and for those concerned over mental illness background checks and security.once again , the media plays a crucial role not in informing and educating the public , or even investigating a crime , or questioning the state s methods and motives in any high-profile event.in 2015 , the washington post published an article listing the apparent number of mass shootings in america .
according to the mass shooting tracker the definition of a mass-shooting event has been changed to include a larger number of shootings.however , perhaps the most glaring and obvious grandstanding seemed to occur in obama s 2015 legacy interview , as he expressed his inability to change gun laws during the course of his presidency .
here is an excerpt from the bbc interview : you mentioned the issue of guns , that is an area where if you ask me where has been the one area where i feel that i ve been most frustrated and most stymied it is the fact that the united states of america is the one advanced nation on earth in which we do not have sufficient common-sense , gun-safety laws .
even in the face of repeated mass killings .
framing reality mateen s wife , noor salman and their young child .
reports suggest that disneyland may have also been a target .
( image scource : foxnews ) family designsuntil recently in media , there was almost no discussion of mateen s current wife noor salman in 2013 omar mateen married noor zahi salman and they reportedly have a 3-year-old son together.according to public records , noor zahi salman , age 30 , has scrubbed her social media history : omar mateen lived in st. lucie county , florida , with his second wife , noor zahi salman , but it is not clear if they were together or separated at the time of the shooting .
mateen sold his sister , mariam seddique , the house in april 16 for $ 10 ( quit claim deed ) .
the telegraph stated that , salman lived in a suburb of chicago before moving to fort pierce with mateen in november 2012 .
in december 2015 she is believed to have left florida and moved in with relatives in rodeo , california .
she has not spoken publicly and has scrubbed her social media accounts since the attack .
early indications suggest the orlando shooter s back story could shape up like the san bernardino shooting , involving multiple arrests , with international backgrounds that could shine a light on other clandestine activities linking both terror and security.san bernardino , along with staged-managed events like the sensational garland shooting in april 2015 , and the highly engineered paris attacks ( january & november of 2015 ) and many other shootings in year s past have conveniently opened the door for sweeping national security changes , while at the same time reigniting the old war on terror meme , rebranded as the war on radical islam , for new audiences to be politically seduced by from western media and politicians alike .
identity crisis mateen frequented gay night clubs according to those who knew him .
( image source : abcnews ) the uk s telegraph reported the following : the man who murdered 49 people at a gay club in orlando was a closet homosexual who used gay dating apps and frequented gay bars , according to friends and locals in the city.on tuesday police were considering pressing charges against omar mateen s second wife , nour salman , 30 , who told the fbi she went with him to scope out possible targets , and that she had tried to stop him from carrying out the attack .
wouldn t this drastically alter the main narrative of the alleged shooter s hate crime motive ? big questions remainall too often we see the persona of any alleged killer being touted as hard evidence , despite the fact that even strong circumstantial evidence of any apparent crime would likely result in many hours of analysis , debate and procedural , potentially without a definitive conclusion , even if the evidence eventually reached a court room setting.here s a recent report at 21wire , discussing mateen s father s government ties and the rapidly failing orlando shooting narrative : for the media , and every other political leader in the us , this was now classified as a hate crime , and so case closed .
in other words , a simple story line with real traction was now baked firmly into this event about a homophobic , isis-inspired , crazed lone gunman who went postal in a orlando gay nightclub , and coincidentally , on the eve of an international gay pride celebration day .
just 24 hours later , we learn from a report in the orlando sentinel that the alleged shooter omar mateen was in fact a frequent visitor for years at the pulse gay nightclub in orlando .
it was definitely him .
he d come in for years , and people knew him , one customer said .
another pulse customer , kevin west , even stated on record that he had been talking with mateen for up to one year on a gay-chat mobile app .
so , based on this updated information , this could not have been a hate crime because omar mateen was most likely gay himself , albeit in the closet.likewise , this change in the story would also nullify much of the identity politics rhetoric currently being spun around this incident like this statement released by hillary clinton within hours of the main event : redux : media spoils the crime sceneincredibly , we re told on wednesday that , once again , the media has ransacked another alleged shooter s home on live tv ( also recall the virginia live tv shooting ) .
just like the scripted aftermath of san bernardino this past december , any chance to recover any new forensic information is now lost , as the media taints another crime scene in a large-scale terror related investigation.during the san bernardino media ransacking exercise , a scrum of reporters tore through the alleged shooters apartment .
in orlando , the affair was paired down to only one media crew at a time .
here is msnbc-univsion reporter pretending to discover the id of the shooter and family : media allowed inside terrorist houseattempts to dilute this obvious media operation were aired by networks like cbs , who ran the headline : possible burglary at orlando shooter s home : the orlando shooting attack appears like many other phantom shooting events , with a hybrid of real implications and unreal aspects , uncanny twists and turns linking hollywood and security services , the fbi , near a backdrop of resorts , golf professionals , retirees and of course , disneyland.surreal is an understatement.here s 21wire s patrick henningsen with brian gerrish and alex thompson discussing the nature of these security linked and terror events on the uk column end of part onestay tuned for more orlando shooting updates read more orlando shooting news at : 21st century wire orlando fileshelp support us by becoming a 21wire member at : 21wire.tv