president trump announced the release of the remaining jfk assassination files today .
he s really trying to be transparent and release everything .
we ve provided the link below to the national archives file but it may take more time to release the remaining files since he just announced a few hours ago.we re open to all possibilities with the jfk assassination .
we would really like to know what our readers think about the information below .
do you think it s a possibility that there were two shooters or is it just not possible ? truepundit.com warns that one haunting paragraph unearthed from 3,000 never-before-seen documents will shake patriots to their core about the assassination of president john f. kennedy.or perhaps worse .
make that haunting three paragraphs.this is not pretty.see for yourself.as a reminder , here is the position of the alleged shooter explained so how do they explain this from jan 31st 1964 fbi memo for clarity the surgeon general s report on the assassination stated that the first bullet entered the president s throat below the adams apple , clearly showing that two persons were involved with the first shot being fired from the bridge across the park way in front of the car.to further substantiate this , potito said there was a bullet hole in the wind shield of the president s car not exactly the narrative that was sold to the world and certainly not the narrative that j. edgar hoover proclaimed must be defended to the world.please read more at zero hedgebreaking : president trump quickly made the remaining jfk files available today : wow !
president trump tweeted out earlier that he would be releasing the remaining jfk files .
shortly after that , he announced on twitter the release there may be some lag time before they re actually posted on the national archives website but they will all be released.after strict consultation with general kelly , the cia and other agencies , i will be releasing all # jfkfiles other than the names and donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) october 28 , 2017the files are at this link : jfk asassination records the national archives is releasing documents previously withheld in accordance with the jfk assassination records collection act .
the vast majority of the collection ( 88 % ) has been open in full and released to the public since the late 1990s .
the records at issue are documents previously identified as assassination records , but withheld in full or withheld in part .
learn morethese releases include fbi , cia , and other agency documents ( both formerly withheld in part and formerly withheld in full ) identified by the assassination records review board as assassination records .
the releases to date are as follows : july 24 , 2017 : 3,810 documents ( read press release ) october 26 , 2017 : 2,891 documents ( read press release ) accessing the release filesto view or download a released file , follow the link in the file number column .
you can also download the full spreadsheet with metadata about all the documents .
the files are sorted by nara release date , with the most recent files appearing first .
the previous withholding status ( i.e. , formerly withheld in part or formerly withheld in full ) is identified in the formerly withheld status column .