trayvon s dad sounds more logical and presidential than obama when it comes to discussing the truth about black on black crime .
maybe he wasn t so far off the mark when obama said trayvon could be his son ? while trayvon martin s mother is traipsing around the country as part of hillary clinton s pander tour and trying to convince everyone that her sweet little angel was gunned down by a racist system , trayvon s father actually had something intelligent to say on the issue of race .
in defiance of black lives matter , tracy martin said that the movement is meaningless as long as blacks continue to kill each other.tracy martin was speaking before the 30th annual charles w. kegley memorial institute of ethics at california state bakersfield on tuesday when he uttered the words that will drive blm into a frenzy .
we gon na keep killing one another .
i tell people all the time that we are committing genocide , said martin.and then here s the thing that if a white guy said it would be considered the most racist statement ever : we re on the brink of extinction at the way these shootings and killings are going on .
we keep the funeral homes and the penal system in business .
when are we going to wake up ?
i m a realist .
we can t sit up and scream that black lives matter at any other ethnicity group if black lives don t matter to black people , he said.this is what i find interesting here : black lives matter is a movement that was created because of trayvon martin s death and it is a fact that the black activists get super-pissed off when anyone suggests that black-on-black violence is more of a pressing issue than hyped up and fictionalized racism .
but this is the father of the person who spawned the movement saying that blacks killing blacks is the real problem .
something s got ta give.this could cause the movement to collapse on itself , creating a racism supernova that neither race-hustling nor manufactured outrage can escape.unfortunately not everything that tracy martin said was as spot-on as his black-on-black crime observation .
he said the way he wanted trayvon to be remembered was , not as the iconic image of the hoodie , but as the african-american boy who galvanized the country .
to galvanize generally means uniting people to action behind a common cause .
that is the complete opposite of what trayvon martin s death did to this country .
besides birthing the blm movement , the trayvon martin shooting and subsequent trial divided this nation along racial lines at ten times the rate of barack obama s efforts.though he wouldn t use the name of the man who defended his life against a violent attack by his son , tracy martin characterized george zimmerman as guilty and the man who pulled the trigger and killed an innocent .
and then there s this : trust me when i say that white america can t survive without black america , said martin.never trust someone who says trust me they are always lying.i know that when other black celebrities have spoken on the issue of black-on-black violence , they have been shouted down by the black activists and labeled uncle toms .
it will be interesting to see how the black outrage machine deals with tracy martin , father of the father of black lives matter , saying that black lives have to first matter to black people before they will mater to anyone else .
via : downtrend