new york ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on tuesday stepped up his war of words over national football league players ’ silent protests against racial injustice , saying the world ’ s top-grossing sports league should not be given tax breaks while athletes kneel during the national anthem .
the nfl gave up its tax-free status two years ago , but new or renovated stadiums are often funded at least in part by tax-exempt municipal bonds issued by local governments or states .
team owners benefit from government financing via lower interest rate bonds backed by team lease payments , stadium-generated revenue and even tax dollars .
the administration could push for changes to the laws that allow professional sports teams to enjoy tax breaks normally aimed at city governments .
below are five facts about the financing of sports stadiums .
1 ) laws allowing teams to fund stadiums with tax-exempt bonds have cost the united states $ 3.7 billion in lost tax revenue from 2000 through 2014 , according to a brookings institution paper released last year , a figure that reflects the lower interest rates paid on municipal debt and the tax exemption for bondholders .
2 ) of the 16 nfl stadiums built or renovated from 2000 through 2014 , 13 were financed in part by tax-exempt bonds with an average financing worth $ 360.2 million , according to brookings , a washington-based policy think tank .
3 ) trump could propose tax reform legislation to remove the federal tax exemptions on debt financing for stadiums .
however federal changes would not necessarily hinder any potential incentives offered by state and local authorities .
the latest and largest subsidy offered to an nfl franchise is the $ 750 million las vegas is using to lure the oakland raiders to a $ 1.9 billion stadium .
the money will come from public funds raised via a visitors ’ tax on las vegas strip hotel rooms .
4 ) there are two bipartisan bills , one in the senate and one in the house , before the u.s. congress that seek to remove federal tax exempt status for bonds tied to sports stadiums by treating them as private activity bonds .
5 ) former u.s. president barack obama proposed in two previous budgets for 2015 and 2016 legislation to eliminate the tax exemptions on stadium financing , brookings said .