skopje ( reuters ) - macedonia s ruling social democrats claimed victory in municipal elections on sunday , signaling large-scale support for the new government that has pledged to speed up the small balkan country s accession to nato and the european union .
the social democrats of prime minister zoran zaev and the nationalist vmro-dpmne , which had ruled macedonia for a decade , faced off in about 50 municipalities in which macedonians make up the majority .
ethnic albanians make up the majority in the remaining 35 municipalities .
sdsm party official mile zecevic said his party won in 40 municipalities , calling it a victory of democracy .
victory secured the social democrats the backing to implement their pro-western policies , which the nationalists see as damaging for the state and its citizens .
zaev took office in may , nearly six months after december elections , ending a two-year political crisis over a wiretapping scandal that brought down the previous government .
his coalition deal with parties representing ethnic albanians , who make up nearly one third of the country s population , angered nationalists , who stormed the parliament in april after an ethnic albanian was elected parliament s speaker .
vmro-dpmne , the single biggest party in the parliament , questioned the regularity of the vote .
party leader and former prime minister nikola gruevski said sunday s vote passed in undemocratic atmosphere and unfair conditions .
during the campaign , zaev said : macedonia will be the 30th member of nato and will start ( membership ) negotiations with the eu .
he also pledged to make progress in talks with greece over a name dispute .
greece has blocked skopje s efforts to join the eu and nato , saying the name macedonia implies a territorial claim to its own northern province of the same name .
macedonia , an ex-yugoslav republic of about 2 million people , declared independence in 1991 and avoided the violence that accompanied the breakup of yugoslavia .
it was later rocked by an insurgency among its large ethnic albanian minority that almost tore the country apart in 2001 .