harare ( reuters ) - former zimbabwe finance minister ignatius chombo , among those detained by the military before robert mugabe resigned as president , was charged on saturday with corruption , including trying to defraud the central bank in 2004 .
the court appearance was the first time chombo had been seen in public since being detained after the military seized power in operation restore legacy , which it said was meant to remove the criminals around mugabe .
chombo , a mugabe ally who had been promoted to finance minister in october , told the court that he was kept blindfolded for nine days after being arrested at his home on nov. 15 .
his lawyer has said he was beaten in detention , although chombo made no mention of that and had no injuries visible as he stood before magistrates in harare .
several members of a group allied to mugabe and his wife grace were detained and expelled from the ruling party , including chombo , the ousted head of the influential zanu-pf youth league kudzanai chipanga and a deposed leader in the party s youth wing , innocent hamandishe .
some supporters of the new president , emmerson mnangagwa , have been calling for unspecified action against the so-called g40 group that backed mugabe and his wife .
chombo , chipanga and hamandishe were allied to the g40 .
before his inauguration , mnangagwa on thursday urged citizens not to undertake any form of vengeful retribution .
the state prosecutor said chombo was charged three counts of corruption , including attempting to defraud the zimbabwean central bank in 2004 , when he was local government minister .
he was not asked to enter a plea by the state .
chombo showed no emotion while the charges were read .
the court ordered chombo detained until monday when his bail application will be heard .
describing his arrest , when his wife had also been present , chombo told the court : while we stood in the room , there rushed in between five and six people wearing masks and all of them had guns .
the guns were pointing at us .
he said he suffered lacerations on his left side when he fell as the soldiers led him out of his house to a car .
chombo s lawyer , lovemore madhuku , said on friday chombo was admitted to hospital with injuries sustained from beatings he received in military custody .
chombo had no visible injuries and appeared calm , chatting with the police guarding him when the court took a break .
chombo was handed over to the police by the military .
the police said they had no information on chombo s injuries when asked to comment .
a former university lecturer and mugabe s ally , chombo was promoted in an october cabinet reshuffle from the interior ministry to the finance portfolio , against the backdrop of a severe shortage of the u.s. dollar used by zimbabwe .
in his main act as new finance minister , chombo told parliament on nov. 9 that zimbabwe s budget deficit would soar to $ 1.82 billion or 11.2 percent of gross domestic product this year from an initial target of $ 400 million .
in the same court , chipanga faced charges of making statements aimed at undermining public confidence in the defence forces and was also detained until monday when his bail application will be heard .
hamandishe faced six counts of kidnapping and one of publishing falsehoods and was detained in custody until dec. 8 .
mugabe s fall after 37 years in power was triggered by a battle to succeed him that pitted mnangagwa against mugabe s much younger wife grace , who is 52 .
mnangagwa , 75 , the former vice president sacked by mugabe this month , was sworn in as president on friday .
the 93-year-old mugabe , who had led zimbabwe from independence in 1980 , stepped down on tuesday after the army seized power and the ruling party turned against him .
on friday , zimbabwe s judge president george chiweshe nullified mugabe s decision to fire mnangagwa as his deputy - a move that triggered the military intervention .
in his inauguration speech , mnangagwa laid out a grand vision to revitalise zimbabwe s ravaged economy and vowed to rule on behalf of all the country s citizens .
the main opposition , the movement for democratic change ( mdc ) , said mnangagwa s speech sounded like he was reading from the mdc policy documents , it said in a statement .
as a party , we are flattered to note that president mnangagwa seems to have radically departed from the usual zanu-pf drivel such as hate-filled language , empty sloganeering and the rabid promotion of racism and retribution against perceived political foes , both domestically and internationally , it said .
the mdc demanded concrete action to investigate human rights abuses , steps to tackle corruption , plans for free and fair elections next year and assurances that the military would return to their barracks and stay out of politics .
in the early hours of saturday , armoured vehicles and soldiers that had been stationed outside government buildings , parliament and the courts returned to inkomo barracks outside harare , one of the soldiers manning the vehicles said .