governor tells citizens to leave state : who the heck voted this guy in as governor ?
his constituents should be his first priority !
if you haven t heard , minnesota s muslims have been a problem from the beginning .
here s a video to fill you in on just how much they don t want to assimilate .
sharia for everyone : governor mark dayton took advantage of a st .
cloud naacp community conversation to express his feelings toward constituents who would rather live in minnesota than in new somalia : look around you .
this is minnesota , dayton said .
minnesota is not like it was 30 , 50 years ago .
this is minnesota and you have every right to be here .
and anybody who can not accept your right to be here , and this is minnesota , should find another state .
minnesota isn t what it was like 5 years ago .
the government is displacing the population with unskilled muslims from africa at a blitzkrieg pace.apparently some minnesotans who have to pick up the tab for the welfare colonists don t appreciate having their state given away to the modern equivalent of a conquering army .
dayton s message to them is clear : if you are that intolerant , if you are that much of a racist or a bigot , then find another state .
find a state where the minority population is 1 percent or whatever .
it s not that in minnesota .
it s not going to be again .
governor dayton : in the past , most people would fight to the death to prevent their society from being invaded and destroyed by a hostile and utterly alien foreign culture .
but liberals are sure that if they just brandish the word racist , citizens will meekly cringe and cower.unsurprisingly , the hamas-affiliated islamic advocacy group cair was present : cair minnesota executive director jaylani hussein , who had previously addressed the crowd on his concerns on racial tension said his organization is not affiliated with terrorist groups.this of course is a brazen lie .
but it hardly matters .
thanks to the participation of our treasonous ruling class , hijrah has become a more effective form of jihad than terrorism.it could not be more obvious that our liberal rulers are as hostile as they are arrogant toward the people they supposedly represent .
they are deliberately destroying our society through the massive importation of largely unassimilable and government-dependent immigrants from the third world.they do not expect us to like it .
they just expect us to bite the pillow and take it .
the price for doing so instead of rising up against these quislings will be the highest a society could possibly pay : the future.via : moonbattery