an nypd officer was assassinated early wednesday by an ex-con who marched up to her nypd vehicle and pumped a bullet into the helpless cop s head , authorities said.officer miosotis familia , 48 , was mortally wounded by the 12:30 a.m. gunshot on a bronx street as she neared the end of her fourth of july shift , cops said.cop-killer alexander bonds , dressed in black from head to toe , was then shot to death in a gunfight with two cops responding to a desperate call for help from familia s partner .
shots fired !
the officer screamed moments after the gunshot .
i need a f ing bus !
10-85 10-85 !
my partner s shot !
my partner s shot !
my partner s shot !
hurry up central !
police commissioner james o neill said there was no doubt the paroled gunman targeted the 12-year nypd veteran for execution at e. 183rd st. and creston ave. ny daily newsso why is the same media who blames president trump for violence committed against republicans not asking if cop-killer alexander bonds was inspired by barack obama , eric holder , al sharpton , black lives matter and hillary clinton ? only two years ago , black lives matter supporters were filmed chanting pigs in a blanket , fry em like bacon !
at the mn state fair .
president barack obama and his radical ag were silent .
`` pigs in a blanket , fry em like bacon '' # blackfair # blacklivesmatter # ftp # acab pic.twitter.com/naqnehnd5g emp thy ( @ mrnikog ) august 29 , 2015president barack obama actually lectured mourners on bigotry , slavery and oppression at the memorial service for slain police officers who were killed by a black lives matter supporter .
instead of using the opportunity to condemn the growing , violent movement , he actually appeared to be condoning it .
while paying tribute to the fallen officers for sacrificing their lives to protect others from a sniper , mr. obama also called on law enforcement agencies to root out bigotry .
we have all seen this bigotry in our lives at some point , mr. obama told an audience of several hundred at a concert hall in dallas .
none of us is entirely innocent .
no institution is entirely immune .
and that includes our police departments .
we know this .
the officers michael smith , lorne ahrens , michael krol , brent thompson and patrick zamarripa were killed by a black sniper who told police he targeted white officers during a black lives matter protest.the day after the memorial service for the dallas cops who were murdered by a black lives matter supporter , president barack obama invited blm leaders to the white house for a private meeting : it should come as no surprise to anyone that the most recent assassination of an innocent cop was at the hands of hillary clinton supporter alexander bonds , given her outreach to the black lives matter terror group during her campaign .
wikileaks even released an email showing how radical group center for american progress was advising her on how to fake empathy for parents of kids killed by cops .
wikileaks released an email from center for american progress president neera tanden , coaching hillary on how to best gain the trust of the black community by going directly to the victims being held up by black lives matter movement as heroes , and faking empathy with the parents .
she also mentions it would be a good idea to use the idea that their grief should be magnified because it happened at the hands of law enforcement officers ( the state ) .given all that has happened over the last few days with the black lives matter movement , i thought it would be a good idea for hillary to pen an op ed , discussing the pain people feel as parents at the loss of their children to these incidents of police brutality , how as a parent , she knows that pain is magnified because it happens at the hands of the state , and her commitment to solve the problem as president.given her strong words on charlotte , it could serve as a reminder that she gets it that racism isn t like everything else .
she wouldn t have to mention bernie s name , but i think it could really respond to the sense of continual injured dignity .i think , but others will know better , that it will move around the social media networks .
> > anyway , just thought i d share with you guys .
> > thanks !
> > neera > while barack obama was in office , radical activist , hate-monger and racial division expert al sharpton was a regular visitor .
obama s former ag eric holder was caught using taxpayer funds to pay protesters to march against george zimmerman during the trayvon martin case in sanford , fl .
upon the unbelievable discovery , the media was predictably silent.the culprit behind a shocking unprovoked attack on a female police officer had spouted anti-cop rhetoric in the past and urged people to vote for hillary clinton.bonds , who the source said boasts up to six different aliases , recently spoke critically of law enforcement on facebook .
he said police in oakland , calif. , were wrong to stop a child riding a bicycle.authorities are trying to piece together a motive after nypd officer and mother of three miosotis familia was brutally gunned down in cold blood by alexander bonds early monday morning while she sat in a temporary headquarters vehicle at east 183rd street and morris avenue in fordham heights.bonds was subsequently killed by two other officers called to the scene while familia died in hospital .
this is absolutely an unprovoked attack , said nypd commissioner james p. o neill .
police say surveillance footage shows bonds pulling up his hoodie before purposefully walking up to the vehicle and shooting through the passenger side .
speculation as to why 34-year-old bonds , who had previously served seven years in prison for a syracuse robbery , gunned down familia has begun to center on his political beliefs.bonds facebook page reveals that days before the presidential election , he posted a video of a woman alleging that voting machines were switching hillary clinton votes to donald trump.watch video bonds made below , where he tells his facebook followers about his hate for cops .
he calls police faggots and accuses them of raping children .
he also says he s up and ready for the cops , using his time in jail as an example of how he got ready for them .
he posted the words mad as hill above the video.on the same day he urged people to get mad about the election and vote .
when asked who he was voting for , bonds responded that he couldn t vote ( due to his felony conviction ) , but said people should vote for hillary clinton.bonds also posted malcolm x memes as well as videos of confrontations between black people and police officers .
previous ambush-style murders of police officers have been motivated by extremist anti-cop black lives matter -style rhetoric , as well as mass shootings of police officers like the dallas massacre , which was celebrated by blm sympathizers .
infowars