lima ( reuters ) - peru s president pedro pablo kuczynski defended his pardon for alberto fujimori on monday as justified clemency for an ailing man whose authoritarian government in the 1990s helped the country progress , after peruvians protested for a second day .
addressing peruvians for the first time since pardoning fujimori on christmas eve , kuczynski appealed to peruvians protesting his decision to turn the page and accept it .
the pardon has pitched kuczynski s center-right government into a fresh political crisis less than a week after congress nearly removed him from office in the wake of a graft scandal .
earlier on monday , police fired tear gas to disperse crowds in downtown lima in a second day of unrest , while a third lawmaker announced he was abandoning kuczynski s political party .
fujimori , who like kuczynski is 79 , is a deeply divisive figure in peru .
while many consider him a corrupt dictator , others credit him with ending a severe economic crisis and quashing a leftist rebellion during his decade in power .
the pardon cleared fujimori of convictions for graft and human rights crimes , 12 years into a 25-year prison sentence .
kuczynski , a former wall street banker , reiterated that the pardon was a response to fears that fujimori might die in prison .
but - for the first time since running for office a year ago - he also defended fujimori s decade in power .
it s clear his government , which inherited a country submerged in a violent and chaotic crisis at the start of the 1990s , incurred in significant legal transgressions regarding democracy and human rights .
but i also think his government contributed to national progress , kuczynski said in a televised address .
the remarks placed kuczynski more firmly on fujimori s side of peru s biggest political faultline , and triggered a fresh wave of criticism of kuczynski from fujimori s foes .
you ve got to be pretty stingy , president kuczynski , to not say a word of solidarity for the victims and their loved ones , gisela ortiz , a peruvian human rights activist , said on twitter after his speech .
just a week ago , kuczynski fanned fears of a new rise of fujimori s rightwing movement , denouncing its bid to remove him from office as a legislative coup attempt that threatened peru s democracy .
many of fujimori s detractors , who helped kuczynski win last year s runoff election , joined kuczynski in calling for lawmakers to defeat the presidential vacancy motion .
but it was a rebel faction among fujimori s supporters in congress which unexpectedly saved kuczynski from the vote , fueling speculation that it was part of a deal to trade votes for a pardon for fujimori .
the pardon s for president kuczynski , it s not for fujimori , leftist lawmaker marisa glave said on local tv channel canal n. the lawyer who defended kuczynski before congress last week , alberto borea , said he was opposed to the pardon and did not know it was in the works .
chanting traitor and the pardon has got to go , many peruvians marching on monday called for kucyznski to resign and new elections to be held .
so far , three ruling party lawmakers have announced their resignations from kuczynski s party , which controls about a fifth of congressional seats .
the deputy human rights minister has also resigned , a government source said .
fujimori remained at a hospital in lima , where he was taken from prison late on sunday to treat a drop in his blood pressure and an abnormal heart beat , according to his doctor .