moscow ( reuters ) - a russian general killed in syria had been seconded to the syrian government as a military commander , russia s military chief of staff said on wednesday .
moscow has long been a staunch ally of syria , but the role of the deceased general reveals the extent to which russia has become an integral part of president bashar al assad s ruling system .
lieutenant-general valery asapov , 51 , was killed on saturday by shelling from islamic state positions near deir al-zor .
he was the chief of staff of russian forces deployed to the country and later became the commander of syria s fifth corps of volunteers , chief of general staff valery gerasimov said .
it was known that the syrian fifth attack troop corps of volunteers , formed in late 2016 , was equipped and advised by the russians , but damascus and moscow had not previously announced it was under russian command .
speaking at asapov s funeral , gerasimov said : high prestige combined with care were outstanding features of his work .
of course , those qualities were displayed during his working trip to the syrian arab republic , where he had been deployed from february this year , gerasimov said , addressing asapov s family and colleagues .
he worked as the chief of staff of the group of our forces and then was in command of the fifth corps of volunteers ... a treacherous shell cut short his life .
a security specialist , who worked in syria alongside the russian and syrian military , said asapov was de facto the commander of syria s fifth corps but he may have been listed as chief military adviser on paper .
syrian officers relied completely on our officers , he said .
hundreds of people , most of them from the russian military , attended the funeral at the federal military memorial cemetery for asapov who became the highest ranking military officer to be killed in the syrian war .
inscriptions in russian and arabic on some of garlands said they were sent by president al-assad , syrian ministers and military commanders .