thanks to frank stephens for this moving testimony on living with down syndrome .
stephens is a man with down syndrome and an advocate for those with the genetic disorder .
he told a congressional committee on wednesday that his life is worth living as he criticized those who believe fetuses with down syndrome should be aborted.down syndrome babies are being aborted in huge numbers since we now have genetic testing to detect if a baby will be born with down syndrome .
recently , this topic was in the spotlight because iceland announced they are close to eliminating down syndrome births through abortion : our previous report on iceland s announcement that they have eliminated down syndrome : mainstream news channels rarely draw attention to the negative side of abortion , but cbs news did so this week with a report about iceland s near 100-percent abortion rate for babies with down syndrome .
few countries have come as close to eradicating down syndrome births as iceland , the report begins .
since prenatal screening tests were introduced in iceland in the early 2000s , the vast majority of women close to 100 percent who received a positive test for down syndrome terminated their pregnancy .
just a handful of children with down syndrome have been born in iceland in the past decade .
two are born each year , on average , but the rest are killed in the womb .
for most of the children who were born , their mothers decided not to have prenatal screening tests.this deadly discrimination against babies with disabilities is a problem in countries across the world , not just iceland .
in 2014 , the danish government reported 98 percent of unborn babies who tested positive for down syndrome were aborted .
cbs reports the rate in france was 77 percent in 2015 , 90 percent in the united kingdom and 67 percent in the u.s. between 1995 and 2011 .
some put the rate even higher in the united states , but it is difficult to determine the exact number because the u.s. government does not keep detailed statistics about abortion.in many of these countries , late-term abortions are legal in cases of fetal anomalies , such as down syndrome .
the uk , for example , prohibits abortions after 24 weeks but allows wide exceptions for late-term abortions involving fetal anomalies.iceland hospital counselor helga sol olafsdottir does not see any problem with the fact that so many women are having their unborn babies aborted because of down syndrome .
this systematic discrimination is simply a woman s choice in her mind.the issue is not gray .
it s very clearly wrong , says penny nace , president and ceo of concerned women for america .
this is eugenics and barbarianism at best , nace said .
these individuals have no less worth than anyone else .
iceland and many other countries are killing human beings in abortions simply because they have a disability .
down syndrome varies in severity , but most people with the genetic disorder live into their 60s .
some even live on their own , hold down jobs , go to college and get married .
for entire story life newspowerful testimony : stephens testified before the house appropriations subcommittee on labor , health and human services , education , and related agencies to discuss the state of medical research on down syndrome .
he directly addressed those who believe fetuses diagnosed with down syndrome should be aborted , a practice common in some countries such as iceland and denmark.iceland is close to eliminating down syndrome births through abortion .
since the introduction of prenatal screening tests to the country in the early 2000s , close to 100 percent of women whose pregnancies test positive for down syndrome have chosen to have an abortion .
whatever you learn today , please remember this : i am a man with down syndrome and my life is worth living , stephens told lawmakers on the committee .
i completely understand that the people pushing this particular final solution are saying that people like me should not exist , stephens said .
that view is deeply prejudiced by an outdated idea of life with down syndrome .
stephens mentioned some of his accomplishments , including his award-winning film and television career and speaking tours , before joking about visiting the white house .
i have been to the white house twice and i didn t have to jump the fence either time , stephens said .
seriously , i don t feel i should have to justify my existence , he added .
is there really no place for us in the world ?
stephens then spoke about how down syndrome may help with dementia and cancer research , as well as how families with someone with down syndrome are happier than most others in society.read more : wfb