strasbourg ( reuters ) - tax reforms in the european union , such as higher taxation of online giants , should no longer require unanimous votes from eu ministers , the head of the european commission said on wednesday , urging the use of rules that limit governments veto powers .
jean-claude juncker was speaking two days before eu finance ministers meet to discuss plans to introduce higher taxes on digital multinationals like google and amazon , which stand accused of paying too little tax in europe .
he urged eu states to adopt tax reforms with a qualified majority rather than by unanimity , a practice that has so far blocked major overhauls of tax legislation in the 28-country bloc .
his proposal would end the ability of a single country to veto such decisions at ministerial level , although national leaders would retain veto power at eu summits .
if taken up , the idea could reduce the power of smaller states , which offer some of the most favorable tax rates for multinationals , to block reforms .
juncker said it was possible under already existing rules to switch to majority voting in certain areas , and this should be applied to decisions on fair taxes of the digital industry .
i want decisions in the council ( of eu ministers ) to be taken more often and more easily by qualified majority , juncker said .
in separate remarks , the commissioner in charge of tax issues , pierre moscovici , said on wednesday that the eu executive will present a new initiative on digital taxation in the coming weeks .
the simpler decision-making should also be used to decide on legislative proposals on value added tax ( vat ) and on a common consolidated corporate tax base , which would harmonize national rules on tax deductions , juncker said .
he added that he also supported this solution for decisions on a european financial transactions tax , a long-running plan from which most eu states have opted out , but which remains under discussion among 10 euro zone countries .
europe has to be able to act quicker and more decisively , juncker said in a speech to the european parliament in strasbourg , urging the use of so-called passerelle clauses to reduce countries veto powers .
these provisions , included in the eu treaties , allow for simplified legislative procedures if eu leaders decide so unanimously , and if national parliaments do not oppose it .
eu leaders , who usually meet every three months , tend to reach overall political agreements that are later translated into legislative acts by relevant ministers .