jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia has issued new regulations aimed at curbing money laundering and terror-related financing across a broader range of financial service providers , including money changers , credit card issuers and electronic money providers .
the move is part of efforts by indonesia to bring rules up to international standards and join the financial action task force ( fatf ) , an inter-governmental body fighting money laundering .
indonesia was taken off an fatf blacklist two years ago .
the new regulations , issued by bank indonesia ( bi ) , cover transactions handled by non-bank financial institutions and were made public on its website on wednesday .
bi said the new rules balanced a need to contain the risks of money laundering and terrorism-related financial crimes and promoting economic growth .
eny v. panggabean , bi s executive director of payment system regulation , said the rules also addressed developments in the industry , digital economy and innovations in payments that include a more complex money changer business .
the new bi regulations cover credit card issuers , electronic money providers , remittance and money transfer companies as well as fintech startups .
service providers now have to have an up-to-date list on alleged militants , radical organizations and individuals linked to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction in order to cross check with customers .
they must also assess customer risks depending on the country origin of an incoming transfer or the destination of outgoing transfers , and must not engage with so-called shell banks , which don t have a physical presence in a country where they are incorporated .
companies should report anything suspicious to the financial transactions watchdog .
a financial service provider that fails to follow the rules could have its license revoked and directors , commissioners or shareholders banned from the financial services business for five years .
a similar regulation was introduced a few months ago by the financial services authority ( ojk ) for financial conglomerates , banks , insurance companies and other bigger players in the industry .
the ojk rules also elaborated on procedures to handle suspicious transactions .
indonesia was put on an fatf list of jurisdictions with weak measures to combat money laundering and terrorism financing in 2012 .
in 2015 , the fatf declared indonesia off the blacklist due to progress in improving regulations .