budapest ( reuters ) - hungary will not relinquish any of its national sovereignty to the european union and will keep fighting against the eu s quota system for taking in asylum-seekers , foreign minister peter szijjarto told reuters .
as the eu plunges into an intense debate over deeper integration after britain departs in 2019 , szijjarto said giving up more national powers was not the way to go .
his comments highlighted the resistance that proponents of a closer and deeper eu - notably french president emmanuel macron - are likely to face from one of the bloc s most prickly and nationalist-minded members .
i definitely do not share the approach ... that ( the ) less sovereignty on the level of the member states , the stronger the eu will be .
i think it is a dead end street , szijjarto said in an interview .
the right-wing government of prime minister viktor orban , which currently chairs the four-nation visegrad group of central european states , has been the most vocal opponent of eu migration policy and what it sees as attempts by brussels to erode member states sovereignty .
szijjarto said one area where hungary supported a common approach was defense , as having a european army would strengthen member states to the benefit of the entire bloc .
but taxation policy , for example , should remain with member states as that was a matter of competitiveness .
hungary has one of the eu s lowest personal income tax rates at 15 percent , and a corporate tax rate of just 9 percent .
when asked in the interview late on tuesday if hungary could accept a common finance minister and budget for the eu , szijjarto said : i understand if this is a scenario then first it only can be a scenario for the euro zone , and since we are not members of the euro zone , this question will be decided without asking our opinion .
on wednesday , however , european commission president jean-claude juncker delivered an annual address in which he set out an economic vision including a finance minister for the whole eu .
hungary has no target date to join the euro .
szijjarto dismissed the idea that hungary or poland , which also has a eurosceptic government , were becoming isolated in the eu , or that slovakia and the czech republic were drifting away from them within the visegrad group known as the v4 .
there are many attempts to break the v4 unity but they are going to remain unsuccessful , he said , adding that the visegrad states were firm in their position to reject migrant quotas after foreign ministers met in estonia last week .
everybody reassured the others that we are going to fight and we are not going to give up our positions regarding illegal migration and regarding the quotas .
more than 1.5 million migrants and refugees have arrived in europe since 2015 , many fleeing war in the middle east .
the eu s highest court ruled last week that member states must take in a share of refugees , dismissing a challenge by slovakia and hungary .
german chancellor angela merkel has urged hungary to quickly implement the court ruling , but szijjarto called it a very dangerous political decision .
this decision does not oblige hungary to anything because this decision was not about whether hungary has to receive migrants from tomorrow onwards , he said .
we will always fight against obligatory quotas , we will never hide our opinion that illegal migration poses a huge threat on europe , and this position of ours remains our position , regardless of any kind of pressure that has been put on us .