el-bireh , west bank ( reuters ) - reuters photographer mohamad torokman found himself staring down the barrel of a gun when he captured the moment an undercover israeli military group shut down a palestinian protest , in a rarely witnessed infiltration technique .
photo essay : reut.rs/2ap07mi torokman was on assignment near the jewish settlement of beit el , close to the palestinian hub city of ramallah , on wednesday where protests were underway against u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
hundreds turned out , as they had done for days following trump s announcement .
some burnt tires , others hurled stones at israeli troops , all oblivious to the surprise military move that awaited them .
the undercover personnel were posing as palestinian protesters and were standing behind the stone-throwers , said torokman , who has covered clashes in the region for nearly two decades .
all of a sudden , they started to fire their pistols into the air and throw sound grenades at the same time .
the din of the grenades and guns caused panic among the protesters .
torokman saw eight israeli personnel , wearing masks fashioned from arab headdresses or the palestinian flag , leap into action and detain protesters .
he kept photographing , thereby capturing the moment as an undercover agent grappling with a protester swung round , briefly pointing his gun directly at torokman .
he shouted at me and told me to go away , said torokman , who described the atmosphere as terrifying .
i heeded his order for my own safety and i quickly moved away .
the remaining protesters fled as uniformed israeli troops moved in .
torokman took photographs from a safer location .
the incident was over in less than five minutes .
it was the third time torokman saw at first hand the work of the undercover commandos , known in hebrew as mistaravim or in arab disguise , but this was by far the most scary .
the level of risk was the highest this time as the personnel were aiming their weapons at me , he said .