kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - a malaysian state s royal council on thursday urged authorities to investigate former prime minister mahathir mohamad for sedition over his alleged insult to those who trace descent from the southeast asian region s ancient bugis seafaring community .
over the past few weeks , mahathir , 93 , has been sharply criticized for comments at an opposition rally last month where he is reported to have described prime minister najib razak as a bugis pirate .
mahathir s remarks about his former protege came in the context of alleged mismanagement of billions of dollars by state fund 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) , in which najib has denied all wrongdoing .
an investigation and legal action must be taken against dr mahathir under the sedition act , 1948 , or any related laws , the royal council of the western state of selangor said in a statement issued by its secretary , hanafisah jais .
mahathir s comments at the rally were excessive , it added , and could spark hatred for those of bugis ethnicity , besides which the speech indirectly insults the bugis lineage of the sultanate of selangor .
selangor sultan sharafuddin idris shah urged all parties , particularly politicians , to avoid use of racial issues for political capital as this could disrupt harmony and unity , the statement said .
the police were not immediately available for comment .
mahathir s office did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment .
the former prime minister last month said his criticism targeted only those of bugis ancestry who stole the people s money , news reports have said .
a body representing malaysia s bugis community demanded that mahathir apologize and retract his statement , state news agency bernama said last month .
thousands of malaysians rallied on oct. 14 in the finale of a two-month-long opposition roadshow aimed at convincing majority malay muslim voters in rural battleground areas that malaysia has suffered from najib s handling of 1mdb .
najib has so far been able to weather the scandal , consolidating power by clamping down on dissenters and curbing domestic media and activists , even as he faces a fierce challenge from mahathir , who was prime minister for 22 years .
but najib s popularity took a hit from persistent bad press linked to 1mdb , especially after the u.s. department of justice filed civil suits to recover more than $ 1.7 billion alleged to have been misappropriated from the 1mdb fund .
originally seafarers who hailed from indonesia , the bugis community established sultanates on the malaysian peninsula .
their malaysian descendants are considered to be part of the malay majority , that makes up more than half of malaysia s population of nearly 33 million .