hillary was seen passing up a bottle of water in the midst of another one of her coughing fits in front of her press cheerleaders on her new campaign plane yesterday .
passing up a bottle of water in the middle of a coughing fit would seem strange , but what was even more strange is that she passed up a bottle of water for a glass of water that was handed to her by someone on her staff from behind the curtain .
pretty much everything hillary does is done from behind a curtain so the idea that hillary is likely hiding a serious illness like say .parkinson s disease is not really all that far fetched.does hillary have parkinson s disease ? as a neurological disorder , parkinson s disease ( pd ) has been shown to affect motor skills in the limbs , inhibit muscle coordination , and sometimes contribute to dysphagia.1 dysphagia is the medical term for difficulty swallowing .
thickened liquids are often used in the management of dysphagia to improve bolus control and to help prevent aspiration .
a range of starches and gums has historically been used to thicken liquids .
although thickened liquids improve swallow safety , they appear to have a great potential for unintended physiological consequences.what the heck did hillary just cough up into her glass during her speech in cleveland ? https : //twitter.com/noltenc/status/773264547813744648meanwhile a very interesting addition was spotted in hillary clinton s motorcade yesterday .
there s a probably a perfectly good explanation for an ambulance being added to her motorcade .
maybe it s in case hillary falls off the stage .
she has been stumbling quite a bit and has been seen grabbing on to railings , chairs , tables , or pretty much anything she can get her hands on that helps to keep her upright .
but it s only her health and she is only running for president of the most powerful nation on earth so , what difference does that make right ? watch the great coverage of hillary s pathetic rally in cleveland yesterday by this young infowars reporter .
the ambulance appears at the 6:40 mark : in case you missed it watch hillary spit something eeeeewww ! back into her glass of of water and whatever else is mixed in with the water :