washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidates ted cruz and marco rubio praised iran ’ s release of five detained americans on sunday , but sharply criticized the deal the white house made to win their freedom saying it would lead to more americans being taken “ hostage. ” u.s. president barack obama pardoned three iranian-americans charged for violating sanctions against iran , a lawyer for one of the men said , while prosecutors moved to drop charges against four iranians outside the united states .
iran agreed to free five americans including rezaian and saeed abedini , an iranian-american christian pastor sentenced to eight years in prison in 2013 on charges of undermining iran ’ s national security .
cruz , speaking to fox news sunday , said , “ praise god that the prisoners are coming home ” but iran got the better end of the prisoner swap .
“ we released seven terrorists who had helped iran with their nuclear program , and we agreed not to prosecute another 14 terrorists for doing the same thing .
that ’ s 21 terrorists helping iran develop nuclear weapons that they intend to use to try to murder us , ” cruz said .
he said the deal was a “ very dangerous precedent. ” obama on sunday defended the move describing the release as a “ reciprocal , humanitarian gesture ” that was a one-time event .
but rubio , speaking on nbc ’ s meet the press , said the deal traded american “ hostages ” for iranian “ prisoners who did commit a crime ” .
obama has “ put price on the head of every american abroad , ” rubio said .
“ our enemies now know that if you can capture an american , you can get something meaningful in exchange for it. ” rubio said that the deal shows “ weakness ” on the part of washington , and if he were elected president , iran would not dare to detain americans because it would face tough consequences .
he said the start of his presidency would be like that of ronald reagan in 1981 , when iran released hostages taken at the american embassy in tehran in 1979 .
a senior obama administration official pushed back against criticism of the prisoner swap , saying that those held in the united states were not a major threat , and the administration made a “ judgment ” that brought detained americans home .
“ if people want to say that they were for leaving these americans in prison , they should say so .
but the fact of the matter is this was our opportunity to bring them home , ” the official told reporters on a conference call .
( reporting by david lawder ; editing by alan crosby ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .