mexico city ( reuters ) - rescue crews and ordinary citizens searched through rubble for survivors as night fell on tuesday on battered cities in central mexico , including the capital , where the death toll from a major earthquake grew to at least 226 .
the magnitude 7.1 quake toppled dozens of buildings , broke gas mains and sparked fires less than two weeks after another powerful quake killed at least 98 people in southern mexico .
it also hit just hours after emergency drills marked the anniversary of a temblor that killed thousands in 1985 .
millions of people fled into the streets , where they weathered the violent shaking and desperately sought word about the welfare of family and friends .
emergency personnel in mexico city , a metropolitan region of about 20 million people , searched frantically with picks and shovels for survivors beneath the rubble of what the sprawling city s mayor calculated to be as many as 44 collapsed buildings , including at least one primary school .
mexican president enrique pe a nieto said late on tuesday more than 20 children and two adults had been found dead at the school , colegio enrique rebsamen , in the neighborhood of coapa .
another 30 children and 12 adults were missing , he said .
emergency personnel and equipment were being deployed across affected areas so that throughout the night we can continue aiding the population and eventually find people beneath the rubble , pe a nieto said in a video posted on facebook earlier on tuesday evening .
rescue workers and soldiers toiled around collapsed buildings where heat-sensing equipment suggested survivors could still be trapped .
bystanders joined in where they could , clearing debris with their bare hands or whatever tools they could find nearby .
my wife is there , said juan jesus garcia , 33 , choking back tears outside one building in mexico city .
i haven t been able to communicate with her .
she is not answering , and now they are telling us we have to turn off our cellphones because there is a gas leak .
the quake had killed 49 people in the capital by late tuesday , according to civil defense chief luis felipe puente .
the highest toll , he said , was in morelos state , just to the south , where 55 people were killed .
another 13 people were reported killed in the neighboring states of mexico and guerrero .
thirty-two deaths had been counted in the central state of puebla , also to the south , where the u.s. geological survey ( usgs ) located the quake s epicenter .
as many as 4.6 million homes , businesses and other facilities had lost electricity , according to national power company comisi n federal de electricidad .
most of them were in the greater mexico city area and in the states of guerrero , morelos , puebla , oaxaca , and tlaxcala .
in the capital , ambulances and fire engines confronted gridlock as millions of workers tried to get home , many of them after participating in annual readiness drills that commemorate the previous disaster on this date in 1985 .
much of the country was also shaken when an 8.1 magnitude quake , the strongest in more than eight decades , struck southern mexico on sept. 7 , killing at least 98 people .
earthquakes of magnitude 7 or above are regarded as major and are capable of causing widespread heavy damage .
another 11 aftershocks were registered after the initial quake at around lunchtime on tuesday , the most powerful of which measured 4.9 , according to the usgs .
in addition to the school , a supermarket and a factory collapsed in the capital .
much of the damage was in the fashionable condesa and roma districts near the city center .
on twitter , relatives posted pleas for news of family members .
at least one survivor was pulled from a collapsed building in condesa and another was rescued from a six-story apartment building nearby .
mexican media showed images of desperate locals forming human chains in search of people still trapped in collapsed buildings after nightfall .
with power out in much of the city , the work was carried out in the dark or with flashlights and generators .
in obrera , a central neighborhood in mexico city , people applauded when rescuers managed to retrieve four people alive , with cheers of si se puede , or yes we can , ringing out .
volunteers continued arriving throughout the night , following calls from the civil protection agency , the red cross and firefighters .
in puebla , university student jevon minto , 24 , said he had just arrived at class when he felt the shaking .
we were seated when the place started shaking real , real hard ... you can literally feel the fear and the panic in this city .
banker jesus gonzalez hernandez , 55 , said office lamps and furniture swayed when the tremor began .
he and colleagues rushed to evacuate .
but while exiting down the stairs , the walls were coming apart , said gonzalez hernandez , who fractured his ankle in the chaos .
mexican stocks and the peso currency dropped on news of the earthquake and mexico s stock exchange suspended trading .
at the same time as the earthquake , mexico s popocatepetl volcano had a small eruption .
a church collapsed during mass , killing 15 people , in atzitzihuacan on the slopes of the volcano , puebla governor jose antonio gali said .
u.s. president donald trump said on twitter : god bless the people of mexico city .
we are with you and will be there for you .
for a graphic on earthquake strikes central mexico , click : here