washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on monday rejected flamboyant former two-term democratic illinois governor rod blagojevich ’ s appeal of convictions on corruption charges including attempted extortion from campaign contributors , wire fraud and other crimes .
the court left in place last july ’ s ruling by the 7th u.s .
circuit court of appeals upholding the bulk of the convictions .
blagojevich began serving a 14-year prison sentence in 2012 .
prosecutors said blagojevich was at the center of a conspiracy to seek cash , campaign contributions and jobs for himself and others in exchange for state appointments , state business , legislation and pension fund investments .
among those actions were attempts to leverage his authority as governor to appoint a u.s. senator from illinois when barack obama left his senate seat after being elected president in 2008 , prosecutors said .
patti blagojevich , the former governor ’ s wife , expressed disappointment with the court ’ s action .
“ we are hopeful that after the governor is resentenced , as a result of a federal appeals court tossing out five of the counts against him , that the highest court may be moved to take the case then , ” she said in a statement released by a spokesman .
“ this was , of course , not the outcome that rod , our daughters amy and annie , had hoped and prayed for .
but we continue to have faith in the system. ” blagojevich , first elected in 2002 , was arrested in 2008 while still governor and was impeached by the state ’ s general assembly in 2009 , becoming the first illinois governor to be removed from office .
his 18 convictions , five of which were thrown out by the appeals court , came in two jury trials .
from the time of his arrest until his conviction , blagojevich launched a national campaign to proclaim his innocence , appearing on television shows including donald trump ’ s program “ celebrity apprentice. ” blagojevich was caught on court-approved wiretaps describing the senate seat as something so valuable “ you just don ’ t give it away for nothing. ” blagojevich added he might appoint himself if he could not get anything for the seat .
he was known for his love of elvis presley , his tendency to quote poetry and his full head of carefully tended thick black hair .
he was criticized while in office for rarely being in the state capital of springfield , and letting legislation stall .
blagojevich was the fourth former illinois governor to be convicted of criminal charges since 1973 .
the case is blagojevich v. united states , u.s. supreme court , no .
15-664 .