vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis on thursday denounced the murder of innocent women and children as the horrid face of war as he presided at a special prayer service for peace in south sudan and the democratic republic of congo .
francis had planned to go later this year to south sudan , which has been hit by civil war , famine and a refugee crisis , but had to scrap the project for security reasons .
during the service , which was punctuated by african singing in english , french , italian and swahili , francis asked god to break down the walls of hostility that today divide brothers and sisters , especially in south sudan and the democratic republic of congo .
may he protect children who suffer from conflicts in which they have no part , but which rob them of their childhood and at times of life itself , he said in his brief homily .
how hypocritical it is to deny the mass murder of women and children !
here war shows its most horrid face , he said .
st. peter s basilica was decked out with photographs of african children .
south sudan gained independence from sudan in 2011 after protracted bloodshed , then fell into civil war in late 2013 , with troops loyal to president salva kiir fighting those backing riek machar , a former vice president kiir had sacked .
both sides have targeted civilians , human rights groups say .
right now , we are moving into the lean season , and by july of 2018 , many thousands of people across south sudan not just isolated pockets of the country will be dying from hunger , said jerry farrell , country representative in south sudan for catholic relief services .
what is most tragic is there absolutely shouldn t be hunger in south sudan , he said in an email , adding that people of different tribes inter-marry and work together but that the conflict is instigated and fanned by politicians .
in the democratic republic of congo , dozens of people have died in protests against president joseph kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december .
unrest sparked by the uncertainty surrounding the polls has raised fears congo could witness a repeat of the kind of violence that killed millions around the turn of the last century , mostly from hunger and disease .