vatican city ( reuters ) - the legionaries of christ , a catholic religious order which fell into disgrace after the discovery that its founder was a sexual abuser with a secret family , has been hit by fresh scandal with revelations that the head of its rome seminary fathered two children .
the order said in a statement late on friday that father oscar turrion would leave the priesthood .
it also released a letter by turrion in which he asks forgiveness for the scandal ... forgiveness for my bad example and the negative witness i have given .
the legionaries is a conservative order of roman catholic priests .
turrion was rector of the pontifical international college maria mater ecclesiae , a seminary for men in the order studying for the priesthood in pontifical universities in rome .
the legionaries said turrion , a 49-year-old spaniard , told his superiors in march that he had just had a daughter .
a new rector was appointed and turrion was ordered not to practice his ministry publicly .
on thursday turrion acknowledged that he had previously had a son with the same woman several years ago , the order said .
this meant he had a secret family while he was head of the seminary .
in his letter , turrion said he did not come clean earlier out of weakness and shame and that he had not used any of the seminary s money , supporting his family with donations from friends .
he said he had lost his grounding and fell in love with a woman during the period of turmoil that hit the order when revelations about its founder , rev .
marcial maciel degollado , came to light between 2006 and 2014 .
maciel founded the order in mexico in 1941 and for decades the vatican dismissed accusations by seminarians that he had abused them sexually , some when they were as young as 12 .
the order was run like a cult , former members said , with rules forbidding any criticism of the founder or questioning his motives .
maciel enjoyed the support of the late pope john paul and was spared official censure for years despite what critics say was overwhelming proof of his crimes .
in 2006 , a year after john paul s death , a vatican investigation concluded that the previously denied accusations of molestation were true .
pope benedict ordered maciel to retire to a life of prayer and penitence .
after maciel s death in 2008 , vatican investigations found that he had also fathered several children with at least two women , visited them regularly and sent them money .
he also used drugs .
the vatican appointed a commissioner to run the order and phase in a new leadership , rejecting suggestions from critics that it be suppressed .
new constitutions for the order were approved in 2014 but the vatican still has a special representative in its leadership .
turrion s case was very similar to that of thomas williams , a former legionaries member who left the priesthood in 2013 after it was discovered that he had fathered a child with the daughter of the former u.s. ambassador to the vatican .
williams , an american moral theologian , kept his family secret while continuing to teach at the legionaries university in rome , appearing often on u.s. television .