brussels ( reuters ) - the european union will cut back contacts with myanmar s top generals in a first step to increase sanctions over an army offensive that has driven more than 500,000 rohingya muslims out of the country , according to a draft document seen by reuters .
thousands of the rohingya fled for myanmar to bangladesh on monday in a new surge of refugees driven by fears of starvation and violence which the united nations denounced as ethnic cleansing .
the united states and the european union have been considering targeted sanctions against myanmar military leaders , though the european bloc sees its options as relatively limited , with no hard-hitting , direct leverage on the ground .
eu foreign ministers will discuss the situation in myanmar on oct.16 , and their draft joint statement said the bloc will suspend invitations to the commander-in-chief of the myanmar/burma armed forces and other senior military officers .
the text , which will be discussed further by envoys from the 28 eu states on tuesday and may be modified , said the eu may consider further measures depending on developments in myanmar but would respond accordingly to positive developments .
the document confirmed support for an existing eu embargo on arms and equipment that can be used for internal repression .
it called on myanmar to discuss repatriating refugees from neighboring bangladesh and praised the latter for its role in the crisis , which started when attacks by rohingya militants on security posts brought a ferocious military response .
refugees and rights groups say the army and buddhist vigilantes use killing and arson to drive the rohingya out of myanmar .
myanmar rejects accusations of ethnic cleansing .
the eu draft characterized the situation in the most-affected rakhine state as extremely serious and said kachin and shan provinces were also of great concern .
it called on all sides to cease violence , told the military to end its operations and protect all civilians equally , as well as calling on myanmar to allow humanitarian access to the affected regions .
the west has invested politically in myanmar leader and nobel peace laureate aung san suu kyi , who has faced scathing international criticism for not doing more to stop the violence .
while the eu feels disillusioned , it also acknowledges aung san suu kyi has little influence over myanmar s security forces .
the move to punish the army head is largely symbolic as the west is also wary of hurting the wider economy or destabilizing already-tense ties between suu kyi and the army .
its leverage on the ground fades compared to that of myanmar s immediate neighbors , including china .