( reuters ) - senate banking committee democrats on monday asked the panel ’ s republican chairman in a letter to “ clear the backlog ” of 16 nominations by president barack obama to posts related to financial oversight , national security and other areas .
the committee , led by republican senator richard shelby , has “ failed to carry out one of its basic duties ” for more than a year , the 10 democratic banking committee senators wrote in the feb. 22 letter .
it is the only senate committee that did not act on any nominees last year , the democrats wrote .
of the 16 nominations pending before the committee , four have been waiting for action for more than a year while others have been “ in limbo ” for more than nine months , the democratic senators wrote .
shelby must “ stop obstructing ” the nominations , they wrote in a separate statement .
all 10 democrats on the committee signed the letter , including senators sherrod brown of ohio , elizabeth warren of massachusetts , and charles schumer of new york .
a spokeswoman for shelby did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
shelby has said he is concerned that obama has not nominated anyone as the u.s. federal reserve ’ s vice chair for supervision , a post created by the dodd frank financial reform law , but which has never been filled .
“ we are aware of your concern that the administration has not nominated anyone to serve as vice chair for supervision at the federal reserve , but the response to one vacancy should not be the creation of 16 more , ” the democratic banking committee senators wrote .
it was unclear why president obama has not appointed a nominee for the fed post .
a white house spokesperson was not immediately available for comment .
the senate banking committee backlog includes lisa fairfax and hester peirce , obama ’ s two nominees to the securities and exchange commission and adam szubin , nominated as the treasury department ’ s under secretary for terrorism and financial crimes .