iowa city , iowa/new york ( reuters ) - the 2016 election is shaping up to be the year of angry voters , the disgruntled americans shaking up the establishment by fueling the presidential campaigns of two very different candidates - billionaire businessman donald trump and self-declared socialist bernie sanders .
some 73 percent of voters likely to head to the polls in november ’ s election say they think the united states is on the wrong track , and these disaffected people make up a majority of the support bases for both republican candidate trump and democratic hopeful sanders - 87 percent and 54 percent , respectively , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
both candidates were seen as long shots against brand name rivals like jeb bush and hillary clinton a few months ago , but have seen their popularity surge as the election race starts in earnest with the iowa caucuses on feb. 1 .
they are likely to do well in iowa , but even if they lose , the fervor they ’ ve whipped up has upended the race and maybe even american politics .
so who are the angry americans ?
they deviate from the population in key ways : they are whiter , poorer and less educated .
they are less likely to support a candidate who has been involved in politics .
and regardless of party , they have deep distrust for clinton after her more than two decades in the public eye .
where the camps differ is in identifying the root of america ’ s ills , with supporters of sanders pointing to income inequality and health care as the top problems , and those backing trump putting the blame on immigrants and foreign terrorists , according to the poll .
pundits have been quick to define the economy as the source of the voter anger feeding the trump and sanders campaigns .
in a post-recession world , the middle class still struggles with stagnant wages and a weak job market .
but a close look at the polls , and interviews with prospective voters , show concerns go well beyond economic indicators .
here in iowa , the december jobs report issued tuesday found just 3.4 percent unemployment – far below the national average and still on the decline .
“ now hiring ” signs are ubiquitous across the state .
asked to select the top issue for the next president in the first 100 days of the new administration , 24 percent of voters nationwide who said the country was on the wrong track picked immigration - making it the most popular choice by that group .
only 10 percent of those who think the nation is on the right track selected immigration , making it the fifth most popular choice for that group , according to the poll .
“ wrong track ” voters were also more likely to say terrorism and the economy were concerns .
trump has built his campaign on an immigration platform that includes building a wall and deporting millions of undocumented immigrants .
and his insistence that he could negotiate better trade deals provides a strong appeal to those concerned about disappearing jobs in a global economy .
on tuesday night in iowa city , trump ’ s rally drew both supporters and opponents .
eight times the event was interrupted by protesters , who were forced out of the packed gymnasium and heckled by the raucous crowd .
jim schmidt , 48 , of johnson county , iowa , was among the angry .
his 11-year-old son wore a button proclaiming “ bomb the shit out of isis .
the child watched as protesters were ejected from the event , cheering and waving his hand in support .
“ i ’ m angry but i love it and enjoy it , ” schmidt said afterward .
he ’ s backing trump for his business experience and ability to bring about change .
where trump ’ s angry voters have been on display at rallies , the intensity around sanders has manifested itself online - dominating message boards and comment sections .
a liberal radio host in oregon , carl wolfson , announced last month he was ending his show in part because of the vitriol coming from sanders supporters .
his facebook post on the topic was then inundated with angry responses .
sanders is resonating among angry voters by focusing on income inequality , and promising to deliver universal health care and free college education .
meghan metier , 22 , of iowa city said the affordable care act - president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare reform - has allowed some of her friends to access medicaid .
but to keep it , she added , they have to be certain their income doesn ’ t exceed the poverty level , so they stay barely employed .
for her the system is broken and sanders is the only candidate who appears ready to fix it .
“ he ’ s a more reliable progressive , ” she said , comparing him to clinton .
( editing by richard valdmanis and mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .