seoul ( reuters ) - the man who called donald trump president evil last week at the u.n. general assembly is actually a genteel intellectual who studies the memoirs of former u.s. presidents and has taste for fine whisky , according to ten people who know him .
north korea s foreign minister ri yong ho made headlines in the sept. 23 speech to the 193-member general assembly , and also two days earlier when he revealed to reporters outside his hotel that north korea s next move might be to detonate a hydrogen bomb above the pacific ocean , in response to u.s. president trump s threat to totally destroy his country of 26 million people .
while bellicose rhetoric often spouts from militaristic north korea , it did seem out of character coming from what friends and colleagues described as a polite and softly-spoken career diplomat with a self-deprecating sense of humor and sharp debating skills .
as a negotiation partner , ri was a good one , whose status seemed quite secure and who had relatively greater leeway to exercise during the talks , said wi sung-lac , south korea s former envoy at the now suspended six-party talks aimed at dismantling pyongyang s nuclear program .
he was flexible and fundamentally rational , said wi , who met with ri twice in 2011 in an effort to re-start the talks hosted by china , after they collapsed in 2008 .
ri has a reputation for translating north korean propaganda into measured diplomatic language when interacting with western diplomats , and has studied the works of former u.s. presidents in his spare time .
he s not just ( north korean leader ) kim jong un s mouthpiece , said one source who knows ri personally .
he likes to read the memoirs of former u.s. presidents like nixon and bush .
he also reads kissinger .
he tries to understand american thinking , the source , who requested anonymity , told reuters .
if there are any debates about u.s. policy in north korea , he s usually the one who puts forwards new ideas and new tactics , the source said .
he s a strategist .
the north korean government does not provide foreign media with a contact point in pyongyang for comment by email , fax or phone .
ri declined reuters request for an interview while he was in new york for the annual gathering of world leaders at the united nations .
born in 1956 , ri is the son of ri myong je , former deputy director of the organization and guidance department ( ogd ) , a shadowy body within the ruling workers party that oversees the appointment of key management positions within the state , according to south korea s unification ministry .
his father was also an editor at the korean central news agency ( kcna ) , the state media body that publishes pyongyang s bombastic propaganda statements .
a fluent english speaker who studied at pyongyang s prestigious university of foreign languages , ri has for years held a number of high-level posts dealing with the west .
from 2003 to 2007 , he was north korea s ambassador in london , where he lived with his wife and daughter while his son stayed at home in pyongyang .
he had a good command of english and always struck me as pretty polished , said james hoare , the u.k. s former charges des affaires in pyongyang , who met ri frequently during his time in london and hosted him for dinner at his house .
he was willing to appear publicly and could cope with questions .
i last saw him in pyongyang in 2011 , when he gave a lunch for ( my wife ) and me , hoare said .
by then , ri had become vice foreign minister .
although much grander , he was still the same polite and friendly person .
a keen debater , ri spent time engaging with british intellectuals during his time in london .
at the private members reform club on london s glitzy pall mall street , he charmed british academics over wine and lunch .
he clearly had a good sense of humor and was never belligerent or combative when it came to articulating his government s perspective , said john nilsson-wright , a professor at the university of cambridge and senior fellow at the chatham house international affairs think tank .
journalists caught a sample of that humor in ri s most recent off-the-cuff marks , when they asked the foreign minister in new york what he thought of the nickname rocket man that trump s has dubbed the north s leader .
i feel sorry for his aides , ri quipped .
in his u.n. speech he described trump as a mentally deranged person ... who is chastised even by american people as commander in grief , lyin king , president evil ... evans revere , a former senior diplomat who dealt with north korea under president george w. bush and met ri on a few occasions , recalled that he exuded self-confidence and was at ease in any setting , likely reflecting his pedigree as the offspring of one of pyongyang s elite families .
while affable and approachable , ri could be also tough as nails , and in meetings with americans , he leaves no doubt that north korea is determined to remain a nuclear-weapons state , revere said .
behind the smile and the humor is a man who seems to believe strongly in the regime s line .
but the gregarious diplomat with an impressive rolodex of contacts has also faced increasing isolation , with the international community seeking to punish north korea for its rapidly advancing missile and nuclear weapons programs .
he was spotted dining alone at a gala dinner during a gathering of foreign ministers at the annual association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) security forum in laos in july 2016 , while other ministers greeted one another and clinked wine glasses .
the delegate of one participating western country switched seats to avoid sitting next to ri , saying he can t be seen in photos having dinner side by side with him , a south korean diplomat said , declining to identify the nation .
this year s asean forum in manila in august came after the u.n. security council imposed fresh sanctions on north korea for conducting two intercontinental ballistic missile tests in july .
ri was often observed silent and stone-faced , as he held meetings with only four of the 27 foreign ministers attending the forum .
not talking to ri at the u.n. general assembly was a missed opportunity for washington , given his close ties to the kim family , said joel wit , director of the 38 north website and a former state department official who first met ri more than 20 years ago .
following a rare ruling workers party congress in may 2016 , ri was appointed foreign minister and given a position in the party s powerful state affairs commission , a central decision-making body headed by kim jong un .
it was the first time a career diplomat had been promoted to the politburo since 1998 , said cheong seong-chang , a research fellow at the sejong institute south of seoul .
in 2011 , south korea s former nuclear negotiator wi met ri in beijing and took the north korean delegation out to a chinese dinner .
hearing that ri had grown fond of whisky during his time in london , wi s staff brought some scotch for him which was then leaked to the press .
so he came in and said why do you have to tell every detail of our event to the media ?
, said wi , who told ri not to pay attention and have just one drink with him .
we ended up drinking quite a lot .
( this story has been refiled to correct second paragraph to make clear that ri s reference to a hydrogen bomb test was made to reporters at not in the un speech ; edits for style . )