washington/austin , texas ( reuters ) - the white house has narrowed its search for a u.s. supreme court nominee to three federal appeals court judges , sri srinivasan , merrick garland and paul watford , a source familiar with the selection process said on friday .
srinivasan , an indian-american who served under presidents of both parties before president barack obama named him as an appellate judge , and garland , considered but passed over for the supreme court twice before by obama , are considered the leading contenders , according to the source and two other sources close to the process .
obama is searching for a replacement for long-serving conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
senate republicans have vowed not to hold confirmation hearings or an up-or-down vote on any nominee picked by the democratic president for the lifetime position on the court .
senate republicans , hoping a candidate from their party wins the nov. 8 presidential election , want the next president , who takes office in january , to make the selection .
a formal announcement could come as soon as monday .
that would give obama the weekend to think about his final choice and make an announcement before tuesday ’ s presidential primary elections in five states including florida and ohio .
srinivasan , 49 , and garland , 63 , serve together on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit .
that appeals court has served as a springboard to the supreme court for several justices including scalia in recent decades .
srinivasan , who was born in india and grew up in kansas , would be the first asian-american and first hindu on the high court .
obama appointed him to the appeals court in 2013 .
the senate confirmed him in a 97-0 vote .
srinivasan served in the justice department under democratic and republican presidents and worked as a clerk to the first woman to serve on the supreme court , sandra day o ’ connor , a republican appointee .
garland , who has earned praise from lawmakers of both parties , is the chief judge of the washington appeals court , where he has served since being appointed by democratic president bill clinton in 1997 , winning confirmation in a 76-23 vote .
prior to that , he served in the justice department under clinton .
watford , 48 , is a judge on the san francisco-based 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , winning senate confirmation in a 61-34 vote in 2012 .
he previously worked as a prosecutor and in private practice .
if confirmed , he would be the nation ’ s third black justice , following current justice clarence thomas , appointed in 1991 , and thurgood marshall , who retired in 1991 and died in 1993 .
obama is the first black u.s. president .
it was unclear whether the other two other candidates who had been expected to be interviewed by obama , federal appeals court judge jane kelly and federal trial judge ketanji brown jackson , were now out of the running altogether .
kelly is a judge on the st. louis-based 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals .
jackson is a federal trial judge in washington .
both were appointed to those positions by obama .
without scalia , the supreme court is evenly split with four liberals and four conservatives .
an obama appointment could tilt the court to the left for the first time in decades .
obama is traveling in texas , where he spoke at austin ’ s south by southwest festival on friday and is appearing at democratic fundraisers .
he returns to washington late on saturday .