prague ( reuters ) - the czech far-right freedom and direct democracy party ( spd ) said on thursday it would not support a new minority government formed by the ano party leader andrej babis , making it more likely the government will lose a confidence vote next month .
if babis loses , he will stay in power as caretaker while another coalition arrangement is sought .
given ano s strength , however , it is almost impossible to form a government without it .
spd leader tomio okamura told a news conference his party had led talks with ano and while there were some common points on program , there were also many differences and spd had objections to several ministers .
we told them we will not support this government , okamura told reporters .
he said ano refused to back its plan to legislate a referendum law allowing to vote on leaving the european union , one of spd s campaign calls .
running on an anti-establishment platform and pledges to improve management of public affairs , ano won 78 out of 200 seats in the lower house of parliament in an october election .
but it has failed to find any coalition partners or support for its minority government among the other eight factions in parliament .
only the far-left communists , with 15 seats , have not ruled out supporting the government .
the spd , with 22 seats , had supported ano in a number of votes , raising the possibility that it might also in the end vote for the cabinet .
the fresh rejection to back the cabinet makes babis s success less likely .
under the eu and nato member country s constitution , babis has to call a confidence vote by mid-january .
several parties - including spd but also ano s coalition partners in the previous cabinet , the social democrats and the christian democrats have indicated they may be open to discussions on supporting an ano-led government in the second round if babis s first attempt fails .
the main objection to babis is a police investigation into alleged fraud babis is suspected of in tapping a 2 million euro eu subsidy for a conference center outside prague a decade ago .
babis denies any wrongdoing .
parliament is expected to vote in january whether to lift his immunity and allow police to prosecute him .
parties also criticise babis for conflicts of interests he has as a politician and a billionaire owner of over 25o firms in chemicals , farming , media and other sectors .