luxembourg/brussels ( reuters ) - european union ministers on monday congratulated austria s sebastian kurz on his election victory but some were uneasy about the far-right , eurosceptic party that may enter the new government and has clashed with the bloc before .
the freedom party ( fpo ) got around 26 percent of votes in sunday s parliamentary vote , boosted by a european migration crisis in 2015 that affected austria and also led kurz to campaign on an anti-migration platform .
i don t have a problem with sebastian kurz as a person .
we re not following the same line politically , that has never been the case and it never will be , luxembourg foreign minister jean asselborn said on arriving to talks with his eu peers .
he listed pro-european austrian politicians as role models for kurz and warned vienna not to side with migration hardliners , including hungary , whose government is also eurosceptic .
austria became a member of the european union in 1995 after voting in favor of joining the bloc with a two-thirds majority .
recent opinion polls suggest three quarters of austrians want the country to stay in the bloc .
while the fpo had been a member of socialist-led governments in the 1980s , the anti-immigrant rhetoric of party leader joerg haider led to fierce criticism from eu neighbors when his party joined a government with the christian democrat ovp in 2000 .
the eu s 14 other member states at that time reduced bilateral cooperation with austria until a report by senior diplomats found that the country s respect for human rights had not been diminished since the fpo joined the government .
the party demanded a referendum only last year to exit the eu , as britain is doing now .
the fpo has toned down its anti-eu rhetoric in recent months but continues to call for weaker members to leave the euro zone and austria to pay less into the common eu budget .
hungarian foreign minister peter szijjarto , entering the same talks in luxembourg in which kurz would normally also take part , said the 31-year-old austrian conservative was his friend .
we are happy that a sister party of ours won the elections ... and we are happy that their candidate has won who in many cases represented similar positions regarding migration to the hungarian government , szijjarto told reporters .
szijjarto expected that the anti-immigration eastern eu states - hungary , poland , slovakia and the czech republic - to work more closely with austria now , which would only deepen the east-west divides weakening the bloc s unity .
as austria turns to the right , the bloc s top official dealing with eu s ties vis- -vis its neighbors , commissioner johannes hahn of austria , sought to ease concerns that vienna may become a new enfant terrible in the bloc .
one should not forget that only a year ago austria elected the first green president and now it looks as if the greens will be kicked out of parliament .
there is a huge volatility among voters , hahn said in luxembourg .
each government will have a very pro-european agenda because all the major political parties are very much committed to the european union , he added .