xiamen , china ( reuters ) - china wants to put its relationship with india on the right track , president xi jinping told prime minister narendra modi on tuesday , as the two countries sought to mend ties damaged by a recent tense himalayan border standoff .
the meeting was the first between the two leaders since chinese and indian troops ended a standoff in the doklam border region about a week ago that was the neighbors most serious military confrontation in decades .
talks between xi and modi had been in question before the de-escalation , which came just in time for china to host the brics summit of emerging economies , which also includes brazil , russia and south africa , in the southeastern city of xiamen .
healthy , stable ties were in the interests of both countries , xi told modi in a meeting on the sidelines of the summit , according to a statement from china s foreign ministry .
china is willing to work with india ... to increase political trust , advance mutually beneficial cooperation and promote the further development of china-india relations along the correct path , xi said .
china and india must maintain the fundamental determination that each other constitute mutual development opportunities and do not constitute a mutual threat , xi said , adding that peaceful , cooperative relations were the only correct choice .
xi and modi spoke for more than an hour and the discussions were constructive , indian foreign secretary subrahmanyam jaishankar told reporters in xiamen after the meeting .
there was a sense that if the relationship is to go forward , then peace and tranquility on the border area should be maintained , jaishankar said , adding that both sides agreed that strong contacts between their defense personnel were needed to prevent another border incident .
on both sides there was a sense that more efforts need to be made to ensure that these kinds of situations don t reoccur .
pressed on how the doklam dispute was discussed , jaishankar said , both of us know what happened .
this was not a backwards looking conversation .
this was a forward-looking conversation .
hundreds of troops were deployed on the doklam plateau , near the borders of india , its ally bhutan , and china after new delhi objected to china building a road through the mountainous area .
the quiet diplomacy that ultimately ended in de-escalation was based on a principle of stopping differences becoming disputes that modi and xi had agreed at a june meeting in astana , an indian official has said .
still , china and india remain divided on many fronts , including india s deep suspicions of china s growing military activities in and around the indian ocean .
for its part , modi s government has upset china with its public embrace of tibetan spiritual leader dalai lama , whom the chinese regard as a dangerous separatist , and growing military ties with the united states and japan .
china has said its forces will continue to patrol in doklam , which is claimed by bhutan , and that it hoped india had learned a lesson from the incident .