lome ( reuters ) - four people were killed in togo on wednesday in clashes between security forces and demonstrators calling for an end to a half century of gnassingbe family rule , the security minister said .
opposition activists have been demonstrating since august against gnassingbe s administration and say a constitutional reform he has proposed would allow him to rule the west african country until 2030 .
colonel damehame yark , the security and civil protection minister , told a news conference that one person was shot dead and around sixty others arrested in the capital , lome .
another three died of gunshot wounds in the second-biggest city , sokode .
these are too many deaths .
we d be wise to preserve the peace , he said .
the latest bout of protests followed the arrest in sokode on monday of a muslim imam accused of urging his followers to murder soldiers .
clashes erupted after the arrest .
a crowd killed two soldiers and one other person died in unspecified circumstances , the government said in a statement .
about 20 other people were injured , it added .
the deaths reignited a mass protest movement against president faure gnassingbe , who succeeded his late father gnassingbe eyadema in 2005 .
the protesters are calling for his resignation .
we deplore this toll and we say that backing down is out of the question .
despite what we have suffered , we will maintain our call for protests tomorrow , said brigitte adjamagbo , one of the leaders of the opposition movement .
she said the coalition was aware of two people killed , including an 11-year-old child , as well as twenty others who were seriously injured and dozens of arrests .
in a bid to curb demonstrations , the government has banned marches and mass protests on weekdays .
but young protesters in be , a working-class neighborhood in eastern lome , defied the ban on wednesday .
they erected barricades with bricks and burning tyres and threw stones at security forces , who responded with volleys of tear gas .
this is our last bastion , shouted one demonstrator , ayi koffi .
we have no arms , no gas .
we do not have cars to pick up people .
we have come out barehanded to say , enough !
in a statement , the international organisation of la francophonie , a group comprised mainly of french-speaking countries including paris s former colonies , said that nothing justified the violence .
dialogue must be prioritised in all circumstances , it said .
the controversial constitutional reform will be decided by popular referendum after the bill failed to win approval from parliament following a boycott by opposition lawmakers last month .