ankara ( reuters ) - a prominent turkish nationalist politician and former minister announced on wednesday she was forming a new party which could pose a significant challenge to president tayyip erdogan in elections due within two years .
former interior minister meral aksener , who unsuccessfully opposed erdogan s drive for greater presidential powers in a referendum last april , said turkey needed change after nearly 15 years of rule by his ak party .
her iyi parti ( good party ) is seen by many in turkey as potentially one of the strongest challengers to erdogan in presidential and parliamentary elections scheduled for 2019 , but it starts out with only a fraction of the ak party s support .
just five members of the 550-seat parliament have joined the new party , although pollsters say it could win over supporters of several parties including the conservative and islamic-rooted ak party as well as secular or nationalist groups .
turkey and its people are tired , the state is worn down , and public order is unraveling .
there is no way other than the changing of the political atmosphere , aksener said at a ceremony in ankara to mark the launch of her party .
we are that way out , you are that way out .
that road is the 80 million strong turkish nation she said , standing in front of the logo of her party - a yellow sun shining in a blue sky .
our people are clearly saying they want ... a new government .
aksener was expelled last year from the nationalist movement party ( mhp ) , the smallest of three opposition parties in parliament , after launching a failed bid to unseat party leader devlet bahceli , whose support helped erdogan to a narrow victory in a referendum that expanded his authority .
since her expulsion , the 61-year old aksener has become one of the most prominent voices in the country , frequently criticizing erdogan and the government .
the iyi party could take more than a tenth of the ak party support , which stands at over 40 percent , said hakan bayrakci of sonar pollsters .
it could also erode the support base of nationalist mhp and the secularist chp parties , he said .
meral aksener s party will lead to big changes in turkey s political atmosphere , bayrakci told reuters .
this may not be immediate , but in three to five months , i believe this shift will be visible .
erdogan s ak party won just under 50 percent of votes in the last parliamentary election , in november 2015 , and he has told supporters it is aiming for more than half the votes in 2019 .
mehmet ali kulat from polling company mak danismanlik , which is seen as close to the ak party , said the iyi party currently had the support of around 5 percent of voters .
it looks like aksener s party can get votes from angry voters , kulat said .
their real strength will come out in the long term .
aksener said many members of her party wanted her to stand as its presidential candidate in the 2019 election , and criticized what she described as an erosion of rights in turkey .
democracy is under threat and the government s justice is above all else .
it is evident that society is at a political standstill , aksener said .
since a failed military coup last year , in which more than 240 people were killed , turkish authorities have detained more than 50,000 people and suspended 150,000 people including teachers , soldiers , journalists and lawyers .
aksener said her party aimed to raise the average length of education in turkey from seven years to 11 years , and promised to bring turkey into the world s top 20 countries for education .
it currently lies around 50th in the programme for international student assessment ( pisa ) .
in previous weeks , several members from the mhp and the secular main opposition republican people s party ( chp ) have quit their parties to join aksener , who has said her party s doors were open to anyone willing to walk with their cause .
we have hopes and dreams .
we want a rich turkey , we have power .
we want a just turkey and we have that power .
we want a free turkey and we have our rights , she said .