vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis canonized 35 new roman catholic saints on sunday , including three indigenous children martyred in 16th century mexico and considered the first christians killed for their faith in the new world .
francis used the occasion to announce that he had decided to call a meeting of bishops , or synod , from countries in the pan-amazon region for october , 2019 , to discuss the condition of the church in the area and the plight of indigenous people .
the region includes guyana , suriname , french guyana , venezuela , ecuador , colombia , bolivia , peru and brazil .
the three children the pope canonized before a crowd of tens of thousands in st. peter s square were of the talaxcaltec people , an indigenous pre-colombian group in what is now mexico .
the first child , cristoforo , was converted to christianity by franciscan missionaries and was killed in 1527 by his own father , a tribal chief who spurned his son s attempts to convert him from paganism .
the boy was beaten and thrown into a fire when he was 13 .
two other indigenous children from the same area , antonio and juan , were killed by indios in the village of cuauhtinchan in 1529 as a result of their conversion .
they are believed to have been 12 or 13 when they were beaten to death for helping dominican missionaries .
the pope also canonized 30 martyrs who were killed for their faith in brazil in 1645 .
they included two portuguese missionaries and 28 followers killed by dutch colonial soldiers during a period of persecution of catholics .
in announcing the 2019 synod for bishops from the amazon region , francis said indigenous people there today were often abandoned and without the prospect of a bright future , even due to the crisis of the amazon forest , a lung of utmost importance for our planet .
francis , an argentine and the first latin american pope , has often linked his calls for social justice , particularly for indigenous people , to those for defense of the environment , saying the poor will suffer the most from the effects of climate change .
in 2015 he wrote a landmark encyclical , or papal letter , on defense of the environment and he has called for special protection for the amazon region because of its vital importance to the planet s ecosystem .
in his comments on sunday , the pope did not mention the role of the church in suppressing native cultures in the new world .
but during a visit to bolivia in 2015 , francis said many grave sins were committed against the native people of america in the name of god .
he asked forgiveness for the church , for crimes committed against native peoples during the so-called conquest of america .
on sunday , francis also canonized father faustino miguez , a spanish priest who lived in the 19th and 20th centuries , and father angelo d acri , an italian itinerant preacher who died in 1739 after serving in some of the most remote areas of mountainous southern italy .