( this october 25 story has been corrected to change pronoun to he from she to correct gender of quoted delegate in final paragraph ) by john ruwitch beijing ( reuters ) - every time china s ruling communist party convenes a major gathering , like the congress that just ended in beijing , the list of delegates is hand-crafted in part to burnish the party s image as representative of the masses - including giving some prominence to those in more menial jobs and ethnic minorities .
yet one group is chronically under-represented among the political elite : women .
the founding father of communist china , mao zedong , may have once said that women hold up half the sky but when the twice-a-decade party congress selected a new batch of top leaders this week , females weren t holding up much at all .
no women made it onto the elite politburo standing committee , the group of seven men at the pinnacle of the party .
none ever have .
in the new politburo , only one of its 25 members is a woman sun chunlan , head of the party body charged with outreach to non-communists .
it is her second term and she is likely to retire in five years .
on the previous politburo , there were two women , sun and vice premier liu yandong - who is past retirement age and has stepped down from the politburo .
one rung down , just 4.9 percent of the new central committee , a mere 10 of the body s 204 members , are women .
that number was unchanged from the outgoing central committee , which presided for five years , but lower than in 2007-2012 when there were 13 .
the state council information office , which doubles as the party s propaganda department , did not respond to faxed questions for comment on why there are so few women in senior party positions .
by way of comparison , five members of u.s. president donald trump s 24-member cabinet are women , and about 20 percent of the u.s. congress are female .
in japan , two out of 20 members of the cabinet are women as are about 10 percent of the lower house lawmakers newly elected on sunday .
at the chinese party congress itself , the overall numbers were stronger : about a quarter of its 2,287 delegates were women - roughly commensurate with the proportion in the roughly 90 million-member party .
but with most senior leadership posts in the hands of men , activist xiong jing , an ngo project manager who edits a feminist social media site , said many of the women delegates to the party congress were there merely as decoration .
this problem is a clich , she said .
with the political system as it is now , i think even if more women were involved , whether as party congress delegates or in government , they may be very limited in what they can do .
the party takes the appearance of representativeness seriously when it comes to some groups .
at party congresses and annual sessions of parliament , there are delegates from china s 56 different ethnic groups , every branch of the military and police , private businesses , the state sector and , of course , the government .
the party congress this year featured delegates who were astronauts , athletes , actors , judges , farmers and more .
there was even a delegate representing housekeepers , who showed up in her apron and maid s cap .
for women in general in china , political empowerment is lacking .
china ranked 74th in political empowerment of women out of 144 countries in the world economic forum s global gender gap report last year .
in 2006 , it was no .
52 out of 115 .
leta hong fincher , a new york-based sociologist and author of the forthcoming book betraying big brother : the rise of china s feminist resistance , says women in china are losing ground amid a resurgence of traditional gender norms .
it s my impression that the communist party is fundamentally not interested in having women at the senior levels at all , she said .
in china s pre-reform command economy under mao , women were drafted into the workforce and recruited into nation-building .
the most powerful woman since the communist takeover in 1949 was mao s third wife , jiang qing .
she and members of her gang of four were arrested after mao s death in 1976 and blamed for the excesses of the chaotic cultural revolution .
more recently , hong fincher says , the party has been spooked by china s demographic challenges - an aging population , shrinking labor force and falling birth rates - and has aggressively promoted the idea that women should be getting married and having babies .
to be sure , in chinese business there are some prominent female chief executives , such as zhang xin at real estate developer soho china and zhou qunfei , the billionaire founder of lens technology .
and the party and government pay lip service to gender equality .
the state constitution guarantees women the same rights as men .
the government ... wants to appear to be taking gender equality seriously , when in reality it is not .
it is actually in full retreat with regard to gender equality , hong fincher said .
the election process for party congress delegates is tightly controlled , with candidates vetted for their loyalty to the party and leadership .
but congress delegate tang jialing , who is a crew member on a deep-sea research submersible , suggested that the lack of women reflected the will of the people .
we are the party of the people .
it s the people who voted in more men than women .
it s the people s choice , he said .