new york ( reuters ) - new york city ’ s fiscal watchdog said the city faces much bigger budget deficits in coming years than the mayor has forecast and warned state lawmakers about treating the city like a “ piggy bank. ” the state , like the city , is finalizing its budget and will soon make decisions affecting new york city .
“ some upstate legislators just don ’ t get it , ” new york city comptroller scott stringer said during his review of the city budget on wednesday .
“ they see new york city as their piggy bank. ” stringer cautioned against last-minute , late-night budget decisions that could deprive the city of resources .
his comments reflected growing frustration with state lawmakers over their suggestions that the city is flush with cash after a stronger economic recovery than other parts of the state .
new york state governor andrew cuomo has had a tense relationship with new york city mayor bill de blasio , persuading his fellow democrat last year to pay $ 2.5 billion toward the city ’ s public transportation system , which is run by the metropolitan transportation authority , a state agency .
there have also been suggestions in the state capital that the city could do more to fund healthcare costs and pay more for the city ’ s university system .
new york state legislators are known for “ vampire ” budget sessions that go into the early hours to beat the budget deadline at the start of the state ’ s fiscal year on april 1 .
stringer said that although next year ’ s budget remained balanced , the total gaps forecast through fiscal year 2020 are $ 1 billion more than the mayor ’ s office had predicted .
“ budget monitors and rating agencies have all applauded this administration ’ s fiscal prudence and focus on protecting against economic uncertainty – and investors agree , ” said amy spitalnick , a spokesperson for de blasio .
the mayor ’ s office points out that stringer projects $ 900 million in additional tax revenue for this financial year and next , and cites that as an example of cautious revenue projections on the city ’ s part .
stringer said the mayor should not have included $ 731 million from the sale of taxi medallions through 2020 , saying the taxi business is currently in upheaval .
the city has already cut it expectations for revenue from taxi medallion sales but stringer has been more aggressive in elimintaing it from later years .
he also said some taxes would be lower than the mayor is predicting and that costs for overtime , healthcare and homeless shelters would be higher .