washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential hopeful ted cruz split victories in four nominating contests with front-runner donald trump on saturday , bolstering cruz ’ s argument that he represents the party ’ s best chance to stop the brash new york billionaire .
the results were a repudiation of a republican establishment that has bristled at the prospect of either cruz or trump winning the party ’ s nomination and has largely lined up behind u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , who was shut out in all four contests .
“ i think it ’ s time that he dropped out of the race , ” trump said of rubio after the contests .
“ i want ted one on one. ” cruz won kansas and maine on saturday , while trump won the bigger states of louisiana and kentucky , holding onto his lead in the race for the republican nomination for the november 8 presidential election , even though cruz captured more delegates on saturday .
the next big contest , and a crucial one , will be tuesday ’ s primary in the industrial state of michigan .
republicans in three other states , mississippi , idaho and hawaii , also will vote on tuesday .
puerto rico republicans will vote on sunday .
in the democratic race , front-runner hillary clinton won in louisiana , and her rival bernie sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , won in kansas and nebraska , in results that did not substantially change clinton ’ s big delegate lead .
mainstream republicans have blanched at trump ’ s calls to build a wall on the border with mexico , round up and deport 11 million undocumented immigrants and temporarily bar all muslims from entering the united states .
but the party ’ s establishment has not been much happier with cruz , who has alienated many party leaders in washington .
“ it looks like it will be the angry trump voters against the purist conservative cruz voters , ” said washington-based republican strategist ron bonjean .
“ the establishment is just being left out. ” a spokesman for rubio , who spent the past week launching harsh personal attacks on trump , said the senator would push on with an eye on the march 15 contest in florida .
“ after we win the florida primary , the map , the momentum and the money is going to be on our side , ” spokesman alex conant said in a statement .
cruz , a first-term u.s. senator from texas who has promoted himself as more of a true conservative than trump , said the results showed he was gaining momentum in the race to catch the real estate mogul .
cruz , 45 , has run as an outsider bent on shaking up the republican establishment in washington .
a favorite of evangelicals , he has called for the united states to “ carpet bomb ” the islamic state militant group and has pledged to eliminate the tax-collecting internal revenue service and four cabinet agencies and to enact a balanced budget amendment .
“ the scream you hear , the howl that comes from washington , d.c. , is utter terror at what ‘ we the people ’ are doing together , ” cruz told supporters in coeur d ’ alene , idaho , after his early win in kansas .
“ what we ’ re seeing is the public coming together , libertarians coming together , men and women who love the constitution coming together and uniting and standing as one behind this campaign , ” cruz said .
trump , 69 , has a substantial lead in the delegates needed to secure the nomination at the republican national convention , but since winning seven of the 11 contests on super tuesday he has come under withering fire from a republican establishment worried he will lead the party to defeat in november ’ s election .
[ nl2n16c08f ] but endorsements from establishment republicans have failed to sway voters .
rubio won the backing of kansas governor sam brownback but still came in third there .
the four republican contests on saturday together accounted for just 155 delegates .
cruz won 64 delegates on saturday , while trump took 49 .
the races on saturday were open only to registered republicans , excluding the independent and disaffected democratic voters who have helped trump ’ s surge to the lead .
the anti-trump forces have a short window to stop the caustic businessman , who ahead of saturday had accumulated 319 of the 1,237 delegates needed to win the nomination at july ’ s republican national convention , outpacing cruz , who had 226 delegates .
on march 15 , the delegate-rich states of florida , illinois , ohio , missouri and north carolina will vote .
both florida and ohio use the winner-take-all method to allocate republican delegates , making the stakes in those states particularly high .
all of the republican contests on saturday , and through march 14 , award delegates proportionate to the popular vote , although some states set minimum thresholds to qualify for any delegates .
if trump takes both florida and ohio he would be nearly impossible to stop .
there are a total of 358 delegates at stake in the five states voting march 15 , including 99 in florida and 66 in ohio .
on the democratic side , clinton has opened up a big delegate lead and sanders might have a tough time making up the difference .
all states in the democratic race award their delegates proportionally , meaning clinton can keep piling up delegates even in states she loses .
the three states holding democratic contests on saturday had a total of 109 delegates at stake .
the early estimates were that clinton , who appeared headed to a smashing nearly 50-point win in louisiana , had won at least 48 delegates on tuesday and sanders 37 .
but sanders made it clear he was not planning to end his white house quest anytime soon .
“ we have the momentum .
we have a path toward victory .
our campaign is just getting started , ” he said in a statement after his wins on saturday .