caracas ( reuters ) - key members of venezuela s opposition , divided and dispirited after losing gubernatorial elections over the weekend , will travel abroad to denounce what it says is a fraudulent voting system under leftist president nicolas maduro .
congress president julio borges said in a press conference on thursday that the opposition coalition will try to stir up international support , which could result in further sanctions against maduro s administration .
his unpopular government unexpectedly swept to victory in sunday s regional vote , pocketing 18 of 23 states in the midst of a debilitating economic crisis that has millions skipping meals as soaring inflation destroys salaries .
polls had forecast the opposition easily beating the ruling socialists .
maduro s rivals say a mix of dirty tricks , like moving hundreds of voting centers in opposition areas at the last minute and including the names of opposition politicians who lost in primaries on ballots , worked against them .
we made a huge effort , we aimed to overcome all the obstacles , and what the government did was upgrade its fraud and its cheating , said borges , adding that politicians were due to travel to fellow latin american countries and other supportive nations shortly .
we have the full records of this electoral process and we re going to submit them to various international bodies , so that ... they can be audited , added borges , who did not provide further details on the trips .
while the opposition first cried fraud , without providing proof , it later scaled back its accusations and is now focusing on the minerals-rich state of bolivar where it says its losing candidate was robbed of decisive votes .
maduro blasted his opponents as sore losers who cry fraud when convenient .
on thursday , he inaugurated hector rodriguez , a rising star in the socialist party , as governor of miranda state in a ceremony filled with song and dance .
opposition politicians have acknowledged that demoralization in their own ranks hurt turnout .
many opposition supporters are exhausted after four months of protests earlier this year and were loath to participate in what some saw as a rigged vote that would legitimize maduro as a dictator .
they were even more downbeat after the vote , however , as it casts doubt on whether they can remove the ruling socialist party in next year s presidential election .
the government s handling of ( sunday s ) vote suggests that it is not even willing to entertain anything close to free and fair presidential elections in 2018 , even if it prompts growing international isolation , renewed unrest , and increased outward migration , consultancy eurasia wrote in a note to clients this week .