trump warned us we d be sick of winning who knew cnn would be sick of winning before trump even officially assumes his role of president ?
the big surge on november 7 snapped a nine-day losing streak for stocks that many attributed to donald trump s newfound momentum .
wall street had decided clinton was going to be the next president and they wholeheartedly approved.so the fact that the market continued to rally last week after trump won is , in some respects , even more surprising than the fact that he won in the first place.a republican in the white house and republicans keeping control of congress increases the chances of a bill being passed that would lead to more infrastructure spending .
there may also be less regulations on health care stocks and financials.trump s anti-immigration stance could also be a big problem for u.s. tech companies , which have attracted a lot of talented foreign workers due to the h1-b visa program .
will trump seek to end that ? that may be one of the reasons why big tech giants apple ( aapl , tech30 ) , amazon ( amzn , tech30 ) , facebook and google owner alphabet all fell last week .
silicon valley is very wary of trump and probably with good reason.after all , trump waged a twitter war with amazon ceo jeff bezos because he wasn t happy with the coverage he was getting from the bezos-owned washington post.a trump war on tech could be bad news for the market and economy .
the tech sector is now one of the most important industries in the united states .
apple , google , facebook and amazon are among the most valuable companies on the planet.so even though tech stocks zigged while the rest of the market zagged last week , that probably can t go on indefinitely .
prolonged weakness for big tech companies would have a negative impact on the whole market over the long haul .
there s also the issue of how much trump will actually be able to accomplish.yes , republicans control congress .
but house speaker paul ryan wasn t exactly the biggest trump supporter during the campaign .
there could be more roadblocks to trump s plans than expected on capitol hill .
it is also hard to believe that trump won t experience opposition in implementing policy .
trump and opposition are words that go hand in hand , said mike o rourke , chief market strategist of jonestrading , in a report monday.the title of o rourke s report also summed up the rapid shift in sentiment .
trumpageddon to trumptopia .
now this isn t to say that the market definitely is due for a crash during the trump administration .
but experts think investors may now need to take a step back and remember that there still isn t a lot that the market knows about possible trump policies .
there remains a great deal of uncertainty over what type of president trump will actually be .
in an election that was dominated by coverage of tweets , videos and emails , policy questions received surprisingly little airtime , said andrew sheets , a strategist with morgan stanley , in a report sunday .
those questions are now crucial for markets .
to a remarkable extent , investors we ve spoken to both before and after november 8 disagree on what president-elect trump will actually do , sheets added.that is scary .
cnn money