it s no accident that president obama named vanita gupta acting head of the civil rights division of the doj .
gupta is beloved by the radical left for her militant hostility toward law enforcement officers .
here s a fantastic overview from j. christian adams who has intimate knowledge of what s going on at the doj .
he worked there and knows just how the doj has been turned into a politicized radical leftist entity of the obama administration .
here s an example of that : vanita gupta , head of the department of justice civil rights division , has told a lawyers group in colorado that slavery and jim crow helped fuel the ferguson and baltimore riots.the last few days have seen a number of fanciful stories with the obama administration seemingly questioning the authority of local police .
i ve long maintained that the administration is nakedly seeking to federalize policing standards but get rid of local police ?
no way , that sounds like something broadcast from a shortwave station in austin , texas .
but then up steps vanita gupta to lend some credibility to the idea that some want to disband local police and replace police powers with the federal government .
speaking to a group of left-wing lawyers in colorado , gupta had this to say : the conversation in these rooms , however , is not about whether to have police or not but about what kind of policing communities want and deserve.there is no question that we need police in our communities.the conversation ?
what conversation is gupta hearing that needs to be corrected ?
who brought up the idea we might not need police ?
nobody sane , for sure.if you read the entirety of gupta s speech , you ll get a sense of what is going on in the mind of the anti-police left .
officials in this administration still think it is rational and acceptable to bring up the name michael brown in the context of anything other than a likely felon against whom deadly force was justifiably used .
behold gupta : eric garner .
michael brown .
tamir rice .
john crawford .
walter scott .
freddie gray.these names and many others have become familiar to us under tragic circumstances in recent months .
their deaths and those of other unarmed african american men and women in encounters with police officers , have provoked widespread responses across the country and have fueled the black lives matter movement .
in communities of color , in particular , the reaction has been stark and sobering.in the seven months i have been at the civil rights division , i have spent a lot of time with local leaders and community members in cities all across america , including with numerous mothers who have lost their children in officer-involved shootings .
the pain , anger , frustration the lack of trust in the police is real , and it is profound.gupta asks the question that many americans have already asked and answered : it s worth asking , first , how did we get here ?
and second , what are we going to do about it ? to most law-abiding americans , the idea of fleeing from the police , or worse , charging at a policeman you have already punched , is simply beyond the realm of possibility.so how did we get here ?
was it a breakdown of values ?
perhaps a pervasive tolerance for lawlessness ?
of course not .
says gupta : let s start with the first question and consider the source of the mistrust .
mistrust can t be explained away as the kneejerk reaction of the ill-informed or the hyperbolic .
it s in part the product of historical awareness about the role that police have played in enforcing and perpetuating ( wait for it !
here it comes ! )
slavery , the black codes , lynchings and jim crow segregation.read more : pjmediaread more : pjmedia