what an evil bunch of freaks !
the agenda is so important to them that they can t see the forest for the trees .
overpopulation is a problem in itself but connecting it to the scam that is global warming is just crazy .
these people have such a twisted view of everything that it s really scary .
i m 100 % fed up !
with the un climate freaks and their agenda.climate one founder greg dalton and the executive secretary of the united nations framework convention on climate change ( unfcc ) christiana figueres , held a discussion in 2013 on the role of women in fighting global warming.during the interview secretary figueres stated , we should make every effort , to reduce the world s population in an effort to fight climate change : dalton : a related issue is fertility rates in population .
a lot of people in energy and environmental circles don t wan na go near that because it s politically charged .
it s not their issue .
but isn t it true that stopping the rise of the population would be one of the biggest levers and driving the rise of green house gases ? figueres : i mean we all know that we expect nine billion , right , by 2050 .
so , yes , obviously less people would exert less pressure on the natural resources.dalton : so is nine billion a forgone conclusion ?
that s like baked in , done , no way to change that ? here s the video-if you want to skip the bs then just go to the 4:20 mark : a little more on christiana figueres-the 70 s called and they want their radical hippie back !
at the 2:40 mark she says we need a transformation ( sound familiar ) and a revolution to change our way of life : figueres : well there again , there is pressure in the system to go toward that ; we can definitely change those , right ?
we can definitely change those numbers and really should make every effort to change those numbers because we are already , today , already exceeding the planet s planetary carrying capacity , today .
to say nothing of adding more population that is really going to overextend our capacity .
so yes we should do everything possible .
but we can not fall into the very simplistic opinion of saying just by curtailing population then we ve solved the problem .
it is not either/or , it is an and/also.via : progressives today