ljubljana ( reuters ) - anti-establishment slovenian presidential candidate marjan sarec , who narrowly lost to president borut pahor in an election runoff on sunday , is likely to run for parliament in general elections due next june , political analysts said .
i expect sarec to announce his candidacy very soon .
he might win , supported by a large number of voters who are dissatisfied with the political establishment , tanja staric , an analyst at radio slovenia , told reuters on monday .
sarec finished with 47 percent to pahor s 53 percent in the runoff , the tightest presidential race result since slovenia s independence in 1991 from then-federal yugoslavia .
sarec , 39 , whose center-left lista marjana sarca has so far been active only at local level , indicated he will run for parliament .
my result ( at the presidential election ) is very good , i am very happy with it ... this is not my last word in politics , he said on his twitter account late on sunday .
sarec says changes of approach are needed to further improve slovenia s economy and lift living standards .
in an anti-establishment pitch , he calls for politicians to listen to voters closely and come up with practical solutions to their problems .
he also wants electoral rule changes to allow people to vote for individual candidates rather than parties .
sarec is a former actor and comedian whose second mandate as mayor of kamnik in northern slovenia expires next year .
analysts forecast election defeat next year for the party of modern centre of prime minister miro cerar because of widespread dissatisfaction , particularly over lengthening waiting times for examinations and other procedures in the national health system .
the government faces pressure for public sector wage hikes but wants to keep a lid on spending given relatively high levels of budget deficit and public debt .
a poll published by daily newspaper delo on monday showed social democrats , earlier led by pahor before he ran for president as independent though still with sd support , led with 19.8 percent , followed by main opposition , center-right slovenian democratic party with 13.8 percent .
another poll released on monday by the nova24tv website put the sds in the lead with 15.8 percent , trailed by the sd at 11.2 percent , with half the electorate still undecided .
pollsters have so far not included sarec s party in their soundings .