reza aslan is a cnn host who is a muslim religious scholar who should be fired but probably won t be .
he tweeted out a vile response to president trump s tweet from the drudge report .
he also called our president a man baby who should be ignored .
what kind of jackwagon disrespects our president like this ? aslan first tweeted that he considers trump a man baby who should be ignored .
this is after our president scooped nbc when he retweeted the drudge tweet that it was feared that another terror attack happened in london .
nbc tweeted ( see below ) that they wouldn t retweet trumps tweet .
ridiculous move by nbc that turned out to backfire on them .
the president is a man baby that must be ignored in times of crisis cnn s religious scholar reza aslan the next tweet from aslan is the one getting the most press because of its hate and vulgar language : this piece of shit is not just an embarrassment to america and a stain on the presidency .
he s an embarrassment to humankind .
cnn s religious scholar reza aslan does cnn condone this vile behavior from its hosts ?
we ll see if they do anything about this hateful man who is no journalist ! more information on him reveals he s an iranian-born cnn employee from his personal websitereza aslan is an internationally renowned writer , commentator , professor , producer , and scholar of religions .
his books , including his # 1 new york times bestseller , zealot : the life and times of jesus of nazareth , have been translated into dozens of languages around the world .
he is also a recipient of the prestigious james joyce award.in addition to his role as a consulting producer on the acclaimed hbo series the leftovers , aslan is also the host and executive producer of two other original television programs : rough draft with reza aslan ( premiered on ovation ) , and cnn s upcoming documentary series , believer .
he also served as an executive producer on the abc drama , of kings and prophets .
his book zealot has been optioned by lionsgate and producer david heyman with a script penned by oscar nominated screenwriter , james schamus.in 2006 , aslan co-founded boomgen studios the premiere entertainment brand for creative content from and about the middle east which has provided an array of targeted services ranging from strategic messaging to grassroots marketing to publicity and social media outreach , to producers , studios , and filmmakers including jon stewart s rosewater , netflix s the square , disney s aladdin on broadway and prince of persia : the sands of time , the weinstein company s miral , discovery and tlc s all american muslim , and national geographic s amreeka.aslan s first book , international bestseller no god but god : the origins , evolution , and future of islam , has been translated into seventeen languages , and was named one of the 100 most important books of the last decade by blackwell publishers .
he is also the author of beyond fundamentalism : confronting religious extremism in a globalized age ( originally titled how to win a cosmic war ) , as well as editor of two volumes : tablet and pen : literary landscapes from the modern middle east , and muslims and jews in america : commonalties , contentions , and complexities.aslan s degrees include a bachelor of arts in religious studies from santa clara university ( major focus : new testament ; minor : greek ) , a master of theological studies from harvard university ( major focus : history of religions ) , a phd in the sociology of religions from the university of california , santa barbara , and a master of fine arts from the university of iowa , where he was named the truman capote fellow in fiction .
an adjunct senior fellow at the council on foreign relations , he is also a member of the los angeles institute for the humanities and the pacific council on international policy .
he serves on the board of directors of the ploughshares fund , which gives grants for peace and security issues ; narrative four , which connects people through the exchange of stories ; pen usa , which champions the rights of writers under siege around the world ; the los angeles review of books , and the levantine cultural center , which builds bridges between americans and the arab/muslim world through the arts.aslan is a tenured professor of creative writing at the university of california , riverside and serves on the board of trustees for the chicago theological seminary and the yale humanist community , which supports atheists , agnostics , and humanists at home and abroad .
a member of the american academy of religions , the society of biblical literature , and the international qur anic studies association , aslan s previous academic positions include the wallerstein distinguished professor of religion , community and conflict at drew university in new jersey ( 2012-2013 ) , and visiting assistant professor of religion at the university of iowa ( 2000-2003 ) .born in iran , he lives in los angeles with his wife , author and entrepreneur , jessica jackley , and their three sons .