new york ( reuters ) - donald trump has fallen further behind hillary clinton and now trails her by 8 points among likely voters , according to a new reuters/ipsos opinion poll , with 1 in 5 republicans saying his vulgar comments about groping women disqualify him from the presidency .
the national tracking poll was launched after sunday night ’ s second presidential debate , where trump was pressed to explain his comments in a 2005 videotape about grabbing women ’ s genitalia .
he described the remarks , which first surfaced on friday , as “ locker room ” banter and apologized to americans .
the poll released on tuesday showed clinton , the democratic nominee , had increased her lead over trump , the republican nominee , to 8 percentage points on monday from 5 points last week .
when asked to pick between the two major-party candidates , 45 percent of likely voters said they supported clinton while 37 percent supported trump .
another 18 percent said they would not support either candidate .
trump was under pressure during sunday ’ s debate to restore confidence in his struggling campaign after dozens of lawmakers repudiated him over the weekend .
he hammered clinton ’ s handling of classified information while serving as secretary of state and referred to her as “ the devil. ” at one point , he said he would jail clinton if he were president .
among those who said they watched at least portions of the debate , 53 percent said clinton won while 32 percent said trump won .
the results fell along partisan lines , however : 82 percent of democrats felt clinton won , while 68 percent of republicans felt that trump won .
among likely voters who watched the debate , 48 percent said they supported clinton while 38 percent supported trump .
in the 2005 access hollywood video trump boasted about making unwanted sexual advances toward women .
“ when you ’ re a star they let you do it , ” he is heard saying .
some 61 percent of those polled said that “ lots of men ” occasionally engage in similar conversations , and 46 percent , a plurality , said it was unfair to judge someone on conversations “ that they did not intend for anyone else to hear. ” most of those polled said they believe trump is a sexist , but they were split on whether his comments disqualify him from being president .
some 42 percent of american adults , including 19 percent of registered republicans , said trump ’ s comments disqualified him , while 43 percent said they did not .
among republicans , 58 percent said they want trump to remain atop their party ’ s ticket , and 68 percent said the republican leadership should stand by him .
the video doesn ’ t appear to have worsened trump ’ s standing among women , who mostly had a low opinion of him already , according to reuters/ipsos polling over the past 12 months .
when asked to pick between the two candidates , about 44 percent of women chose clinton while 29 percent selected trump - roughly the same proportion as measured in polls conducted before the weekend .
trump , however , appears to be shedding support among evangelicals , who are usually a wellspring of support for republican presidential candidates .
monday ’ s poll showed that trump had only a 1-point edge over clinton among people who identified as evangelicals .
that ’ s down from a 12-point advantage for trump in july .
the reuters/ipsos poll is conducted online in english in all 50 states .
the poll of 2,386 american adults included 1,839 people who watched the debates , 1,605 people who were considered likely voters due to their registration status , voting history and stated intention to vote in the election .
among the likely voters , the poll counted 798 democrats and 586 republicans .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 2 percentage points for the entire group , 3 points for likely voters and the debate watchers , 4 points for democrats and 5 points for republicans .
national opinion polls have measured support for the candidates in different ways this year , yet most agree that clinton is leading and that her advantage has strengthened as the general election approaches .
realclearpolitics , which tracks most major opinion polls , shows clinton ahead of trump by an average of 7 percentage points , and that her lead has grown since the middle of september .