cairo ( reuters ) - former egyptian prime minister ahmed shafik , who returned home from the united arab emirates after announcing his bid for egypt s presidency , appeared in cairo on sunday to say he was still considering his run in next year s election .
shafik s comments on a private cairo television station came a day after his family said he had been taken from their home in the emirates and deported back to egypt , where they said they had lost contact with him until late on sunday .
shafik , a former air force chief and government minister , has been seen by critics of president abdel fattah al-sisi as the strongest potential challenger to the president , who is expected to run for a second term next year .
details about what happened to shafik between his leaving the uae on saturday and his declaration on sunday were unclear .
he made a surprise announcement from the uae last week that he planned to run in the 2018 election .
today , i am here in the country , so i think i am free to deliberate further on the issue , to explore and go down and talk to people in the street , he said on sunday .
there s a chance now to investigate more and see exactly what is needed ... to feel out if this is the logical choice .
the interview on dream tv was shafik s first public appearance since leaving the uae on saturday .
his family said earlier they feared he had been kidnapped .
sources said he had been picked up by egyptian authorities at cairo airport .
shafik dismissed reports he had been kidnapped .
his lawyer , dina adly , wrote on her facebook page that she had been able to see him at a cairo hotel and said he was not subject to any investigations .
she did not confirm whether he was able to leave the hotel or country .
i had a meeting with shafik an hour ago at one of the hotels in new cairo and confirmed his health , adly wrote on facebook , referring to a suburban area of cairo .
he confirmed that his health was good and that he was not subjected to any investigations , she wrote .
shafik s family said earlier he had been taken from their home on saturday by uae authorities and flown by private plane back to cairo .
we know nothing about him since he left home yesterday , shafik s daughter may told reuters on sunday before his reappearance .
if he was deported he should have been able to go home by now , not just disappear .
we consider him kidnapped .
uae authorities confirmed he left the emirates but gave no details .
a source at the egyptian interior ministry said : we do not know anything about shafik .
we did not arrest him and we did not receive any requests from the prosecution to arrest him or bring him back .
shafik s abrupt departure from uae came weeks after lebanese officials accused saudi arabia of meddling by forcing lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri to resign by holding him against his will .
saudi arabia denied those charges but the case prompted a crisis and pushed lebanon back into the center of a regional struggle between riyadh with its sunni gulf allies and iran .
sisi is an ally of uae and saudi arabia and his supporters say he is key to egypt s stability .
critics say he has eroded freedoms gained after a 2011 uprising that ousted former leader hosni mubarak and jailed hundreds of dissidents .
sisi has won backing from gulf states and has presented himself as a bulwark against islamist militants since , as army commander , he led the overthrow in 2013 of former president mohamed mursi of the now banned muslim brotherhood .
after four decades in the military , shafik touted his military experience as one of his strengths in the 2012 vote .
but he fled to the uae to escape corruption charges in june 2012 .
he dismissed the charges as politically motivated and was taken off airport watchlists last year .
in uae , his family said he had round-the-clock security at home and informed authorities about his whereabouts .
soon after his announcement on wednesday , he claimed he had been blocked from traveling , but his family later said he had been given assurances he could travel .
sisi has yet to announce his own intentions for the election .
his supporters dismiss criticism over rights abuses and say any measures are needed for security in the face of an islamist insurgency that has killed hundreds of police and soldiers .
his government is struggling to crush the insurgency in the north sinai region and has enacted painful austerity reforms over the last year which critics say have eroded his popularity .