tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - honduras election tribunal will re-count 4,753 ballot boxes that have cast a shadow on the results of the country s presidential election , the tribunal chief said on thursday , bowing to a demand by the organization of american states ( oas ) .
nearly two weeks since honduras nov. 26 presidential election , the result remains unknown , with allegations of electoral fraud sparking protests and a chorus of international concern over events in the poor central american nation .
official results showed honduras conservative president juan orlando hernandez with a narrow 1.6 percentage point lead over center-left opposition leader salvador nasralla .
however , no victor has yet been declared by the election tribunal .
the tribunal declared nasralla the leader in an announcement on the morning after the vote , with just over half of the ballot boxes counted .
however , it gave no further updates for about 36 hours .
once results then started flowing again , nasralla s lead quickly started narrowing .
on thursday , after meeting with the united states top diplomat in honduras and the oas country representative , tribunal chief david matamoros said there would be a re-count of ballot boxes that arrived after the 36-hour pause , and which the opposition has claimed are tainted .
this is a process we want to undertake in front of the eyes of the world , and we want to invite civil society , matamoros said at a press conference in the capital , tegucigalpa .
the oas , which on wednesday said it may call for new honduran elections if irregularities undermine the credibility of results , had previously called for a recount of those 4,753 ballot boxes .
it remains to be seen if the opposition will accept the tribunal s offer .
nasralla on wednesday evening called for an international arbiter to oversee a recount of the entire 18,000-odd ballot boxes , saying he no longer recognized the honduran tribunal because of its role in the process .
separately , honduras security ministry said on thursday it was removing the curfew from three more departments , meaning only six of the country s 18 departments are still under curfew .