washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on thursday said he would be willing to step in and mediate the worst dispute in decades among the u.s.-allied arab states and qatar , and said he thinks a deal could come quickly .
if i can help mediate between qatar and , in particular , the uae and saudi arabia , i would be willing to do so , and i think you would have a deal worked out very quickly , trump said at a joint news conference with kuwaiti emir sheikh sabah al-ahmad al-jaber al-sabah .
saudi arabia , the uae , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar on june 5 , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the nations say doha supports regional foe iran and islamists , charges qatar s leaders deny .
kuwait has been trying to mediate the dispute .
what is important is that we have stopped any military action , sheikh sabah said .
while both sides in the dispute have ruled out the use of armed force , some ordinary qataris have said they worry about the possibility of military action , given the ferocity of the criticism their country has received from media in the four arab states .
sheikh sabah said he had received a letter from qatar that expressed willingness to discuss a list of 13 demands from its neighbors .
we know that not all of these 13 demands are acceptable , sheikh sabah said , referring specifically to issues that affected qatari sovereignty .
a great part of them will be resolved , he said .
for its part , doha said trump had called emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani to discuss mediation efforts .
qatari foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al-thani told al jazeera tv that any mediation had to come without conditions , reiterating that doha would not negotiate while transport links with neighbors remained cut .
the arab powers responded with a joint statement accusing qatar of putting preconditions on negotiations which it said showed a lack of seriousness in resolving the dispute .
the four countries reiterated an accusation that qatar continued to finance terrorism and interfere in the internal affairs of other countries .
qatari officials have repeatedly said the demands are so draconian that they suspect the four countries never seriously intended to negotiate them , and were instead seeing to hobble doha s sovereignty .
at the same time , they have said qatar is interested in negotiating a fair and just solution to any legitimate issues of concern to fellow gulf cooperation council member states .
the joint statement praised what the countries called trump s firm assertion that the only way to resolve the crisis was by stopping the support and financing of terrorism and his unwillingness to resolve the crisis unless this is achieved .
they expressed regret about the kuwaiti emir s comment about stopping military intervention .
the military option was not and will not be ( used ) in any circumstance , the statement said .