( reuters ) - democratic presidential hopefuls bernie sanders and hillary clinton battled over their progressive credentials at a town hall on wednesday , but also reflected on their spirituality , a topic that more commonly dominates the narrative on the other side of the political aisle .
sanders , speaking at the televised event in derry , new hampshire , built on an earlier back-and-forth between the two candidates on twitter and in appearances in the state , which hosts the second party-nominating contest on feb. 9 , reminding voters that he and clinton have made different decisions on backing the iraq war , taking money from super pacs and energy policies .
“ some of my best friends are moderates , but you can ’ t be a progressive and a moderate at the same time , ” sanders said at the town hall , hosted by cnn , which included questions from voters .
former secretary of state hillary clinton spoke immediately after sanders at the town hall .
“ i was somewhat amused today that senator sanders has set himself up to be the gatekeeper on who is a progressive , because under the definition that was flying around on twitter and statements from his campaign , barack obama would not be a progressive , joe biden would not be a progressive ... so i ’ m not going to let that bother me , ” she said .
her campaign issued a press release during sanders ’ appearance , listing clinton ’ s efforts “ fighting for progressive causes ” including health care and education .
“ i know where i stand , i know who stands with me , i know what i ’ ve done , ” clinton said .
moderator anderson cooper , referring to criticism from sanders that clinton is too close to wall street , asked her about the more than $ 600,000 she received from speaking to the investment bank goldman sachs .
“ that ’ s what they offered , ” clinton said , adding that the payments haven ’ t had any effect on her calls to rein in the big banks .
the two candidates arrived in new hampshire on tuesday , a day after clinton marked a narrow victory in the iowa caucuses , the first nominating contest leading up to the nov. 8 presidential election .
sanders , an independent u.s. senator from vermont who is a democratic socialist , is polling more than 15 points ahead of clinton in new hampshire , but is trailing her nationally by roughly the same amount .
during the town hall , sanders fielded a question about how he would appeal to a broader swath of the electorate , including minority and religious voters - blocs he will need to draw to the polls if he hopes to maintain momentum against clinton in upcoming nominating contests in the south and west .
“ everybody practices religion in a different way .
to me , i would not be here tonight , i would not be running for president of the united states , if i did not have very strong religious and spiritual feelings , ” said sanders , who , if elected , would be the first jewish u.s. president .
“ my spirituality is that we are all in this together , ” sanders added .
clinton , a former first lady and former u.s. senator who has spent decades in public life , fielded a question that elicited a similarly spiritual response , speaking of balancing the role of public servant and her sense of self .
“ i get a scripture lesson every morning from a minister that i have a really close personal relationship with , ” clinton said .
“ he gets up really early to send it to me , so you know , there it is , in my inbox at 5 a.m. ” clinton is seeking to manage expectations about her performance in next week ’ s new hampshire primary , saying sanders has an advantage because he is from a neighboring state .
but clinton shows huge polling leads in the next round of primary contests in nevada and south carolina .
the results from new hampshire could shift momentum in the democratic race .
clinton had hoped for a strong finish against sanders in iowa to vanquish his insurgent candidacy .
in new hampshire , she hopes to overcome his polling lead .
( additional writing by richard valdmanis ; editing by richard valdmanis and leslie adler ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .