seoul/united nations ( reuters ) - north korea said on saturday it aims to reach an equilibrium of military force with the united states , which earlier signaled its patience for diplomacy is wearing thin after pyongyang fired a missile over japan for the second time in under a month .
our final goal is to establish the equilibrium of real force with the u.s. and make the u.s. rulers dare not talk about military option , north korean leader kim jong un was quoted as saying by the state news agency , kcna .
kim was shown beaming as he watched the missile fly from a moving launcher in photos released by the agency , surrounded by several officials .
the combat efficiency and reliability of hwasong-12 were thoroughly verified , said kim as quoted by kcna .
kim added the north s goal of completing its nuclear force had nearly reached the terminal .
north korea has launched dozens of missiles under kim s leadership as it accelerates a weapons program designed to give it the ability to target the united states with a powerful , nuclear-tipped missile .
after the latest missile launch on friday , white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster said the united states was fast running out of patience with north korea s missile and nuclear programs .
we ve been kicking the can down the road , and we re out of road , mcmaster told reporters , referring to pyongyang s repeated missile tests in defiance of international pressure .
for those ... who have been commenting on a lack of a military option , there is a military option , he said , adding that it would not be the trump administration s preferred choice .
also on friday , the u.n. security council condemned the highly provocative missile launch by north korea .
it had already stepped up sanctions against north korea in response to a nuclear bomb test on sept. 3 , imposing a ban on north korea s textile exports and capping its imports of crude oil .
the u.s. ambassador to the united nations , nikki haley , echoed mcmaster s strong rhetoric , even as she said washington s preferred resolution to the crisis is through diplomacy and sanctions .
what we are seeing is , they are continuing to be provocative , they are continuing to be reckless and at that point there s not a whole lot the security council is going to be able to do from here , when you ve cut 90 percent of the trade and 30 percent of the oil , haley said .
u.s. president donald trump said that he is more confident than ever that our options in addressing this threat are both effective and overwhelming .
he said at joint base andrews near washington that north korea has once again shown its utter contempt for its neighbors and for the entire world community .
north korea s latest test missile flew over hokkaido in northern japan on friday and landed in the pacific about 2,000 km ( 1,240 miles ) to the east , the japanese government said .
it traveled about 3,700 km ( 2,300 miles ) in total , according to south korea s military , far enough to reach the u.s. pacific territory of guam , which the north has threatened before .
the range of this test was significant since north korea demonstrated that it could reach guam with this missile , the union of concerned scientists advocacy group said in a statement .
however , the accuracy of the missile , still at an early stage of development , was low , it said .
on thursday , u.s. secretary of state tillerson called on china , pyongyang s only ally , and russia to apply more pressure on north korea by taking direct actions of their own .
beijing has pushed back , urging washington to do more to rein in north korea .
honestly , i think the united states should be doing .. much more than now , so that there s real effective international cooperation on this issue , china s ambassador to the united states , cui tiankai , said on friday .
they should refrain from issuing more threats .
they should do more to find effective ways to resume dialogue and negotiation , he said , while adding that china would never accept north korea as a nuclear weapons state .
north korea staged its sixth and most powerful nuclear bomb test earlier this month and in july tested long-range intercontinental ballistic missiles capable of reaching at least parts of the u.s. mainland .
last month , north korea fired an intermediate range missile that also flew over hokkaido into the ocean .
warning announcements about the latest missile blared in parts of northern japan , while many residents received alerts on their mobile phones or saw warnings on tv telling them to seek refuge .
the u.s. military said it had detected a single intermediate range ballistic missile but it did not pose a threat to north america or guam .
global equities investors largely shrugged off the latest missile test by north korea as shares on wall street set new highs on friday .
trump has promised not to allow north korea to threaten the united states with a nuclear-tipped missile .
russia s u.n. ambassador , vassily nebenzia , said the united states needed to begin talks with north korea , something that washington has so far ruled out .
we called on our u.s. partners and others to implement political and diplomatic solutions that are provided for in the resolution , nebenzia told reporters after the security council meeting .
without implementing this , we also will consider it as a non-compliance with the resolution .
asked about the prospect for direct talks , a white house spokesman said , as the president and his national security team have repeatedly said , now is not the time to talk to north korea .
south korean president moon jae-in also said dialogue with the north was impossible at this point .
he ordered officials to analyze and prepare for possible new north korean threats , including electromagnetic pulse and biochemical attacks .
the united states and south korea are technically still at war with north korea because the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce and not a peace treaty .
the north accuses the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea , of planning to invade and regularly threatens to destroy it and its asian allies .
( for graphic on north korea 's missile and nuclear tests , click tmsnrt.rs/2f3y8rq )