new delhi ( reuters ) - indian police are investigating whether 30 infants died for lack of oxygen in a northern state-run hospital , the second case within a month in which medical supply shortages have been blamed for the deaths of dozens of children .
an underfunded , poorly managed public health system is in the spotlight after more than 60 children died in august in a public hospital in northern uttar pradesh , amid accusations that oxygen supplies ran out because of unpaid bills .
police launched an investigation on sunday in the latest case after a government report blamed the chief medical officer and doctors at another institution in the northern state , ram manohar lohia hospital , for the deaths of 30 children .
the infants died of perinatal asphyxia at the newborn care unit of the hospital in the state s farrukhabad district between july 21 and aug. 20 , police said .
the probe officer was told by mothers that the hospital did not insert oxygen pipes ( into infants windpipes ) after birth , and proper medication was also not given , police said in the complaint , quoting the government report .
the investigation suggested that 30 of a total of 49 children died of perinatal asphyxia , police added in the complaint , seen by reuters .
this condition is caused by a reduced level of oxygen in infants just before , during or after delivery , depriving them of the ability to breathe freely .
a district magistrate on wednesday ordered the inquiry into the deaths of the infants , after media reports linked some deaths to oxygen shortages .
he also ordered action against all the doctors involved in the deaths .
the district s chief medical superintendent , dr akhilesh agarwal , denied there had been any lack of oxygen .
the hospital saved 121 of the 145 infants admitted in critical condition following their birth elsewhere , he added .
the rest died since their conditions were critical , he told reuters .
nineteen more babies were born dead in the government hospital , and the six remaining , from the tally of 49 in the government report , died of unspecified causes , he added , without elaborating .
india spends about one percent of its gdp on public health , among the lowest in the world .
successive governments have faced criticism for not reforming the overburdened public health system which is still plagued with a shortage of doctors and dilapidated infrastructure .
in recent years , prime minister narendra modi s government has increased health spending and vowed to make healthcare more affordable .