remember when college campuses were considered a safe space for political and social debate ? depaul university will no longer allow students to chalk political messages on the sidewalks of its campus because of the offensive , hurtful , and divisive nature of pro-trump chalking found on campus last week .
while these chalk messages are part of national agendas in a heated political battle , they appeared on campus at a time of significant racial tension in our country and on college campuses .
depaul is no exception , depaul s vice president for student affairs eugene zdziarski wrote in a campus-wide email obtained by campus reform .
the university has been addressing campus climate issues in an effort to provide an inclusive and supportive educational environment .
in this context , many students , faculty and staff found the chalk messages offensive , hurtful and divisive .
consequently , zdziarski explained that depaul s status as a 501 ( c ) 3 tax-exempt non-profit organization prohibits students from participating in any political activity that could be interpreted as a reflection of the university s views or opinions .
political chalking on depaul s grounds , zdziarski argued , fits this description.last week , depaul s college republicans organized a chalking campaign on campus , during which phrases such as make depaul great again , blue lives matter , and trump train 2016 were scrawled on the sidewalks.the campus grounds crew removed the chalkings the following morning but cited routine maintenance as one of the reasons for their removal .
after some investigation , it turns out this happened for two reasons , the university wrote in a statement .
first , the crew regularly cleans up chalk messages on our sidewalks .
this is a part of their duties .
secondly , some among the crew considered the messages inflammatory .
the crew has agreed to consult about such matters in the future .
although the grounds crew regularly cleans up chalk messages , meaning depaul students regularly chalk their campus sidewalks , this appears to be the first time university officials have expressly addressed their chalking policies .
zdziarski noted , after the trump chalkings appeared , that students are not even allowed to chalk on sidewalks at all .
students or student organizations may not post partisan political flyers , posters , signs or images on university bulletin board , buildings , electronic message boards , forums or sidewalks .
this includes chalking on campus property , he said.via : campus reform