mombasa , kenya ( reuters ) - kenyan opposition leader raila odinga , who withdrew from a presidential election re-run set for oct. 26 saying it should only take place once wide-ranging reforms are undertaken , urged his supporters on sunday to hold protests .
authorities have banned protests in central nairobi and other hotspots in a bid to keep a lid on mounting political turmoil in the build-up to the repeat vote , in which odinga had been set to challenge president uhuru kenyatta once again .
the supreme court nullified kenyatta s victory in the original election on aug. 8 , citing procedural irregularities .
on friday , odinga said his withdrawal meant the poll had been canceled and that there should be fresh nominations for a new vote .
come out in large numbers tomorrow like you have done today and fear no-one .
this is your country and you have the right to protest , he told a crowd in the coastal city of mombasa .
the election board has said the vote will go ahead , with kenyatta facing six other candidates , none of whom polled more than 1 percent in august .
during a trip to london last week , odinga told reuters that he might consider returning to the supreme court for clarification on whether the oct. 26 poll was legal .
i went to tell our friends in london the truth of what was happening here .
jubilee should know that we are not interested in a coalition government , he said , referring to kenyatta s party .
despite the ban , protests have taken place in the east african country a regional and trade gateway which is the region s richest economy and an important western ally in the fight against militant islamists .
on friday , kenyan police shot dead two people and wounded a third when a crowd tried to storm a police station in the town of bondo in the southwest county of siaya during a rally .
police also used teargas to break up small demonstrations in kenya s three main cities kisumu , the capital and the port of mombasa the same day , defying the ban on rallies in city centers .
hospital authorities said 20 people were injured in kisumu , an opposition stronghold .
i am ready to die for change in kenya , james orengo , an opposition senator and lawyer who led odinga s successful petition at the supreme court , told the crowd in mombasa , which numbered in the thousands .