islamabad ( reuters ) - ties between the united states and pakistan have veered between extremes over the past four decades .
here are some of the key moments in their turbulent relationship : 1980s : united states pumps weapons , money and foreign fighters into afghanistan , with the help of pakistan s inter-services intelligence ( isi ) spy agency , to support mujahideen fighters defeat soviet union troops in afghanistan .
1990 : the united states imposes sanctions on pakistan over islamabad s covert nuclear program .
with the soviet union routed in afghanistan and the cold war ending , pakistan had lost its importance as a regional ally .
1998 : the united states imposes sanctions on pakistan and india over their nuclear tests .
1999 : washington imposes more sanctions on pakistan after army chief pervez musharraf topples a democratically elected government in a military coup .
2001 : after the sept. 11 attacks on new york and washington , the united states asks musharraf to help track down al qaeda and remove the taliban from power .
pakistan turns on its former taliban allies and arrests al qaeda leaders .
* washington removes all sanctions against pakistan in the wake of pakistan s support for its war against al qaeda and other islamist militant groups in afghanistan .
2004 : george w. bush s administration designates pakistan a major non-nato ally , boosting islamabad s diplomatic prestige and giving pakistan greater access to u.s. military technology .
2011 : cia contractor raymond davis kills two pakistanis in the eastern city of lahore in january 2011 .
davis was acquitted of murder and allowed to leave pakistan after a $ 2.3 million payment was made to the men s families .
* u.s. troops kill osama bin laden on pakistani soil in may 2011 .
the raid , kept secret from pakistani authorities , was a humiliation for pakistan s powerful military and again raised questions about whether it was harboring militants .
* nato helicopters and fighter jets attack pakistani military outposts by accident , killing 24 soldiers .
pakistani retaliated by blocking a nato supply route through its territory to afghanistan for more than seven months .
2016 : u.s. congress blocks the sale of f-16 fighter jets to pakistan .
military aid to pakistan reduced .
2017 : u.s. president donald trump outlines a new south asia policy .
trump accuses pakistan of harboring agents of chaos and providing safe havens to militant groups waging an insurgency against the u.s.-backed government in kabul .