dar es salaam ( reuters ) - tanzania s tourism minister ordered a corruption investigation into his predecessor on monday , just two weeks after the former post-holder quit the ruling party and joined the opposition .
hamisi kigwangalla , in charge of regulating one of tanzania s most lucrative sectors , told parliament he had asked the anti-corruption watchdog to look into allegations of abuse of office by lazaro nyalandu .
nyalandu took to twitter to deny any wrongdoing and called the announcement a smear campaign meant to stop anyone else jumping ship .
he quit the ruling chama cha mapinduzi party on oct 30 and joined the main opposition chadema , citing rights abuses and a weakening of democracy in the east african nation .
rights groups have accused president john magufuli s government of cracking down on opposition voices , something it denies .
earlier , the government threatened to disband an opposition-controlled municipal council after the body decided to stay in a pro-democracy organization that the country as a whole had left .
the northwestern kigoma ujiji municipal council , run by the relatively small act-wazalendo party , has decided to remain in the washington-based open government partnership ( ogp ) despite the central government s withdrawal .
tanzania joined the ogp in 2011 to promote transparency and accountability in government spending , but withdrew in july , saying it wanted to focus on participation in aprm , a similar peer review system for african governments .
at the time it said it wanted to cut down on the time and paperwork involved in taking part in two initiatives .
if they ( the council ) continue to communicate with ogp as they are doing now , the government will take stern measures ... which may include disbanding the municipal council .
don t force us to go there , tanzania s good governance minister , george mkuchika , said in parliament .
the leader of act-wazalendo criticized the announcement .
forcing it ( the municipal council ) to withdraw ... is unconstitutional because the central government is interfering in the affairs of local government , he said in a statement .