brasilia/caracas ( reuters ) - dismissed venezuelan prosecutor luisa ortega said on wednesday she had evidence that president nicolas maduro was involved in corruption with construction company odebrecht .
ortega , 59 , was a key player in venezuela s government but broke with it in march .
she fled last week to colombia by boat and on wednesday morning landed in brazil .
ortega said she had been persecuted in an effort to hide details of high-level corruption , saying she had proof , though she offered none .
ortega linked the odebrecht scandal with maduro and socialist party heavyweights including diosdado cabello and jorge rodriguez .
ortega said she had evidence that cabello received some $ 100 million from the brazilian company .
the international community must investigate such cases , she told a news conference .
venezuelan authorities did not respond to a request for comment .
odebrecht admitted in a settlement with u.s. and brazilian prosecutors to paying bribes across 12 countries to win contracts .
according to a u.s. court ruling , between 2001 and 2016 , odebrecht paid about $ 788 million in bribes in countries including brazil , argentina , colombia , mexico and venezuela .
ortega was removed from her position early this month by venezuela s newly formed constituent assembly , a controversial pro-government body whose installation was called dictatorial by governments worldwide .
maduro said on tuesday he would seek ortega s arrest , accusing her of having worked for some time with the united states .
maduro blames washington for many of venezuela s problems , including triple-digit inflation , shortages of basic goods and months of anti-government unrest .
in caracas , state-controlled television broadcast images on wednesday of a police operation in what it said was ortega s apartment .
the cameras showed marble floors , large paintings of ortega herself and one by andy warhol , a cellar containing an array of expensive wines and a wardrobe filled with designer labels .
ortega said she would give details of the corruption cases to authorities in the united states , spain , mexico , brazil and colombia .
since settling in the united states , brazil and switzerland for a record $ 3.5 billion , odebrecht has sought to negotiate leniency deals that would allow it to keep operating in other countries across latin america .