taxpayers need to start calling out the colleges and universities they re funding with their tax dollars .
this kind of communist indoctrination , that is being widely accepted as the norm is not okay !
the university of north carolina at chapel hill issued a guide this week which instructs students that christmas vacations and telling a woman i love your shoes !
are microagressions .
the taxpayer-funded guide entitled career corner : understanding microaggressions also identifies golf outings and the words boyfriend and girlfriend as microagressions.the unc chapel hill guide , published on thursday , covers a wide range of menacing microaggressions which are everyday words that radical leftists have decided to be angry or frustrated about.christmas vacations are a microagression , the public university pontificates , because academic calendars and encouraged vacations which are organized around major religious observances centralize the christian faith and diminish non-christian spiritual rituals and observances .
the university of north carolina at chapel hill issued a guide this week which instructs students that christmas vacations and telling a woman i love your shoes !
are microagressions .
the microagression of liking shoes occurs when someone says i love your shoes !
to a woman in leadership during a q & a after a speech .
so it s a very specific microagression .
the problem , the university of north carolina document declares , is that the shoe admirer values appearances more than intellectual contributions .
similarly , the public school pronounces , interrupting any woman who is speaking is a microagression.golf outings are also a microagression , the university of north carolina says , because suggesting a staff retreat at the country club or even just a round of golf assumes employees have the financial resources to participate in the fairly expensive and inaccessible sport .
( as an aside , daily greens fees at the gorgeous unc finley golf club range from $ 30 for students to $ 40 for professors and administrators .
) the words boyfriend and girlfriend as well as husband and wife are microaggressions , the university of north carolina admonishes , because these words set the expectation that people do not identify as lgbtq until they say otherwise or disclose their sexual orientation .
the correct terms are now partner and spouse , unc chapel hill demands.in this same vein , bureaucratic forms only containing the options male and female are microagressions , the taxpayer-funded flagship school says .
it s also a microagression to refer to men who dress up as women with the pronouns he or him , unc chapel hill scolds.still more microagressions cited by unc chapel hill include complimenting a foreign-born person s english skills , saying i get adhd sometimes and telling a person you don t judge them by the color of their skinthe two lady authors of the unc chapel hill microagressions guide are sharbari dey , an assistant director of multicultural affairs , and krista prince , a dorm life coordinator.in order to counter the multitude of microagressions listed in their document , dey and prince advise students to respond by interrupting and aggressively asking , what did you mean by that ?
unc chapel hill is home to a cultural competency workshop which instructs that white people are privileged because they can buy band-aids in flesh color and have them more or less match their vaguely beige-hued skin .
at least some students have apparently been required to participate in the workshop.via : daily caller h/t campus reform