once again , putin reminds our weak and ineffective commander in chief what winning a war against terrorists looks like when us attack planes destroyed 116 isis oil trucks on november 16 ( allegedly after dropping leaflets warning innocent drivers to scatter ) , it purportedly marked a shift in strategy .
somehow , the obama administration had grossly underestimated the proceeds isis derives from the illicit oil trade while overestimating the damage us warplanes had inflicted on the group s oil infrastructure.here is the video from the russian defense ministry : additionally , bloomberg suggests the pentagon routinely declined to take out tanker trucks for fear of collateral damage .
none of these guys are isis .
we don t feel right vaporizing them , so we have been watching isis oil flowing around for a year , michael knights , an iraq expert at the washington institute for near east policy told bloomberg.there are a couple of things that should jump out at you there .
first , it s not exactly clear why it matters that the administration underestimated the amount of revenue isis derives from oil .
that is , the difference between $ 100 million and $ 400 million per year would be quite meaningful if you were talking about a corporation here , but this is a terrorist group .
sure , it matters that they re making four times more than you thought when it comes to assessing their operational capabilities ( the more money you have , the more you can do ) , but it shouldn t matter when it comes to formulating a strategy to cripple their ability to produce oil .
it s not like you can say oh , well they re only making $ 100 million per year , so that s fine .. now if it s $ 400 million , that s where we ll have to draw the line .
second , since when is the us worried about collateral damage when it comes to taking out terrorists ?
as the intercept laid bare in a series of recent investigative reports , 90 % of those killed in drone strikes aren t the target .
it s not as if the cia isn t aware of that statistic each and every time they pull the trigger on an mq9 reaper.so sure , perhaps the us overestimated the effect its airstrikes were having on islamic state s oil production capabilities and perhaps the pentagon was concerned with killing innocent truck drivers , but it could also be that , as sergei lavrov suggested earlier this week , the us has until now intentionally avoided hitting isis where it hurts in order to keep them in the game and ensure they can still be effective at destabilizing assad .
if you cut off the oil trade , they lose the ability to battle the regime.in any event , there are other pressing questions about isis and oil and we encourage you to read more in the most important question about isis that nobody is asking , but for now , we turn to russia and the kremlin s efforts to dent bakr al-baghdadi s wallet.according to russian general staff spokesman colonel general andrey kartapolov , around 500 fuel tanker vehicles transporting illegal oil from syria to iraq for processing have been destroyed by russia s air forces .
in recent years , islamic state ( is , formerly isis/isil ) and other extremist groups have organized the operations of the so-called pipeline on wheels on the territories they control , kartapolov continued , adding that in just the first few days , [ russian ] aviation has destroyed 500 fuel tanker trucks , which greatly reduced illegal oil export capabilities of the militants and , accordingly , their income from oil smuggling .
via : zero hedge