secretary of defense james mattis was asked in an interview airing sunday what keeps him up at night his answer is epic !
this man is a great choice by president trump ! at the end of an interview on face the nation , mattis was asked about the variety of threats facing the united states .
interviewer john dickerson asked mattis the odd question : what keeps you awake at night ?
without hesitation , mattis replied , nothing , i keep other people awake at night .
fearless !
that s what you need in a sod .
16 best quotes from general james mad dog mattis most revered marine in a generation 1 .
i don t lose any sleep at night over the potential for failure .
i can not even spell the word .
( san diego union tribune ) 2 .
the first time you blow someone away is not an insignificant event .
that said , there are some assholes in the world that just need to be shot .
( business insider ) 3 .
i come in peace .
i didn t bring artillery .
but i m pleading with you , with tears in my eyes : if you fuck with me , i ll kill you all .
( san diego union tribune ) 4 .
find the enemy that wants to end this experiment ( in american democracy ) and kill every one of them until they re so sick of the killing that they leave us and our freedoms intact .
( san diego union tribune ) 5 .
marines don t know how to spell the word defeat .
( business insider ) 6 .
be polite , be professional , but have a plan to kill everybody you meet .
( san diego union tribune ) 7 .
the most important six inches on the battlefield is between your ears .
( san diego union tribune ) 8 .
you are part of the world s most feared and trusted force .
engage your brain before you engage your weapon .
( mattis letter to 1st marine division ) 9 .
there are hunters and there are victims .
by your discipline , cunning , obedience and alertness , you will decide if you are a hunter or a victim .
( business insider ) 10 .
no war is over until the enemy says it s over .
we may think it over , we may declare it over , but in fact , the enemy gets a vote .
( defense news ) 11 .
there is nothing better than getting shot at and missed .
it s really great .
( san diego union tribune ) 12 .
you can not allow any of your people to avoid the brutal facts .
if they start living in a dream world , it s going to be bad .
( san diego union tribune ) 13 .
you go into afghanistan , you got guys who slap women around for five years because they didn t wear a veil .
you know , guys like that ain t got no manhood left anyway .
so it s a hell of a lot of fun to shoot them .
actually it s quite fun to fight them , you know .
it s a hell of a hoot .
it s fun to shoot some people .
i ll be right up there with you .
i like brawling .
( cnn ) 14 .
i m going to plead with you , do not cross us .
because if you do , the survivors will write about what we do here for 10,000 years .
( san diego union tribune ) 15 .
demonstrate to the world there is no better friend , no worse enemy than a u.s. marine .
( mattis letter to 1st marine division ) 16 .
fight with a happy heart and strong spirit ( mattis letter to 1st marine division ) via : wfb