des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - in 2015 , it wasn ’ t the new breed of political groups that can raise as much as billionaires will give them that spent the most on the u.s. presidential race .
rather , it was candidates ’ campaign organizations , with strict fundraising caps , that led the way , federal election commission filings released on sunday showed .
official campaigns , which can accept donations of only up to $ 2,700 from individuals for the primary races , spent $ 322 million in 2015 , the filings showed .
by contrast , super pacs , which came into being after a controversial supreme court ruling in 2010 and can raise and spend unlimited amounts , spent under $ 200 million on the effort to elect the next president .
super pacs usually spend heavily on political advertising , but are barred from sharing strategy plans or even schedules with the candidates they support .
much of the money raised by official campaigns has to fund travel and accommodation costs , but they also spent heavily on advertising in 2015 , perhaps in part because they are generally entitled to much cheaper television rates .
among the presidential candidates , u.s .
senator bernie sanders , a democrat from vermont , spent at least $ 10 million on advertising in the last three months of the year .
his rival , former secretary of state hillary clinton , spent at least $ 8 million .
on the republican side , u.s .
senator marco rubio spent the most on television ads , at $ 8 million , followed by retired neurosurgeon ben carson at $ 3 million .
even when it comes to fundraising , campaigns are leading the way , bringing in $ 449 million in 2015 against $ 341 million for the super pacs .
whether this pattern will hold in 2016 is unclear .
super pacs had $ 158 million in hand to spend in the coming months , while the campaigns collectively had $ 128 million .
( editing by kevin liffey ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .