dubai ( reuters ) - a senior leader of al qaeda s yemeni branch has called for attacks on myanmar authorities in support of minority rohingya muslims , the site monitoring center said on saturday as thousands fled what they say is a government assault on their villages .
myanmar s roughly 1.1 million rohingya pose one of the biggest challenges facing leader aung san suu kyi , accused by western critics of failing to support the muslim minority that has long complained of persecution .
in a video message released by al qaeda s al-malahem media foundation , khaled batarfi called on muslims in bangladesh , india , indonesia and malaysia to support their rohingya muslim brethren against the enemies of allah .
batarfi , who was freed from a yemeni prison in 2015 when al qaeda in the arabian peninsula ( aqap ) seized the port city of mukalla , also urged al qaeda s indian subcontinent ( aqis ) branch to carry out attacks .
so spare no effort in waging jihad against them and repulsing their attacks , and beware of letting down our brothers in burma ( myanmar ) , batarfi said , according to the u.s.-based monitoring center .
about 58,600 rohingya have fled into neighboring bangladesh from myanmar , according to u.n. refugee agency unhcr .
myanmar officials accuse the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) of burning homes .
the group claimed responsibility for coordinated attacks on security posts last week that prompted clashes and a large army counter-offensive .
but rohingya fleeing to bangladesh say the myanmar army is conducting a campaign of arson and killings to drive them out .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
bangladesh , where more than 400,000 rohingya live since they began fleeing myanmar in the 1990s , is also growing increasingly hostile to the minority .
( this version of the story corrects to show rohingya are a minority , not a majority , in second paragraph )