clark freeport zone , philippines ( reuters ) - australia on tuesday announced the expansion of its security support to the philippines , which will involve training in urban counter-terrorism , to fight the rise and spread of islamist militancy in the region .
the announcement follows the end of the 154-day battle for marawi city which stunned the philippine s military inexperienced in urban combat , and fueled concerns islamic state loyalists wanted to use the southern island of mindanao as a base for southeast asia activity .
the battle for marawi ended on monday .
philippines authorities said 920 militants , 165 troops and police and at least 45 civilians were killed in the conflict , which displaced more than 300,000 people .
australia , along with the united states , singapore and china , provided weaponry and technical support , including surveillance aircraft .
all nations must learn from the recent marawi conflict and the philippines experience , said australian defence minister marise payne , adding canberra and manila will host a post-conflict seminar to learn from the five-month marawi conflict .
about 80 soldiers from australia s mobile training team will be deployed in local bases in the philippines to train army and marine units in urban counter-terrorism warfare , said payne on the sidelines of an asean defence ministers meeting in clark , a former u.s. air force base .
the practical training the australian defence forces ( adf ) will provide will ensure the philippines defense force is better able to counter the brutal tactics being employed by terrorists , payne told a news conference .
the spread of daesh-inspired ( islamic state ) terrorism is a direct threat to australia and its interests and we are committed to working with our partners and allies to ensuring daesh can not establish a geographic foothold in the region .
payne said australia was concerned with islamic state fighters returning from iraq and syria to home countries in southeast asia and was working closely with indonesia , malaysia , philippines and singapore to monitor militant movements .
philippine defense secretary delfin lorenzana said in the same briefing the government had been provided by kurdish intelligence , through manila s embassy in baghdad , with a list of indonesians , malaysians and a few filipinos who might return home .
lorenzana said the philippines and australia are now reviewing the deployment of surveillance planes , which flew four times a week over marawi since late june .
apart from urban warfare training , australia will also enhance provide intelligence , surveillance and reconnaissance capability , share information and intelligence and strengthen maritime security engagement and bilateral maritime patrols .
an increasing number of australian warships are expected to make visits to manila .
canberra is also emerging to be the top source of education and training for local troops .