rome ( reuters ) - salvatore toto riina , the sicilian mafia s most powerful boss of the 20th century who was convicted for ordering dozens of murders , died of natural causes early on friday after almost a quarter of a century in jail .
riina , who turned 87 on thursday , died in the prison ward of a hospital in parma , the northern italian city where he had been serving 26 life sentences for homicides committed between 1969 and 1992 .
his victims included the two magistrates who led the campaign to bring mob bosses to justice .
he had fallen into a coma after complications during surgery a few days ago , and his family had been given permission to be by his side on thursday , the justice ministry said .
nicknamed the beast , riina began his violent criminal career on the streets of corleone after world war two and became the sicilian mafia s boss of bosses when it reached its 20th century apex .
riina oversaw a flourishing economic period for organized crime group cosa nostra , or our thing , when it was trafficking heroin to the eastern united states and pulling the levers of political power in palermo and rome .
but due to riina s savagery , hundreds of mobsters broke their code of silence in the 1980s and 1990s and testified against him , allowing magistrates giovanni falcone and paolo borsellino to uncover the long-hidden secrets of cosa nostra and prosecute its leaders for the crimes of its soldiers .
riina s january 1993 arrest , after more than 20 years as a fugitive , came just months after falcone and borsellino were blown up on his orders , and coincided with the tumultuous downfall of italy s corrupt post-war political system .
since then , riina has been held under high security with little access to his family in accordance with a law written to prevent bosses from commanding from prison .
however , he remained a powerful figure within the mob even behind bars and refused to cooperate with investigators until the end .
matteo messina denaro , a riina ally who has been a fugitive for 25 years , is the highest ranking boss still at large , but it is unlikely he will be able take power , john dickie , a british historian and author of the book cosa nostra , told reuters .
cosa nostra is internally and politically divided in a way that makes it almost ungovernable , and this division dates back to riina s campaign for power in the 80s , dickie said .
riina s surviving foes within cosa nostra had close ties to north america , and they are the ones most likely to seek a shift in the crime syndicate s balance of power .
because the sicilian mafia is struggling , it needs to renew its access to the united states , which has been crucial to the organization since the 1880s , dickie said .
given various nicknames over the years - toto , shorty , the beast among them - riina was 19 when he shot a man dead during a gang fight in corleone and spent six years in prison , a rite of passage for a mafioso .
when he returned to corleone , he and his childhood friend bernardo provenzano , who would lead cosa nostra after riina s arrest , fell under the sway of luciano leggio .
leggio took over the corleone mafia with riina and provenzano at his side by killing the town s wartime mafia boss , medical doctor michele navarra , in 1958 .
u.s. author mario puzo would later name the main character in the godfather after the town .
in 1969 , riina and provenzano led a hit squad against feared boss michele the cobra cavataio , ambushing him inside an office in palermo , killing the cobra , another mafioso and two innocent bystanders .
the so-called lazio street massacre gave the corleone clan a foothold in sicily s capital and a post on cosa nostra s governing body , the commission , and the arrest of leggio in 1974 made riina the acting boss of the corleone crime family .
the 1981 murder of mob boss stefano bontate signaled the beginning of a two-year killing spree known as the slaughter , in which riina sought to annihilate his many rivals .
fearing for their lives and for those of their families , hundreds of mobsters broke their code of silence , or omerta , and cooperated with investigators .
the turncoat testimony was a key component in falcone and borsellino s landmark case against cosa nostra , which in january 1992 ended by holding mob bosses responsible for crimes committed by their underlings .
two months later , mafia assassins gunned down salvo lima , prime minister giulio andreotti s right-hand man in sicily , sending a clear message about what riina thought of the court ruling and rome s failure to stop it .
in may of the same year , a massive bomb that blew apart a motorway near palermo killed falcone , his wife and three bodyguards .
in july , borsellino was blown up by another car bomb along with his five bodyguards .
riina was arrested in palermo six months after borsellino s murder , but he never broke his code of silence , leaving a shroud of mystery over suspected negotiations between cosa nostra and rome said to have taken place after falcone s assassination .
the law-enforcement crackdown that followed the 1992 bombings severely hobbled cosa nostra , whose presence in sicily is still felt , but whose economic and political might has faded .
today , calabria s ndrangheta is considered by investigators to be italy s most powerful organized crime group thanks to its role as the biggest european importer of south american cocaine .
the mafia tradition has been carried forward by riina s two sons , giovanni and giuseppe , who remained loyal to their father .
giovanni has been sentenced to life in prison for four murders , and giuseppe spent several years in jail on mafia charges , though he is now free .
riina is also survived by two daughters , maria concetta and lucia , and his wife antonietta .
his funeral is likely to be a private ceremony in corleone , police said .