madrid ( reuters ) - catalan leader carles puigdemont came under pressure from one of his key allies on friday to declare full independence and ignore a threat of direct rule from the spanish government .
puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence on tuesday night , only to suspend it seconds later and call for negotiations with madrid .
spain s prime minister mariano rajoy has given him until monday to clarify his position - and then until thursday to change his mind if he insists on a split - threatening to suspend catalonia s autonomy if he chooses independence .
but far-left catalan political group cup called on puigdemont to make an unequivocal declaration of independence in defiance of the deadlines .
if ( the central madrid government ) wants to continue to threaten and gag us , they should do it to the republic that has already been claimed , the party said .
the cup only holds 10 seats in the 135-seat catalan parliament .
but puigdemont s minority government relies on its support to push through legislation and can not win a majority vote in the regional parliament without its backing .
the wealthy region s intention to break away after a referendum has plunged spain into its worst political crisis since an attempted military coup in 1981 and could hurt economic growth targets for next year , the deputy prime minister said .
if there were no quick solution to this issue we should be forced to lower expectations of economic growth for the year 2018 , soraya sainz de santamaria said on friday .
sources close to the catalan government said puigdemont and his team were working on an answer to rajoy though they declined to say what line he would take .
the cup statement echoes the position expressed late on thursday by influential pro-independence civic group asamblea nacional catalana which said : given the negative position of spain toward dialogue , we ask the regional parliament to raise the suspension ( on the declaration of independence ) .
but the leader of puigdemont s party , artur mas , who served as the region s president until 2016 and is still believed to influence key decisions , said on friday declaring independence was not the only way forward .
if a state proclaims itself independent and can not act as such , it s an independence that is merely aesthetic , he told catalan television tv3 .
the external factor must be taken into account in the decisions that will be made from now on , he said .
the european union , the united states and most other world powers have made it clear they wanted catalonia to remain within spain .
if we allow catalonia - and it is none of our business - to separate , others will do the same .
i do not want that , jean claude juncker said in a speech at luxembourg university .