may 7th is likely going to be a day of clashes against protesters who are coming from all over the united states to demonstrate against the removal of confederate monuments in new orleans .
homeland security and new orleans police superintendent michael harrison have promised that they will be arresting anyone who commits or threatens to commit an act of violence .
the three locations they ll be watching are : lee circle , congo square and the jefferson davis monument , as credible threats have been reportedtension in new orleans has mounted since the battle of liberty place obelisk was removed early on the morning of april 24 , part of an initiative by mayor mitch landrieu , backed by the city council , to rid new orleans of what some consider to be tributes to racism .
supporters consider the monuments part of history , and their removal an attempt to erase history.protestors on both sides clashed at the jefferson davis statute this week , prompting police to barricade the monument .
barricades also appeared friday afternoon at lee circle.landrieu has said statues of confederate generals robert e. lee and p.g.t .
beauregard and confederacy president jefferson davis will come down sometime after the 2017 new orleans jazz and heritage festival wraps ends sunday.radical activists like take em down nola , a group that has long advocated for the monuments removal , plans to rally at congo square on sunday at 1:30 p.m then march to lee circle .
at least one pro-monument contingent has called for a rally at 11 a.m. at lee circle.from the take em down nola website : take em down nola calls for peoples celebration & second line to bury white supremacywhile white supremacists gather from many states around confederate monuments in our city , the mayor nor council has still not publicly called for its own ceremony to honor the historic occasion of 4 monuments to slavery coming down .
even the conservative governor of s.c. had a public ceremony to remove the confederate flag .
cowering in darkness offers no safety or protection , it is shameful and being questioned by world wide media.we the people of new orleans demand that the mayor and city council take immediate action to remove all monuments , school names and street signs dedicated to white supremacists .
these structures litter our city with visual reminders of the horrid legacy of slavery that terrorized so many of this city s ancestors .
they misrepresent our community .
we demand the freedom to live in a city where we are not forced to pay taxes for the maintenance of public symbols that demean us and psychologically terrorize us .
we demand:1.that the city release a timeline for the immediate removal of the monuments ; 2.that the city expand the definition from 4 specific monuments to encompass all monuments to white supremacy 3.that the city develop a community driven process for the removal of the monuments and the choosing of their replacements.not everyone agrees with take em down nola that confederate statues are a sign of racism .
one of the most vocal defenders of the confederate flag and of the confederate statues in new orleans is black female conservative activist arlene barnum .
barnum is pictured below with her friend , author and popular pro-confederate flag speaker anthony hervey .
barnum was with when she says he was killed by 4-5 black youths after attending a pro-confederate flag rally in mississippi .
according to barnum , she and hervey were guest speakers at the rally in mississippi .
as they were leaving the rally , the suv driven by hervey was chased down by a silver car with 4-5 young black men inside .
during the chase , he lost control of his car , it flipped and he was killed .
apparently his life didn t matter to the black community , as they never uttered a word about his suspicious death : public notice ..
listen up very carefully .
if anyone of you who claim to be pro-confederate , but who are anti-confederate battle flag , then remove yourself from my friends list .
and be quick about it.if you are against the displaying of the confederate battle flag in public , then remove yourself from my friends list .
do it now ! if you are advocating that people not bring confederate battle flag into new orleans at the endangered confederate monuments , then remove yourself from my friends list .
and be quick as lickity split ! as far as i know , i don t have any blm folks on my friends list .
and when i catch em thru the cracks , i remove & block them with the most extreme prejudice .
however , in the case of these self-professed pro confederate folks who have issues with that battle flag emblem , i will give them the respect , dignity & the curtesy to remove themselves .
i m giving them 72 hrs.in photo , the man to the left , anthony hervey is a mississippian who was not afraid to publicly display the confederate battle flag .
as a colored man , he has been vilified , attacked , physically assaulted , called all sorts of racial insults that not even the average white confederate flaggers had endured .
but yet he kept on flagging proudly until the day he was killed .
so don t give me that sh * t excuse to justify hiding the confederate battle flag to avoid being called a racist .
i guarantee you that every colored confederate flagger i know have been called much worse & treated with violence & are the 1st to be targeted at public venues.you better not be black and support free speech or a confederate monument in america or expect to be threatened by the left .
this is no joke .
facebook user gene black threatened a black confederate statue supporter s family while he s in new orleans on his wall 4 days ago : much like isis , pro-confederate monument removal groups like take em down nola and communist groups like antifa plan to come together to threaten free speech and freedom of expression.black rebel posted this image with the following message : words can not described the friendships built after fighting side by side .
on his facebook page : black rebel also posted this video of an anti-free speech leftist launching a glass bottle , just missing the head of a fellow pro-confederate monument protester .
watch how the police take their time walking over to the area from where the bottle was thrown .
you can hear the free speech protesters yelling , do something !
to the police officers as they appear to be in no hurry to do anything about it .
let s hope this is not an example of how police plan to respond to any potential acts of violence today , or things are likely to get very ugly very quickly : new orleans police department held a press conference on saturday where they made the public aware they are planning to keep the citizens of new orleans safe and will keep the protesters safe from violence and from the threat of violence .
police chief harrison also makes it clear that they will take swift action for anyone who violates the law .
chief harrison also makes clear that while they respect the rights of citizens to open carry weapons in new orleans , that those weapons are not allowed at a public protest : watch the response from american warrior revolution member to new orleans police chief harrison s press conference :