fist lady melania trump hosted military moms at the white house on friday .
she gave a heartwarming and heartfelt speech about what it means to be a mother .
she s beautiful inside and out ! notice how president trump looks on lovingly and proudly .
the first lady speaks with empathy about how hard it must be for them to send their military son or daughter to fight for america : thank you for all that you do , for your selflessness and for your own sacrifice on behalf of our country first lady melania trumpshe does a great job ! the department of defense : in honor of mother s day , president donald j. trump and first lady melania trump welcomed active-duty troops , their spouses and mothers to the white house , today .
as commander in chief of the united states , my supreme duty is to protect our citizens and that means supporting our servicemen and women , the president said .
that obligation begins the first day they put on the uniform and continues every day after , when they return to civilian life as veterans .
trump said he would make sure the nation always takes care of its soldiers , sailors , airmen , marines and the members of the coast guard .
to every military service member , mother and spouse here today , i want you to know you have my complete and total support [ and ] the white house , this administration and this government stands fully behind you , the president said.moms are heroes , too as we celebrate mother s day this weekend , this is one of many opportunities for us to thank the incredible military mothers who love and care for our nation s heroes , trump said .
the mothers are heroes , too .
it is your sacrifice that protects our nation , safeguards our liberties and makes sure our beautiful american flag always waves proudly above our very glorious land , he said to the military mothers in the audience.the president introduced first lady melania trump , who said she was honored by the military members presence as the nation celebrates national military appreciation month and mother s day.title that claims the heart as everyone in this room knows , mother is a title that claims your heart and changes your life forever , the first lady said .
in fact , it has been said that having a child means allowing your heart to walk around outside of your body .
for the mothers of someone who has , or is , serving our country , this must be especially true .
noting that while she , too , is a mother , melania trump said she does not know of the many different challenges that come with being the parent of a service member.part of a community while you stand with many other parents , so strong and so proud , i am sure that you sometimes march on this journey alone , the first lady said , adding , while your sons and daughters are away serving so selflessly , having a community share even some of that burden must make all the difference in the world .
melania trump told the mothers in the audience they are part of a community , and the white house is proud to be a part of it with them .
thank you for all that you do , for your selflessness and for your own sacrifice on behalf of our country , she said .
let today s celebration with this community of strong and selfless moms be a first step in building relationships , the first lady said , and in your knowing , that my husband and i , along with everyone here at the white house , hold you close in our hearts and thoughts each and every day .