teleskof , iraq ( reuters ) - inside the newly renovated church of saint george in the northern iraqi town of teleskof , hayat chamoun daoud led children dressed as santa claus singing jingle bells in aramaic .
like every other resident of teleskof , this was daoud s first christmas back home in three years , since islamic state militants overran her town and forcibly displaced its 12,000-strong chaldean christian community .
it s so special to be back in my church , the church where i got married , the church i raised my children in , the school headmistress said , tears in her eyes .
faced with a choice to convert , pay a tax or die , daoud , like many other christians in the nineveh plains , chose to flee .
most sought refuge in nearby towns and cities , but many sought permanent asylum abroad .
though the militants were only in teleskof for a few days , residents only began returning home earlier this year .
on sunday , they celebrated their first christmas together again at the town s main church , which was overflowing .
hundreds of congregants , dressed in their finest , poured in to pray and receive communion from father salar bodagh , who later lit the traditional bonfire in the church s courtyard , a symbol of renewal he said .
despite the obvious joys of being able to celebrate openly once again , it was a bittersweet christmas for most across the nineveh plains , the epicenter of iraq s ancient christian communities which can trace their history in the country back two millennia .
though iraq declared full victory over the militants just two weeks ago after a brutal three-year war , the damage done to christian enclaves was extensive , and left many wondering whether they could overcome their recent history .
islamic state ravaged christian areas , looting and burning down homes and churches , stripping them of all valuable artifacts and smashing relics .
the damage in qaraqosh , a town 15 km ( 10 miles ) west of mosul also known as hamdaniya , was extensive , particularly to the town s ancient churches .
at the syrian catholic church of the immaculate , congregants gathered for midnight mass on sunday surrounded by scorched and blackened walls , still tagged with islamic state graffiti .
they also sat on donated plastic chairs - the church has not yet been able to replace the wooden pews the militants used to fuel the massive fire which engulfed the church .
most families will require tens of thousands of dollars to repair their homes and replace their stolen goods .
but most say they can overcome the material damage , unlike the forced separation of their families .
before the militant onslaught , qaraqosh was the largest christian settlement in iraq , with a population of more than 50,000 .
but today , only a few hundred families have returned .
entire congregations have moved overseas , such as the syriac orthodox congregation of the church of mart shmony .
on saturday afternoon , father butros kappa , the head of qaraqosh s church of the immaculate was trying hard to summon any sense of hope to deliver his congregation during christmas mass .
we ll have a christmas mass like in previous years , but this year , ours will be a joy soaked in tears , because all of our people have left iraq , said father kappa .
holding mass in the singed and upturned ruins of his church was therefore important , he said , to remind everyone that despite the tragedies that have befallen us , we re still here .
in teleskof , 30 km ( 20 miles ) north of mosul and itself one of the oldest continuing christian communities in the world , some families were skipping mass altogether upset at their forced dispersal .
we usually celebrate with our entire family , said umm rita , as she prepared the traditional christmas day dish of pacha ( sheep s head , trotters and stomach all slowly boiled ) at her home .
but how can we be happy this year ?
our brothers and sisters , even my own daughter , her husband and child i ve never met have all moved away .
community leaders estimate more than 7,000 of teleskof s residents are now scattered across iraq and it s semi-autonomous kurdistan region , the united states , australia , germany , lebanon and jordan .
amid ongoing tensions between the central government in baghdad and iraq s kurds after a referendum on kurdish independence was held over baghdad s objections in september , teleskof s residents fear violence once again .
we just want to live in peace , said umm rita .
we are more anxious now than when islamic state was in our homes .
our community has been gutted , said firas abdelwahid , a 76-year-old former state oil employee , of the thousands who have sought permanent shelter overseas .
watching children play by the church bonfire , he felt melancholy .
but what do we expect ?
the past is tragic , the present is desperate and well , there is no future for us christians in iraq .