beirut ( reuters ) - three men blew themselves up near the police headquarters in central damascus on wednesday , killing two people and injuring six others , state media said , citing the interior ministry .
islamic state claimed responsibility for the attack , the second this month .
two suicide bombers tried to storm the police center and clashed with guards before detonating explosive devices outside on khalid bin al-walid street , the damascus police chief said .
police forces then chased down the third attacker , who blew himself up nearby at the entrance to a clothes market .
our investigations are ongoing to find out where they came from and how , police chief mohammad kheir ismail told state tv from outside the headquarters .
the issue has been controlled .
an islamic state statement said three suicide bombers had attacked the police center with machine guns and explosive belts .
islamic state also claimed responsibility earlier this month for a similar suicide bomb attack on a police station in another part of damascus , in which 17 people were reported dead .
damascus has enjoyed relative security as syria s six-year civil war has raged on nearby and across the country .
but several such attacks have hit the capital in recent years , including a car bomb that killed 20 people in july .
islamic state and tahrir al-sham - led by militants formerly linked to al qaeda - have each claimed separate suicide blasts that killed scores of people in damascus previously .
the desperate suicide attempts come as a response to the victories of the syrian arab army , and the interior ministry is fully ready to thwart any terrorist act , state television quoted interior minister mohammad al-shaar as saying .
with the help of russian jets and iran-backed militias , the damascus government has pushed back rebels in western syria , shoring up its rule over the main urban centers .
in recent months , it has also marched eastwards against islamic state .
syrian troops and allied forces have recaptured several suburbs of damascus from rebel factions over the past year .
the army and its allies have been fighting insurgents in the jobar and ain tarma districts on the capital s eastern outskirts .