dandong , china ( reuters ) - the united nations may have failed to slow north korea s weapons programs , but the country s economy is already showing signs it is feeling the squeeze from the ongoing clampdown on trade , including a curb on fuel sales by china .
the latest sanctions agreed on monday by the un security council ban the export of textiles from north korea , one of its few substantial foreign currency earners .
they also capped imports of oil and refined products , without imposing the full ban the united states had sought .
chinese traders along the border with north korea and some regular visitors to the isolated country said scarcer and costlier fuel , as well as earlier un sanctions banning the export of commodities such as seafood and coal , are now taking a toll .
our factory in north korea is about to go bankrupt , said an ethnically-korean chinese businessman in dandong who sells cars refurbished at a factory in north korea .
he declined to be identified due to the sensitivity of the situation .
if they can t pay us , we re not going to give them goods for free , he said , referring to his north korean customers .
a trader at another auto-related businesses in dandong said cross-border trade had been hurt over the past few years , which he attributed to sanctions and less access to petrol .
several chinese traders told reuters the sanctions had stymied north korean businesses ability to raise hard currency to trade .
last month sales were really bad , i only sold a couple of vehicles , said the chinese trader who sells new trucks , vans and minibuses to north korea .
in august last year , i sold tens of vehicles and i thought that was bad .
on top of the sanctions , some traders said chinese officials have stepped up efforts to curb smuggling across the border , a key source of fuel in the northern parts of north korea .
and chinese bank branches in the northeast have curtailed doing business with north koreans , according to branch staff .
still , north korea has made strides in increasing its economic independence and not all traders or observers agreed the international pressure was having a major economic impact .
many residents , long accustomed to restrictions and shortages , were most concerned about the risk of already tight fuel supplies being cut further , said kang mi-jin , a north korean defector in seoul who reports for the daily nk website .
if the u.s. were to say they plan to bomb pyongyang , north koreans wouldn t care less .
but if china says they are considering slashing oil exports to north korea because of missile or nuclear tests , north koreans would absolutely freak out , she said .
reuters reported in late june that state-run china national petroleum corp ( cnpc ) had suspended sales of gasoline and fuel to north korea over concerns it would not get paid , and chinese customs data showed that gasoline exports to the north had dropped 97 percent from a year earlier .
petrol and diesel prices in north korea surged after the cut and have almost doubled since late last year .
in early september , petrol cost an average of $ 1.73/kg , compared with 97 cents last december , according to data from the defector-run daily nk .
the cost of living has gone up , the price of petrol has risen and there are fewer cars on the streets , a foreign resident of the north korean capital told reuters .
the only thing that had become cheaper was coal , he said , after china banned north korean coal imports earlier this year .
some of the scarcity of oil products and higher prices may have been caused by hoarding in anticipation of a clampdown on supply .
north korea canceled an air show scheduled for this month in the coastal city of wonsan , citing current geopolitical circumstances .
several chinese traders said they believed it was because the military is saving aviation fuel .
the new un resolution imposes a ban on condensates and natural gas liquids , a cap of 2 million barrels a year on refined petroleum products , and a cap on crude oil exports to north korea at current levels .
north korea uses far less crude than during its industrial heyday in the 1970s and 1980s , according to the u.s. energy information administration .
after cut-price supplies from china and the soviet union ended following the cold war , consumption dropped from 76,000 barrels per day in 1991 to an estimated 15,000 last year , according to the eia .
the use of small-scale solar has become widespread in the north , with many apartment balconies dotted with panels providing power for cooking and lighting .
china has not disclosed crude exports to north korea for several years but industry sources say it supplies about 520,000 tonnes of crude a year to north korea through an aging pipeline .
the pipeline already operates at the minimum level for which the waxy crude from china s daqing oil fields can flow without clogging , according to a senior oil industry source .
chun yung-woo , a former south korean envoy on the north korean nuclear issue , said the north could endure for a year or two without oil imports .
north koreans are so used to living in harsh economic conditions that they would just get by for at least one year even if the oil ban is adopted , rationing the existing stockpile among top elites at a minimum level and replacing cars , tractors , equipment with cow wagons , human labor etc , he said .
they would also manage to produce oil from whatever resources are available , whether it be coal , trees or plants .