just when you thought muslims had cornered the market on abusing gays !
since you won t see this story in the mainstream media .
please feel free to share it baltimore city police arrested an aide to rep. sander m. levin , d-mich. , at around 2:30 a.m. on oct. 8 for criminal domestic violence charges.tim foster , a native of henderson , ky. , brutally beat his male lover with a small black and red shovel , according to a police report obtained by cq roll call , leaving the victim hospitalized with abrasions and bruises on his upper back , neck and torso.the dispute started around 12:30 a.m. inside a northwest baltimore home , when foster , 32 , got into a verbal argument with the 39-year-old black male identified as his boyfriend.foster put his boyfriend in a choke hold and stated , i want to kill you .
die dirty faggy , the man later told police .
foster released him , then allegedly grabbed a stainless kitchen knife .
as the boyfriend fled toward the stairs , foster chased him and warned , when you reach the fifth step , i am going to stab you .
foster lunged at his boyfriend with the knife .
but foster s wife got in the way and the knife then fell to the floor , the report states.the boyfriend told police he attempted to escape the property , but was again assaulted by foster .
this time , foster struck him in his upper back with a small black and red shovel .
foster continued to assault the man until he got into his vehicle , the report states.police responded to union memorial hospital , where they spoke to the victim.foster was placed under arrest early thursday morning , and locked up in the baltimore county detention center .
the shovel was submitted as evidence.court records show foster was committed overnight , then released .
he faces second degree assault and dangerous weapons charges.levin has employed foster for seven years .
foster started his current post , as online communication manager , in may 2013 .
in the wake of the incident , he was placed on unpaid leave.via : roll call