of course , mateen s muslim father vehemently denies his son was gay .
isis isn t gon na like this new little development , especially after they claimed responsibility for the actions of the gay terrorist a former classmate of omar mateen s 2006 police academy class said he believed mateen was gay , saying mateen once asked him out.officials say mateen shot and killed 49 people and injured 53 others at an orlando nightclub early sunday morning.the classmate said that he , mateen and other classmates would hang out , sometimes going to gay nightclubs , after classes at the indian river community college police academy .
he said mateen asked him out romantically .
we went to a few gay bars with him , and i was not out at the time , so i declined his offer , the former classmate said .
he asked that his name not be used.he believed mateen was gay , but not open about it .
mateen was awkward , and for a while the classmate and the rest in the group of friends felt sorry for him .
he just wanted to fit in and no one liked him , he said .
he was always socially awkward .
in orlando , the los angeles times reported that mateen attended the pulse nightclub possibly as many as a dozen times before the rampage .
kevin west said he had messaged mateen back and forth over a year s time on the gay dating app jack d but never met him until he saw mateen crossing the street about 1 a.m. sunday .
he walked directly past me .
i said , hey , and he turned and said , hey , and nodded his head , west said .
i could tell by the eyes .
at least four regular customers of pulse , the lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender nightclub where the massacre took place , told the orlando sentinel on monday that they believed they had seen mateen there before .
sometimes he would go over in the corner and sit and drink by himself , and other times he would get so drunk he was loud and belligerent , said ty smith , who also uses the name aries.he saw mateen at the club at least a dozen times , he told the sentinel .
we didn t really talk to him a lot , but i remember him saying things about his dad at times , smith said .
he told us he had a wife and child .
the canadian press reported monday that mateen had been seen there over three years.chris callen recalled the eventual killer being escorted drunk from the pulse bar on multiple occasions , including one incident where he pointed a knife at a friend .
said callen , who performs under the name kristina mclaughlin , he s been going to this bar for at least three years .
mateen s father emphatically told the post monday that his son was not gay .
if he was gay , why would he do something like this ?
seddique mateen asked.for entire story : palm beach post