dera ismail khan , pakistan ( reuters ) - the leader of a pakistani militant group whose suicide bombings killed more than 250 people died on thursday of injuries from a u.s. drone strike in afghanistan , a spokesman for the militants said .
omar khalid khorasani s death comes ahead of u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson s visit and is likely to help ease tensions between the often-wary allies , as islamabad has been asking washington to target militants who attack inside pakistan and hide over the border in afghanistan .
khorasani s jamaat-ul-ahrar ( jua ) , a splinter faction of the pakistani taliban , is one of dozens of armed islamist factions - including al qaeda and the afghan taliban - operating in afghanistan and pakistan .
but jua has been particularly deadly in pakistan , claiming responsibility for eight major attacks in two years .
among them was last year s easter sunday bombing in a park that killed at least 70 people , including 29 children , in the eastern city of lahore .
the group also said it carried out a suicide attack at a hospital that killed at least 74 people in the southwestern city of quetta , a bombing also claimed by islamic state , with which jua also has been affiliated .
rumours had flown for two days that khorasani had been wounded in u.s. drone strikes along the afghan-pakistani border , and on thursday his group confirmed he had died .
our leader , omar khalid khorasani , was wounded in one of the recent drone strikes in afghanistan .
he was wounded badly , and today he was martyred , jua spokesman asad mansur said by telephone .
the announcement came a week after pakistan s army rescued a kidnapped american couple and their three children from the haqqani network , an afghan taliban faction that washington has long accused islamabad of failing to target .
the killing of khorasani is likely to add to the recently improved mood between washington and islamabad , said talat masood , a retired pakistani general and prominent political analyst .
he was a very powerful leader and he had done great harm to pakistan , masood said of khorasani .
i think pakistan has been looking forward to this , and i think the americans targeting him has been very helpful in that sense .
khorasani had a background that reads like a history of pakistani militancy .
born abdul wali in a village called lakaro in the northwestern mohmand tribal region , khorasani started out as an anti-india jihadist fighting in kashmir , according to a long-time friend who spoke last year to reuters on condition of anonymity .
he later joined the pakistani taliban in 2007 to fight the government to establish strict sharia islamic law .
in 2014 , khorasani left the pakistani taliban after a leadership quarrel to form jamaat-ul-ahrar .
jua gained attention in september 2014 when it announced it was supporting islamic state and rejecting the main pakistani taliban leadership .
by march 2015 , however , the group was again swearing loyalty to the main pakistani taliban umbrella leadership .
still , jua never specifically disavowed islamic state either , and several attacks inside pakistan have been claimed by both groups .
the united states last year designated jua as a terrorist group .
khorasani had previously been seriously wounded in a nato air strike in eastern afghanistan in 2015 but later recovered .