hillary and bill clinton have no shame !
they ve both been lying to the american people for 30 years !
from bill s sexual exploits to hillary s e-mails , they both have told the biggest whoopers that would have gotten any normal person in much more trouble !
it s like the clintons get a pass and that the rules don t apply to them ever !
sooo fast forward to hillary s dnc acceptance speech where she tells yet another tall tale .
you won t believe how she basically throws a town under the bus to make herself look like a compassionate humanitarian .
the problem is that some sharp people busted her for the lie lol !
from the new bedford standard times april 17 , 2015 in an article by steve urbon : the idealistic young woman with the long hair and huge eyeglasses had just graduated from yale law school , the future holding nothing but potential .
but instead of shipping off to a new york or washington law firm , she joined marian wright edelman s fledgling children s defense fund ( which edelman , yale law class of 1963 , still leads ) .hillary rodham clinton apparently would have you believe that , in 1973 she had forgone a career at a lucrative washington d.c. law firm to instead , serve the public at yale university s children s defense fund ( cdf ) .
not exactly the truth .. but that s not the whopper i speak of yet .
while she did indeed work at the cdf in new bedford in 1973 , it seemed more like plan b than her passion , but this was her fate and it served her well .
hillary rodham actually went for the big bucks at that dreamy law firm in d.c .but she failed to pass her bar exams in the district of columbia , instead eventually passed them in arkansas .
in last night s acceptance speech , secretary clinton told a story of her experience on the south coast of massachusetts in the city of new bedford as an attorney for the cdf that didn t all add up according to my radio colleague chris mccarthy : my mother , dorothy , was abandoned by her parents as a young girl .
she ended up on her own at 14 , working as a housemaid .
she was saved by the kindness of others .
her first-grade teacher saw she had nothing to eat at lunch and brought extra food to share the entire year .
the lesson she passed on to me , years later , stuck with me : no one gets through life alone .
we have to look out for each other and lift each other up .
and she made sure i learned the words from our methodist faith : do all the good you can , for all the people you can , in all the ways you can , as long as ever you can .
so , i went to work for the children s defense fund , going door-to-door in new bedford , mass. , on behalf of children with disabilities who were denied the chance to go to school .
i remember meeting a young girl in a wheelchair on the small back porch of her house .
she told me how badly she wanted to go to school it just didn t seem possible in those days .
and i couldn t stop thinking of my mother and what she d gone through as a child .
it became clear to me that simply caring is not enough .
to drive real progress , you have to change both hearts and laws .
you need both understanding and action .
so we gathered facts .
we built a coalition .
and our work helped convince congress to ensure access to education for all students with disabilities .
of all the mill cities in all the world .. she had to pick on ours ?
as chris mccarthy observed , this story has b.s .
written all over it .
i was coming to wbsm a bit late from my boston herald radio appearance earlier this morning and by the time i had pulled into the parking lot at 10:07 a.m. , chris opened the show and had already impeached the whole hillary whale of a story ( new bedford is known as the whaling city ) .now , chris is extremely sharp and the local reference in her story caught his attention as he watched her speak last night .
we hashed over the odds of plausibility an possibilities over the next two hours .
when we departed , i decided to investigate .
you may see chris on national tv later on this weekend or next week .
who knows ?
here s what i learned ; the mayor of new bedford in 1973 was a guy i happen to know , mayor john markey ( 81 years old and a lifelong democrat now living in dartmouth , ma .
mayor markey is also a retired judge and a man whose credibility and character are beyond reproach .
jack as he is known , is eligible for both court and municipal pension but only accepts one .
he is not one to double dip .
i called jack and asked him a few questions about handicap services in 1973 at the new bedford public schools , including wheelchair accessibility .
i took over as mayor in january of 1973 .
we had a budget for vans with drivers and provided services to students with disabilities .
it was tremblay bus .
they would pick them up and drop them off at their homes .
now , they may not have been able to go to the local school , depending on whether or not the schools were accessible for wheelchairs but there were many schools then which could and did accommodate our handicapped students in wheelchairs .
in fact , we had a local guy who was a paraplegic , injured in a diving accident who came to my office many times to advocate for the disabled and i actually spent an entire day in 1973 in a wheelchair to better understand the challenges they face everyday .
soon after that we were cutting out sidewalks for wheelchairs and doing things in new bedford before the laws ever compelled us to .
so despite the progressive and good works of the new bedford leadership in 1973 to make the city schools and streets more handicap accessible , hillary ( no pun intended ) rolled new bedford local government under the bus last night in front of the world .
and needed to lie to do it .
it just didn t seem possible in those days hillary , because it wasn t true in 1973 new bedford .
* while she did important work to expose the needs not yet met in some school districts , this was not a city without wheelchair accessible schools and services to get the students to the schools .
maybe today s mayor jon mitchell will offer to find this girl in the wheelchair on that porch as he did when challenging ma governor charlie baker s new bedford anecdotal about a new bedford fisherman , a mountain of a man who last made baker cry .
with a hardship story .. which turned out to actually be true .
and you thought she changed silly you .
read more : wbsm