london ( reuters ) - a london court on thursday rejected a legal challenge against the deal between britain s ruling conservatives and a northern ireland party that allowed the government to cobble together a parliamentary majority in june .
after losing their majority in a disastrous snap election on june 8 , prime minister theresa may s conservatives secured support from the democratic unionist party ( dup ) in return for a pledge to spend an extra 1 billion pounds in northern ireland .
in a crowdfunded legal challenge brought by a northern irish citizen , lawyers argued that the deal , known as a confidence-and-supply agreement , was corrupt because it amounted to using public money to buy votes .
but after a one-day hearing , the high court rejected their arguments and denied permission for judicial review of the deal .
the judges said neither of the grounds put forward against the deal was legally arguable .
the challenge was launched by ciaran mcclean , a mental health worker and green party member living in northern ireland , who raised 92,000 pounds ( $ 121,600 ) on a crowdfunding website and was present in court on thursday .
lawyers acting for him told the court that the conservative party purchased the political support of the dup for the sum of 1 billion pounds and that the deal was an offence under the bribery act 2010 .
government lawyers responded that the public expenditure contemplated by the deal would be authorized by parliament , and that the criminal law of bribery did not apply to a confidence-and-supply agreement between political parties .
on his fundraising page , mcclean had written that the conservative-dup deal violated northern ireland s 1998 good friday peace agreement which ended decades of armed sectarian conflict in the province .
under the peace deal , the uk government is required to be impartial between unionists who want the province to remain part of the uk and republicans who aspire to become part of ireland .
the government is threatening hard-won peace with their pact with the reactionary dup , mcclean wrote .
however , for technical legal reasons , that line of argument did not form part of the case heard by the high court .
may , who replaced david cameron as prime minister after the brexit referendum in june 2016 , inherited a narrow parliamentary majority from him .
in april 2017 , with opinion polls suggesting she had a double-digit lead over the opposition labour party , she called a snap election , hoping to increase her majority .
but after an uninspiring campaign , they lost their majority .
support from the dup s 10 members of parliament has enabled may to cling to power as britain moves closer to the challenge of leaving the european union .