mandra , greece ( reuters ) - flash floods killed at least 15 people , made scores homeless and destroyed infrastructure in greece on wednesday after a raging torrent inundated two coastal towns west of athens following a night of heavy rain .
in devastation locals said was unprecedented in scale , an overnight deluge triggered flash floods in the industrial towns of nea peramos and mandra in the foothills of a mountain just west of athens .
prime minister alexis tsipras declared a period of national mourning .
these are very difficult moments for greece .
we are living a great disaster , he said in a state address .
immediately and without delay support measures will be adopted for households and businesses affected , he said , without going into details .
residents said they were woken on wednesday morning by rainwater and mud coming through their homes .
as the scale of destruction became clearer during the day , large areas were covered in water and mud .
in some areas floodwaters rose to the first story of small buildings .
there was just an incredible amount of water which caused raging torrents , said yiannis kapakis , the head of greece s civil protection service .
torrential rain of this type is uncommon in greece , where poor infrastructure can leave citizens vulnerable to flooding .
it has been raining steadily for about a week , and the country s met office issued a new severe weather warning for thursday .
some residents were forced onto rooftops and balconies while cars were thrust onto porches of homes , rammed like dodgem vehicles into tree trunks or tipped onto their side .
this is a biblical disaster , mandra mayor yianna krikouki told state broadcaster ert .
everything is gone .
the attica prefecture , the administrative district for both towns , said it would seek assistance from the eu solidarity fund , set up to respond to natural disasters .
a state of emergency was declared in the region .
the walls collapsed , the cars were carried away and they broke everything here .
there is nothing left , resident marina kolia said .
water is everywhere in the house .
mandra and nea peramos have a combined population of about 20,000 .
many greek housing settlements are built without taking into account town planning regulations .
an athens prosecutor ordered an urgent preliminary investigation into the deaths and destruction caused and was also investigating possible urban planning offences .
on tuesday , greece declared a state of emergency on the eastern island of symi , just off the coast of turkey , after a storm swept cars into the sea , damaged homes and cut off electricity and water supplies .