the imperial presidency continues against the constitution : the constitution provides that the president shall have power , by and with the advice and consent of the senate , to make treaties , provided two-thirds of the senators present concur ( article ii , section 2 ) white house : the president has the legal authority to ratify the accord without the two-thirds senate vote required for treaties .
the pact is merely an executive agreement .
what they re not telling you is this executive agreement is a huge redistribution of american tax dollars to other countries ! this should be voted on ! for many years the public at large has been spoonfed the idea that global warming climate change , is caused by man s excessive release of carbon into the atmosphere .
and that the solution to the climate crisis was to decrease the production of said gas.over the past several years the global warming fanatics have changed their tune .
many of us in the new media have been warning about their true motives for year.now , instead of the climate crisis being caused by carbon emissions , it is being caused by inequality.on monday , during a press conference at the united nations conference on climate change in paris , ms. camille risler , a representative of the asia pacific forum on women , law and development ( apwld ) which is an organization listed as an official consultant to the united nations economic and social council , stated that the cause of climate change is the unequal distribution of wealth , carbon , and power : this is the press conference of the women and ( unintelligible ) constituency .
it is one of the nine official constituencies of the unfccc , and we are composed of 15 women s rights and feminist organizations from all around the world .
so i m going to begin with kind of an overview of our positions and then i will give the floor over to my colleagues that will go more into details of each section of negotiations.i m camille risler .
i m from france but i m living in thailand .
i m working for a feminist network that is called asia pacific forum on women , law and development and i m working for the climate justice program.so what we want to highlight here is that climate change is a clear symptom of an unequal and unjust world.so if we are to address the climate crisis we need to challenge the structural causes of the crisis which lies on unequal distribution of wealth , of carbon , and of power .
whether it s political power , economic power , or even military power .
ms. risler goes on to say that the solution to the climate crisis is to create more just and equitable economies .roughly translated that means an economy based along the lines of socialism and communism .
because now , according to the climate preachers , nothing is more dangerous to the planet than a free market economy , individual free will , and inequality .
not even islamic terrorists.you can view the entire press conference herevia : gateway pundit