phnom penh ( reuters ) - a european parliament delegation warned on tuesday that cambodia could face eu action over aid and vital trade preferences if the human rights situation worsened further .
the delegation s statement was the strongest threat of action from representatives of any western donors since the arrest of opposition leader kem sokha in september and steps by prime minister hun sen s government to dissolve his cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
the asean ( association of southeast asian nations ) delegation of the european parliament called for the release of kem sokha and an end to the process of dissolving his party .
the government of cambodia should be aware that the european parliament is a co-legislator for budgetary and trade issues , said the delegation s chairman , werner langen , a member of german chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats party .
a serious deterioration of the human rights situation might have implications for development assistance programs and trade preferences , he said after a two-day visit .
huy vannak , undersecretary of state at cambodia s interior ministry , said the european parliament should keep trade and politics separate .
some members of the european parliament should distinguish between political agenda and trade for the interests of the people .
we need to create many choices rather than make the interests of the people a hostage of a political agenda , huy vannak told reuters .
without economic prosperity , democracy will just be an illusion , he said .
european union countries accounted for around 40 percent of cambodia s exports in 2016 .
its exports , mostly of clothing , get fully duty free access under a scheme to help the world s poorest countries .
western diplomats say in private it would be difficult to secure eu agreement for limiting trade preferences because of the harm it could do to some 700,000 low-wage garment workers employed in cambodian factories .
the european union and its member states also gave cambodia nearly $ 170 million in development aid last year , according to cambodian government figures .
that was still well short of the $ 265 million it got from china , which is now by far the biggest donor and investor and voiced support for hun sen s government after the arrest of kem sokha .
the government has intensified a crackdown against political opponents , independent media and human rights groups in recent months ahead of an election next july in which hun sen s rule of more than 32 years will be at stake .
cambodia s supreme court rejected an appeal to free kem sokha on tuesday , saying his release could be a public risk as the threat of dissolution looms over his party .
lawyers for kem sokha had asked the supreme court to rule that his detention was illegal and said he should be granted parliamentary immunity from prosecution .
the supreme court is due to rule on nov. 16 whether to dissolve the cnrp after the government last month filed a lawsuit asking to dissolve it on grounds it was involved in a plot to topple the government .
kem sokha was not brought to the court hearing on tuesday .
the hearing seems fake , hem socheat , a lawyer for kem sokha , told the court .
hun sen has said his rival was getting help from the united states .
the u.s. embassy in phnom penh has rejected any suggestion of interference in politics .