the strategy of the left is war and that s why every american should hear it : angela davis on defeating trump : we have to do whatever is necessary here s the truth about davis from frontpage mag and then the article below it is from a liberal publication so take it with a grain of salt.frontpage mag provides some background on davis : who is davis ?
she s a communist and a supporter of the black panther party as well as homicidal british black power cult leader michael x and the soledad brothers who were acquitted of a prison guard s murder in 1970.that year , davis was arrested and jailed for having bought the gun used in the soledad brothers escape attempt : an attack in open court in california , which led to a shootout with the police and resulted in the death or injury of six people .
she was eventually found not guilty.davis has enjoyed massive support from the global left .
when she was released from prison , she visited cuba , then russia , where she was awarded the lenin peace prize .
she spoke against racism in america and became a glamorized spokeswoman for communism as a solution for black americans and for oppressed people of color everywhere.just like obama s pal bill ayers , angela davis past has been rewritten by the left to transform her into an activist rather than what she is a violent criminal.notice how in the article below the liberal publication makes davis out to be the victim : activists around the world have long turned to angela davis for scholarly guidance when discussing systems of oppression and power.this week in new york , the radical feminist activist issued a rallying cry to americans : to avoid a donald trump presidency , we have to do whatever is necessary .
born in birmingham , alabama , davis became a household name in 1969 when she was removed from her teaching post at the university of california los angeles for social justice work and her affiliation with the communist party .
she made the f.b.i .
s ten most wanted list on false charges soon after , starting the 1970s with a 16-month incarceration and trial that sparked an international campaign when the world demanded that the united states government free angela davis .
former california governor ronald reagan swore then that the philosophy professor would never teach in the university of california system again.nine books and four decades later , a vocal davis is now distinguished professor emerita of history of consciousness at u.c .
santa cruz an interdisciplinary ph.d. program the likes of which are only possible because of the radical scholarship she laid as groundwork.read more : fusion