washington ( reuters ) - republican leaders of the senate on tuesday rebuffed president barack obama ’ s appeal for hearings and a vote on his u.s. supreme court nominee during a face-to-face meeting that failed to budge them from their vow to block any nominee he offers .
obama , planning to name a replacement for the late justice antonin scalia in the coming weeks , huddled with senate majority leader mitch mcconnell and judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley in the white house oval office for less than an hour .
“ senator grassley and i made it clear that we don ’ t intend to take up a nominee or to have a hearing , ” mcconnell told reporters after the meeting .
the meeting failed to produce any progress on how to proceed with finding a replacement for scalia , a long-serving conservative justice who died on feb. 13 .
mcconnell and grassley are insistent that obama not pick a nominee and leave the decision to his successor , who takes office next january after the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
obama is insistent that it is the republican-led senate ’ s constitutional duty to act on his nominee .
“ they made clear in their meeting with the president that they ’ re not going to change their mind just because the president says so , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said of the republicans .
earnest said obama still believes it was worthwhile to consult with the lawmakers before making his nomination .
senate democratic leader harry reid said obama stated during the meeting he would be willing to consider candidates for the supreme court proposed by the republicans , but mcconnell and grassley offered no names .
“ we killed a lot of time talking about basketball and other stuff , ” said reid , who attended along with the judiciary committee ’ s top democrat , patrick leahy .
under the constitution , the president nominates supreme court justices and the senate must confirm them .
without scalia , the court has four conservative and four liberal justices , meaning any potential obama nominee could tip the court to the left for the first time in decades .
mcconnell and grassley have said allowing the next president to pick the new justice would let voters have a say in the selection when they elect a new president .
“ whether everybody in the meeting today wanted to admit it , we all know that considering a nomination in the middle of a heated presidential campaign is bad for the nominee , bad for the court , bad for the process and ultimately bad for the nation , ” grassley said in a statement .