sydney ( reuters ) - a second group of about 30 refugees held in australian-run detention centers on south pacific islands will leave soon for resettlement in the united states under a controversial refugee swap deal , a u.s. official said on tuesday .
the first group of 22 , including men from bangladesh , sudan and rohingya muslims from myanmar , left one of the camps on manus island in papua new guinea on sunday .
they were due to board a plane from port moresby to manila later on tuesday on their way to the united states .
beverly thacker , public affairs officer for the u.s. embassy in papua new guinea , said a second group would leave soon from the other center on the tiny island of nauru .
i understand the group of refugees from nauru will fly via port moresby before traveling on to the united states on wednesday , she said .
australia agreed on a deal with former u.s. president barack obama late last year under which up to 1,250 refugees held in the australian camps will be offered residency .
in return , australia agreed to resettle several dozen central american refugees .
those refugees were expected to arrive in australia within weeks .
u.s. president donald trump has described the deal as dumb but begrudgingly said he will honor it .
concerns persist , however , that many of the refugees in the australian-run camps will not be offered u.s. resettlement , with the trump administration vowing that only those who satisfy extreme vetting will be approved .
nearly 2,000 men , women and children are held on manus island and nauru , where most of them have been awarded refugee status .
despite their refugee status , many of those on nauru and manus island have been held for four years in conditions widely criticized by the united nations and human rights groups .
under canberra s hardline immigration policy , asylum-seekers intercepted at sea trying to reach australia are sent for processing on manus island and nauru and are told they will never be settled in australia .