beijing ( reuters ) - the united states hopes there will be some very good deliverables when president donald trump visits china , u.s. commerce secretary wilbur ross said on monday , striking an upbeat tone amid trade tensions between the two countries .
trump will likely visit china in november as part of a trip that will take him to an association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) summit in the philippines and an asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in vietnam .
china s relationship with the united states has been strained by the trump administration s criticism of china s trade practices and by demands that beijing do more to pressure north korea to halt its nuclear weapons and missiles programs .
meeting in beijing , ross told chinese premier li keqiang he and his delegation had been greeted very warmly which augurs well for trump s forthcoming trip to meet chinese president xi jinping .
we are looking forward to a very good session including a lot of american ceos and we hope there will be some very good deliverables , ross said , in comments in front of reporters .
li told ross that the two countries common interests far outweighed their differences and their economic and trade relationship had enormously benefited both countries and the world .
china is the world s largest developing country while the united states is the world s biggest developed country , li said .
in addition to that , china and the united states are the largest trading partners with each other , so i think it is fair to say that our common interests far outweigh our differences and divergences , he added .
over the years , economic and trade relations between our two countries have always served as a ballast for our overall bilateral relationship and also these important trade and economic relations have benefited enormously our two peoples as well as the whole world .
state media quoted li as further saying that china hopes the united states will give fair treatment to chinese companies investments there , as well as ease restrictions on high-tech exports .
meeting earlier in the day , chinese commerce minister zhong shan told ross that there was huge potential for cooperation and china was willing to manage and control disputes , the ministry said in a statement .
china was willing to create good conditions for trump s visit and ensure his trip was fruitful , zhong added .
xi and trump met for the first time in person at trump s mar-a-lago estate in florida in april .
trump has since played up his personal relationship with xi , even when criticizing china over north korea and trade .
the two sides launched a 100-day economic plan at that meeting , including some industry-specific announcements such as the resumption of american beef sales in china .
there has since been limited progress on trade relations .
ross s visit comes at a time of heightened trade tensions between the united states and china following trump s decision earlier this month to block a chinese-backed private equity firm from buying a u.s.-based chipmaker .
in august , trump authorized an inquiry into china s alleged theft of intellectual property - the first direct trade measure by his administration against beijing .
during his campaign , trump vowed repeatedly to declare china a currency manipulator once in office but in april backed off from that threat .
trump s administration has also repeatedly called on china to do more to rein in north korea and has threatened new sanctions on chinese banks and other firms doing business with pyongyang .
china says it is already doing all it can to pressure north korea and that those countries directly involved in the stand-off on the peninsula should take responsibility for resolving tensions .
there was no mention of north korea in the comments li and ross made in front of reporters .