los angeles ( reuters ) - los angeles mayor eric garcetti appeared within striking distance to clinch re-election as leader of america ’ s second-largest city on tuesday against 10 lesser-known challengers , most of them lacking significant financial support .
garcetti , 46 , a former city council member and urban planning expert seeking his second term as mayor , needs to win at least 50 percent of the vote plus one in order to avoid a may run-off race with the second-place finisher .
a recent loyola marymount university poll found garcetti backed by 50.1 percent of registered voters , compared with 7.9 percent for his closest rival , mitchell schwartz , a political operative of former president barack obama during his first white house campaign .
but the telephone-and-online survey of 950 people , conducted in january and early february , showed 38.5 percent were still undecided .
the poll has a margin of error of plus or minus just over three percentage points .
schwartz , 55 , has seized on the city ’ s rising crime rate and soaring housing costs , while warning of a looming pension fund crisis , in his bid to unseat garcetti .
the mayor has touted his successful support for a measure to raise the minimum wage in los angeles and pointed to the city ’ s employment gains in the aftermath of a nationwide recession .
garcetti enjoys a significant funding advantage , reporting his campaign has amassed more than $ 3.8 million as of march 1 , while schwartz , the only other candidate to have raised substantial cash , is expected to have spent $ 790,000 , a spokesman said .
schwartz was previously best known as the california state director of obama ’ s presidential campaign in 2007 and 2008 .
before that he served as director of communications at the state department during president bill clinton ’ s first term in office .
garcetti , who defeated then-city controller wendy greuel in a run-off four years ago , is the son of former prosecutor gil garcetti , whose office tried o.j .
simpson for murder , and lost , while serving as los angeles county district attorney .
drawing almost as much attention , and far more money , in tuesday ’ s municipal elections was the highly contested ballot measure s , aimed at limiting development by halting “ spot zoning ” amendments to the city ’ s general plan for two years .
measure s supporters say spot zoning permits granted to wealthy real estate interests have spurred runaway construction of high-rise office space and other costly developments that increase congestion and drive up housing costs .
opponents say the measure would go too far and actually undermine city efforts to create more affordable housing .