manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on saturday ruled out the possibility of allowing islamic state-linked militants to flee a southern city in exchange for the release of dozens of hostages .
the militants seized large parts of marawi city on the island of mindanao in may , and a hardcore of fighters has held out through more than 100 days of air strikes and ground attacks by troops .
no way , duterte told reporters when asked about a rumor that one rebel leader , omarkhayam maute , had proposed releasing hostages in exchange for the safe exit of the militants .
pockets of fighters remain in the ruins of the heart of a city devastated by artillery and bombings , in an occupation that has alarmed the region about the possibility of islamic state , on the back foot in iraq and syria , making a new home in the southern philippines .
the military has launched its final push to retake marawi , and is coming under heavy fire from gunmen as troops try to secure buildings and navigate through mines and booby-traps .
the military estimates about 20 to 30 hostages are being held , some of whom it says were forced to take up arms against government troops .
if i can save one life there , i am willing to wait one year ( to retake the city ) duterte said of the hostages , after visiting wounded soldiers in cagayan de oro , a few hours away from marawi .
martial law has been imposed in mindanao , an island of 22 million people , until the end of the year , to allow the military to break up an alliance of pro-islamic state militant groups .
on another front , the military is also fighting communist rebels of the new people s army following a breakdown in peace talks with the government .
duterte on saturday threatened to expand martial law to other areas of the philippines to crack down on the insurgents .
some 655 militants , 45 civilians and 145 soldiers and policemen have been killed in marawi , according to the military , which says it has rescued 1,728 civilians .
at least 400,000 have been displaced .
army spokesman colonal edgard arevalo said saving hostages was the priority of the military s mission .
we are still very mindful of the presence of civilians -guns against their heads - who were made human shields or ordered to wield firearms and ammunition , were converted to become fighters and shoot at our troops , he said in a statement .
the united states has provided technical support to the philippines military in marawi .
visiting manila on friday , australian defence minister marise payne offered a small detachment of soldiers to provide training to philippine forces .