beverly hills , calif ( reuters ) - even as u.s. presidential hopeful donald trump raises concerns among world leaders , the mayor of los angeles is confident that whoever reaches the white house will not hurt his city ’ s chances of landing the 2024 olympics .
“ this is something that transcends politics , ” los angeles mayor eric garcetti said at the united states olympic committee ( usoc ) media summit on tuesday .
“ sports doesn ’ t ask what your party affiliation is .
“ when the dust settles on these presidential campaigns and we have a new president he or she will squarely be behind los angeles ’ bid to bring these games back to the u.s. “ this is something that breaks down walls and something that brings us together. ” making that pitch to the international olympic committee , who will select a 2024 host in 2017 , could prove challenging if trump wins the u.s. presidency in november and follows through on his plans to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border and ban muslims from entering the united states .
los angeles is up against european glamor cities paris , rome and budapest in the race to host the 2024 summer games .
usoc chairman larry probst conceded that at a time when los angeles is throwing out a welcome mat to the world the anti-immigration rhetoric being put forward by some presidential candidates will not make the challenge any easier .
“ at the end of the day this is about building positive relationships with the ioc membership , ” probst said after a usoc board meeting where they were briefed by la24 officials .
“ there are extraneous things we can ’ t control .
“ we have to work as hard as we can at building those relationships with the voting members. ” the usoc has felt the sting from an international backlash before as new york ’ s bid for the 2012 summer games and chicago ’ s attempt to land the 2016 olympics were soundly rejected , much of that attributed to a strong anti-american sentiment within the ioc at the time .
“ our relationship within the ioc was not terrific if you look back six or seven years ago and ( we ) have worked really hard to rebuild those relationships , ” said probst .
“ that process is well underway and i think we are in a much better place than where we were a few years ago .
“ the feedback has been positive across the board .
i have heard nothing but compliments about everything so far. ” countries bidding to host and olympics have counted on their leaders to put them over the top .
russian president vladimir putin led his country ’ s bid for the 2014 sochi winter games while british prime minister tony blair went to singapore to trumpet london ’ s successful bid for 2012 olympics .
“ politicians , if they are good , reflect the people they represent and i know how the american people feel about the olympics and i know how they feel about olympians and paralympians , ” said garcetti .
“ i know that the paralympic games and olympic games is something that touches our hearts and any good president is going to follow with that spirit . ”