sydney ( reuters ) - australia called on thursday on the united states to build a strong presence in asia and bolster ties with like-minded partners while warning against china s rising influence .
a more insular united states would be detrimental to the liberal nature of the world s rules-based order , the government said in a 115-page foreign policy white paper .
australia believes that international challenges can only be tackled effectively when the world s wealthiest , most innovative and most powerful country is engaged in solving them , the government said .
the white paper is a guide for australian diplomacy and provides a roadmap for advancing its interests .
the election of president donald trump represented a step towards a more isolationist world , which could be negative for australia s export-dependent economy , commentators have said .
trump withdrew from the trans-pacific partnership regional trade agreement in january , shortly after he took office .
strong and sustained u.s. engagement in the international system remains fundamental to international stability and prosperity , the government said in the paper .
without such engagement , the effectiveness and liberal character of the international order would erode .
australia is one of the staunchest u.s. allies and troops from the two countries have fought alongside each other in all major conflicts for generations .
but the economic growth and power that the united states has enjoyed since the end of the world war two is now being challenged by china , australia said .
australia and china have close economic ties but china is suspicious of australia s close military relationship with the united states .
australia warned in the paper of risks it faces , particularly in the indo-pacific region due to a shift in the balance of power .
it highlighted the south china sea as a major fault line in the regional order , and said it was particularly concerned by the unprecedented pace and scale of china s land reclamation and construction activities in the disputed waters .
china s foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told a regular briefing that the paper was on whole a positive assessment of china s development , which he said adhered to the global rules-based order , and of relations between china and australia .
but lu said the paper did make irresponsible remarks on the south china sea for which china expressed its concerns .
while the government recognized the economic benefits from china s rise , it was also trying to wish china away , said jane golley , deputy director at the australian center on china in the world , australian national university .
to actually drop the word asia from asia-pacific undoes three decades of diplomatic effort , golley said , referring to the use of the phrase indo-pacific which came up 120 times in the paper .
asia-pacific was not used once .
the united states and some of its allies have recently been talking up their vision of the indo-pacific , instead of the asia-pacific , in a play on words aimed at undermining the influence of china .
there is a small reference to china s geo-economic strategy in the paper but the emphasis is on the tensions that could create , rather than the economic benefits , golley said .
we ll have to see how china reacts to this but they re not going to like this policy .
relations between australia and china sank to a low point this year after australia rejected high-profile chinese investments , citing national interest .
australia has also shown little enthusiasm for china s ambitious belt and road initiative , which aims to connect china to europe and beyond with infrastructure projects .
the initiative was mentioned just once in the paper .
we are not embracing the future , golley said .
we are holding on to the past and reaching on to the life jacket rather than thinking of building a whole new ship .