berlin ( reuters ) - a leading candidate to be germany s next finance minister signaled his willingness on thursday to seek a compromise with emmanuel macron over the french president s plans for deeper euro zone integration .
christian lindner , who leads the free democrats ( fdp ) party negotiating to be part of chancellor angela merkel s next coalition government , said european policy was one of the most important topics in the talks .
lindner said macron who last month called for a joint euro zone budget and joint finance minister among other reforms had described political progress as a question of finding a balance between carrots and sticks .
let s take him literally ( on this ) on the european question , lindner said at a book launch .
that means if he wants to get something , he ll have to accept other things - for example an insolvency mechanism for states or for example the binding participation of private investors in any debt restructuring if it should be necessary , he said .
this would be the bitter thing he would have to swallow to get something sweet - namely additional funds for investments , lindner said .
veteran outgoing finance minister wolfgang schaeuble , wary of anything that might leave german taxpayers shouldering common euro zone debts , has been generally lukewarm about macron s reform plans .
lindner may succeed him under the three-way coalition that merkel is trying to form after her conservatives lost support in a federal election last month .
it has been widely speculated that the fdp would demand the top finance post as a price for joining in , though lindner on thursday stopped short of claiming the ministry for his party .
earlier this week , he had insisted that merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) should relinquish it .
lindner has repeatedly criticized schaeuble , a fiscal hawk , as being too soft on greece and putting loyalty to merkel ahead of his own political convictions .
asked which characteristics the next german finance minister should have , lindner said : being consistent .