donald trump s media mouthpiece , fox news , is trying to put a positive spin on his terrible first 100 days , just like reince priebus and trump himself .
part of what fox is doing seems to be taking to twitter to loudly complain about how the rest of the media has covered his first 100 days .
needless to say , they are very unhappy that the media s coverage has been overwhelmingly negative .
to them , this demonstrates a very obvious hatred of trump : the media s 100-day war against @ potus .
pic.twitter.com/orctyetvzt fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 23 , 2017study : 89 % of broadcast news coverage of the trump administration has been negative .
pic.twitter.com/bsv5vcodzz fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 23 , 2017tv news pushed relentlessly negative agenda .
pic.twitter.com/g09jhqdra3 fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 23 , 2017but this is because it s trump .
fox news was similarly negative during obama s first 100 days .
according to george mason university s center for media affairs , bret baier s special report only gave positive coverage to obama 23 percent of the time ( they analyzed special report because it most closely resembles traditional broadcast news ) .
77 percent of their coverage was negative.overall , only 21 percent of fox s total coverage was positive , and that number dropped to 15 percent when discussing his policies.perhaps more than that , though , is the fact that fox declared their opposition to obama as quickly as they could .
in april of 2009 , they were openly urging their viewers to get involved in tea party protests against president obama s fiscal policy.furthermore , they weren t afraid to use words like socialism , fascism , marxism and even communism .
they uttered those words 1,400 times during obama s first 100 days , or 14 times per day.so really , where do they get off whining about how the media s covering trump ?
the fact of the matter is that trump has actually been a complete disaster since he got elected .
his proposals are literally impossible , he thought he could strongarm both congress and hostile world leaders into falling in line behind him , and he s spent more time golfing in his first 100 days than obama spent in his entire first year .
calling all this out is part of the media s job.photo of donald trump by mark wilson/getty images .
photo of president obama by kevin dietsch-pool/getty images