washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama will propose in his upcoming budget measures to help more than 30 million americans save for retirement , such as automatically enrolling workers in individual retirement accounts and making it easier for workers to keep savings when they switch jobs , according to the country ’ s labor secretary .
labor secretary tom perez unveiled parts of the plan on monday before heading to california ’ s silicon valley to meet with venture capitalists and technology executives about bolstering retirement savings .
obama will present a spending plan feb. 9 to congress that serves as an outline of political priorities but very rarely comes to fruition .
this budget , proposed in the final year of obama ’ s presidency , is expected to hit a dead end .
the proposal would also allow smaller employers to create pooled 401 ( k ) plans .
the u.s. workplace is undergoing a transformation , especially with the rise of the “ on-demand ” economy , which will lead workers to change jobs more frequently and face new challenges in saving for retirement , perez said .
up-and-coming companies that provide goods and services on demand through phone apps mostly rely on freelancers who are not tied to jobs and traditional employer-sponsored retirement accounts .
perez said the ira suggestion , which has been offered in obama ’ s previous budgets dating back to 2010 , may have a chance .
states have recently created similar programs and fueled some employers ’ interest in a national plan , he said .
in a traditional ira , investors only pay taxes when they retire and cash in holdings .
in a “ roth ” ira , they pay taxes on the money they contribute but not when they withdraw funds for retirement .
under obama ’ s proposal , employers with more than 10 workers that do not offer retirement plans would have to automatically enroll workers in iras .
perez said the department received hundreds of thousands of comments on another effort related to retirement - a “ fiduciary ” standard that would require brokers offering retirement advice to put clients ’ financial interests first .
he said he expects the final rule to be released in upcoming months .
the fiduciary standard has roiled the financial services industry for half a decade , and the department had to withdraw an initial draft of the rule in 2011 .
it is intended to end potential conflicts of interest and protect consumers from being sold investment products that do more to line their brokers ’ pockets than meet their financial needs .
( this version of the story corrects to delete erroneous reference to myra in seventh paragraph )