more fake news pushing a leftist agenda if you read the usa today report of juan manuel montes being deported you might believe their headline : first protected dreamer deported under trump usa today reported tuesday that an illegal immigrant protected by barack obama s amnesty was deported in february after spending an evening with his girlfriend .
however , a department of homeland security spokesman told the daily caller that this story is false because juan manuel montes bojorquez did not receive amnesty and was caught climbing over a border fence when he was detained .
conservative treehousethe usa today story said that bojorquez , 23 , was apprehended by customs and border protection ( cbp ) agents while he was waiting for a car ride to pick him up.according to the article , he told the officers he left his wallet in his friend s car and , because he didn t have his id or proof of his deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) status , he was deported .
within three hours , he was back in mexico , becoming the first undocumented immigrant with active daca status deported by the trump administration s stepped-up deportation policy , the usa today reporters wrote.the trump administration has said it will continue honoring the over 750,000 illegal immigrants who receive daca , but this incident , if accurate , would have been a departure from that policy .
david lapan , a dhs spokesman , told thedc , juan manuel montes bojorquez was apprehended by the calexico station border patrol after illegally entering the u.s. by climbing over the fence in downtown calexico .
he was arrested by bp just minutes after he made his illegal entry and admitted under oath during the arrest interview that he had entered illegally .
the spokesman added , his daca status expired in aug. 2015 and he was notified at that time .
in addition , he has a conviction for theft for which he received probation .
daily callerfrom usa today : federal agents ignored president trump s pledge to protect from deportation undocumented immigrants brought to the united states as children by sending a young man back to his native mexico , the first such documented case , a usa today examination of the new administration s immigration policies shows.after spending an evening with his girlfriend in calexico , calif. , on feb. 17 , juan manuel montes , 23 , who has lived in the u.s. since age 9 , grabbed a bite and was waiting for a ride when a u.s. customs and border protection officer approached and started asking questions.montes was twice granted deportation protections under the deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) program created by president barack obama and left intact by president trump.montes had left his wallet in a friend s car , so he couldn t produce his id or proof of his daca status and was told by agents he couldn t retrieve them .
within three hours , he was back in mexico , becoming the first undocumented immigrant with active daca status deported by the trump administration s stepped-up deportation policy .
some people told me that they were going to deport me ; others said nothing would happen , montes told usa today in his aunt and uncle s home in western mexico where he s been staying .
i thought that if i kept my nose clean nothing would happen .
he asked that the exact location of their home be withheld.yet trump declined to revoke the daca protections obama had granted to more than 750,000 undocumented immigrants , repeatedly saying he had a soft spot for these young people who are leading productive lives and have few , if any , ties to the countries of their birth .
they shouldn t be very worried , he told abc news in january .
i do have a big heart .
even so , daca enrollees are being targeted by immigration authorities.at least 10 are in federal custody , according to united we dream , an advocacy organization made up of daca enrollees and other young immigrants.the group s advocacy director , greisa martinez , who has daca protection , said montes case is proof that people like herself are at risk despite what trump said.for entire story : usa today