( reuters ) - the u.s. senate on wednesday blocked a bill that would nullify state and local efforts to require food makers to label products made with genetically modified organisms , or gmos , as the industry races to stop vermont ’ s law from taking effect on july 1 .
the proposed legislation from republican senator pat roberts of kansas comes amid growing calls for transparency in the u.s. food supply .
labeling advocates have criticized the bill as toothless because it leaves the decision to disclose gmo ingredients to the companies whose products contain them .
senate bill 2609 is known as the biotech labeling solutions act by supporters and the deny americans the right to know , or dark , act by opponents .
a procedural vote on wednesday failed to reach the necessary 60 votes to advance the bill in the senate , with 49 yes votes and 48 no votes .
roberts vowed to keep fighting as the july 1 deadline looms for vermont ’ s labeling requirement to take effect .
“ i remain at the ready to work on a solution , ” roberts said .
the united states is the world ’ s largest market for foods made with genetically altered ingredients .
many popular processed foods are made with soybeans , corn and other biotech crops whose genetic traits have been manipulated , often to make them resistant to insects and pesticides .
major food , farm and biotech seed companies spent more than $ 100 million in the united states last year to battle labeling efforts , according to a lobbying disclosure analysis from the environmental working group , which opposes the senate measure .
opponents to gmo labeling efforts include trade groups such as the grocery manufacturers association , whose members have included pepsico inc and kellogg co , and bio , which counts monsanto co , dow agrosciences , a unit of dow chemical co , and other companies that sell seeds that produce gmo crops among its members .
they say labeling would impose speech restrictions on food sellers , burden consumers with higher costs and create a patchwork of state gmo labeling policies that have “ no basis in health , safety or science. ” but companies such as whole foods market inc , chipotle mexican grill inc and campbell soup co already have begun labeling or abandoning gmos rather than waiting for government action .