american citizens are eligible to apply for small business loans , but they are also responsible for paying them back with interest .
illegal aliens on the other hand , are getting free money from the american taxpayer to start a business with no obligation to pay us back .
oh and there s one more big catch read the fine print on the small business administration s website , and you ll find that the agency does not provide the funds to start or grow a small business the engine of the american economy , providing roughly three-quarters of all new jobs .
rather , the sba provides offers loan guarantees to the banks and lenders that do provide seed money .
so it might come as a surprise to american entrepreneurs that there is at least one group to whom the federal government is providing direct assistance for business start-ups : illegal aliens .
in fact , these recipients of your taxpayer funds fall into an even more restricted category : illegal aliens who have been deported back to their native land.as part of an ongoing project he calls the waste report , sen. rand paul , r-ky. , has called attention to these outlays , which are made by an obscure federal agency called the inter-american foundation ( iaf ) .housed in a nondescript building a few blocks from the white house , iaf is spending up to $ 50,000 annually to help salvadorans sent back to el salvador to reintegrate into their communities , under the idea that doing so will make them less likely to seek to return to the united states.iaf works through a local ngo called insami , which stands for instituto salvadore o del migrante and which estimates that 500 salvadorans are deported from the u.s. to el salvador each week .
the group says the iaf funds assist sixty salvadorans a year , including deportees , by helping to facilitate their reintegration into their communities and support their enterprises .
this is accomplished by offering financial education , technical advice and assistance with business plans , all of which serves , in turn , to assure that broader support and resources are available to the migrants , that their abilities are appreciated , their concerns understood and their needs met .
iaf did not respond to fox news requests for comment .
once we deport them , we set them up in business ?
it makes no sense to me , sen. paul said in an interview with fox news.shawn moran , vice president of the national border patrol council ( nbpc ) , the union that represents america s 21,000 border patrol officers , expressed dismay at learning of the federal outlays to deported illegal aliens.moran indicated that limited funding has made it exceedingly rare for border patrol officers ever to have a partner while they are working along the southern border , often at night a state of affairs that leaves the officers more vulnerable to assaults by heavily armed alien- and drug-smugglers .
he also alluded to equipment shortages that compromise the officers effectiveness .
agents do not have the tried and true tools that they need to conduct law enforcement operations , moran told fox news .
and i think $ 50,000 could go a long way in one border patrol sector to help correct that .
he cited the communications devices the officers rely on .
agents are using radios that oftentimes , they can see a border patrol station from the hills along the border , yet they can t talk to it .
so what else might $ 50,000 of taxpayer funds purchase to secure the border against illegal aliens from el salvador and elsewhere ? a review of help-wanted ads posted online by the federal customs and border protection ( cbp ) agency finds that as recently as april 7 , cbp was conducting a search for border patrol agents in multiple locations , with the top annual starting salary placed at : $ 50,600.for that same amount , the federal government could purchase seven yamaha grizzly 450 automatic utility all-terrain vehicles like these , of which the federal government purchased fifteen , from a decatur , illinois-based motor sports store , in september 2013.via : fox news