there s always another side that s usually being buried by the mainstream media in order to promote a leftist agenda media coverage on ahmed bomb-clock mohamed has been remarkably one-sided , with the mohamed family and the media spinning a tale of islamophobia and overreaction.however , in an appearance on glenn beck s the blaze tv last night , the mayor of the city where mohamed goes to school painted a starkly different picture .
among other revelations were her claims that the mohamed family had stonewalled her and seemed more interested in talking with the council on american-islamic relations and related groups than with city officials.irving , texas , mayor beth van duyne said that , since mohamed is a juvenile , they can not release the records of what caused police to arrest him .
she says that the family has refused to allow those records to be released , according to townhall.com .
the ( irving ) school district , a number of times , has asked the family to release the records , so that you can have the balanced story out there , van duyne said .
the family is ignoring the request from the isd .
the mayor said the records would help to describe why it progressed as it did .
nobody is going to walk in and say , oh you re a 14-year old child , you re totally cooperating , we have all the answers we need , let s arrest you , van duyne said , adding she had information that mohamed was being passive aggressive and non-responsive when police questioned him.van duyne also noted that the family seemed more interested in seeking press than resolving the issue .
we had tried to reach out to the family a number of times ; this was before it ever even hit the papers on wednesday , van duyne said .
at the exact same time they were supposed to be meeting with us , they were on their front lawn with a press conference .
van duyne also slammed president barack obama for jumping the gun on ahmed mohamed s case .
we never even got a call from anybody at the white house asking to verify any of that information , van duyne said .
i don t think the picture of the hoax bomb was even released before he tweeted cool clock kid .
van duyne , adding that irving officials were receiving death threats because of the case , said that the teacher was reacting to the device , not the student .
if something had happened , and nobody had spoken up , people would be livid , van duyne said .
can you imagine if you were a parent at isd and no one said anything ?
via : conservative tribune