what not to do is pretty much everything this nutjob did:1 .
do not angrily confront anyone with children in tow franklin claims to be terrified of these men and yet she aggressively confronts them and films them while hurling insults at them .
she thinks they are racists and people who support hate symbols , which leads one to believe she also thinks they are capable of great violence .
would you provoke violent racists while you have your children with you ?
i wouldn t. so either she s incredibly stupid or she knows these men aren t dangerous at all and what she is doing is meant to intimidate and shame them .
( let s also acknowledge that it can t possibly be good for children to hear their mother sobbing and freaking out while she does absolutely nothing to reassure them .
it s hard to watch . ) 2 .
don t lie about things that are verifiably untrue when faking a hate hoax , make sure you edit out the parts of the video that prove you re a liar .
she lied about several things .
first , she lied about the confederate flags hanging on the wall .
you ll notice that in the video you can t see any flags .
that s because there weren t any on the wall like franklin claimed .
she might have gotten away with it if she hadn t taken a picture of the flags and posted them on her facebook page for anyone to see .
here is the flag she claims was displayed on the wall : it it not a flag and it is not hanging on the wall .
it s a rug that is hanging in a rug rack with other rugs and it s buried in the middle where she would have had to dig through them to find it .
then she lied about what the men said to her .
we can clearly hear the man call her a bit * h. but when she describes what happens to her to a bystander , she decides to make it sound worse by saying he called her a f * * * ing bit * h. she also adds that they followed her around , which also doesn t appear true when watching the video she made.then she lies about the man in the parking lot approaching her !
clearly , the man is filming her from about 50 feet away while standing absolutely still .
he only moves once when she dares him not to come any closer and sarcastically takes one giant step forward like he s playing simon says .
it s hilarious .
this triggers the next mentally unstable reaction from the sjw.3 .
if you can t muster real tears , don t bother her out-of-control response and fake crying are razzie-worthy .
she s so terrified and scared for her life that she remembers to turn the camera around so we can all see her dry cheeks as she wails uncontrollably at an ear-splitting frequency .
then , when a good samaritan comes over to assist her , she continues her bad acting and fake sobbing while her nose grows on camera as she starts recounting a bunch of stuff that didn t happen , proving once again that sjws always lie.via : pjmedia