peshawar/islamabad , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan on wednesday told medical charity medecins sans frontieres ( msf ) to stop work and leave its impoverished tribal areas that border afghanistan , the health organization said , ending its 14 year stay in the volatile region .
msf works out of two health facilities in the kurram district of pakistan s federally administered tribal areas ( fata ) region , which has been plagued by militancy over the past decade and was the location of many u.s. drone strikes targeting commanders from al qaeda and other militant groups .
though security has improved in fata in recent years , sectarian militant attacks , primarily targeting shi ite muslims , still occur .
twin blasts in the kurram s most populous town , parachinar killed more than 75 people in june .
local officials say msf provides essential healthcare facilities in fata , an area with some of pakistan s poorest healthcare and lowest literacy rates .
we have been asked to close our medical activities in kurram agency , msf said in a statement to the media , adding that pakistan had refused to issue a no objection certificate ( noc ) for the charity to work in the tribal areas .
msf is saddened by the decision from the authorities responsible for ngos working in kurram agency .
the closure brings to and end 14 years of msf working with the fata health services in kurram agency , country representative catherine moody said in the statement .
foreign nationals and organizations working in pakistan require nocs to operate in certain areas .
pakistani ngos and journalists also face restrictions when working in the tribal areas .
msf provides diagnosis and treatment facilities to the community for leishmaniasis , immunization for children , as well ... responding to emergencies , disease outbreaks and mass casualties , the organization said .
the region s health directorate did not respond to requests for comment but dr. mohammad ishaq , who works there , said msf was asked to leave because they did not have a valid noc .
i personally think msf was doing a great job for the patients in fata , he said , adding that he did not know why its license to work there was revoked .
we have been working in fata since 2004 .
we were never denied an noc in the past .
this will affect many patients in the area , one msf employee said , asking not to be identified .
he added that the organization had 70 staff members working at the two health facilities .
the official who notified msf that their operations would need to be shut down added : i did what i was directed to by my bosses in peshawar but really don t know the reason behind msf being stopped .