cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - twelve-year-old nur hafes would rather be in school or playing football with friends at home in myanmar .
instead , he waits by the road in palong khali refugee camp in southern bangladesh , looking for visitors who might give him money for his family .
sole breadwinner for seven younger siblings and his mother since they arrived at the camp in cox s bazar two months ago , nur spends his days watching for muslim clerics who distribute money collected at mosques for the refugees .
opening a brown umbrella , nur offers to shade the visitors from the blazing sun , which can bring in a little extra cash for food and supplies .
( click reut.rs/2att2uy for photo essay on nur hafes and his family . )
sometimes i get 50 or 100 taka and some days i come back empty-handed , nur said , holding up a 50-taka ( $ 0.60 ) note he received from a donor .
nur and his family are among the more than 600,000 rohingyas who have fled to bangladesh since august to escape a counter-insurgency operation by the myanmar military after attacks on security posts by rohingya militants .
united nations officials have described the military s actions in myanmar s northern rakhine state as ethnic cleansing , an accusation the southeast asian nation denies .
the family left their home in tharay kone yoe dan village in rakhine s maungdaw township when the violence started .
the myanmar army burnt the houses with the people inside , said nur s mother , rabia khatun .
i saw many people with gunshot wounds and heard the crackle of houses burning .
she gathered a few belongings - a blanket to protect her children from rain , identity papers and a couple of old photos - and the family fled to her parents village , zaw mat tat , south of maungdaw .
the next day , the army showed up there , too .
her husband became upset and suddenly left .
rabia has not seen him since .
left with eight children , six of them younger than 10 , she kept going .
that evening , the family took a three-hour boat journey to shah porir dwip , on the bangladesh side of the naf river .
now the family relies on nur for support .
he was a huge help in myanmar , reselling produce in their village market that his father had bought wholesale .
nur and his mother said they hope he can eventually do something similar in bangladesh , although nur also still talks about school and football .
with nur s family huddled under a tarpaulin tent and his mother needing help to feed his siblings , the youngest two of whom suffer malnourishment , a normal child s life is not in his immediate future .
i know he is young , but he understands his responsibilities .
he doesn t behave like a child anymore , nur s mother said .