new york ( reuters ) - a u.s. department of homeland security plan to add more than 5,000 border enforcement agents will present logistical challenges and might be unnecessary , according to former government officials familiar with earlier pushes to accelerate border hiring .
three former top officials at u.s. customs and border patrol ( cbp ) told reuters in interviews that ramping up hiring at the agency , as outlined in a directive on tuesday , would be expensive , while rapid expansion poses the risk of corruption if screening protocols for recruits are relaxed .
the officials said the agency should get what it needs to secure the border , but they questioned whether such a major staff expansion was necessary , noting that apprehensions at the border have dropped .
“ congress is going to be looking at this very carefully and looking for justification for this kind of money to make sure they don ’ t write a check that is not necessary , ” said w. ralph basham who headed u.s. customs and border protection during the george w. bush administration .
“ the question will be do we need more agents or do we need money for technology and infrastructure , ” he said .
additional enforcement officers are central to president donald trump ’ s sweeping plan to crack down on illegal immigration , outlined in jan. 25 executive orders on border security and interior enforcement .
tuesday ’ s homeland security guidance for implementing those orders called for adding more than 5,000 border patrol agents and 10,000 immigration and customs enforcement , or ice , officers , who enforce immigration laws in the country ’ s interior , among other duties .
the white house and department of homeland security did not respond to a question about the rationale behind the number of personnel requested .
“ at the end of the day , the goal is to get control of the border and enhance the security of the country , ” said white house assistant press secretary michael short in an email .
the proposed hiring surge would be the largest since the bush administration , when congress funded an expansion of border enforcement following the sept. 11 , 2001 terror attacks .
that effort doubled the number of border patrol agents from nearly 10,000 in 2001 to nearly 20,000 by 2008 , according to cbp .
the agency was required to meet tight time requirements for hiring , said basham who was appointed commissioner in 2006 the laser focus on quick hiring , and its cost , ended up “ sucking all the air ” out of other parts of the department , basham recalled , leaving gaps for other spending needs .
basham said he supports cbp getting adequate resources and was encouraged that the new department of homeland security guidelines did not mandate a deadline to complete the hiring .
but he questioned the need for a renewed expansion of the force .
more than 1.6 million migrants were apprehended trying to cross the u.s.-mexico border illegally in 2000 compared to 400,000 last year , according to cbp statistics .
“ currently the flow is not really anywhere near where it was , ” basham said .
jim wong , who was deputy assistant commissioner of cbp ’ s office of internal affairs from 2009 to 2011 , said money might be better spent on other department needs .
“ throwing more human resources at the issue is not necessarily the best way to approach it , ” he said .
the union representing border patrol agents , which backed trump in the presidential election , has long supported adding personnel , saying more manpower is needed to secure the border , said union spokesman shawn moran .
homeland security spokespeople declined to estimate how much the increased hiring would cost .
the 2017 fiscal year budget request for staffing at current levels of more than 21,000 border patrol agents was about $ 3.8 billion for salary , overtime and benefits , or about $ 180,000 per officer on average , although officers with different levels of seniority earn different wages .
additional costs could include housing for agents working in remote areas , equipment and support staff , former officials said .
in the last budget cycle , the agency requested funding for 300 fewer officers than the year before to instead invest in replacing aging radios and vehicles .
cbp said the request reflected “ realistic agent hiring expectations. ” gil kerlikowske , who headed cbp for three years under president barack obama , said one risk of rapid hiring is quality control .
“ when you speed up the process and don ’ t take the requisite time you pay a price later in things like corruption , ” kerlikowske said .
during the bush-era hiring surge , the border patrol had problems screening candidates , and internal corruption cases soon spiked , according to congressional testimony and government documents .
congress then passed the anti-border corruption act in 2010 , which made polygraph testing mandatory for all border patrol agents .
since then , tests have revealed candidates who were compromised by drug cartels or were heavy drug users themselves .
but the polygraph test and other controls have also slowed the hiring process .
a 2012 gao report found that between 2008 and 2012 , only 40 percent of applicants passed their polygraph exams .
in addition to polygraph tests , applicants now undergo a rigorous hiring process , including a cognitive exam , fingerprinting , financial disclosure , fitness tests , medical examinations and background checks , according to the government accountability office ( gao ) .
kerlikowske said when he left the agency at the time of trump ’ s inauguration there were 1,200 authorized but unfilled openings for border patrol agents due to the difficulty of finding and vetting enough qualified candidates .