chicago ( reuters ) - the two main antagonists in illinois ’ budgetary stalemate signaled no imminent spending deal on wednesday , a day after a series of politically symbolic elections tilted in favor of democratic house speaker michael madigan over republican governor bruce rauner .
madigan and rauner have feuded since last summer over a fiscal 2016 spending plan , and illinois has been without a fully-functioning operating budget since july , the longest stretch of fiscal futility in modern state history .
candidates supported by rauner in the two most expensive , highest-profile legislative primaries tuesday faced defeat , and an insurgent democrat backed by republicans and other anti-madigan forces failed spectacularly in rauner ’ s bid to unseat the house speaker on his political home turf in chicago .
madigan said those results should persuade rauner to drop his effort to tie an anti-union , business-backed agenda to passage of a state budget and focus solely on “ the most important issue at hand. ” “ with the clear message sent by voters tuesday , i am hopeful we can use this framework moving forward to implement a state budget and work together to get things accomplished for the people we serve , ” madigan said in a statement .
several legislative races on tuesday were regarded as proxy battles in the madigan-rauner standoff - none more so than the $ 6.2 million contest in chicago to topple incumbent democratic representative ken dunkin , regarded by many democrats as a political turncoat for missing a key labor vote opposed by rauner and failing to vote to reverse human-services cuts made by the governor .
president barack obama , who had served in the illinois senate and then represented the state in the u.s. senate before moving to the white house , made an almost unheard of endorsement in a state legislative race for dunkin ’ s democratic challenger , juliana stratton , which helped her score a convincing win , which a top rauner aide sought to minimize .
“ even in a democratic primary , the speaker needed to call in the president of the united states to defeat one legislator who dared to show a hint of independent thinking , ” said rauner spokesman lance trover , insisting that tuesday was not a total political washout for the governor .
trover cited “ many races ” tuesday in which “ special interests backed by speaker madigan failed to defeat republican incumbents and candidates who support governor rauner ’ s call for structural reforms. ” rauner sought to punish an incumbent republican state senator , sam mccann , from rural illinois for bucking him on union-backed legislation the governor opposed .
in that $ 4 million race , the second costliest statehouse race in the primary , rauner personally campaigned with gop challenger bryce benton , who lost to mccann handily .
“ perception is everything in politics , and to the political community rauner came up on the short end of a fight with madigan .
so he looks weak and madigan looks strong , ” said david yepsen , the head of southern illinois university ’ s paul simon public policy institute .
still , yepsen said , political dynamics that didn ’ t exist prior to illinois ’ primaries now could make a budget deal easier .
democratic lawmakers facing uncontested elections in the fall might cast rauner-friendly votes more easily , and voters sent a message tuesday to rauner to retool his anti-union , business-backed agenda , yepsen said .
but rauner ’ s administration showed little willingness to do that in a wednesday statement that needled madigan for allowing the house to be on a month-long recess despite the ongoing budget stalemate .
“ the primary elections are over and rather than issuing partisan press releases , the speaker needs to end his month-long vacation and begin working with the governor to enact a balanced budget alongside structural reforms that grow our economy , ” trover said .