geneva ( reuters ) - russia is committing grave human rights violations in crimea , including its imposition of citizenship and by deporting prisoners , a u.n. human rights report said on monday .
grave human rights violations , such as arbitrary arrests and detentions , enforced disappearances , ill-treatment and torture , and at least one extra-judicial execution were documented , the report said .
russian authorities did not allow the u.n. investigation to enter crimean territory .
russia occupied crimea in 2014 and replaced ukrainian laws with russian laws , but its annexation has never been internationally recognized .
the u.n. general assembly ordered the human rights investigation in december 2016 .
imposing citizenship on the inhabitants of an occupied territory can be equated to compelling them to swear allegiance to a power they may consider as hostile , which is forbidden under the fourth geneva convention , u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al hussein said in a statement .
russia had also broken international law by transporting detainees and prisoners from crimea to russia , the report said .
when it occupied crimea , russia automatically recognized all ukrainians on the peninsula as russian citizens , unless they sent a written rejection .
as of may 2015 , about 100,000 people , about 4 percent of crimea s population , did not have russian citizenship , the report said , citing a russian official .
about 19,000 people - mainly civil servants wanting to keep their jobs under russia s de facto rule - were effectively forced to renounce their ukrainian citizenship , the report said .
russia says a march 2014 referendum legitimized its incorporation of crimea .
opponents of the referendum have been targeted by laws against terrorism , extremism and separatism , and some have been forcibly interned in psychiatric institutions , the report said .
many media outlets have been shut down and all crimea s 22 congregations of jehovah s witnesses have been effectively outlawed , the report said .
education in ukrainian has almost disappeared and russia has banned the mejlis , a body representing crimean tatars , whose members have been subjected to intimidation , house searches and detention , the report said .
russia is a veto-wielding member of the u.n. security council , which means it can block any attempt to hold it to account .
but fiona frazer , head of the u.n. office in ukraine that produced the report , said it was important to document what was happening in crimea so that victims could record the human rights violations they were facing and try to ensure justice and accountability .