beirut/al shadadi , syria ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias and the syrian army advanced in separate offensives against islamic state in eastern syria on saturday , piling pressure on shrinking territory the group still holds in oil-rich areas near the iraqi border .
syrian government forces fought their way to an air base on the outskirts of deir al-zor city that had been besieged for years by the jihadists , said a commander in the military alliance fighting in support of president bashar al-assad .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , a u.s.-backed alliance of mostly arab and kurdish fighters , meanwhile launched attacks against islamic state in the north of deir al-zor province in an operation to capture areas east of the euphrates river .
the advances against islamic state , another blow to its control over territory it held for years as part of a self-declared caliphate , will likely bring u.s.-backed forces and the syrian government side , backed by russia and iran , into closer proximity .
a u.s. warplane shot down a syrian army jet near raqqa in june and the sdf accused the syrian government of bombing its positions , showing the risk of escalation between warring sides in a crowded battlefield .
the syrian conflict , which started as a popular uprising against assad in 2011 , has drawn in the united states , russia and regional powers .
peace talks have failed to bring an end to a war where islamist groups have increasingly dominated syria s armed opposition .
the sdf operation in deir al-zor province aims to capture areas in its northern and eastern countryside and advance towards the euphrates , according to the deir al-zor military council , which is fighting as part of the sdf .
the first step is to free the eastern bank of the euphrates and the areas islamic state still holds , ahmed abu kholeh , head of the military council , told reuters after the announcement .
we re not specifying a timeframe but we hope it will be a quick operation , he said at the town of al-shadadi in hasaka province .
abu kholeh would not say whether there were plans to advance on deir al-zor city itself .
we don t know how the battles will go after this , he said .
he said sdf fighters did not expect clashes with syrian government forces , but if fired upon we will respond .
the syrian observatory for human rights monitoring group reported that sdf forces had advanced against is in deir al-zor s northwestern countryside , seizing several hilltops and a village .
syrian government forces and their allies reached deir al-zor military airport on the other side of the euphrates , where troops had been holed up since 2014 , surrounded by islamic state , the commander in the pro-assad alliance said .
the alliance includes iran-backed militias and the powerful lebanese shi ite group hezbollah .
the advance came days after the army and its allies broke the siege of the main part of the city , which had been separated from the airport by is attacks a few months before .
syrian troops also recaptured the teym oilfield southwest of deir al-zor and seized part of a main highway running downstream to the city of al-mayadeen , to which many is militants have retreated , the british-based observatory said .
that advance would help block potential is reinforcements from al-mayadeen , it said .
islamic state in syria still holds much of deir al-zor province and half the city , as well some territory further west near homs and hama , where government forces recaptured several villages on saturday , pro-damascus media reported .
but the group has lost most of its caliphate which from 2014 stretched across swathes of syria and iraq , including oil-rich deir al-zor .
the sdf is still battling to eject is from the remaining areas it holds in raqqa , northwest of deir al-zor and once the group s main syria stronghold from where it planned attacks abroad .
talks between russia , iran and opposition backer turkey in the kazakh capital astana are to take place next week , possibly followed by a separate track at the united nations in geneva in october or november .
assad s government has participated in previous rounds from a position of power as damascus has clawed back much territory , including the main urban centers in the west of the country and increasingly eastern desert held by is .
syria s non-islamist opposition holds some pockets of territory in western syria , and the sdf , which is dominated by the kurdish ypg militia , controls much of syria s northeast .