washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. department of commerce made a final finding that seven foreign producers dumped certain carbon and alloy steel cut-to-length plate in the u.s. market , allowing it to impose duties ranging from 3.62 percent to 148 percent , commerce secretary wilbur ross said on thursday .
the determinations of dumping , or selling a product below its fair price , apply to imports of ctl plate from austria , belgium , france , germany , italy , japan , south korea and taiwan , ross said .
in addition , there was a final finding that south korean imports were subsidized , leading to a countervailing duty of 4.31 percent being slapped on those products , he said at a department event .
“ a healthy steel industry is critical to our economy and manufacturing base , yet our steel industry today is under assault from foreign producers that dump and subsidize their exports , ” ross told the audience .
in 2015 , imports of ctl plate from the seven producers totaled $ 732 million , with those from austria , belgium , france , germany , italy , japan , korea and taiwan valued at an estimated $ 14.2 million , $ 19.8 million , $ 179 million , $ 196.2 million , $ 37 million , $ 54.9 million , $ 210 million and $ 21 million , respectively , department figures show .
( bit.ly/2mszm1z ) cut-to-length steel is used in a wide range of applications , including buildings and bridgework ; agricultural , construction and mining equipment ; machine parts and tooling ; ships , rail cars , tankers and barges ; and large-diameter pipe .
the finding followed an investigation prompted by a petition from nucor corp and u.s. subsidiaries of arcelormittal sa and ssab ab .
for austrian producers and exporters , dumping duties on the voestalpine group and all others were set at 53.72 percent .
they were 5.4 percent for industeel belgium , 51.78 percent for the nlmk belgium group and 5.4 percent for all other belgium producers and exporters .
among french manufacturers and exporters , duty rates were set at 148.02 percent for industeel france and 8.62 percent for dillinger france and all others .
in germany , duties were set at 5.38 percent for ag der dillinger hüttenwerke , 22.90 percent for the salzgitter group and 21.03 percent for all other exporters and producers .
a spokesman for salzgitter confirmed the company was facing duties , saying the decision to impose the duties and the level of them were incomprehensible .
in italy , the department set anti-dumping duty rates of 6.08 percent for officine tecnosider , 22.19 percent for marcegaglia spa and nlmk verona spa and 6.08 percent for all other producers and exporters .
among japanese producers and exporters , tokyo steel manufacturing co ltd was hit with a duty rate of 14.79 percent .
a rate of 48.67 percent was imposed on jfe steel corp and shimabun corp , and for all others it was set at 14.79 percent .
taiwanese companies shang chen steel co ltd and china steel corp had anti-dumping duties of 3.62 percent and 6.95 percent , respectively , imposed on them .
the rate for other producers and exporters was set at 5.29 percent .
for south korea , the department imposed an anti-dumping duty of 7.39 percent on posco , as well as a countervailing duty of 4.31 percent to account for subsidies .
the same rates apply to all other producers and exporters .
the findings allow the department to ask u.s. customs authorities to collect cash deposits from exporters based on those rates .
on march 3 , in a decision stemming from the same investigation , the u.s. international trade commission said it had made a final finding that u.s. industry was being harmed by the dumping and subsidization of imports of carbon and alloy steel ctl plate from china .
that allows for the final imposition of duties by the commerce department on china ’ s producers and exporters of the plate .