21st century wire says the mainstream media called it case closed after the fbi released its aerial footage of the ambush and shooting of lavoy finicum .
now , new evidence reveals that there was likely foul play and a misrepresentation by federal and state authorities involved in the recent killing of rancher and protester lavoy finicum.as 21wire reported at the time ( although ignored by the oregonian and other mainstream media outlets ) that without any audio track to synch with the fbi s aerial footage , it was impossible to really tell when shots were fired and if the official story was actually true .
at the time , fbi special agent in charge , greg bretzing , insisted that their footage provided an honest and unfiltered view of what happened .
however , new evidence tells different story , and appears to demonstrate exactly how the official story was intentionally distorted by authorities in order to cover-up what really happened that day.at yesterday s deschutes county sheriff s office press conference , officials claimed that the state trooper tactical team members were justified in killing finicum because the officers feared for their lives .
however , authorities are now saying that the fbi agents involved are now being investigated for firing shots and never reporting them.mike arnold , an attorney representing the bundys explained on tuesday , the public deserved to have the video , with audio and sound , released immediately after the shooting .
now we know why it wasn t released : the public would have heard the shots that the government didn t want it to hear .
the following presentation revealed at yesterday s press conference shows previously released fbi aerial footage synched together with a newly released cellphone video from passenger shauna cox recorded while inside finicum s truck .
among other things , this new video proves that police fired first on the vehicle before anyone had even exited the vehicle .
watch : most importantly , this new evidence reveals what happened immediately after that crash , and this could very well lead to criminal charges against the fbi agents and members of the oregon state police tactical units .
according to today s washington post : deschutes county sheriff shane nelson said two bullets believed to be fired by fbi agents did not strike finicum , who was hit by three rounds fired by state troopers .
but nelson announced at a news conference tuesday that because the fbi agents did not disclose their shots to investigators , nor did they disclose specific actions they took after the shooting , his office and the justice department would both investigate .
the new video , combined with a brand new disclosure by a team of local investigators points towards a conspiracy by agents and members of an elite national unit who appear to have lied about events at the police ambush and lavoy finicum s death has now prompted a new investigation by the u.s. justice department , led by inspector general michael horowitz.finicum shot in the backamong other details , newly released findings show that two state troopers shot finicum three times in the back during the police ambush jan. 26 , 2016 .
an autopsy revealed that one of the bullets pierced finicum s heart.another shocking point of this investigation shows the complete incompetence and negligence on the part of officers positioned in front and behind lavoy finicum creating a dangerous cross-fire situation , something which professional officers are taught to avoid , for obvious reasons.mainstream yellow journalismthe mainstream media are still standing by their slanted terminology by describing the incident as a traffic stop , presumably to downplay the premeditated operation by federal and state authorities to intercept the two vehicles ( both the oregonian , the washington post and many other mainstream media outlets all used this skewed language at the time ) .clearly , by any sober estimation of the incident , this was an elaborate , staged ambush involving dozens of vehicles and special tactical teams , and yet every mainstream media news outlet covered the incident with a pro-government bias where the victim was assumed guilty while the government was assumed innocent .
not surprisingly , this coverage quickly turned public opinion against finicum and anyone else protesting similar issues .
one example of the public hate that was generated against finicum can be found in the comment section of many articles on the website gawker where gawker readers celebrated finicum s death : tens of thousands of similar hate comments can be found throughout many mainstream media articles and on social media .
this fact proves how pivotal the mainstream media s skewed coverage was in turning sections of the population against the protesters in oregon despite the fact that finicum s killing was an obvious ambush and a clear escalation of violence on the part of the government.stay tuned for more updates at 21wire.see more oregon standoff news at : 21st century wire oregon standoff files