caracas/san cristobal , venezuela ( reuters ) - with some nursing wounds , others jailed and many heading abroad , venezuela s young opposition supporters are demoralized by the ruling socialists shock election win this month , after prolonged protests failed to oust president nicolas maduro .
having for months led rallies and battles against maduro s security forces in which scores died , youth demonstrators reluctantly abandoned the streets as the opposition turned its attention to the oct. 15 gubernatorial vote .
though the opposition looked set to win comfortably due to public anger over food and medicine shortages , plus soaring inflation , the government took 18 of 23 governorships .
that left thousands of young protesters furious and disillusioned with opposition leadership .
many had vigorously opposed participating in the election because it would legitimize what they see as a dictatorship .
we have been betrayed , said graphic designer manuel melo , 21 , who lost a kidney when hit by a water cannon jet .
the political opposition does not represent us , he added , in his small bedroom in a poor neighborhood of the teeming capital caracas .
a stylized picture of a heart emblazoned one wall of the room , while a gas mask , used to protect him from tear gas during the unrest , adorned the other .
melo and many others now see the protests , which left 125 people dead and thousands wounded or in jail , as a waste of time .
they have little stomach to return to the fight and view the leaders of the opposition democratic unity ( mud ) coalition as traitors for abandoning the streets in favor of a ballot they believe was rigged by the pro-maduro election board .
their disillusionment heightened this week when four of the five winning opposition governors with the democratic action party broke ranks with the coalition to swear themselves in before an all-powerful legislative superbody that maduro s foes had vowed never to recognize .
that set off a round of unseemly in-fighting and recriminations within the opposition , with heavyweight leader henrique capriles saying he would abandon the coalition while democratic action leader henry ramos remained a member .
i m totally dejected because after all these protests , the election , nothing has changed , said student javier lara , 18 , who watched a fellow protester die in unrest in the volatile city of san cristobal on the border with colombia .
like many young venezuelans , lara now plans to head abroad as soon as possible - to peru in his case .
we ve been sold out by the opposition , he said .
the democratic unity coalition finds itself in crisis .
its strategy of contesting the gubernatorial elections backfired spectacularly .
in the wake of defeat , stunned opposition leaders could not even agree whether to pursue fraud allegations , with some refusing to accept the election results and others publicly admitting defeat .
a breakup , or reformulation of the coalition , now looks inevitable , with a new strategy and possibly fresh blood needed for the 2018 presidential election .
though polls routinely showed the opposition had majority support , many venezuelans view their leaders as an elitist group out-of-touch with their problems .
the mud is all over the place , said antonio ledezma , a veteran politician and former opposition mayor who is under house arrest .
the international community deserves an explanation of our behavior .
some young opposition supporters are seeking inspiration away from traditional leaders .
they voice admiration for lorenzo mendoza , a billionaire businessman who has shied away from politics , and juan carlos caguaripano , a former national guard captain who led an august attack on a military base .
heaping humiliation on the opposition , maduro says daily in speeches that peace has won and a u.s.-backed plot to oust him has been defeated .
to stoke his foes disarray , maduro has urged democratic action leader ramos - a hate figure for some younger opposition supporters - to stand in the next presidential vote .
get ready for 2018 , i m waiting for you !
maduro said this week , exulting in the opposition s chaos , back-stabbing and divisionism .