caracas/new york ( reuters ) - venezuela s cash-strapped government insisted it had successfully begun efforts to refinance some $ 60 billion in bonds , though creditors disagreed following fruitless talks and a ratings firm declared the nation in selective default .
venezuelan bonds slid on tuesday after s & p global ratings announced that venezuela was in selective default for failing to make $ 200 million in overdue coupon payments on its 2019 and 2024 global issues within a 30-day grace period .
investors , meanwhile , voiced concern after president nicolas maduro s negotiators met briefly with bondholders in caracas on monday but failed to present firm proposals to alleviate the opec nation s crippling foreign debt amid an unprecedented economic meltdown .
the process of refinancing venezuela s foreign debt began with resounding success , the socialist government said late monday , complaining about u.s. financial sanctions and what it called unfair assessments from international ratings agencies .
the government repeated pledges to honor all its foreign debt and said monday s talks were attended by 100 or so participants , including bondholders from venezuela , the united states , panama , britain , colombia , chile , japan and argentina .
however , attendees at the meeting came away confused over how venezuela plans to avoid a default , given its parlous state finances , and how any refinancing could be worked out amid u.s. president donald trump s sanctions .
the u.s. measures block the issuance of any new venezuelan debt and impose sanctions on the country s chief negotiators , vice president tareck el aissami and economy minister simon zerpa , on drug and corruption charges .
venezuela has dismissed those accusations as politically motivated fabrications by washington to tarnish the country s reputation .
the bondholder meeting in venezuela was a non-event , lasting only 20-30 minutes with reports of only 10 non caracas-based investors ... and the only official that spoke was drug kingpin vp tareck el aissami said siobhan morden , head of latin american fixed-income strategy at nomura , who did not attend .
four years of recession in the south american nation , fueled by failing socialist economics and a plunge in global oil prices , have hit venezuelans hard .
many skip meals or suffer from malnutrition and preventable diseases , due to severe shortages of food and medicine and triple-digit inflation .
with some $ 9 billion in payments looming for 2018 , a default would be a short-term relief for the government , enabling maduro to spend on desperately-needed food and medicine imports ahead of next year s presidential election .
but that strategy could also backfire if it sparks aggressive legal challenges from abroad , including moves to seize assets of state oil company pdvsa , [ pdvsa.ul ] which is the cash-cow for venezuela s socialist system .
despite concern that u.s. sanctions could prevent venezuela hiring advisors , the government has appointed lawyer david syed - a former partner at orrick , herrington & sutcliffe - to advise it , working alongside a team at global law firm dentons , according to ifr , a thomson reuters news service .
on another flank of the country s creditworthiness , a committee of the international swaps and derivatives association ( isda ) is looking into whether pdvsa triggered a credit event through late payment of its 2017n bond this month .
the group said it would reconvene on thursday to continue discussions of whether or not pdvsa was in default .
isda also said on tuesday it had received another request from investors as to whether venezuela had triggered a credit event due to the late payment of the coupon on its sovereign bonds .
bondholders had told reuters on monday they had not yet received payments on the 2019 and 2024 bonds but were unconcerned about the delay , which they said was partly due to increased bank vigilance following the u.s. sanctions .
in its statement on monday , s & p global ratings said it could raise venezuela s ratings again if the government made payments on the overdue coupons and remained timely on other payments before the restructuring is completed .
however , it said it saw a one-in-two chance that venezuela could default again within the next three months and it listed a further four bonds with overdue coupon payments due in the coming weeks , with unpaid obligations totaling $ 420 million .
the luxembourg stock exchange said on tuesday said it was temporarily halting trading of venezuela s 2019 and 2024 bonds due to the event of default in order to make changes to the way in which the securities are traded .
fitch ratings also downgraded pdvsa due to payment default on notes due on oct. 27 and nov. 2 after processing delays that resulted in bondholders receiving principal payments up to one week after the due date .
venezuela s sovereign bonds , already the most distressed in the benchmark jpmorgan emerging markets bond index plus ( embi+ ) 11emj , have whipsawed over the past week .
the index measures the spreads of 13 venezuelan sovereign bonds versus benchmark u.s. treasuries .
last week , as the caracas talks loomed , investors bought venezuela s bonds on speculation there might be progress in finding a solution , driving a 1,095 basis-point narrowing in spreads from nov. 7 through monday .
however , on tuesday , spreads ballooned by 714 basis points as investors dumped venezuelan bonds .
( for a graphic on 'venezuela 's economy ' click tmsnrt.rs/2ppjdrb )