beirut ( reuters ) - iran s supreme court has upheld a death sentence against an iranian academic with swedish residency convicted of espionage , amnesty international and his family said on tuesday .
ahmadreza djalali , a doctor and lecturer at the karolinska institute , a stockholm medical university , was accused of providing information to israel to help it assassinate several senior nuclear scientists .
djalali was arrested in iran in april 2016 and later convicted of espionage .
he denied the charges , amnesty said .
at least four scientists were killed between 2010 and 2012 in what tehran said was a program of assassinations meant to sabotage its efforts to develop nuclear energy .
western powers and israel said iran aimed to build a nuclear bomb .
tehran denied this .
the islamic republic hanged a man in 2012 over the killings , saying he had links to israel .
djalali s lawyers were told on saturday that the supreme court had considered his case and upheld his oct. 24 sentence in a secret process without allowing them to file defense submissions , london-based amnesty said .
this is not only a shocking assault on the right to a fair trial but is also in utter disregard for ahmadreza djalali s right to life , magdalena mughrabi , amnesty s deputy director for the middle east and north africa , said in a statement .
vida mehrannia , djalali s wife , said the whole family were in shock at the decision and that they had informed the swedish government about the latest development in the case .
the judicial process was not fair and legal from the beginning .
none of the court sessions was held in public and the interrogators imposed their decision on the judges , she told reuters by telephone from stockholm .
the iranian judiciary could not be reached for comment .
amnesty said in october that the court verdict against djalali stated he had worked with the israeli government which then helped him obtain a swedish residency permit .
djalali was on a business trip to iran when he was arrested and sent to evin prison .
he was held in solitary confinement for three months of his detention and tortured , amnesty said .
it said djalali wrote a letter inside evin last august stating he was being held for refusing to spy for iran .
sweden condemned the sentence in october and said it had raised the matter with iranian envoys in stockholm and tehran .
seventy-five nobel prize laureates petitioned iranian authorities last month to release djalali so he could continue his scholarly work for the benefit of mankind .
they said djalali has suggested it was his refusal to work for iranian intelligence services that led to this unfair , flawed trial .
the united nations and international human rights organizations regularly list iran as a country with one of the world s highest execution rates .
rights groups have criticized iran for its regular resort to capital punishment .