beijing ( reuters ) - authorities in china s far western region of xinjiang have in recent months detained up to 30 relatives of an exiled ethnic uighur leader , rebiya kadeer , rights group amnesty international said on tuesday .
it was not possible to independently verify the report .
xinjiang , where hundreds have died in recent years in violence between majority han chinese and ethnic uighurs who call xinjiang home , is under tight security and independent reporting there is difficult .
uighurs are a mostly muslim people who speak a turkic language .
a xinjiang government news department official declined to comment , saying she was unaware of the report .
china s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
kadeer is a former political prisoner in china accused of leaking state secrets in 1999 .
she was later allowed to leave on medical grounds and lives in the united states .
she is president of the world uyghur congress .
amnesty said that among those detained were kadeer s sisters , brothers , sons , grandchildren and extended relatives .
some of her relatives have been detained or jailed previously in xinjiang .
the rights group said in an emailed statement that it was unclear when they were taken away , and that they were presumed to be held at a so-called education center and risked torture .
these facilities are known to arbitrarily detain uighurs and other muslim minorities for 6-12 months or more , it said .
forced to study chinese laws and policies , many of those detained are targeted because they may have been found praying , owning religious books , have traveled abroad , or have family members living abroad , it said .
the chinese government routinely denies accusations of rights abuses in xinjiang , though it has admitted a problem with torture of detainees and has pledged to stop mistreatment of prisoners .
xinjiang , on the borders of central asia , afghanistan and pakistan , is one of china s most sensitive domestic issues and where china says it faces its own war on radical islam and militancy .
rights groups and uighur exiles say the unrest is more a product of uighur frustration at chinese controls on their culture and religion .
china denies any repression .