washington ( reuters ) - for a republican party trying to woo hispanic voters , the timing of the u.s. supreme court ’ s review of the legality of president barack obama ’ s executive action on immigration could not come at a more awkward time .
the case , which will consider whether obama exceeded his constitutional authority to spare from deportation millions of immigrants in the country illegally , is set to be argued in the coming months with a decision due by the end of june .
that would land the issue squarely in the middle of the u.s. presidential race , just weeks before republicans gather for their convention to choose a nominee in november ’ s election .
a supreme court win for the republican-governed states that sued to block obama ’ s action surely would have conservatives in the party celebrating but might have those in the party who are concerned about reaching hispanic voters fretting .
“ as a republican , you would take a quick victory lap and then not talk about it , ” said rodell mollineau , a democratic strategist and former aide to senator harry reid of nevada .
“ either way , whatever happens , you want it to happen quickly. ” republican strategists have long worried that the hard-line stance taken by the likes of donald trump and ted cruz toward obama ’ s immigration policies would cost the party the opportunity to secure the badly needed support of hispanic voters in the general election .
in the 2012 election , hispanic voters preferred obama over republican nominee mitt romney by a massive margin , 71 percent to 27 percent , causing republican leaders afterward to warn that if the party did not start broadening its appeal to that swiftly growing demographic , it would be on the losing end of presidential contests for years to come .
john feehery , a republican strategist who has argued that the party needs to a do a better job courting hispanics , conceded that those voters largely would blame republicans if obama ’ s policy is blocked by the justices .
but , feehery said , those voters also might fault obama for trying to bypass congress to do something he was not empowered under the constitution to do , setting back the cause of immigration reform in the process .
hispanic advocates are already angry with obama over recent deportation raids by the department of homeland security .
“ latino voters will of course blame republicans , but should the supreme court decide against the president , he will blamed also , especially in conjunction with his increased enforcement against illegals , ” feehery said .
democratic presidential candidates seemed eager on tuesday to have the court rule on the case , contending that it provides an opportunity for the court to ratify the president ’ s action and end the debate over its legality .
and they seemed mindful of the issue ’ s potency on the campaign trail .
“ ( obama ’ s ) action should be upheld so families can stay together and live without fear of deportation , ” hillary clinton , the front-runner for the democratic nomination , wrote on twitter .
her top rival , senator bernie sanders of vermont , said he was “ confident the president has the legal authority ” for the order .
sanders called on congress to move forward on immigration reform , but pledged that , as president , “ he would uphold and expand the president ’ s action. ” criticism of the 2014 executive order , and of the president ’ s use of his executive authority generally , has been standard fare among republicans on the campaign trail .
cruz , a senator from texas and a leading contender for the republican nomination , has been a long-time critic of obama ’ s immigration policies .
cruz , a harvard-trained lawyer and former supreme court clerk who once served as his state ’ s top advocate before the high court , said it was significant that the justices will decide whether obama violated the u.s. constitution ’ s requirement that presidents “ take care that the laws be faithfully executed. ” “ he did not do that , and i trust that the court will reach that conclusion , ” cruz said .
senator marco rubio of florida , who co-sponsored bipartisan immigration legislation that passed the senate in 2013 but died in the house of representatives , has also been a longstanding critic of obama ’ s use of executive power .
rubio has since backtracked on his support for the legislation .
“ i ’ m confident ( the supreme court ) will agree obama executive orders are unconstitutional , ” rubio wrote on twitter .
“ regardless , as president , i will end them . ”