the prospect of donald trump winning the presidency is scaring the hell out of the world s markets , and conservatives are to blame.the economy is facing a free-fall that will make brexit look like a yawn if donald trump pulls out a win .
as the electoral votes came in for trump on tuesday night , dow jones futures dropped an astonishing 750 points while the value of the dollar dropped just over one percent.according to market watch , futures for the dow jones industrial average plunged nearly 750 points before modestly paring losses as republican presidential nominee donald trump s lead in the electoral college over democratic rival hillary clinton widened.dow futures ymz6 , -3.63 % were off 700 points , or 3.9 % , at 17,574 .
the u.s. dollar usdjpy , -3.23 % slumped 3.2 % to 101.64 .
the ice u.s. dollar index , a measure of the dollar s strength against a basket of six rivals , was off 1.2 % at 96.68.and the damage was not isolated to the united states as asian and australian markets also fell and the mexican peso dropped in value to a new record low as well.in asia , stocks opened sharply lower , with hong kong s hang seng index hsi , -2.82 % down 607 points , or 2.7 % , at 22,299 .
the nikkei 225 nik , -4.79 % slid 783 points , or 4.5 % , at 16,387 .
australia s all-ordinaries index xao , -2.26 % was off 143 points , or 2.7 % , at 5,198.meanwhile , the mexican peso usdmxn , +12.0999 % plunged more than 11 % to a new record low at 20.30 pesos to the dollar.unrelated but still worth noting , the canadian immigration website has crashed , presumably because people are scared to death at the prospect of a trump presidency.republican voters literally put america s economy at serious risk by voting for donald trump .
if the world economy takes a major hit and consequently hurts this country and erases all of the progress we have made since the great recession eight years ago , republicans will own this .
it will be their fault and they will be the only ones to blame.this election is a seriously embarrassing moment in our history and our reputation around the world just went from one of respect to a total joke.these conservative voters in rural areas just got duped into thinking that this billionaire blowhard actually cares about them , their families , their jobs , and their financial future .
but they are about to be severely disappointed because trump only cares about himself .
he does not care about making sure people get a fair wage .
he does not care about all those blue-collar workers who somehow think trump will bring back manufacturing jobs .
this is a guy who imports materials from china because he d rather buy cheap instead of buying from american companies.so if you are a conservative and you lose your job , home , and savings .
look in the mirror and blame yourself .
you caused your own misery and you deserve every bit of it.featured image : chip somodevilla/getty images