they wouldn t want to remind anyone the actual reason for the holiday season or god forbid , give some crazy muslim terrorist an excuse to come in and shoot the place up the university of tennessee , knoxville office of diversity and inclusion has come up with a list of best practices in order to ensure your inclusive workplace holiday party is not a christmas party in disguise and that it refrains from being perceived as endorsing religion generally .
the best practices for inclusive holiday celebrations in the workplace holiday resource guide states that the public university does not have an official policy regarding religious and cultural d cor and celebration in the workplace , however , we are fully committed to a diverse , welcoming , and inclusive environment .
in order to ensure your holiday party is not a christmas party in disguise , the office of diversity and inclusion has come up with a list of ways for supervisors to encourage individuals to celebrate their own religions and cultures without allegedly excluding anyone or even being seen as endorsing religion : holiday parties and celebrations should celebrate and build upon workplace relationships and team morale with no emphasis on religion or culture .
ensure your holiday party is not a christmas party in disguise.consider having a new year s party and include d cor and food from multiple religions and cultures .
use it as an opportunity to reinvigorate individuals for the new year s goals and priorities .
supervisors and managers should not as well as , not be perceived as endorsing religion generally or a specific religion.if an individual chooses not to participate in a holiday party or celebration , do not pressure the person to participate .
participation should be voluntary.if a potluck-style party or celebration is planned , encourage employees to bring food items that reflect their personal religions , cultures , and celebrations .
use this as an opportunity for individuals to share what they brought and why it is meaningful to them.if sending holiday cards to campus and community partners , send a non-denominational card or token of your gratitude.holiday parties and celebrations should not play games with religious and cultural themes .
for example , dreidel or secret santa .
if you want to exchange gifts , then refer to it in a general way , such as a practical joke gift exchange or secret gift exchange.d cor selection should be general , not specific to any religion or culture .
identify specific dates when d cor can be put up and when it must come down.refreshment selection should be general , not specific to any religion or culture.most importantly , celebrate your religious and cultural holidays in ways that are respectful and inclusive of our students , your colleagues , and our university .
via : mrctv