moscow ( reuters ) - president vladimir putin warned on thursday that some of his opponents would destabilize russia and usher in chaos if they were elected in a presidential election next year , but promised genuine political competition .
putin , who is running for re-election in march , was answering a question at his annual news conference about opposition leader alexei navalny who looks unlikely to be allowed to contest the election due to what navalny says is a trumped up criminal case .
the question was put to him to ksenia sobchak , a television personality who has said she plans to run against putin in the same election , which polls suggest putin will comfortably win .
putin , in response , accused sobchak , who has said she wants to attract voters who are against all candidates , of not offering any positive solutions to the problems facing russia .
he likened navalny to former georgian president mikheil saakashvili who came to power in his own country in 2004 after a peaceful revolution and is now heavily involved in politics in ukraine , where he is calling for the impeachment of ukrainian president petro poroshenko .
do you want tens of people like saakashvili to be running around public squares ?
putin asked sobchak , when asked about navalny not being allowed to take part in the election .
those who you ve named ( navalny ) are the same as saakashvili , only the russian version .
and you want these saakashvilis to destabilize the situation in the country ?
do you want attempted coups d etat ?
we ve lived through all that .
do you really want to go back to all that ?
i am sure that the overwhelming majority of russian citizens do not want this .
putin said the authorities were not afraid of genuine political competition and promised such competition would exist .
navalny , commenting on social media , said putin s response showed the reasons for barring him from taking part in next year s presidential election were due to a political decision .
it s like he s saying we re in power and we ve decided that it ( navalny running ) is a bad idea , navalny said .