seoul ( reuters ) - south korea approved a plan on thursday to send $ 8 million worth of humanitarian aid to north korea , the south s unification ministry said , as part of an aid policy that the government says remains unaffected by geopolitical tensions with the north .
the aid decision was made after a meeting of government officials chaired by unification minister cho myong-gyon .
it comes after the united nations approved new sanctions against north korea for its sixth nuclear test earlier this month .
the south said it aims to send $ 4.5 million worth of nutritional products for children and pregnant women through the world food programme and $ 3.5 million worth of vaccines and medicinal treatments through unicef .
the exact timing of when the aid will be sent , as well as its size , will be confirmed later , the ministry said in a statement .
the wfp and unicef had approached the south korean government in may and july this year to contribute in aiding north korea , the statement added .
we have consistently said we would pursue humanitarian aid for north korea in consideration of the poor conditions children and pregnant women are in there , apart from political issues , said cho in opening remarks at the meeting .
ahead of the meeting , unicef s regional director for east asia and the pacific karin hulshof said in a statement the problems north korean children face are all too real .
today , we estimate that around 200,000 children are affected by acute malnutrition , heightening their risk of death and increasing rates of stunting , hulshof said .
food and essential medicines and equipment to treat young children are in short supply .
cho s ministry had said earlier this month they were looking into giving north korea aid , which launched a backlash of disapproval from both the public and opposition parties .
it has dragged down south korean president moon jae-in s approval rating .
realmeter , a south korean polling organization , said on thursday moon s approval rating stood at 65.7 percent , weakening for a fourth straight month .
although the approval rate is still high , those surveyed said moon had fallen out of favor due to north korea s continued provocations and the government s decision to consider sending aid to north korea , realmeter said .
south korea s decision to mull over fresh aid to the north has also caused a rift of concern in neighboring japan and the united states , according to government officials there , leading japan prime minister shinzo abe to bring up the issue during a phone call with moon last week .
moon had said aid was something to be considered separately from political issues , quoted by his office .
south korean humanitarian aid efforts to north korea had been halted since north korea s fourth nuclear test in january last year .
the last time the south had sent aid to the north was in december 2015 through the united nations population fund ( unfpa ) under ex-president park geun-hye .
north korea has conducted two more nuclear tests since then , with its most recent and largest taking place early this month .
pyongyang has launched numerous missiles as well , including two intercontinental ballistic missiles and two other rockets that have flown over japan .
such provocations have sparked strong disapproval from the international community , especially from the united states and japan .