united nations ( reuters ) - south sudan president salva kiir s government is using food as a weapon of war to target civilians by blocking life-saving aid in some areas , united nations sanctions monitors told the security council in a confidential report seen by reuters on friday .
during 2016 and 2017 , the u.n. monitors said a military campaign by government troops in the northwestern town of wau and surrounding areas in western bahr el-ghazal targeted civilians on ethnic grounds and displaced more than 100,000 .
the government has during much of 2017 deliberately prevented life-saving food assistance from reaching some citizens , the monitors wrote .
these actions amount to using food as a weapon of war with the intent to inflict suffering on civilians the government views as opponents to its agenda .
the denial of aid had caused extreme food insecurity among large sections of the population , with malnutrition and death by starvation the documented outcome , in particular in the greater baggari area in wau county , they said in the report submitted to the u.n. security council s south sudan sanctions committee .
south sudan s mission to the united nations did not immediately respond to a request for comment on the u.n. report .
south sudan spiraled into civil war in late 2013 , two years after gaining independence from sudan , and a third of the 12 million population has fled their homes .
the conflict was sparked by a feud between kiir , a dinka , and his former deputy riek machar , a nuer , who is being held in south africa .
the united nations has warned that the violence in south sudan was providing fertile ground for a genocide .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley visited the juba late last month , where she told kiir that the united states had lost trust in his government and risked losing washington s support if he did not pursue peace .
the u.n. monitors reported that the government had regularly denied humanitarian aid access to certain parts of the population , in particular areas outside the town of wau , which was visited by u.n. security council ambassadors in september last year .
one of those areas , greater baggari , is noteworthy for the persistent and systematic nature of the government s access denials , and the catastrophic humanitarian conditions that have resulted , the independent u.n. monitors said .
in august , the government eased restrictions , allowing aid groups to distribute food and lifesaving assistance to more than 12,000 people in greater baggari .
villages had been looted and burned and crops destroyed , the u.n. monitors wrote .
one humanitarian assessment mission told the u.n. monitors that 164 young children and elderly had died from hunger and disease between january and september 2017 .
the report by the u.n. monitors found that despite the catastrophic conditions across south sudan , armed forces , groups and militias - particularly those affiliated with kiir and vice president taban deng gai - continued to actively impede both humanitarian and peacekeeping operations .
u.n. peacekeepers have been deployed in south sudan since 2011 .
an east african bloc , igad , led two rounds of peace talks over two years , culminating in a brief power-sharing agreement signed by kiir and machar in 2015 .
but even as igad urges a new ceasefire , the warring parties are preparing for more fighting .
the coming dry season in south sudan will , absent a change in the current conflict dynamics , see further fighting and civilian suffering as the government continues to pursue military victory over political compromise , the u.n. monitors wrote .