washington ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton wants to set the record straight on donald trump : “ we were not friends. ” “ we knew each other , obviously , in new york , ” clinton , a former u.s. senator from new york , said in excerpts of a people magazine interview released on wednesday .
“ i knew a lot of people. ” trump , the real estate billionaire whose standing as republican front-runner was dented by a second-place finish in the iowa caucuses on monday , had long touted his friendship with bill and hillary clinton .
in a march 2012 fox news interview , trump praised clinton as a “ terrific woman. ” “ i am biased because i have known her for years .
i live in new york .
she lives in new york .
i really like her and her husband both a lot .
i think she really works hard , ” trump told fox .
but the clintons , who attended trump ’ s 2005 wedding , were fair game on the campaign trail .
in november , trump said hillary clinton did not have strength or stamina to be president and called her the worst u.s. secretary of state , a post she held from 2009 to 2013 .
when clinton denounced trump last month for showing “ a penchant for sexism , ” trump turned the phrase against her , using it to refer to bill clinton ’ s sexual scandals as president .
trump ’ s caustic comments about hispanics , women , muslims and his rivals for the nomination have set much of the tone for the republican race .
clinton has accused him of being divisive and a bully .
clinton told people she could handle trump ’ s barbs , but worried about the immigrants and american muslims he targets .
“ i ’ m more concerned about the tone that is being set in the political debate this year because the last thing our country needs right now is more divisiveness , more mean-spiritedness , ” she said .
it was not clear when the people interview , which included clinton ’ s daughter , chelsea , was conducted .
clinton won the iowa democratic caucuses over u.s .
senator bernie sanders on monday .
“ i really care about what he says about other people , who don ’ t have the voice and the platform , ” clinton said , referring to immigrants and american muslims .
chelsea clinton said she has never had a relationship with donald trump but remains friends with his daughter , ivanka .
“ i do believe that friendship is more important than politics , ” she told people .
“ i would never hold anyone accountable for what their parents or anyone else in their family said or did. ” ( writing by doina chiacu ; editing by bill trott ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .