new york ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton ’ s lead over republican rival donald trump widened to 6 percentage points in the latest reuters/ipsos u.s. presidential tracking poll , released on friday , showing trump losing support among women .
the oct. 21-27 opinion poll shows 42 percent of people who either voted already or expect to vote in the nov. 8 election support clinton , versus 36 percent for trump .
clinton ’ s lead a week ago was 4 points .
the polling was conducted before clinton ’ s campaign was hit on friday by the fbi announcement that it was investigating more emails as part of a probe into her use of a private email server while secretary of state .
fbi director james comey said in a letter to several congressional republicans that the agency had learned of the existence of emails that appeared to be pertinent to its investigation .
however , he said the fbi did not know if the emails were significant and did not provide a time frame for the probe .
( graphic : race to the white house tmsnrt.rs/298mtyd ) trump , a new york businessman seeking his first elected office , has consistently trailed clinton in the poll .
his level of support has remained below 40 percent among all likely voters since the beginning of september .
clinton leads trump by 10 points among likely women voters , up from a 4-point lead the previous week .
clinton has led trump among women over the last two months , though the size of her advantage has varied widely from 1 point to 11 points .
in a 2005 video that emerged this month , trump could be heard bragging in vulgar terms about groping and kissing women .
at least a dozen women have since publicly accused him of making unwanted sexual advances .
trump denies the allegations .
trump still has an edge among white women , a key source of strength for republicans .
trump leads clinton by 2 points with this group , down from a 12-point lead the previous week .
women tend to lean democratic , but reuters/ipsos polling this month shows a majority of women have an unfavorable view of the former u.s. secretary of state and believe she is not honest and truthful .
clinton also led trump by 6 points in a separate reuters/ipsos poll that included alternative party candidates .
both polls , conducted online in english in all 50 states , included 1,627 american adults who were considered to be likely voters from their voting history , registration status and stated intention to vote .
that sample included 965 likely women voters and 776 likely white women voters .
individual responses were adjusted to reflect the overall u.s. population .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the total sample and 4 percentage points for the women voters .
the realclearpolitics website , which tracks most major polls , shows clinton leading trump by an average of 5 percentage points .