rome ( reuters ) - italy s senate passed into law on thursday a bill allowing severely ill people to refuse treatment that would prolong their lives .
the bill passed 180 votes to 71 in the face of opposition from right wing parties .
it allows all adults to prepare a document to express their preferences on how to be treated if they lose the faculty to choose or express their choice .
some 10 years after legislation on patients rights to choose what care to receive at the end of their lives was first proposed , the lower house of parliament approved the bill in april .
this will be one of the government s last acts before parliament is dissolved ahead of elections next year .
the ruling democratic party ( pd ) had pledged another civil rights measure , making it easier for the children of migrants to obtain citizenship , but this law now looks unlikely to pass .
parliament s decision makes everyone takes a step forward in terms of civilization for the country and of human dignity , prime minister paolo gentiloni , who is not a party leader and is unlikely to run in the election , said in brussels .
by italian parliamentary standards , the bill s passage was relatively swift thanks to an agreement between two of the biggest parties - the pd and the anti-establishment 5-star movement - to vote it through .
the deal was a rare example of cooperation between the two parties , which are usually bitter enemies .
the anti-immigrant northern league , which vies with former prime minister silvio berlusconi s forza italia party for the most votes on the right , fiercely fought the bill .
forza italia also opposed it , though less strongly .
this law is a precursor to euthanasia , said northern league senator gian marco centinaio .
final discussion of the bill coincided with the high-profile case of a disc jockey paralyzed and blinded in a road accident who went to switzerland to be helped to die .
a radical party member and right-to-die activist who accompanied fabiano antoniani , known as dj fabo , to the swiss clinic , is currently on trial in milan for aiding suicide .
in the living wills , which can be recorded on video if the patient can not write , food and water can be refused as well as medical treatment .
however if a patient refuses treatment , the doctor is still obliged to reduce their suffering , and can also use sedation .
the law also gives doctors scope to object on conscientious or religious grounds .