london ( reuters ) - the final death toll from the fire that destroyed the grenfell tower social housing block in london in june is 71 , police said on thursday after five months of painstaking search and recovery operations .
police had previously said about 80 people died in the blaze , which tore through the 24-storey tower in west london in the middle of the night , but officers now believe all those who died in the fire have been recovered and identified .
the figure has come down because some people were reported missing several times , some people who lived in the tower and were feared dead were found to have been elsewhere on the night , and some people were falsely reported dead by fraudsters hoping to receive financial compensation .
the final toll includes 70 adults and children who died in the tower during the fire , and one baby who was stillborn shortly after the heavily pregnant mother escaped from the 21st floor , suffering severe smoke inhalation on her way down .
the mother survived .
specialist teams working inside grenfell tower and the mortuary have pushed the boundaries of what was scientifically possible to identify people , said metropolitan police commander stuart cundy , who is in charge of operations at the tower .
i know that each and every member of the team has done absolutely all they can to make this possible .
they have done that for every person who lost their life , their families and loved ones , and all those for whom grenfell tower was home .
the tower was home to a tight-knit , multi-ethnic community in a deprived social housing estate within the wealthy kensington and chelsea borough that is also home to large numbers of millionaires .
the tragedy has prompted political debate and soul-searching about london s stark social inequalities and whether neglect of social housing estates and the communities living in them played a part in the fire .
a criminal investigation is under way that could result in individuals or organizations being charged .
a separate public inquiry aims to shed light on any flaws or irregularities in the design , construction or maintenance of the tower .
cundy said that when he first entered grenfell tower after the fire , the devastation was such that he feared it would not be possible to find , recover and identify all those who died .
police officers , assisted by forensic anthropologists , archaeologists and specialists in using dental science to identify unknown human remains , searched every flat on every floor and every communal area .
the search involved sifting through tonnes of debris by hand to identify all human remains in the charred building .
in parallel , huge amounts of investigative work was undertaken to identify who was in grenfell tower on the night of the fire , who was missing and presumed dead , enquire after those reported missing and reconcile all the information .
one person was reported missing 46 separate times .
some were reported under a number of different names , and even the slightest differences in spelling had to be investigated .
police said that having completed all this work , they now believed it was highly unlikely that anyone remained in grenfell tower .