berlin ( reuters ) - a mood of pre-election apathy rippled through german media on monday , as commentators concluded angela merkel s rival for chancellor had blown his best chance of depriving her of fourth term in office .
with three weeks to go until polling day , several national newspapers taking stock the morning after a lackluster two-way televised debate concluded that a re-run of the grand coalition of merkel s conservatives and challenger martin schulz s social democrats ( spd ) was likely .
angela merkel and martin schulz barely showed any differences in their only direct face-off .
why don t we just set the grand coalition up again now ?
magazine der spiegel said on its website , adding the debate would not have changed voters existing preferences .
that would be a continuation of the team that has governed germany for the last four years .
but that combination has in the past been viewed as a last resort , and surveys suggest a three-way coalition between the conservatives , greens and the free democrats ( fdp ) as an alternative option .
polls over the past three months have consistently shown merkel s conservatives holding a double-digit lead over the spd - but the gap has never stretched so far as to give her cdu/csu alliance a parliamentary majority .
polls showed merkel was also the winner of sunday s duel - a disappointment for schulz , who had hoped he could use his only direct clash with her to turn his party s fortunes around .
we re at risk of another grand coalition , read the headline in mass-selling bild newspaper .
it said while schulz had tried to attack the eternal chancellor , he had done so with velvet gloves , pointing out that he often said he shared merkel s opinion .
bild said the pair had failed to differentiate themselves .
there were two professional politicians speaking and you just couldn t shake off the suspicion that both of them could work together in government without much friction , it added .
local newspaper berliner zeitung newspaper s front page showed a scorecard that read 0:0 - a draw for both candidates .
it was supposed to be the first climax in the race for the chancellery ...
but substantive accents were missing .
undecided votes were likely unconvinced by either of the candidates , it said .
the rivals body language was also telling , it said , with schulz smiling a lot while merkel often looked as though she was witnessing something that she didn t quite like .
newspaper handelsblatt said schulz had not really attacked the incumbent chancellor , adding : martin schulz doesn t want to be chancellor in september apparently but rather angela merkel s office manager .
but berlin s tagesspiegel newspaper said schulz had scored points for taking more decisive positions on turkey , pensions and the need to punish the german automotive industry for the diesel emissions scandal .
when it came to showing hard edges , martin schulz was more convincing , it said , adding , this evening may have changed things .