london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may called on friday for a roughly two-year transition for britain after it leaves the european union while also offering some concessions on a divorce deal .
below are reactions to may s speech in florence , which she hopes will inject new momentum into the brexit negotiations .
the speech shows a willingness to move forward , as time is of the essence .
prime minister may s statements are a step forward but they must now be translated into a precise negotiating position of the uk government .
barnier also noted may did not address the issue of the future of northern ireland s relations with ireland .
fifteen months after the eu referendum the government is still no clearer about what our long term relationship with the eu will look like .
the only advance seems to be that the prime minister has listened to labour and faced up to the reality that britain needs a transition on the same basic terms to provide stability for businesses and workers .
manfred weber , head of centre-right group in eu parliament in substance prime minister may is bringing no more clarity to london s positions .
i am even more concerned now .
theresa may s brexit vision is that we leave the eu in name only .
all areas of integration we have currently will be rebadged .
while the uk has taken a limited step toward a more pragmatic stance on the initial legal exit from the eu that emerged over the summer , its position appears to remain deeply conflicted .
as many had anticipated , the speech falls short of addressing the legacy financial issues which the eu has highlighted as key to moving on to a second stage of the talks .
our best guess is that the degree of antagonism between the two sides will rise in the near term .
miles celic , ceo , thecityuk , financial services lobby group in calling for a time-limited transitional period under the existing rules and structures , she has echoed our industry s priorities and the calls of businesses on both sides of the channel .
similarly , since the start of the brexit negotiations , we have been clear on the benefits of mutual regulatory recognition .
it s very positive to see that the british government supports this principle one which is in the best interests of all parties .
for the first time , today s intervention by the prime minister provides a potential route forward out of the current uncertainty caused by the stalled negotiations .
the intention to negotiate an implementation phase based on our current arrangements with the eu-27 is a welcome step in helping businesses manage the ongoing uncertainty .
while further clarity around the government s wider position is welcome , the commitment to a two-year transition makes it even more important that rapid progress is made in the negotiations .
catherine mcguinness , policy chairman , city of london corporation firms in the financial and professional services sector plan two to or more years in advance .
with only 18 months left until the uk leave the bloc , urgent agreement on a transitional arrangement is crucial .
otherwise , firms may well be forced to implement contingency plans unnecessarily .
tim graf , emea head of macro strategy , state street global markets for the near-term , negotiations may likely be hampered by the lack of detail offered on the main items for discussion , namely the irish border question , the ultimate financial settlement with the eu and the rights of eu citizens .
stephen martin , director general of the institute of directors there was welcome honesty in today s speech that not following one of the existing models will have some implications for market access for uk firms .
a lot more honesty will be needed as the brexit negotiations continue , as any decision on immigration or regulation , for example , will have knock-on effects and businesses and the public are entitled to know what the trade-offs are .
adam marshall , director general , british chambers of commerce the absolute priorities for business are to get trade talks moving , and to ensure a comprehensive transition period is in place that gives the certainty that companies need to take immediate investment and hiring decisions .
it is our hope that the prime minister s offer will jump-start the process .
helen dickinson , chief executive , british retail consortium the prime minister is right to offer a real guarantee to both eu workers and uk nationals in the eu-27 between 2019-2021 , subject to a registration requirement .
however , they still need practical details about the process for registration and securing their status , so the uk government should negotiate with the eu commission so that preferential reciprocal labor market access across industries like retail can be put in place for the post-implementation period .
we are astonished to hear theresa may claim she will guarantee the current rights of eu citizens living in the uk .
current government proposals remove a number of rights from eu citizens , including the right to be joined in the uk by a spouse , child or elderly parent .