paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron s popularity jumped back above 50 percent thanks in part to better ratings among the young and the working class , an opinion poll showed on wednesday , confirming a rebound that started at the beginning of december .
macron s popularity dropped quickly after he swept to an electoral victory in may on a centrist platform , shattering a long-standing two-party system in france .
but while the former investment banker has struggled to shake off a president of the rich tag pinned on him by rivals for policies such as cuts in housing benefits , macron s efforts to defend french interests abroad have helped lift his ratings .
his popularity rose above 50 percent for the first time since his election in early december , and a new poll on wednesday , taken on monday and tuesday , showed the president scoring a 52 percent approval rating .
that was a six-percentage-point jump from november , according to the bva poll , carried out for orange and la tribune and released on the eve of macron s 40th birthday .
as well as praising macron s international efforts , those surveyed also highlighted that he was delivering on campaign promises , bva said , even though some policies like a labor reform that gives employers greater freedom to hire and fire staff were deeply unpopular with many of his detractors .
the president is most popular with older voters and higher earners , but made the biggest progress in the latest poll with the young , bva added .
other surveys this week also confirmed macron was making headway , although a viavoice poll for liberation published on tuesday put his popularity rating lower , at 46 percent .
that was also a six-percentage-point improvement on the previous month .
an odoxa survey gave macron a 54 percent approval rating .
macron s turnaround in polls comes as political rivals are scrambling to regroup and form a stronger opposition , at a time when both the left and right are deeply fragmented .
the president s office recently played down attacks from some opponents over macron s planned birthday celebrations with his family in the grounds of a former royal palace , which drew jibes about him being out of touch .