beirut ( reuters ) - shelling killed three people in the last major rebel stronghold near damascus on tuesday , a war monitor said , shortly before the un syria envoy said the government had agreed a ceasefire there .
russia had on monday proposed a ceasefire in the besieged eastern ghouta area on nov. 28-29 .
u.n. syria envoy staffan de mistura later said russia had told him that the syrian government had accepted the idea , but he added we have to see if it happens .
the syrian observatory for human rights , the war monitor , said there were three deaths and 15 injuries from tuesday s shelling , but that it was less intense than in previous days .
a witness in the area said that while the shelling was lighter earlier in the day , it had intensified later .
a syrian official said the situation on tuesday was calm .
the un s humanitarian agency ocha said in a tweet that relief teams had entered eastern ghouta with food and health supplies for 7,200 people , entering through nashabiyeh on the opposite side of the pocket from where the fighting was .
over the weekend , government air strikes and shelling on ghouta intensified , killing at least 43 people on sunday and monday , the observatory said .
syrian state media said 13 shells hit government-held areas of damascus on monday .
eastern ghouta is one of several de-escalation zones across western syria where russia has brokered ceasefire deals between rebels and president bashar al-assad s government .
but fighting has continued there .
u.n.-backed peace talks in geneva are set to begin on tuesday .
the government delegation will arrive on wednesday to attend the talks , state news agency sana reported .
the opposition delegation , the syrian negotiation commission , called for direct negotiations with the government instead of the previous model of each side speaking only to un mediators .
m decins sans fronti res , the international medical humanitarian organization , said on monday hundreds of people had been wounded in intense bombing and shelling of the eastern ghouta in the last two weeks .
it said five msf-supported field hospitals in east ghouta had treated 576 wounded patients and recorded 69 deaths , with a quarter of the wounded women or children under the age of 15 .
in a statement , msf said its figures did not account for the total numbers killed in the area as there are other medical facilities it does not support regularly .