chicago ( reuters ) - potential action this week by illinois ’ biggest public pension fund could put a big dent in the state ’ s already fragile finances , governor bruce rauner ’ s administration warned .
a monday memo from a top rauner aide said the teachers ’ retirement system ( trs ) board could decide at its meeting this week to lower the assumed investment return rate , a move that would automatically boost illinois ’ annual pension payment .
“ if the ( trs ) board were to approve a lower assumed rate of return taxpayers will be automatically and immediately on the hook for potentially hundreds of millions of dollars in higher taxes or reduced services , ” michael mahoney , rauner ’ s senior advisor for revenue and pensions , wrote to the governor ’ s chief of staff , richard goldberg .
when trs lowered the investment return rate to 7.5 percent from 8 percent in 2014 the state ’ s pension payment increased by more than $ 200 million , according to the memo .
illinois ’ fiscal 2017 pension payment to its five retirement systems was estimated at $ 7.9 billion , up from $ 7.617 billion in fiscal 2016 and $ 6.9 billion in fiscal 2015 , according to a march report by a bipartisan legislative commission .
the country ’ s fifth-largest state ’ s unfunded pension liability stood at $ 111 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 , with trs accounting for more than 55 percent of that gap .
the funded ratio was a weak 41.9 percent .
an impasse between the republican governor and democrats who control the legislature left illinois as the only state without a complete 2016 budget .
a six-month fiscal 2017 spending plan was passed in june .
mahoney cautioned that “ unforeseen and unknown automatic cost increases would have a devastating impact ” on illinois ’ ability to fund social services and education .
one of rauner ’ s top republican legislative allies , senate minority leader christine radogno , urged the trs board to delay a vote friday to give the public time to weigh in on its possible actions .
“ this issue is important enough at the very least to put the trs board on notice we don ’ t want them taking any action that could cost taxpayers $ 200 to $ 300 million without appropriate scrutiny , ” she said .
trs spokesman dave urbanek said the pension system was not aware of mahoney ’ s memo until tuesday and that rauner ’ s office had requested “ information about the scenarios under consideration. ” he added trs did not offer “ potential scenarios ” either to the governor ’ s office or legislative leaders and noted the trs board has not yet discussed the matter .