washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate on wednesday began debate on the country ’ s first major energy bill in over eight years , featuring measures aimed at protecting the electric power grid against cyber attacks and speeding exports of liquefied natural gas .
alaska senator lisa murkowski , republican chair of the senate energy committee and washington senator maria cantwell , its ranking democrat , urged lawmakers not to thwart passage of the bipartisan bill , which cleared their panel in an 18-4 vote .
a handful of senators planned to file amendments to the bill to spur legislative action on the water crisis in flint , michigan and to address other more contentious energy issues .
aides said democratic senators gary peters and debbie stabenow of michigan plan to offer amendments laying out a legislative response to the flint emergency .
they would not provide details on the amendments .
republican senator orrin hatch of utah and other western lawmakers are expected to offer an amendment that would make it harder for the u.s .
interior department to move forward with a moratorium on coal development on federal land introduced this month .
“ let ’ s show the senate can work .
let ’ s not go crazy with a bunch of ancillary things , ” cantwell said on the senate floor .
murkowski said the bill is the result of more than a year of working with committee members to find common ground on a handful of key priorities .
“ we found common ground in many areas , more , perhaps , than any of us expected , ” murkowski said .
the bill focuses on energy efficiency , infrastructure , supply , accountability , and conservation .
measures include expediting the permitting of lng projects , natural gas pipeline permits , boosting hydropower production and improving defenses against cyber attacks on the electric grid .
murkowski and cantwell tried to craft a bill that could pass with bipartisan support in an election year .
in december , congress voted to repeal a 40-year-old ban on exporting crude oil , a republican policy priority .
the deal also included the democratic goal of extending tax breaks to boost renewable energy for five years .
“ not only will this bipartisan legislation help bring our energy policies in line with the demands of today , it will also help position us to benefit from the opportunities of tomorrow , ” said senate majority leader mitch mcconnell .
he told reporters he expected to complete debate on the bill next week .
the obama administration said in a statement it “ supports some provisions of the legislation ” but has concerns with a few elements .