( reuters ) - virginia governor terry mcauliffe on friday signed compromise gun legislation that recognizes concealed-carry permits from all states while making it illegal for someone under a permanent protective order to possess a firearm .
mcauliffe , a democrat , struck the deal with the republican-controlled legislature last month .
some lawmakers and gun rights groups had objected to attorney general keith herring ’ s decision in december to stop honoring concealed-handgun permits from 25 states .
“ virginians elect their leaders to work together to get things done , and today i am proud to say we did just that , ” mcauliffe said in a statement .
mcauliffe , a former democratic national committee chairman , called the package the biggest step forward on gun safety in more than two decades .
under the new laws , virginia must recognize concealed-handgun permits from all other states , a rollback of herring ’ s stance .
virginia can confiscate firearms from anyone who is under a permanent protective order for domestic violence offenses .
the legislature had rejected such measures for years .
virginia state police also will attend gun shows to provide voluntary background checks for private sellers .
because of the compromise , mcauliffe has come under criticism from gun control advocates , including everytown for gun safety , the organization founded by former new york mayor michael bloomberg .
everytown for gun safety had poured money last year into virginia , the home of the national rifle association gun lobby , in a failed bid to have democrats take control of the state senate .
reacting to mcauliffe ’ s approval of the legislation , the coalition to stop gun violence praised the domestic abuse provision as a step in the right direction .
but it said the concealed-carry law would let virginians who are not eligible for a permit to circumvent it by getting a permit from another state and then carry a gun in virginia .
“ in addition to the public safety concerns , this new approach sends a terrible message that virginia is unwilling to enforce its own laws , ” the group said .