( reuters ) - an american student who had been imprisoned in north korea for 17 months died from lack of oxygen and blood to the brain , an ohio coroner said on wednesday .
otto warmbier s death on june 19 was due to an unknown injury that occurred more than a year before his death , hamilton county coroner dr. lakshmi sammarco said at a news conference .
we don t know what happened to him and that s the bottom line , sammarco said .
warmbier s parents could not be reached for comment on the coroner s report .
the university of virginia student was held by north korea from january 2016 until his release on june 15 .
warmbier , 22 , was returned to the united states in a coma .
the coroner and a sept. 11 report by her office cited complications of chronic deficiency of oxygen and blood supply to the brain in warmbier s death .
only an external examination of the body rather than a full autopsy was conducted at the request of warmbier s family .
north korea had blamed botulism and the ingestion of a sleeping pill for otto warmbier s problems and dismissed torture claims .
warmbier died days after arriving back in the united states .
the native of wyoming , ohio , had been arrested at the airport in pyongyang as he prepared to leave the reclusive communist country .
he had been traveling with a tour group .
warmbier was sentenced to 15 years of hard labor for trying to take from his hotel an item bearing a propaganda slogan , north korea s state media reported .
saying his son had been tortured , fred warmbier told fox news in an interview on tuesday , as we looked at him and tried to comfort him , it looked like someone had taken a pair of pliers and rearranged his bottom teeth .
great interview on @ foxandfriends with the parents of otto warmbier : 1994 - 2017 .
otto was tortured beyond belief by north korea , president donald trump said on twitter following the interview s broadcast .
in response to a question at the news conference , the coroner said there was no evidence of trauma to warmbier s teeth nor was there evidence of broken bones .
the coroner s report said that warmbier s body had multiple scars varying in size , including a large irregular one measuring 4.3 by 1.6 inches on the right foot .