by jesse lee peterson president donald trump has issued a blunt warning to chicago mayor rahm emanuel about his city s out-of-control violence : if the city doesn t fix the horrible carnage going on , i ll send the feds !
trump s words sent shockwaves across the country.but what s wrong with black men that they can t stop the carnage ? those of you who read my columns know that for the past 27 years i have run a nonprofit , bond , dedicated to rebuilding the family by rebuilding the man .
i work with all men , but the primary focus has been to get black men to drop their anger so god can guide them , and they can lead their families in the right way.men are supposed to represent jesus christ on earth ; the man is the christ in the family .
but the black community is nearly devoid of men who truly exemplify christ.black men were not like this prior to the 1960s .
they believed in god and took care of themselves and their families .
but after lyndon b. johnson signed the 1964 civil rights act , democrats seduced blacks away from god and the republican party with programs .
they ve owned blacks ever since.democrats empowered black liberal politicians to run cities like los angeles , new york , chicago , detroit , atlanta , baltimore and memphis .
they left these cities in worse shape than when they took office , but the media refused to hold them accountable because of their color and political affiliation.coleman young ran detroit for 20 years .
he was racially divisive and allowed the city to be ruined by drugs and crime .
a succession of black democrats followed , including kwame kilpatrick , who was sentenced to 28 years in federal prison for mail fraud , wire fraud and racketeering.dozens of congressional black caucus members have been in congress for decades and they ve enriched themselves , but they haven t lifted a finger to save their districts.donald trump is going to make these people clean up the mess so that decent black people can live in peace .
why couldn t obama and these black politicians do the same ? liberal blacks argue that it s unfair to expect obama would stop the violence in just eight years .
some said it would be an infringement on freedoms .
yet blacks living in dangerous neighborhoods already feel like prisoners in their own homes.comedians conan o brien , trevor noah and seth meyers mocked trump for threatening to send in the feds .
but it s no laughing matter for black families trapped in dangerous neighborhoods .
these people wouldn t be joking if lgbt or muslims were being slaughtered.trump is going to reinstate law and order because he loves all americans .
his father was his role model .
when men and women love their fathers , it s like loving god , and they have real love and a desire to help people.still , many blacks hate trump even though he is trying to save them .
it reminds me of how jesus christ made it possible for us to return to the father , and yet he was hated for that.to help himself and his family , the black man must recognize that donald trump and whites aren t the enemy .
the black man s anger was first caused by his impatient mother and grandmother who raised him ( the father is rarely in the home ) .
when the black man understands this and repents of his anger , he will be set free .
he can then help himself , his family and his community.to read the article in its entirety : wnd