berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats ( spd ) agreed to open exploratory talks on forming a government with chancellor angela merkel , party leader martin schulz said , providing a chance to end a rare period of political deadlock in europe s largest economy .
the decision is a painful about-face for the center-left party , whose members fear it risks losing its identity and sustaining further electoral defeats if it signs up for another grand coalition with merkel s conservatives .
the spd , merkel s junior coalition partner since 2013 , was punished by voters in september with its worst election result since world war two .
it initially planned to go into opposition , but was persuaded to consider a new coalition after merkel failed to form a three-way government with two smaller parties .
schulz said the spd had a responsibility to consider backing the government to contribute to germany s stability .
but he promised party faithful he would take a new approach to keep the spd s identity stronger in coalition than previously .
he would strive for a different kind of governing culture in which ministers communicated more directly with citizens , and demand more healthcare and education spending .
we won t just keep doing as we ve been doing now and there won t be a continuation of the grand coalition we ve had until now in the form that we knew it .
merkel welcomed the spd s decision during a speech at a congress of the csu , the arch-conservative bavarian sister party of her christian democrats , in nuremburg .
she urged quick action on forming a stable government , 11 weeks after the vote .
i have great respect for this decision when i look at the path the social democrats have taken since sept. 24 , she said .
we have a huge responsibility to form a stable government .
merkel , who met with french president emmanuel macron in brussels on friday , said germany needed to ensure its ability to work with france to strengthen the european union .
a coalition with the spd is merkel s only realistic chance of securing a fourth term in office without a new election , after both her conservatives and the spd suffered punishing losses in september .
spd leaders hope to sell the about-face to skittish members by forcing merkel s conservatives to concede a raft of popular worker-friendly measures in exchange for their support , either for a coalition or a minority government .
schulz said talks would not begin in earnest before early january .
party members must still ratify any plan to return to government , meaning a final result could still be months away , even as much of the continent looks to germany for leadership on euro zone governance reform and security policy .
the spd s desire to extract meaningful concessions could slow things further , particularly if the parties seek common ground on immigration .
the spd wants to retain the right for successful asylum seekers to bring their families to germany , but merkel s conservative bavarian allies , fearing defeat in regional elections next year , are equally adamant it should be scrapped .
a poll for ard television showed that 61 percent of voters would support a renewed grand coalition between the conservatives and the spd .