seoul ( reuters ) - south korea and japan on tuesday welcomed u.s. president donald trump s move to put north korea back on a list of state sponsors of terrorism , saying it will ramp up pressure on the reclusive regime to get rid of its nuclear weapons .
the designation , announced on monday , allows the united states to impose more sanctions on north korea , which is pursuing nuclear weapons and missile programs in defiance of u.n. security council sanctions .
( graphic : nuclear north korea - tmsnrt.rs/2le5yjf ) i welcome and support ( the designation ) as it raises the pressure on north korea , japanese prime minister shinzo abe told reporters .
south korea said it expected the listing to contribute to peaceful denuclearisation , the foreign ministry said in a text message .
north korea has vowed never to give up its nuclear weapons program , which it defends as a necessary defense against u.s. plans to invade .
the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war , denies any such plans .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said china had noted the reports on the u.s. decision .
currently , the situation on the korean peninsula is complicated and sensitive , lu told a daily news briefing .
we still hope all relevant parties can do more to alleviate the situation and do more that is conducive to all relevant parties returning to the correct path of negotiation , dialogue and consultation to resolve the peninsula nuclear issue .
the move will further weigh on the precarious situation on the peninsula , china s official xinhua news agency said in an english-language editorial .
the prospect of a nuclear-free korean peninsula has been pushed farther away by one after another irresponsible action or blaring rhetoric , it said .
this year s rapid escalation of tension was largely down to a game of chicken between washington and pyongyang , it added .
trump s re-listing of north korea as a sponsor of terrorism comes a week after he returned from a 12-day trip to asia in which containing north korea s nuclear ambitions was a centerpiece of his discussions .
in addition to threatening the world by nuclear devastation , north korea has repeatedly supported acts of international terrorism , including assassinations on foreign soil , trump told reporters at the white house .
this designation will impose further sanctions and penalties on north korea and related persons and supports our maximum pressure campaign to isolate the murderous regime .
australian prime minister malcolm turnbull also backed trump s decision .
kim jong un runs a global criminal operation from north korea peddling arms , peddling drugs , engaged in cyber-crime and of course threatening the stability of region with his nuclear weapons , turnbull told reporters in sydney , referring to the north korean leader .
trump , who has often criticized his predecessors policies toward north korea as being too soft , said the designation should have been made a long time ago .
north korea was put on the u.s. terrorism sponsor list for the 1987 bombing of a korean air flight that killed all 115 people aboard .
but the administration of former president george w. bush , a republican , removed it in 2008 in exchange for progress in denuclearisation talks .
experts say the designation will be largely symbolic as north korea is already heavily sanctioned by the united states .
on monday , south korean president moon jae-in s special security adviser , moon chung-in , told reporters any such designation would be more symbolic than substance .
the united states has designated only three other countries - iran , sudan and syria - as state sponsors of terrorism .
north korea has said it plans to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
it has fired two missiles over japan and on sept. 3 conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test .