mar del plata , argentina/buenos aires ( reuters ) - the search for an argentine navy submarine missing in the south atlantic for one week reached a critical phase on wednesday as the 44 crew on board could be running low on oxygen , a navy spokesman said .
dozens of planes and boats were searching for the ara san juan , a mission that has plunged relatives of the sailors into an anguished wait for news and transfixed the south american country of 44 million people .
if the german-built submarine , in service for more than three decades , had sunk or was otherwise unable to rise to the surface since it gave its last location on nov. 15 , it would be using up the last of its seven-day oxygen supply .
we are in the critical phase ... particularly with respect to oxygen , navy spokesman enrique balbi told reporters .
there has been no contact with anything that could be the san juan submarine .
relatives of the crew members have gathered at a naval base in mar del plata , where the search is coordinated .
their concern grew as the hours ticked by .
the craft was probably on the seabed because the mechanism to surface either failed or was not activated by a crew member , naval investigator fernando morales told reuters in a telephone interview .
if the captain stayed at the bottom because he thought it was more prudent to stay at the bottom , it s one thing .
but at this point we have to think that if he s at the bottom , it s because he could not emerge , morales said .
in an evening news conference , balbi said an unusual noise was detected on nov. 15 , near where the submarine last reported its position .
he declined to say if the sound indicated an explosion or emergency on the vessel .
data on the noise were being analyzed , he added .
favorable weather allowed search boats to cover a greater area after being hampered by strong winds and waves for much of the past few days , balbi said .
poor weather was expected to return on thursday .
around 30 boats and planes and 4,000 people from argentina , the united states , britain , chile and brazil have joined the search for the submarine , which last transmitted its location about 480 km ( 300 miles ) from the coast .
planes have covered some 500,000 square km ( 190,000 square miles ) of the ocean surface , but much of the area has not yet been scoured by the boats .
argentines have been gripped by the search , with local newspapers placing photographs on their front pages of crew members relatives praying .
the case has dominated discussion on social media in argentina , with the hash tags los 44 ( the 44 ) and ( navy spokesman ) enrique balbi becoming trending topics on twitter .
comparisons were made to the most recent major rescue operation in the region , when 33 miners in northern chile were rescued in 2010 after 69 days trapped underground .
the submarine was en route from ushuaia , the southernmost city in the world , to the coastal city of mar del plata , some 400 km ( 250 miles ) south of buenos aires , when it reported an electrical malfunction shortly before disappearing last week .
the submarine was launched in 1983 and underwent maintenance in 2008 in argentina .
the disappearance has highlighted the dwindling resources and lack of training faced by the armed forces since the end of a military dictatorship in the early 1980s .