offutt air force base , neb .
( reuters ) - the u.s. general who oversees america s nuclear forces said on thursday he was making the assumption that north korea did in fact test a hydrogen bomb on sept. 3 , crossing a key threshold in its weapons development efforts .
although pyongyang immediately claimed it successfully tested a hydrogen bomb , the united states had previously declined to characterize it .
air force general john hyten , head of the u.s. military s strategic command , however , said he had a responsibility , as a military officer responsible for responding to the test , to assume that it was a hydrogen bomb , based on the size of the blast .
i m assuming it was a hydrogen bomb .
i have to make that assumption as a military officer , hyten told a small group of reporters who were accompanying defense secretary jim mattie on a trip to hyten s headquarters in nebraska .
i m not a nuclear scientist , so i can t tell you this is how it worked , this is what the bomb was .
...
but i can tell you the size that we observed and saw tends to me to indicate that it was a hydrogen bomb and i have to figure out what the right response is with our allies as to that kind of event .
the north korean nuclear test , its sixth and by far most powerful , prompted the u.n. security council to step up sanctions .
it followed a series of north korean missile tests , including one that flew over japan and another that the u.s. assessed to be an inter-continental ballistic missile ( icbm ) .
south korea s military said shortly after hyten s remarks that north korea fired an unidentified missile eastward from the sunan district in its capital , pyongyang .
a hydrogen bomb usually uses a primary atomic bomb to trigger a secondary , much larger explosion .
such a weapon , with the first stage based on nuclear fission - splitting atoms - and the second on nuclear fusion , produces a blast that is much more power than traditional atomic bombs , or pure fission devices .
the sheer destruction and damage that you can create with a weapon that size is significantly of a concern , hyten said .
hyten said that despite the nuclear and missile tests , north korea still had not demonstrated that it had a reliable icbm that could deliver a nuclear warhead .
but he noted it was only a matter of time before its scientists achieved that , given the pace of testing .
it s just a matter of when , not if , he said , adding it could be months or years .
experts doubt that president donald trump , like his predecessors , will be able to force north korea to abandon its nuclear program through economic or diplomatic pressure .
current and former u.s. officials have declined to comment on operational planning but acknowledge that no existing plan for a preemptive strike could promise to prevent a brutal counterattack by north korea , which has thousands of artillery pieces and rockets trained on seoul .
that raises the question of whether the united states might be able to live with a nuclear-armed threat from north korea .
a senior trump administration official , speaking to reporters last week on condition of anonymity , said it was unclear whether the cold war-era deterrence model that washington used with the soviet union could be applied to a rogue state like north korea , adding : i don t think the president wants to take that chance .
hyten , who would command u.s. forces in a nuclear war , expressed confidence in the u.s. nuclear deterrent .
do we have the ability to deter north korea from developing capabilities that could potentially threaten us ?
that s a different question , he said .
but do i , u.s. strategic command , have the ability for the united states to deter an adversary from attacking the united states with nuclear weapons ?
yes .
because they know the response is going to be the destruction of their entire nation .