kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - organizers of pop concerts and some other big events are increasingly wary of including malaysia on their itineraries , as the cancellation of a beer festival due to take place next month highlighted growing intolerance toward activities regarded as insulting to islam by some muslim groups .
the promoters say that international music stars , especially those known for risqu lyrics or revealing clothing , are unlikely to be brought to malaysia as part of regional or global tours .
the same goes for any gatherings that could in any way be deemed un-islamic .
while such concerns have been building for some time in this majority sunni muslim nation , the organizers say that the atmosphere has become particularly difficult in the past year .
the politicization of islam has increased as prime minister najib razak s ruling party seeks to appease more-fundamentalist elements to secure its large , rural malay vote bank ahead of an election expected in the coming months .
a united nations cultural rights expert warned in a report last week that there is growing pressure to adopt a more narrow interpretation of the islamic religion and identity in malaysia , which excludes the country s cross-cultural history , marginalizes religious minorities , and fails to take account of the diversity of malay muslims .
of course it does affect the overall attractiveness of malaysia being a venue for artists , events or festivals to be held .
with artists touring of southeast asia , malaysia will not be the first choice for any act to tour , said darren choy , the chairman of the recording industry association of malaysia who also heads the malaysian unit of american entertainment and record label group warner music .
it may end up being the last to be considered , or not at all , he added .
the malaysian government did not respond to requests for comment for this story .
the popular better beer festival 2017 , which has been held for the past five years , was unexpectedly called off last week after the kuala lumpur city council banned the october 6-7 event .
the ban followed protests by the pan-malaysian islamic party ( pas ) , who said the event would turn the capital into the largest vice center in asia .
the beer festival s organizers said that authorities called it off due to the political sensitivity surrounding the event .
police said later that it was canceled because of the threat of a militant attack .
pas said on thursday it has now also filed an objection over plans to host next month the annual oktoberfest beer festival in the petaling jaya area of the capital .
the party said in a statement that it was its social responsibility to oppose alcohol festivals .
also last week , after rumors that a gay party was being planned for kuala lumpur , the government issued a ban notice , and ordered immigration officers to deny entry to anyone planning to attend either that or the better beer festival .
the gay party organizers said they only ever intended to hold the party in thailand , not malaysia .
enforcement authorities last month launched a probe into the kuala lumpur chapter of atheists republic , a canada-based organization .
a minister in najib s cabinet said later that muslim apostates should be hunted down vehemently .
malaysia has already made international headlines this year for barring the screening of the 2017 edition of disney s beauty and the beast due to a gay moment in one scene .
the film was eventually released after local distributors asked the censor board to review the decision .
shortly after , the catchy summer dance song despacito was taken off state radio and television stations after complaints that the lyrics were obscene .
for some years it has been getting more difficult for international pop stars who wish to make appearances in malaysia .
in 2013 , a concert set to be performed by musical artist , kesha , was banned .
in the past , artists such as beyonce have canceled performances in malaysia due to restrictions over costumes and dancing .
a concert by american pop star selena gomez was only allowed in july 2016 after assurances that she would cover herself up .
but fear of trouble at the concert - pas youth leaders protested outside the venue - kept many fans away and thousands of tickets were left unsold .
there have been no big western acts so far this year , though british singer ed sheeran is expected to perform in kuala lumpur in november .
this weekend s formula 1 malaysian grand prix does not include major international pop stars as has usually been the case in recent years .
organizers denied this was due to recent controversies .
you have to be very careful about the type of acts you book and make sure you comply with all the rules and even then , there s no guarantee it will be approved by the authorities , said qisthina razin , representative of malaysian events organization , freeform .
rizal kamal , vice president of the arts , live festivals and the arts association ( alife ) , a body representing event organizers , said malaysian show producers have started moving out .
malaysian producers are going to singapore and indonesia due to problems in malaysia , he said .
choy said the bans are denting the perception of malaysia being a moderate and tolerant islamic country .
the impact of religious fundamentalism isn t just about malaysia s image to the outside world .
it also gnaws away at the country s multicultural and pluralistic fabric .
about 40 percent of malaysia s population is non-muslim , including christians , buddhists and hindus .
najib s approach risks empowering and legitimizing conservative parties and organizations once only classified as extreme fringe groups .
such religious organizations are also in an increasingly strong position to influence the government and its policies .
united nations special rapporteur karima bennoune in her report last week expressed deep concern at the level of involvement of religious authorities in policy decisions .
she said some malaysians have expressed concern about a growing islamisation , which represented a significant break with the past .
bennoune expressed particular concern over bans regarding traditional malay arts and restrictions on women performing in public in the northeastern state of kelantan , which is governed by pas .
prime minister najib has projected a global image of a moderate muslim leader and has widely promoted himself as a key player in the fight against islamic extremism .
in a meeting with u.s. president donald trump last month , najib said malaysia is a partner in america s fight against the islamic state , and it will be a key player in promoting moderate islam .
he has been largely silent during a series of recent religion-related incidents in malaysia .
he did , though , comment this week after the owner of a laundromat in southern malaysia apologized for barring non-muslim users , a ban that had gone viral on social media and triggered condemnations by community leaders , including the sultan of johor .
the government will remain committed to upholding the true islamic teachings while protecting the interests of the other communities as demanded of islam , najib said in a statement late on wednesday , state news agency bernama reported .
cynthia gabriel , executive director for a kuala lumpur based welfare group c4 , said there is an urgent need to accept multi-culturalism again .
it is bad for society , so it is bad for business , when two sets of laws and policies operate in one country , she said .