sydney ( reuters ) - more than 20,000 people rallied in sydney on sunday urging the legalization of same-sex marriage , days ahead of a contentious postal survey on the issue that has divided the country .
organizers said the gathering was australia s largest gay rights demonstration , as a diverse range of people clad in rainbow colors converged on the heart of the city to insist on equal rights .
we re blown away by the response , cat rose from community action against homophobia said .
the force we ve shown today puts us in a good stead to win this battle over the next couple of months .
though the postal ballot is non-binding , a yes vote is expected to lead to the legalization of same-sex marriage which could further fracture the government of prime minister malcolm turnbull .
ballots will be mailed out from sept. 12 , with a result expected some time in november .
the country s opposition leader , bill shorten , said it was the law that had to change , not the gay community .
we ve got one last mountain to climb before we make marriage equality a reality .
let s climb it together , today , he said .
turnbull , who has said he will be voting in support of same-sex marriage , told a gathering of the liberal and national parties faithful on sunday that the issue was one where everyone is entitled to an opinion .
many people will vote yes , as i will , because they believe the right to marry is a conservative ideal as much as any other principle , he said .
his words were in contrast to those of one of his party s previous leaders , former prime minister john howard , who officially launched the no campaign on saturday .
howard said in a statement on the website of the coalition for marriage that there could not be changes to social institutions without wider consequences .
i believe there is a conflict here between those seeking the right for same-sex marriage and the rights of the child , and i believe the right of the child to have a mother and father should be preserved , he said .
the coalition , the lead campaigner against same-sex marriage , did not respond to requests for comment .
it includes the australian christian lobby and the greek orthodox archdiocese of australia .
however , yes campaigner kerryn phelps , the former chief of the australian medical association , said the survey was about unifying the nation .
what we want is to see australians united in marriage equality and united in fairness for all australians , she said .
rally attendees stephen madden , 55 , and david long , 47 , have been together for 21 years and want to get married .
we ve had the world s longest engagement , long said .
my mum would really like to have a legal son-in-law , madden added .
the sydney event followed a similar rally in melbourne last month which organizers said was attended by 15,000 people .
police declined to comment on the numbers at both rallies .
australia is one of the only developed english-speaking countries not to have legalised same-sex marriage , despite strong popular support and the backing of a majority of lawmakers .