please take action today !
you will find out this week if speaker ryan and senate majority leader mcconnell put your safety first !
we have no obligation to invite unvetted third world refugees to your towns to live off of your hard work ( your tax dollars ) .
yes , you pay for this ! action alert : demand congress stop funding refugee resettlement with our tax dollars in the wake of the horrific terror attacks in san bernardino and paris , the fbi said it lacks the funds to stay ahead of the escalating terror threats right here in america .
so why would we want to divert any of our tax dollars , which should be directed to reinforcing our nation s security and intelligence apparatus to protect our families and our nation , to opening the gates to refugees from terror-supporting nations whom we can not vet and whose ranks isis and other terror organizations target to infiltrate ? this monday ( today ! )
and tuesday , we must flood the offices of our us representatives and senators with calls ( us capitol switchboard : 202-224-3121 ) urging them to vigorously oppose refugee resettlement funding contained in the omnibus spending bill that will be voted on by 12-11-15 ! then make 4 more calls to insist the same:1 .
speaker paul ryan/phone : 202.225.3031 2 .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell/phone : 202.224.2541 3 .
rep. hal rogers , chair , appropriations committee/phone : 202.225.4601 4 .
sen. thad cochran , chair , senate appropriations /phone : 202.224.7257tell your members of congress in no uncertain terms that you want them to suspend refugee resettlement funding immediately.read sen. jeff sessions statement on this : omnibus expected to fund obama s entire immigration agendaus rep. candice miller of mi , vice chair of the homeland security committee , said : i support governor snyder s decision to suspend efforts to relocate syrian refugees to michigan , and have cautioned against the administration s decision to increase the number being admitted into the u.s. terrorist organizations like isis are looking for any and every opportunity to exploit a nation s hospitality to carry out their barbaric attacks against the innocent .
anyone who says we can adequately and safely vet these refugees is wrong because there is no database in syria and no way to identify who s who .
this is the most important national security issue of our time .
if you don t want unvettable refugees from terror-supporting countries in your neighborhood , you must raise your voices now .
the immigration industry is a powerful lobby and private resettlement contractors have the authority to send refugees to any town , city , neighborhood or location without public notification and local consent.refugee resettlement monitor michiganwe have been telling you over the last week or so ( here , here and here ) that those ( mostly the religious left ) who want to bring in massive numbers of muslim migrants and other refugees are pulling out all the stops to pressure congress ( yesterday we learned that even the quakers are against you ) .
they have never ( in 35 years ! )
been so challenged !
you must counter them ! next week there will be much to do locally and statewide , but this week , you must make this a priority ! read more : refugee resettlement watch