manila ( reuters ) - islamic state-inspired militants who battled troops in a southern philippine city for 154 days sought a way out two months into the fierce conflict , but the government ignored their proposal , a separatist negotiator and a minister said .
the takeover of marawi was the biggest security crisis in decades in the philippines , fuelling concern that islamic state and indonesian and malaysian extremists might have greater sway among its minority muslims than previously thought .
abdullah maute , one of those leading the dawla islamiya rebel alliance in the city , had engaged muslim leaders to urge president rodrigo duterte to let the militants escape in return for the release of scores of captives , one cleric said .
agakhan sharief , a marawi muslim cleric well known to the militant maute clan , said that around july 27 , abdullah maute asked for help in arranging for the moro islamic liberation front ( milf ) , a separatist group at peace with the government , to receive hostages and escort militants out of the city .
he agreed to negotiate to leave marawi on the condition the milf is involved , sharief told reuters .
i told him when he goes out of marawi , there s no guarantee the military will not kill him .
he said , no problem .
he was very serious at the time .
the violence in marawi killed more than 1,100 people , mostly rebels , and the city center has been destroyed by artillery and government air strikes .
the military believes abdullah was killed in an air strike in early august , but the body was not found .
his brother and co-leader , omarkhayam , was killed on oct. 16 , along with isnilon hapilon , islamic state s emir in southeast asia .
the government allowed the milf to operate a peace corridor in marawi that helped rescue hundreds of civilians .
the milf s top peace negotiator , mohagher iqbal , confirmed maute made the proposal , but the government had ignored it .
there was no formal negotiation and our role was only to facilitate .
it s up to two sides to agree , he told reuters .
we had some reservations about the deal .
although some of the maute members were former milf , we doubted their intentions and sincerity .
we do not know if they would honor the deal .
scores of hostages escaped or were rescued in the last few months of the fighting , but it is unclear how many may have been killed .
authorities have yet to retrieve all bodies from a battle zone that is still littered with unexploded munitions and homemade bombs .
the army says a few militant holdouts are still hiding in what is now ground zero .
defence secretary delfin lorenzana told reuters duterte was aware of maute s request to flee marawi in exchange for hostages , but the offer was too little , too late .
too many soldiers had been killed , he said .
if they had proposed that in the first week , when there had not been so many casualties , then it would have been ok .
it was too late , he ( duterte ) was no longer inclined to entertain any deals with them .