sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - california governor jerry brown urged continued fiscal restraint amid the state ’ s economic expansion but hinted broadly that new fees would be needed to pay for repairs of deteriorating roads , bridges and other infrastructure .
improvements in the state ’ s financial health and a weather pattern that is helping to ease four years of catastrophic drought put california on a stronger footing as brown addressed the legislature for his 14th state of the state address on thursday .
“ we have to bite the bullet , ” said brown , who last summer pushed unsuccessfully for new fees to help pay long-neglected repairs to the state ’ s transportation infrastructure .
roads and bridges make up the bulk of an estimated $ 77 billion in delayed repairs to public property , he said , and , “ one way or another the roads must be fixed. ” brown , who served two terms as governor from 1975 to 1983 before returning to california ’ s top job in 2011 , also called on republicans to agree to proposed changes in a tax on some health insurers , with proceeds to help pay for healthcare for the poorest californians .
brown cited his administration ’ s support for california ’ s new $ 10 minimum wage , saying the january hike , combined with a tax credit for the working poor , will ease income inequality .
brown has been tight-fisted since returning to office in 2011 , reining in the state ’ s liberal democratic majority lawmakers to build a rainy day fund and hold down expenses after facing down a $ 27 billion budget deficit .
he is widely credited with stabilizing the state ’ s finances , in large part by urging voters in 2012 to approve a temporary tax increase that allowed the state to cover its budget gap and restore some social services .
earlier this month , brown proposed a budget plan for fiscal year 2016-2017 that included a $ 2 billion payment to the state ’ s rainy day fund and called for increases in spending on education , transportation infrastructure , as well as a modest increase in aid for the disabled .
but the fiscal moderate has held the line on committing more funds to such programs in the absence of new revenue streams for the state .
he is hesitant to call for new taxes on income or sales after supporting a temporary tax three years ago , but has supported other fees , such as a road usage tax or an increase in the tax on gasoline .
senate republican leader jean fuller of bakersfield said her caucus would work with brown on infrastructure repairs , but opposes enacting new fees .