last week , mo state senator chappelle-nadal said she hoped trump would be assassinated on her facebook page .
thepost referring to president donald trump , has since been removed .
but chappelle-nadal confirmed to the post-dispatch that she had written it in response to another commenter before deleting it.the u.s. secret service s st. louis field office is looking into this , the office confirmed.kristina schmidt , special agent in charge , told the post-dispatch that hypothetically in such investigations , agents try to determine intent , to determine if there was a violation of federal law .
if there is , then we refer it to the u.s. attorney .
our primary goal is to determine if there is intent and meaning behind it , schmidt said.according to a screenshot of the now-deleted conversation obtained by the post-dispatch , another commenter named christopher gagn was writing about a cousin of his who he said was on trump s secret service detail.here is a screen shot of the post that chappelle-nadal deleted after she was outed on social media : after chappelle-nadal was criticized by thousands of americans , she still refused to back down and told the media she would not apologize to president trump for the heinous remarks she made.after some members ( not all ) of the democrat party suggested she should step down from her position as state senator , maria chappelle-nadal suddenly had a change of heart .
all of a sudden , after her career as a mo lawmaker was being threatened , chappelle-nadal seems to have found her conscience , and is now offering a heartfelt apology to president trump .
hmmm .funny how that happened.state sen. maria chappelle-nadal apologized at a press conference streamed live on the facebook page of the clayton times , a st. louis county newspaper .
president trump , i apologize to you and your family , chappelle-nadal said at the wellspring church in ferguson , missouri .
i also apologize to all the people in missouri .
and i also apologize to my colleagues in the missouri legislature for the mistake that i made .
watch her tearful apology below .
here 's some video of sen. chappelle-nadal 's remarks in ferguson today .
# moleg pic.twitter.com/bymhefvlvx celeste bott ( @ celestebott ) august 20 , 2017