( reuters ) - alabama governor robert bentley will face a legislative effort seeking his impeachment , a state lawmaker said on tuesday , announcing the start of formal proceedings amid escalating political fallout over his relationship with a former advisor .
bentley , a two-term republican governor , has apologized for making inappropriate remarks to the married ex-staffer , while denying allegations of a physical affair .
since he acknowledged the accusations two weeks ago , he has been dogged by questions about their relationship and potentially inappropriate use of state resources .
state representative ed henry , also a republican , held a news conference on tuesday to discuss impeachment proceedings , acknowledging uncertainty about exactly how they would unfold .
“ we are looking at this governor that has essentially betrayed the trust of the people of alabama , ” he said , calling on bentley to step down .
“ we ’ ve never done this before .
we ’ ve never tried to impeach a governor , ” added henry , who spoke alongside several state representatives who support impeachment .
he drafted articles of impeachment that accuse bentley of corruption , incompetence , immoral behavior , and neglecting his duties as governor .
in response , bentley issued a statement calling the effort a distraction from pending issues before the state legislature .
“ there are no grounds for impeachment , and i will vigorously defend myself and my administration from this political attack , ” said bentley , a medical doctor who easily won re-election to a second term in november 2014 .
the senior advisor in question , rebekah mason , resigned last week .
she said she intended to focus on her husband and children and did not address the alleged affair .
funding for her salary was among the issues questioned in the impeachment documents .
discussions about their relationship have dominated alabama politics since march 23 when bentley was publicly accused of having an affair by spencer collier , the former head of the alabama law enforcement agency , just after he was fired by the governor .
audio recordings have emerged that depict bentley making suggestive comments to mason , according to state media reports .
bentley ’ s wife filed for divorce in august 2015 after 50 years of marriage , citing unspecified problems .