cairo ( reuters ) - egypt has arrested 22 people in the past three days as part of a crackdown on gays after a rainbow flag was raised at a concert , activists and rights groups said on monday .
at least 33 people have been arrested since sept. 23 , a day after a group of people were seen raising the flag , a rare public show of support for lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender rights in the conservative muslim country .
the public prosecutor announced an investigation after local media launched a highly critical campaign against those who raised the rainbow flag at a mashrou leila concert , a popular lebanese alternative rock band whose lead singer is openly gay .
on monday police arrested ahmed alaa and sarah hegazy , the latter being the first woman involved in such an incident in years , in relation to the case , their lawyer said .
they were both charged with joining a group formed in contrary to the law and propagating that group s idea .
hegazy faced a further charge of promoting sexual deviancy and debauchery and the supreme state security prosecution ordered them detained for 15 days , lawyer amr mohamed told reuters .
two men had been arrested earlier in relation to the flag incident but one was released .
the remaining arrests were unrelated to the incident but have all been over the perceived sexual orientation of the defendants and came after it .
at least 10 men were arrested between sept. 28-30 and six others earlier that week , judicial sources said .
all 16 went on trial on sunday charged with promoting sexual deviancy and debauchery , euphemisms for homosexuality .
a verdict is due on oct. 29 .
one man has been sentenced to six years in jail over similar charges .
although homosexuality is not specifically outlawed in egypt , it is a conservative society and discrimination is rife .
gay men are frequently arrested and typically charged with debauchery , immorality or blasphemy .
those arrested are subjected to anal examinations to determine whether they have had gay sex , which rights groups amnesty international and human rights watch say amounts to torture .
five such examinations have taken place , amnesty international said on monday .
judicial sources do not deny the examinations take place but say they are legally carried out and are not a form of abuse .
in a matter of days the egyptian security forces have rounded up dozens of people and carried out five anal examinations signaling a sharp escalation in the authorities efforts to persecute and intimidate members of the lgbti community following the rainbow flag incident , said najia bounaim , north africa campaigns director at amnesty .
in 2001 , 52 men were arrested when police raided a floating disco called the queen boat .