warsaw ( reuters ) - polish lawmakers approved an overhaul of the judiciary on friday , giving parliament de facto control over the selection of judges in defiance of the european union .
the legislation , if agreed by the senate and president andrzej duda , will heighten tensions with the eu which has threatened legal action over proposed reform that it says will subvert the rule of law .
the eurosceptic law and justice ( pis ) party , which holds a majority in parliament , argues the judiciary needs to be changed to repair a corrupt system and make courts more efficient .
the eu says giving politicians a say in appointing judges will threaten the impartiality of the courts .
critics of the deeply conservative government see the proposed reforms as part of a broader shift toward authoritarianism by the deeply conservative government .
the eu is also at loggerheads with the pis over migration policy , logging in an ancient forest in poland and the government s efforts to take control of other state institutions such as public media .
a panel of constitutional law experts of the council of europe human rights body said on friday the proposed reforms imperiled all parts of the judiciary and would lead to a far reaching politicization of this body .
under the legislation , heavily supported by pis lawmakers , parliament would have a virtual free hand in choosing members of the national judiciary council ( krs ) , a powerful body that decides judicial appointments and promotions which was a right earlier reserved chiefly for the judges themselves .
a second bill , also approved , envisages lowering the mandatory retirement age for supreme court judges to 65 years from 70 , which would force a significant part of them to leave .
we are moving forward with reforms of the justice system , and the supreme court reform is an element of this process , said pawel mucha , an adviser to duda .
the krs has repeatedly voiced its opposition to the plans .
spokesman waldemar urek said : in my opinion , these changes will hurt the citizens because politicization of courts means that no citizen will be assured that a judge presiding over a case isn t being influenced by politicians .
despite criticism abroad as well , the pis government remains one of poland s most popular governments since the 1989 collapse of communism , because of low unemployment , generous public spending and its adherence to traditional catholic values .
friday s votes came a day after the pis sacked its prime minister , beata szydlo , and replaced her with finance minister mateusz morawiecki , a loyalist of jaroslaw kaczynski , the party leader and poland s paramount politician .
morawiecki told trwam television on friday his priorities would be economic development , social cohesion , fighting tax evasion and an improvement of poland s reputation abroad .
analysts said the changeover was spurred by kaczynski s desire to quell infighting within the cabinet and put more emphasis on economic policy as the party faces three consecutive years of elections .
a local ballot is held next year , a parliamentary vote in 2019 and a presidential election in 2020 .