la paz ( reuters ) - thousands of bolivians marched through streets across the andean country on tuesday to protest a new bid by leftist president evo morales to clear the way for him to run for a fourth term in 2019 .
morales had accepted defeat in early 2016 when 51 percent of bolivian voters rejected his proposal to reform the constitution to end existing term limits in a referendum .
but last month , morales movement to socialism ( mas ) party asked the country s highest court to rescind legal limits barring elected authorities from seeking re-election indefinitely , arguing that these violate human rights .
carrying signs that read bolivia said no !
and waving the red , yellow and green bolivian flag , protesters said morales wants to tighten his grip on power in the vein of venezuelan president nicolas maduro , a leftist ally considered a dictator by the opposition .
this is a political dictatorship ... we re not venezuelan , we re bolivian , remigio figueredo , a peasant leader said in la paz san francisco square , where thousands gathered at the same time a world cup qualifying match between bolivia and uruguay was televised .
the morales government dismissed the protests as political rallies disguised as a grassroots movement and said the right-wing opposition wants to ensure morales can not run in the 2019 race .
any constitutional reform needed can be implemented when the will of the people is at stake , justice minister hector arce said on tv channel cadena a .
historically unstable bolivia has enjoyed relative prosperity and calm under morales , the country s first indigenous president who came to power in 2006 and whose approval ratings now hover at around 50 percent .
morales has said he would happily give up office but that his supporters are pushing for him to stay .
the plurinational constitutional court has until december to rule on the request by morales party or extend the deadline for doing so .
protests were also held in the bolivia s biggest city , santa cruz , and in regional capitals across the country .