brussels ( reuters ) - britain s ruling conservatives barred two of their own lawmakers in the european parliament after they broke the party whip and voted for a motion demanding london do more to meet eu demands in brexit talks .
julie girling and ... richard ashworth were suspended from the conservative party last night after supporting a resolution ... to block brexit talks moving forward , the party said on sunday in a statement that highlighted divisions over britain s move to quit the european union in 18 months .
prime minister theresa may supported the move .
a government source said the two had behaved totally irresponsibly .
they left the party no choice but to act , ashley fox , leader of the 20-strong group , said in the statement , describing the decision of ashworth and girling , a former group leader and chief whip respectively , as extremely regrettable .
girling , who like ashworth and fox opposed brexit during last year s referendum , defended her decision to vote with the overwhelming majority in strasbourg on tuesday on a non-binding resolution which urged eu leaders not to accept london s request for talks on post-brexit trade without further concessions .
i did not vote to prevent trade talks , she said , noting she called for such negotiations .
however , she said in a statement that it was patently obvious that the eu s test of sufficient progress on key divorce issues were not yet met .
her vote , she said , put the interests of her constituents over party discipline and referred to support on the far-right for britain to walk out without a deal : i have never agreed to silently acquiesce as our country heads towards a cliff edge , she said , describing that as wanton economic self-harm .
may , who also opposed brexit , is battling to contain in-fighting over approaches to brexit and threats to her leadership after an uncertain party conference performance last week .
her brexit minister david davis is due back in brussels this week for further talks .
the party statement said davis had written to leaders of the labour and liberal democrat parties to complain after most british meps voted with the majority .
he urged labour leader jeremy corbyn to suspend most of his meps .