taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan said its environment minister has been prevented from attending an annual u.n. climate meeting even with credentials as a non-governmental participant due to pressure from china .
it represents the latest case of self-ruled taiwan not being able to take part in an international event because of opposition from china , which objects to the island it claims under its one-china stand being accorded anything akin to the status of an independent state .
environmental protection agency minister lee ying-yuan had hoped to attend a u.n. climate change meeting in bonn , germany , the island s foreign ministry said in a statement late on monday .
due to china s interventions , environmental protection minister lee was unable to enter the unfccc meeting , it said , referring to the u.n .
framework convention on climate change .
relations between beijing and taipei have nosedived since tsai ing-wen was elected the island s president last year .
china believes she wants formal independence for taiwan , a red line for beijing .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
taiwan s foreign ministry spokesman , andrew h.c. lee , told a news conference in taipei the president believed climate change was an important issue and the island would endeavor to take part in international meetings to address it .
in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said china s position was very clear .
on the matter of taiwan participating in international events , china s position is very clear ; that is , it must comply with the one china principle , geng told reporters , without elaborating .
organizers of the event in bonn where were not immediately available for comment .
since 2009 , when taiwan announced its intention to participate in u.n. climate change meetings , the government has helped officials get credentials for talks as non-governmental observers to attend the international meeting .
taiwan participated last year with a lower-level delegation .
taiwan is not a member of the united nations , having lost the seat it held in china s name in 1971 when the communist government in beijing assumed the position .
under the previous taiwan administration of the china-friendly president ma ying-jeou , beijing let taiwan attend some u.n.-related events , including getting observer access at the annual u.n. world health assembly meeting in geneva .
this year , taiwan was shut out of the health assembly , which the island also said was due to china s coercion and threats .
china has previously blamed taiwan for its exclusion from international events , saying it is due to taipei s refusal to accept the one china principle .
nationalist forces , defeated by the communists , fled to taiwan at the end of the chinese civil war in 1949 .