zinana , iraq ( reuters ) - four hours after first hearing gunfire outside his home , abu riwar bundled his wife and six children into his car and drove to a remote village 120 km ( 75 miles ) away .
we left with the clothes on our back and nothing else , said abu riwar , a member of the kurdish security forces from the ethnically mixed town of tuz khurmato , seized last month by iraqi troops and iran-backed shi ite paramilitaries .
if the militias found out i was peshmerga , they d have slaughtered me .
they burned his home to the ground instead , his neighbors , who captured it on camera , told him .
tuz khurmato was part of disputed territory , outside the kurdish region of northern iraq but held by kurdish forces known as peshmerga , until last month , when the central government recaptured it in a lightning advance to punish the kurds for staging an independence referendum that baghdad called illegal .
the majority of tuz khurmato s 50,000 kurds around half of the population of the ethnically mixed city fled the iraqi advance to kurdish-held villages and towns in nearby countryside , said mayor shalal abdul .
the mayor himself fled to the village of zinana , 120 km east of tuz khurmato , where he spoke to reuters .
most residents have no plans to return home , citing reports of continuing attacks .
we can t cope if it continues like this , said the chief of police in zinana , adding that the government and aid groups had been too slow to respond .
families have taken over school buildings , houses and the hospital , but we can t turn them out on the streets .
according to the united nations , more than 180,000 people were displaced by the iraqi government offensive on disputed territories last month .
aid agencies say most of those displaced are kurds , though members of other minorities , including some of tuz khurmato s sunni arabs and turkmen , also fled .
until baghdad s offensive , tuz khurmato had been jointly administered by kurdish forces , local police and the iran-backed popular mobilization forces ( pmf ) paramilitaries , allied with the town s shi ite turkmen population .
though the turkmen and the kurds had worked together to push islamic state militants out in 2014 , the town s fragile coalition soon fell apart and led to open hostilities .
in the run-up to the kurdish independence referendum , tension escalated between the communities .
in zinana , displaced kurds told reuters stories of abuse at the hands of the shi ite paramilitaries who captured tuz .
one man showed a video he had filmed depicting the crushed body of a relative .
family members said the victim had been shot in his car , dragged out alive by paramilitaries and run over by a tank .
he was crushed to death in front of me , by those monsters , said abu alan , the relative who filmed the body .
he was a good man from a good family .
a video circulated on the internet , apparently of the same incident , shows a tank running over a body while uniformed paramilitaries stand by .
the paramilitaries deny carrying out any abuse .
joint patrols by the pmf and government forces are securing the town , to prevent any attacks against kurds , said ali al-hussaini , a spokesman for the pmf in northern iraq and a commander of the largest of the armed groups , the badr organisation .
it s our job to keep tuz safe for all sects .
the mayor , who is collecting stories and evidence of abuse , said seven people were killed when the town was captured , including the man who was crushed by the tank and three other civilians .
he said he also knew of three women and one man who had been raped .
reuters could not verify those accusations .
more than 1,000 businesses and 2,000 homes were looted , burned down or demolished , the mayor said .
he showed reuters images of houses and shopfronts in kurdish areas , blown up and scorched , their residents belongings being carted away by men in military fatigues .
other pictures showed paramilitaries sitting in the mayor s own office , feet propped up on his desk and on his kurdish flag .
dozens of people were detained , and some say they were tortured , like thiaa , a 20-year-old sunni turkman from the countryside who had gone to tuz khurmato the day after the offensive to check on his sister who was married to a kurd .
they detained me because i don t speak arabic , so they thought i was a kurd , thiaa said .
they kept me filthy , hungry and blindfolded in a dark room with three kurds .
they beat us with cables all day long .
one night , fighters put a gun in thiaa s mouth and threatened to kill him , only to burst out laughing at his panicked tears , he said .
he was released after seven days and is now recovering at home from his injuries .
the kurds held with him had no such luck , he said .
more than five are still missing .