who s ready for hillary ? among the thousands more hillary clinton s emails that have been released are ones exchanged with her top aide that may just add to the dilemma facing the 2016 democratic presidential candidate.among the latest batch are emails from her adviser sidney blumenthal.on december 6 , 2010 he sent her an email including a link to a news story with the headline : u.s. orders diplomats to stop telling truth clinton replies : sounds like a good idea !
the emails also reveal that blumenthal felt the former secretary of state was vindicated over the libyan uprising even though the benghazi scandal was still to come.blumenthal told her in august 2011 she had to go on camera to announce the successful strategy when rebels took control of the country .
he told her to speak to the media even if it meant giving a speech from the driveway of her holiday home in the hamptons .
blumenthal wrote : first , brava !
this is a historic moment and you will be credited for realizing it .
when qaddafi himself is finally removed , you should of course make a public statement before the cameras wherever you are , even in the driveway of your vacation house .
you must go on camera .
you must establish yourself in the historical record at this moment .
the most important phrase is : successful strategy .
but in hindsight such vindication never materialized .
in fact , benghazi has become the second biggest headache for hillary clinton after servergate .
over the following months after that email exchange , libya slid into civil war and a year later us ambassador chris stevens and three other americans were killed when the american embassy in benghazi was overrun by militants .
the ensuing scandal has been an albatross for the candidate.clinton was forced to testify before a house committee investigating the terror attack that killed ambassador stevens and could still be recalled to face more questions .
meanwhile , libya has become what the state department has called a safe haven for terrorists and a main launching point for people smugglers sending migrants to europe .
via : daily mail