beijing ( reuters ) - china said on friday it had lodged a complaint with australia after its prime minister , malcolm turnbull , said he took reports very seriously that china s communist party had sought to interfere in his country .
turnbull said this week that foreign powers were making unprecedented and increasingly sophisticated attempts to influence the political process in australia and the world .
he cited disturbing reports about chinese influence .
turnbull , speaking to parliament on thursday during the introduction of legislation to stop external interference in domestic politics , reiterated those concerns .
media reports have suggested that the chinese communist party has been working to covertly interfere with our media , our universities and even the decisions of elected representatives right here in this building .
we take these reports very seriously , he said .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said in beijing he was shocked at what turnbull had said .
such comments pandered to certain irresponsible reports in australian media , were full of prejudice against china , were baseless and poisoned the atmosphere of china-australia relations , geng told a daily news briefing .
we express strong dissatisfaction at this , and have already lodged solemn representations with the australian side , he said .
geng said china had always respected the principle of non-interference in internal affairs in dealing with australia we strongly urge the relevant australian person to spurn cold war thinking and prejudice towards china , immediately stop making wrong comments that harm political mutual trust and mutually beneficial cooperation , and take effective steps to dispel negative effects , he added .
geng s remarks were china s latest and strongest broadside against australia on the issue .
the chinese embassy in australia on wednesday accused australia of hysteria and paranoia after turnbull vowed to ban foreign political donations to curb external influence in domestic politics .
china s soft power has come under renewed focus this week after a politician from australia s opposition labor party was demoted from government having been found to have warned a prominent chinese business leader and communist party member that his phone was being tapped by intelligence authorities .
in june , fairfax media and the australian broadcasting corporation reported on a concerted campaign by china to infiltrate australian politics to promote chinese interests .