budapest ( reuters ) - voter support for hungary s ruling right-wing fidesz party rose to its highest since january 2011 at 40 percent according to an opinion poll published on thursday , less than six months before parliamentary elections due in april 2018 .
prime minister viktor orban s fidesz party looks like the runaway favorite to win a third straight term , campaigning with a fierce anti-immigrant message , coupled with increased spending on wage rises and promising more money to pensioners .
pollster median said fidesz support rose to 40 percent in october from 36 percent in september , while the main radical nationalist opposition party jobbik lost some of its support .
jobbik s support dropped to 11 percent from 12 percent , while the socialists scored 7 percent in october , the same as in september .
among decided voters , fidesz , which won a two-thirds majority in parliament in 2014 , was even stronger : its support rose to 61 percent in october from 55 in september , while jobbik dropped to 14 percent from 16 .
endre hann , managing director of pollster median , said fidesz voters showed an unusual determination and willingness to vote according to their survey conducted between oct. 20 and 24 .
and also there is kind of a self-fulfilling process : more and more people feel that the opposition does not have any chance ( in next year s election ) , he said , adding that the opposition remained fragmented .
the socialist party s candidate to be prime minister after the 2018 parliamentary election resigned last month , further weakening the leftist party .
there is an array of other smaller leftist parties all vying for enough votes to get into parliament .
another pollster , tarki , said fidesz support rose to 39 percent in october from 35 percent in july in the whole population , while jobbik s support dropped to 10 percent from 11 percent .
the strengthening of the ruling parties is due to some of the uncertain voters choosing them , rather than luring away supporters of opposition parties , tarki said .
according to median , about 30 percent of voters have no party preference .
tarki put the undecided camp at 34 percent .