sydney ( reuters ) - the parliament of australia s second largest state passed legislation on friday to allow terminally ill patients to seek medical help to end their lives , a bill that is expected to act as a catalyst for the rest of the country to adopt similar laws .
any resident of victoria state over 18 , with a terminal illness and with less than 12 months to live can request a lethal dose of medication , the bill permits .
anyone that is too ill to administer the dosage can ask for a doctor to help .
many countries have legalized euthanasia or physician-assisted deaths , including canada , the netherlands , switzerland , and some states in the united states .
but australia s federal government has opposed legalizing euthanasia even though the remote northern territory became the first jurisdiction in the world to do so in 1995 .
the federal government enacted its own legislation to override the northern territory law in 1997 under rules allowed by the constitution .
state law can not be overridden .
the passage of the bill in victoria is expected to herald assisted death legislation in other australian states .
it is a landmark moment .
other states are likely to follow .
we have seen this in other jurisdictions and i expect once politicians see how the system works , they will adopt similar models , said ben white , director of the australian centre for health law research at queensland university of technology .
the issue has divided lawmakers and medicinal professionals .
victorian premier daniel andrews introduced the bill following his father s death from cancer in 2016 .
an opponent of the legalization , michael gannon , president of the australian medical association , which represents medical practitioners , said state law should not change because of the death of andrews father .
he later apologized for the comment .
members of the state assembly debated the emotive bill through the night in a 26-hour session that ended with approval by 47 votes to 37 .
the legislation needs the approval of victoria s senate , though analysts expect it to pass into law .
the legislation will not come into effect for 18 months to allow time to properly implement the assisted dying scheme .