vienna ( reuters ) - the osce media watchdog on wednesday criticized a german law designed to fine social media networks for dragging their feet in removing hateful postings for being too broad and called on lawmakers to consider amending it .
the german parliament in june approved legislation , in force since the beginning of the month , that allows authorities to punish groups such as facebook or twitter if they do not promptly delete hate postings .
harlem desire , the media freedom chief of the 57-state organisation for security and co-operation in europe , said he hoped the german law would encourage providers to speedily process users complaints , but added its effects could be excessively restrictive .
i appeal to the german authorities to take steps to ensure the careful implementation of the law , evaluate its effects and be ready to amend it in parliament , if necessary , as in its current form , the law may have a chilling effect on freedom of expression , desire said in a statement .
according to the law s provisions , decisions to remove content considered unlawful or illegitimate from social networks rests with the operators of those networks , who may remove more than is necessary or proportionate , and the list of offences for which content may be deleted is very broad .
germany has some of the world s toughest laws covering defamation , public incitement to commit crimes and threats of violence , with prison sentences for holocaust denial or inciting hatred against minorities .
however , few online cases are prosecuted .
the new law gives social media networks 24 hours to delete or block obviously criminal content and seven days to deal with less clear-cut cases , with an obligation to report back to the person who filed the complaint about how they handled the case .
failure to comply could see a company fined up to 50 million euros ( $ 59 million ) , and the company s chief representative in germany fined up to 5 million euros .
critics of a new hate speech law in germany are optimistic that it can be revised after its social democratic sponsors vowed to drop out of the ruling coalition following last month s national election and go into opposition .