vienna ( reuters ) - same-sex couples will be allowed to marry in austria from 2019 , the country s supreme court ruled on tuesday and said a law to the contrary violated the principle of non-discrimination .
the move brings austria into line with many other european nations including germany , france , britain and spain .
it also comes at a time when stories of sexual harassment under the # metoo hashtag have flooded social media , sparking a rethink of attitudes towards sexual discrimination .
today is a truly historic day , said lawyer helmut graupner , who represented the two female plaintiffs in court .
austria is the first european country to recognize marriage equality for same-gender couples as a fundamental human right .
all the other european states with marriage equality introduced it ( just ) the political way , he said in a facebook post .
austria s constitutional court examined a 2009 law that allows registered partnerships for same-sex couples but prevents them from getting married .
it acted at the request of two women who were rejected by two lower authorities .
the distinction between marriage and registered partnership can no longer be upheld without discriminating against same-sex couples , the court said in a statement .
the resulting discriminatory effect is seen in the fact that ... people living in same-sex partnerships have to disclose their sexual orientation even in situations , in which it is not and must not be relevant , and ... are highly likely to be discriminated against , the court said in its ruling .
the conservative people s party ( ovp ) , who s leader sebastian kurz is expected to be sworn in as chancellor next month , said it will accept the ruling .
the far-right freedom party ( fpo ) , kurz s chosen government coalition partner criticized the ruling .
now there is equal treatment for something that s not equal , said herbert kickl , fpo general secretary , in a statement .
a marriage between women and men needs protection as only these partnerships can create children , he said .
the ovp and the fpo voted against same-sex marriage in parliament a few months ago .
the court decision comes days after french president emmanuel macron unveiled a plan to curb violence against women and weeks after scotland apologized to gay men for historical convictions .
the homosexual initiative vienna ( hosi ) welcomed the court s decision .
we are very happy , said hosi chairman christian hoegl .
we want to use the opportunity for a renewed call for a fundamental reform of marriage .
same-sex marriage is legal in 25 countries .
australia aims to pass a law to this effect early next month after 62 percent of voters favored marriage equality in a national survey .
in germany , women and men are allowed to wed to a same sex partner since october .
the first country to legalize same-sex marriage was the netherlands in 2001 .