beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china urged the united states on friday not to allow taiwan s president to travel through u.s. territory en route to the island s diplomatic allies in the pacific , a sensitive visit shortly ahead of u.s. president donald trump s trip to beijing .
china considers democratic taiwan to be a wayward province ineligible for state-to-state relations and has never renounced the use of force to bring the island under its control .
china regularly calls taiwan the most sensitive and important issue between it and the united states , and beijing always complains to washington about transit stops by taiwanese presidents .
president tsai ing-wen leaves on saturday on a weeklong trip to three pacific island allies - tuvalu , the solomon islands and the marshall islands - via honolulu and guam .
in a statement on friday , a taiwanese government spokesman said tsai s trip was aimed at strengthening ties with friendly nations and also to provide support for the island s frontline diplomats .
it said taiwan was grateful to the united states for helping to arrange the stopovers in accordance with comfort , safety , convenience and dignity principles .
grace choi , the state department spokeswoman for east asian and pacific affairs , said tsai would transit hawaii oct. 27-29 and guam nov. 3-4 .
choi said tsai s transits would be private and unofficial and were based on long-standing u.s. practice consistent with our unofficial relations with taiwan .
she noted the transits were out of consideration for the safety and convenience of the traveler and there was no change to the u.s. one-china policy .
ambassador james moriarty , chairman of the american institute in taiwan , the organization that carries out unofficial u.s. relations with taiwan , will greet tsai in hawaii and guam , choi said .
trump is due to visit china in less than two weeks .
he angered beijing last december by taking a telephone call from tsai shortly after he won the presidential election .
china has made stern representations to the united states over the matter , said foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang , urging the united states to strictly abide by the one china policy .
china hopes the united states does not allow tsai to transit , not send any wrong signals to taiwan independence forces and take real actions to protect the overall picture of china-u.s. relations and peace and stability in the taiwan strait , geng told a news briefing .
the trip to the united states will be tsai s second this year .
in january she stopped over in houston and san francisco on her way to and from latin america , visiting the headquarters of micro-messaging service twitter inc ( twtr.n ) , which is blocked in china , while in california .
in houston , she met republican u.s .
senator ted cruz and texas governor greg abbott .
she also spoke by telephone with u.s .
senator john mccain , head of the powerful senate committee on armed services .
china suspects tsai wants to push for the formal independence of taiwan , a red line for beijing .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s democracy and security .
china has pressured taiwan since tsai took office last year , suspending a regular dialogue mechanism and slowly peeling away its few remaining diplomatic allies .
just 20 countries now maintain formal ties with taiwan , instead of china , mostly small states in central america , the caribbean and the pacific .
the united states has no formal ties with taiwan but is bound by law to help it defend itself and is the island s main source of arms .
tsai s call with trump was the first between u.s. and taiwan leaders since president jimmy carter switched diplomatic recognition to china from taiwan in 1979 .