new york ( reuters ) - the u.s. state department asked a judge on friday for a one-month extension to finish publicly releasing thousands of emails sent by democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton while she was secretary of state , in part because a winter storm closed government offices .
the department said in a federal court filing it needed until feb. 29 after realizing this week that it had “ overlooked ” emails amounting to 7,254 printed pages that it should have already shared with other agencies for them to review for sensitive information .
it said expected heavy snow in washington , d.c. , had interrupted delivery of these emails to other agencies .
many federal offices closed early on friday afternoon .
in a statement , mark toner , a department spokesman , said “ the remaining emails are also the most complex to process as they contain a large amount of material that required interagency review. ” he said the department would release as many emails “ as possible ” on jan. 29 , the original deadline ordered by the court .
clinton , the front-runner for the democratic presidential nomination , sent and received email on a private server in her home between 2009 and 2013 , but this arrangement did not become public until early 2015 .
the revelation has dogged her campaign .
republicans and other critics say she was skirting transparency laws and endangered sensitive government information .
clinton says she did nothing wrong .
after a government inspector general raised concerns that classified information may be outside government control , the federal bureau of investigation took the server and other equipment from at least two private technology firms that managed clinton ’ s systems for examination .
a little more than 80 percent of the roughly 30,000 work emails clinton returned to the state department in 2014 have now been made public after jason leopold , a vice news reporter , sued the department under freedom of information laws .
more than 1,300 of those emails have been partly redacted in the public release because the state department says they contain classified information .
ryan james , leopold ’ s lawyer , said he would “ vigorously oppose ” an extension .
“ i think it is fair to ask how many more extensions is state going to seek and what ’ s in the remaining emails that requires so much more time to review and release them ? ” james wrote in an email .
spokesmen for clinton did not respond to a request for comment .
whether district court judge rudolph contreras will grant the extension is unclear , but if he does it will push the release back until after the casting of votes in iowa , new hampshire , nevada and south carolina , the first four states in the presidential nominating process .
( reporting by jonathan allen ; editing by grant mccool and james dalgleish ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .