beijing ( reuters ) - a fire in a southern neighbourhood of beijing early on wednesday killed five people , the chinese government said , just weeks after another deadly blaze in the city prompted a crackdown against migrant workers sparking widespread anger .
the fire in a house in baiqiangzi , a migrant village in the chinese capital , was caused by two electric bikes , a fireman who gave his family name as qiu told reuters at the scene .
eight people were injured and had been taken to hospital , the government said .
police detained the house owner who had rented it out , state news agency xinhua said .
a resident in his 30s , who declined to be identified , said he was in the building when the fire broke out just before 1 a.m. ( 1700 gmt tuesday ) .
he said that the room where electric bikes are charged was full of flames .
he helped carry people out , some of whom were burnt from head to toe , he said .
it was terrifying but i had to help , he told reuters .
fireman qiu said the cause was still being investigated .
the fire itself was not very big but the plastic material on the outside of the ebikes created lots of poisonous smoke that led to deaths , qiu said .
beijing s municipal government launched a 40-day special operation targeting fire code and building safety violations last month after a nov. 18 apartment fire in another southern part of the city killed 19 people , almost all of them migrants .
the city-wide fire safety blitz has forced thousands of migrant workers out of their homes and businesses , igniting unusually direct criticism of city government measures seen by some people as unfairly targeting the vulnerable underclass .
beijing s communist party chief cai qi has visited migrant workers in an apparent effort to address those concerns , telling them the city can not do without their hard work , the official beijing daily said on wednesday .
our city needs sanitation , cleaning , security , logistics , housekeeping , courier , catering and other ordinary workers , the paper quoted cai as saying .
whether in city operations or normal daily life , we can t do without them .
companies in all sectors in beijing rely on migrant workers and they have used their sweat to contribute to the city s development , cai said .
we need to give these workers full respect and show even more care and love for them , work hard to address their hardships and anxieties , to give them a sense of belonging , he said .
xinhua said cai had visited the site of the latest fire and also been to see the survivors in hospital .
the government has come under increasing pressure in the wake of the crackdown on migrant workers , including sporadic protests and an open letter from more than 100 prominent academics , lawyers and intellectuals denouncing the steps .
such open criticism of government is increasingly rare as officials have clamped down on various aspects of civil society under president xi jinping .
some non-profit groups that sought to offer assistance said they had been obstructed by police , with their online advertisements blocked by censors .