warsaw ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may gave poland a rare dose of big power support on thursday by saying that its constitution was its own affair , a sharply different tone to that of the european union which has scolded warsaw over judicial reforms .
the eu executive launched an unprecedented action against poland on wednesday , calling on other eu member states to prepare to sanction warsaw if it fails to reverse judicial reforms that brussels says pose a threat to democracy .
when asked about the commission s move to deploy the nuclear option under article 7 of the 2009 lisbon treaty , may said : these constitutional issues are normally , and should be primarily a matter for the individual country concerned .
speaking alongside polish prime minister mateusz morawiecki in warsaw , may said : across europe we have collective belief in the rule of law .
i welcome the fact that prime minister morawiecki has indicated that he will be speaking with the european commission and i hope that that will lead to a satisfactory resolution .
while the eu executive has censured polish ruling party leader jaroslaw kaczynski s push to have control of judicial appointments , may is seeking to court poland as an ally in brexit negotiations and key military partner against russia .
poland has said reforms are necessary while like-minded allies in hungary have indicated they will veto the ultimate sanction of suspending poland s voting rights in the bloc .
at one point , a translator s slip made morawiecki appear to cast may as madame brexit , though in fact he said in polish : as madame pm said , brexit is brexit .
may said britain and poland had signed a defense and security cooperation treaty which deepens cooperation on training , information sharing and capability development .
on the eve of a visit by foreign secretary boris johnson to moscow , may said vladimir putin s kremlin was trying to weaponise information and undermine a rules-based international system .
we are both deeply concerned by russia s attempts to weaponise information , she told reporters .
the kremlin is seeking to undermine the international rules-based system and it will not succeed .
morawiecki said he hoped france and germany were aiming to work out the best solution with britain as it leaves the eu i have deep hopes and conviction that our french and german partners aim to work out the best solution in this new , not easy situation that we are in with respect to brexit , morawiecki said .