helsinki ( reuters ) - finnish police searched a reporter s home and seized her computer after she tried to destroy the hard drive to protect sources linked to a security story , her newspaper reported .
the journalist , laura halminen , said she tried to smash up her computer with a hammer in her home , but the laptop then started smoking and she called the fire brigade , according to an interview published by her employer helsingin sanomat .
police officers who came to her home with the fire service to investigate the blaze then took her computer and searched her property , police said - a rare operation in a country rated high for protecting press freedom .
the case centered on a story that halminen and another journalist wrote on saturday about a finnish intelligence center that they said monitored neighboring russia and , they reported , was about to get new powers to watch finns online .
after the article s publication , finland s president sauli niinisto released a statement saying authorities had launched an investigation in to the leaking of material used in the story .
the reporter halminen told her newspaper in the interview she had decided to destroy the computer to make sure sources were protected in the best possible way .
on sunday , the police s national bureau of investigation said , officers went to the property and found the computer burning in the basement .
after that , a special home search was ordered to be carried out in the apartment and basement , the force added .
it said officers had had to act quickly because they feared material linked to an investigation could be destroyed .
there were no reports of anyone being arrested or charged .
the newspaper said the police also took phones and memory sticks in what it called a very worrying raid .
a house search of this scale targeting a journalist is totally exceptional in finland , editor-in-chief , kaius niemi , said .
campaign group reporters without borders ranked finland third in its 2017 world press freedom index , behind only sweden and norway .