shawn helton 21st century wirewith the united states in the heat of the 2016 presidential election cycle , key questions surrounding the death of supreme court justice antonin scalia continue to persist as there s a new conspiratorial twist added to an already suspicious case.recently , here at 21wire , we discussed many of the strange circumstances observed in the aftermath of justice scalia s death .
the 79-year-old conservative justice was found dead in his hotel room at cibolo creek ranch , a luxury ranch located in presidio county , texas.there was no official autopsy made by a medical examiner in scalia s death , only a controversial pronouncement over the phone by presidio county judge cinderela guevara.as 21wire pointed out in an earlier report regarding scalia , guevara appears to have reversed her previous statement claiming that scalia had died of a heart attack , revising the cause of death to natural causes .
guevara s handling of the death scene of a supreme court justice without being present has drawn sharp criticism from both the media and the public .
original meaning controversial conservative firebrand , supreme court justice antonin scalia .
( photo illustration 21wire ) secret order , secret death ? on february 24th , the washington post published an article entitled justice scalia spent his last hours with members of this secretive society of elite hunters : when supreme court justice antonin scalia died 12 days ago at a west texas ranch , he was among high-ranking members of an exclusive fraternity for hunters called the international order of st. hubertus , an austrian society that dates back to the 1600s .
continuing , the washington post confirmed that indeed , the fbi will not be conducting an investigation into supreme court justice scalia s death .
on an interesting note however , the article states that the fbi was unaware of the secretive international order all together : law enforcement officials told the post that they had no knowledge of the international order of st. hubertus or its connection to poindexter and ranch guests .
the officials said the fbi had declined to investigate scalia s death when they were told by the marshals that he died from natural causes .
cloak & dagger members of the international order of saint hubertus , from left : john kotts , boysie bollinger , vidal martinez , reed morian and john poindexter .
( photo link chron ) the washington post article also revealed the identity of scalia s travel partners : c. allen foster , a prominent washington lawyer who traveled to the ranch with scalia by private plane , and that cibolo creek ranch owner john poindexter , along with c. allen foster , had flown with scalia to the ranch for the now infamous quail-hunting trip.also according to the post , both poindexter and foster , hold leadership positions within the [ saint hubertus ] order .
it is unclear what , if any , official association scalia had with the group .
while the post acknowledged that many of the 35 guests in attendance at cibolo creek ranch have remained largely unknown to the public eye , they discuss some of the details surrounding the st. hubertus order , an international brotherhood whose founding member , count franz anton von sporck , also started a branch of freemasonry in bohemia ( now the czech republic ) : members of the worldwide , male-only society wear dark-green robes emblazoned with a large cross and the motto deum diligite animalia diligentes , which means honoring god by honoring his creatures , according to the group s website .
the conspiratorial coincidence doesn t end there , it was also revealed that the society s [ saint hubertus ] u.s. chapter launched in 1966 at the famous bohemian club in san francisco .
cibolo conspiracy what really happened to supreme court justice antonin scalia .
( photo link twitter ) magic bullets become magic pillows another bizarre element to this story , was the description and discovery of scalia s body when it was first found by cibolo creek ranch owner , poindexter .
this aspect of the story is illustrated very clearly in a passage from the blog followship of the minds : on february 14 , 2016 , in an article for mysa ( mysanantonio ) titled , texas ranch owner recalls scalia s last hours , reporter john maccormack quoted poindexter : we discovered the judge in bed , a pillow over his head.everything was in perfect order .
he was in his pajamas , peacefully , in bed .
his bed clothes were unwrinkled .
he was lying very restfully .
it looked like he had not quite awakened from a nap .
on february 17 , poindexter clarified his comment to the new york daily news that there was a pillow over his head , not over his face .
the face was entirely clear .
and now , the latest.david warren reports for the ap that according to a presidio county sheriff s office incident report obtained by the washington post on feb. 23 , nothing appeared out of place around scalia s bed .
three pillows were stacked to elevate scalia s head .
a top pillow appeared to have toppled onto his eyes and forehead but didn t appear positioned to impede his breathing .
scalia s arms were at his side atop the bed covers , which were pulled up to his chin .
the bed covers were smooth and creased and showed no sign of a struggle .
that is one magic pillow ! first , it was over scalia s head.then , it was above scalia s head , whose face was entirely clear .now , the pillow is neither over nor above scalia s head , but partially covering his face ( toppled onto his eyes and forehead ) , although the pillow made sure to position itself so as not to impede his breathing .
secrets in cibolo the scenic surroundings of cibolo creek ranch .
( photo link tripadvisor ) while you have to wonder about the confusion surrounding scalia s pillow placement , the washington post s recent eye-opening revelations regarding the order of st. hubertus give us some other things to consider silencing conspiracy with conspiracythe overtly conspiracy-tinged post piece is a rarity in the mainstream world , one that conjure s many hollywood or government tales of murder , deception and intrigue throughout history.the acknowledgement of a decadent eyes wide shut-like secret society on location at cibolo creek ranch prior to scalia s death , only enhances the drive by voyeurism witnessed since his passing and in a way , it could undermine any legitimate investigation into his death after the fact.while its true , this compelling new detail will most likely bring its lion s share of political protest , as well as predictable calls for congressional inquiry or a push for a federal investigation ( as should be ) the heavily publicized presence of a secretive fraternal order of hunters nearby a suspicious crime scene , will unfortunately fuel more speculation.put another way : whether or not the secret group at cibolo creek ranch was involved in scalia s death , you have to wonder why the mainstream media revealed this latest conspiratorial element in the first place.media gatekeepers in television , print and radio will have a field day with this new controversial piece , all the while pushing and pulling the population into a particular corner and by the looks of it , that s already happening.having said all of this however , there s still much to be concerned with regarding scalia s highly suspicious death obama no-show the funeral service for supreme court justice antonin scalia .
oddly , president obama elected not to attend .
( photo link detroitnewstime ) big questions remainover the years , scalia s various political connections and political perspective on important issues earned him a controversial reputation.in 2014 , justice scalia drew harsh criticism for his views on the cia torture debate , when the u.s. senate intelligence committee released a report on the interrogation techniques used since the 9/11 attacks.whether you agreed or disagreed with scalia , it s important to note once again that the high court has several pending landmark cases on climate , abortion and immigration , all within weeks or months of his death.the ny post s recent article entitled scalia could have been poisoned : forensic pathologist , raised even more questions about the state of scalia s body upon being discovered : lethal poisoning could have left supreme court justice antonin scalia s body in virtually the same condition in which it was found , a top forensic pathologist [ dr. michael baden ] told the post on wednesday .
for the time being , were left to wonder what other secrets lie in cibolo creek ranch regarding the death of supreme court justice antonin scalia read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files