abu dhabi/dubai ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s crackdown on corruption has spread beyond its borders as regulators in the united arab emirates ask uae banks for information about saudi citizens detained in the investigation , a possible prelude to freezing their accounts .
the uae central bank has requested commercial banks and finance companies in the uae to provide details of the accounts of 19 saudis , commercial bankers told reuters on thursday , declining to be named because of the sensitivity of the matter .
almost all of the 19 , including billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal and former national guard chief prince miteb bin abdullah , are known to be among dozens of senior officials and businessmen detained in the corruption inquiry .
commercial bankers said uae authorities had not explained why they wanted the information , but believed the authorities were acting at the behest of the saudi government , which has said it aims to recover billions of dollars of illicit assets identified in its investigation .
central bank officials in the uae , a federation of seven emirates , were not available to comment , and saudi officials in riyadh , who have frozen over 1,700 domestic bank accounts as part of the crackdown , did not respond to requests for comment .
the uae , particularly its most commercially prominent emirate dubai , is one of the main places where wealthy saudis park their money abroad .
in addition to bank accounts , they buy luxury apartments and villas in dubai and invest in the emirate s volatile stock market .
huge amounts of money may be at stake .
corruption has over the years siphoned off $ 800 billion from saudi state revenues , an official at the riyadh chamber of commerce and industry has estimated ; bankers believe much of it is held abroad , in countries including switzerland and britain .
some wealthy saudi individuals have been liquidating assets within saudi arabia , the uae and other gulf countries this week , apparently in an effort to move money out of the region and escape the crackdown , private bankers and fund managers said .
in riyadh , rich individual investors have been selling equities heavily , although buying by state-linked funds has helped to support the market .
in dubai , shares in real estate developers have sunk as investors worry about the impact on the property market of a pull-out by saudis .
the uae commercial bankers said they had not been asked to freeze the saudi accounts at their institutions , but they believed the central bank s request for information might be a prelude to such action .
the risk of the accounts being frozen jeopardizes dubai s pitch as a private banking center , said a gulf-based banker , adding : banks in the uae are full of saudi money .
one senior banker at an international bank with business in saudi arabia said his institution had already frozen some accounts , both inside the kingdom and outside it , in response to saudi government requests .
the bank is conducting its own investigations into accounts linked to people who have been detained , the banker said without elaborating .
another banker in the region said his institution was receiving more enquiries from saudi clients about cross-border financial transactions , but it was handling the enquiries with extreme caution as there could be further action by regulators .
the risk of fund outflows from the region has helped to push the currencies of gulf arab countries down slightly against the u.s. dollar in the forwards market this week .
the saudi riyal dropped as low as 285 points in the one-year forwards market on thursday - implying riyal depreciation of about 0.8 percent against the dollar in the next 12 months - from around 115 points before the crackdown .
however , it remains much stronger than it was last year , when it hit levels around 1,000 points because of worries about saudi arabia s ability to cope with an era of low oil prices .