seoul ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on saturday that he could not imagine united states ever accepting a nuclear north korea , warning that its rapidly advancing nuclear and missile programs would undermine , not strengthen , its security .
mattis has been at pains during his week-long trip to asia to stress that diplomacy is america s preferred course , a message he returned to after top-level military talks in seoul on saturday and at the tense border area with north korea on friday .
still , he warned pyongyang that its military was no match for the u.s.-south korean alliance , and that diplomacy was most effective when backed by credible military force .
make no mistake - any attack on the united states , or our allies , will be defeated .
and any use of nuclear weapons by the north will be met with a massive military response that is both effective and overwhelming , mattis said .
mattis s south korean counterpart , defense minister song young-moo , dismissed the idea of deploying tactical nuclear weapons to the peninsula as a response to the north s advances .
but the u.s.-korean alliance had the ability to respond , even in the event of a nuclear attack from the north , song added .
tension between north korea and the united states has been building after a series of nuclear and missile tests by pyongyang and bellicose verbal exchanges between north korean leader kim jong un and president donald trump .
the cia has said north korea could be only months away from developing the ability to hit the united states with nuclear weapons , a scenario trump has vowed to prevent .
mattis , too , said kim s behavior had left no room to imagine accepting pyongyang s nuclear status .
i can not imagine a condition under which the united states can accept north korea as a nuclear power , mattis told a news conference .
trump - who has threatened to destroy the north if necessary - leaves on his first trip as president to asia next week , including a stop in south korea to meet president moon jae-in .
moon , after talks with mattis on friday , said the aggressive deployment of u.s. strategic assets in the region , which have included overflights by u.s. bombers , had been effective in deterring the north korean threat .
u.s. intelligence experts say pyongyang believes it needs the nuclear weapons to ensure its survival and have been skeptical about diplomatic efforts , focusing on sanctions , to get pyongyang to denuclearize .
mattis suggested , however , that pyongyang needed to understand that its weapons programs would not strengthen its defenses .
the north says it wants a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the united states .
if it remains on its current path of ballistic missiles and atomic bombs , it will be counter-productive , mattis said , adding north korea would be reducing its security .
still , any attempt to force the north to denuclearize could have devastating consequences , thanks in part to the large amount of artillery trained on seoul .
during mattis trip to the inter-korean demilitarized zone ( dmz ) on friday , he was briefed on the posture of north korean artillery .
defense minister song suggested that u.s. and south korean missile defenses simply could not stop all of the weapons trained on the south .
defending against this many lras ( long-range artillery ) is infeasible in my opinion , song told mattis at the dmz , citing a need for strategies to offensively neutralize the artillery in the event of a conflict .
mattis replied : understood .
still , mattis reaffirmed to reporters in south korea that military options do exist to deal with the north korean threat that spare the south s capital , seoul .
mattis , who has made such assurances in the past , did not disclose what those options were .