naypyitaw ( reuters ) - a myanmar court on friday jailed for two months two journalists on assignment for turkey s state broadcaster , along with their interpreter and driver , for violating an aircraft law by filming with a drone .
cameraman lau hon meng from singapore and reporter mok choy lin from malaysia , were detained on oct. 27 along with their myanmar interpreter , aung naing soe , and driver , hla tin .
the four had been working on a documentary for trt world , the english-language subsidiary of the turkish radio and television corporation , when they were detained for attempting to fly a drone near parliament in the capital , naypyitaw .
none of the four is a turkish national , but the case has further strained diplomatic ties after president tayyip erdogan accused myanmar s military of carrying out genocide of rohingya muslims in the buddhist-majority country .
police initially investigated whether they had violated an import-export rule that carries a penalty of up to three years in jail , but the judge opted to introduce a fresh charge of contravening the 1934 burma aircraft act , which carries a maximum sentence of three months .
both the cameraman and reporter pleaded guilty to the lesser charge , and the judge sentenced all four to two months , according to a reuters reporter at the hearing .
a fresh hearing will be held on nov. 16 to decide if charges of violating the import-export rules are to be made .
the detainees admitted that they committed the crime , hoping they would only be fined , so it shocked us when the judge sentenced them to two months , said defense lawyer khin maung zaw .
the lawyer said he would appeal for the sentence to be reduced to a fine .
before friday s proceedings began , mok told reporters in the court they were sorry for any disrespect of myanmar s laws , but complained that the legal process had lacked transparency .
we have no idea what is going on , and we are not allowed to speak to our family , she said .
and the rules and procedures are not explained to us .
we were asked to sign statements that are completely in burmese that we can not understand .
as he was brought to court , interpreter aung naing soe told reporters the four had not been mistreated while in custody , though police had asked about who they had spoken to and trips he made to several of restive myanmar regions , including rakhine .
david baulk , of the rights group fortify rights , called the judge s decision to accept the charges , deny bail and sentence the four defendants as ridiculous as it is dangerous .
once again myanmar s judicial system has failed to stand up to state security forces and their blatant abuses of power , baulk , a specialist on myanmar human rights for the group , told reuters by email .
myanmar says the military counter-insurgency launched in august was provoked by rohingya militant attacks on security posts in rakhine state , and has denied both erdogan s accusation and a top un official s description of the operation as a classic case of ethnic cleansing .
more than 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled myanmar for neighboring bangladesh since the military operation began .