washington/yangon ( reuters ) - the united states has identified one person it might impose sanctions on over the brutal crackdown in myanmar against minority rohingya muslims and is examining others , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said on friday .
tillerson , who last month declared the violence against the rohingya to be ethnic cleansing , has said washington was considering targeted sanctions against those deemed responsible .
more than 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled to southern bangladesh since the end of august .
we are continuing to examine the circumstances around all of the events since the august attacks that have led to the enormous migration of people out of myanmar , and have already identified one individual and we are examining other possible individuals to hold responsible for targeted sanctions from the u.s. , tillerson told reporters at the united nations .
u.s. officials told reuters that president donald trump s administration was considering only limited action at this stage .
they said it was preparing narrow , targeted u.s. sanctions against myanmar s military and could roll out the punitive measures by year-end .
the sanctions will be aimed at increasing pressure on myanmar authorities , but are not expected to hit the highest levels of the military leadership and will stop short of reimposing broad economic restrictions suspended under former president barack obama , according to the officials , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
the limited nature of any new sanctions is expected to be seen as little more than a warning for myanmar and are not likely to satisfy international human rights groups and some u.s. lawmakers who have accused myanmar s armed forces of crimes against humanity .
other world powers and the united nations called myanmar s campaign against the rohingya population ethnic cleansing well before the united states did so in late november .
u.s. officials in washington and yangon have been looking in particular at ways to use the global magnitsky act , a law originally designed to target russian human rights violators , but which has recently been expanded to allow sanctions for abuses anywhere in the world , the sources said .
that can take the form of u.s. asset freezes as well as bans on travel to the united states .
a spokesman for the u.s. state department said the administration was in the final stages of preparing this year s global magnitsky report and had taken an expansive view of implementation of the act in the past year , but could not say when it might be delivered .
myanmar s powerful army chief , general min aung hlaing , is expected to be spared from the latest sanctions , according to three u.s. officials and a congressional aide familiar with the matter .
in november , myanmar s military said it had replaced major general maung maung soe , the general in charge in rakhine state , but gave no reason for his transfer from a post as the head of the country s western command .
it was not immediately clear how far down the chain of command the u.s. measures would reach and who might be named .
two of the u.s. officials said the trump administration is considering only limited action at this stage to avoid upsetting the delicate political balance in myanmar , where the civilian-led government headed by nobel peace prize laureate aung san suu kyi must still contend with an influential military .
washington also wants to hold tougher options in reserve to escalate the u.s. response if needed , the officials said .
although the sanctions plan was still being finalized , the u.s. officials said the aim was to roll it out before the end of december , possibly before christmas , though one person close to the matter said an announcement could be delayed until early next year .
we have nothing to announce on sanctions , a white house national security council spokesman said when asked the coming measures .
he declined comment on who might be named .
preparations for myanmar sanctions come at the same time that washington has expressed concern over the detention this week of two reuters journalists .
wa lone and kyaw soe oo had worked on stories about the military crackdown on the rohingya population in rakhine state .
rohingya refugees in bangladesh say their exodus from the mainly buddhist country was triggered by a military offensive in response to attacks by rohingya militant on security forces .
washington has sought to balance its wish to nurture the civilian government in myanmar , where it competes for influence with china , with its desire to hold the military accountable for the abuses .