beirut ( reuters ) - syrian troops crossed to the eastern side of the euphrates in deir al-zor on monday , state media and a monitoring group said , increasing their presence in an area where u.s.-backed militias have also advanced .
the rival forces are conducting offensives against islamic state and have generally stayed out of each other s way , with the river often acting as a dividing line .
however , incidents this year have raised tension between the government side , backed by russia , and the u.s.-backed forces .
talks have been under way to extend a formal demarcation line , officials have said .
a commander in a militia of the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) confirmed syrian army units had crossed and said his fighters were ready to drive them back .
if there are clashes between us and them - we re ready for those if the forces of the regime don t go back to the other bank , ahmed abu khawla of the sdf s deir al-zor military council said .
russia s foreign ministry said on friday syrian government forces crossed the river for the first time in their offensive against the jihadist group in deir al-zor province .
monday s crossing took place near a southern suburb of the city seized by the army on saturday , the british-based syrian observatory for human rights said .
syrian state news agency sana said heavy fighting took place against islamic state in the area .
the militant group said via its online amaq news agency that it had deployed at least two suicide car bombs against government forces .
the convergence of the syrian army offensive from the west and the sdf operation from the east has led to increased tensions .
the sdf said they came under attack from syrian forces and russian jets backing them on saturday , after abu khawla said they would not allow the army to cross the river and would consider shots fired in their direction as an attack .
the sdf has advanced to within kilometres of the river , while the syrian army has retaken much of the city , most of it on the western side .
president bashar al-assad has vowed to recapture all of syria .
assad controls the main urban centres in the west of the country .
the sdf , dominated by the kurdish ypg militia , controls much of syria s northeast .
syrian rebel groups which have fought against assad since 2011 hold pockets of territory in western syria .
islamic state s shrinking territory includes much of oil-rich deir al-zor province .