marcus lemonis has no problem with some customers taking their rv and outdoor needs elsewhere .
close followers of nascar know lemonis , ceo of camping world , is a major player in the sport .
his brand is the title sponsor of the truck racing series , while its subsidiary overton s has sponsored multiple races and cars this season.amid the flood of ceos rushing to distance themselves from trump s business councils after the u.s. president s wishy-washy denunciation of white supremacy last weekend , lemonis on wednesday appeared on cnbc s power lunch , where he seemed to suggest he wouldn t be shattered if people who supported trump s comments decided to shop elsewhere .
marcus , you have a consumer-facing business , camping world , cnbc s michelle caruso-cabrera asked .
so do you worry about , if you were on one of these councils , would you worry , thinking , wow , i ve got to deal with consumers every day , are they going to look at the business poorly because i m associated with the white house ?
lemonis response : there s no doubt that there is probably not many consumers in this country today that are in favor of what has been said in the last couple days and if they are , frankly , don t shop at my business .
lemonis hasn t been shy about criticizing trump and nascar chairman brian france who last year endorsed donald trump for president , for their past political views .
he ripped france for endorsing trump at a rally during last year s presidential election , and nascar was forced to move its postseason truck series banquet from trump national doral miami resort in 2015 after lemonis threatened not to attend .
nesnone day later , martin said he regretted his remarks after camping world ceo marcus lemonis called him ( translation : the major nascar sponsor pressured him into publicly regretting his remarks ) : https : //twitter.com/markmartin/status/899688975371206662two days later , martin posted an image of the winnebago he would no longer be purchasing .
he clearly appears to be sticking to his original statement.this was the @ winnebago i was wanting .
would have been fun for short trips .
probably would n't have used it much anyway .
pic.twitter.com/ma8wrob43q mark martin ( @ markmartin ) august 22 , 2017