i forgot about the claim from hillary clinton that she had actually talked to eleanor roosevelt .
crazy !
nobody tells stories like this better than rush limbaugh transcript from rush limbaugh : it appears in page six of the new york post , and the headline is : if hillary makes it to the white house , so will huma abedin .
richard johnson has the story .
you know what it s about ?
it s about the fact that they ve already planned the bedroom in the white house huma is going to use.she s going to live there with hillary !
she s going to live in the white house in the same bedroom on the second floor residence let me just read it to you .
this is orbmagazine , by the way , richard johnson gets the details from .
richard turley is the writer in orbmagazine .
after 20 years as hillary s gatekeeper , no one else could screen the calls and decide who gets access as ably as she does .
orb predicts clinton , in emulation of her hero eleanor roosevelt , will install huma in the second-floor bedroom occupied during the fdr administration by lorena hickok do you know who lorena hickok was ?
( interruption ) you ever heard of lorena hickok ?
( interruption ) you have ?
( interruption ) you tell me .
you ve heard of lorena ?
( interruption ) all right , here you go .
snerdley s on the case .
huma will sleep in the second-floor bedroom occupied during the fdr administration by lorena hickok , the journalist who was mrs. roosevelt s soul mate and intimate companion . '
yes , indeed .
so hillary s got a hero , heroine .
it s eleanor roosevelt.remember , you people that were maybe you millennials , you may not know this .
i doubt that you have been told this in your education , and i doubt you ve run across this at yahoo !
news or yahoo parenting .
but do you know that back in 1992/1993 , hillary clinton actually ( late at night , early in the morning ) walked the halls of the white house and said she spoke with eleanor roosevelt s ghost , and that eleanor roosevelt guided her , gave her advice , mentored her ? eleanor roosevelt s ghost !
while hillary prowled the empty halls of the white house .
( interruption ) some people think i m kidding ?
you know , they might .
you re right , snerdley .
i m not kidding .
for those of you millennials everything i said dead on .
hillary admitted to this .
we only know this because hillary told us , and she told us this proudly .
and , by the way , the drive-by media back then thought it was wonderful.nobody said , what !
you re running around talking to eleanor roosevelt s ghost ?
nobody said that .
everybody said , wow , that s cool !
holy smokes !
what did she tell you ?
and hillary had an answer .
what eleanor say ?
she told me to hang in there .
she told me it s incredible .
you re right ; there s probably some millennials listening who think i m just totally making this up .
i m not .
it happened.anyway , they ve already got huma in the same bedroom that eleanor roosevelt s intimate companion slept in .
( interruption ) well , apparently , just like fdr got left out in the cold !
what is this soul mate and intimate companion lorena hickok ?
what about fdr ?
( interruption ) well , i know he had his own soul mate and intimate companion and weiner has a phone .
he has his own soul mate and intimate companion .
it will work ! via : live leak