hanoi ( reuters ) - prosecutors in vietnam on thursday said they were seeking the death sentence in an embezzlement case against a former chairman of state energy firm petrovietnam , as the communist country steps up one of its biggest corruption crackdowns .
some high-ranking political officials have been punished as investigations widen into petrovietnam and the banking sector , with dozens of banking and energy officials facing trial on charges such as embezzlement , mismanagement and abuse of power .
in a statement , the supreme people s procuracy of vietnam said it had sought a death sentence for the former chairman , nguyen xuan son , on charges that include wrongdoing with serious economic consequences and abuse of power to usurp assets .
it urged an overall penalty of death , listing punishments such as a jail term of 16 to 18 years for flouting state rules on economic management and life imprisonment for abuse of power , before seeking the death sentence for embezzlement .
in 2009 , petrovietnam acquired an 800-billion-dong ( $ 35-million ) stake in ocean group s banking unit , ocean bank , which had to be completely written off in 2015 , when the central bank took it over at no cost .
son could not be reached for comment as he is on trial , and reuters could not immediately reach his lawyer .
prosecutors also sought life imprisonment for ocean group s founder , tycoon ha van tham on charges ranging from embezzlement to abuse of power , the statement said , adding that dozens of other ocean bank staff could also face years in jail .
ocean group , which has interests in real estate , finance , hotels and infrastructure , said it had no comment on the sentence sought for tham , who can not be reached as he is still on trial .
police opened three new cases against state firm units , among them russian joint venture vietsovpetro , vietnam s sole refinery operator binh son refining and petrochemical , and petrovietnam exploration production corp. all three cases focus on alleged abuse of power to usurp assets and are linked to violations at ocean bank , vietnam s police said in a statement on their website on thursday .
police added another accusation of abuse of power against petrovietnam s vice general director ninh van quynh , they added , following his arrest and prosecution this month for alleged wrongdoing .
quynh could not be contacted for comment on the fresh charge as he is on trial .
last week a former central bank governor was prosecuted for alleged lack of responsibility .
dinh la thang , a former petrovietnam chairman , was removed from the powerful politburo and last month , a vice trade minister was sacked .