london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may will pitch her plan for a brexit transition period with unchanged access to european union markets when she briefs lawmakers on monday about her latest negotiating trip to brussels .
may secured an agreement last week to move previously-deadlocked talks forward onto the topic of interim and long-term trading arrangements .
on monday she will report back to parliament on those talks , setting out the framework of a time-limited implementation period designed to smooth britain s eu exit and provide clarity for businesses and citizens .
this will help give certainty to employers and families that we are going to deliver a smooth brexit , may will say , adding that the guidelines agreed last week point to a shared desire with the eu to make rapid progress on a deal .
the outline of the transition period that may will present is consistent with plans she has previously set out , and remains subject to negotiation in brussels .
during this strictly time-limited implementation period which we will now begin to negotiate , we would not be in the single market or the customs union , as we will have left the european union , may will say according to advance extracts of her statement .
but we would propose that our access to one another s markets would continue as now , while we prepare and implement the new processes and new systems that will underpin our future partnership .
end-state talks but the plan is not guaranteed to be universally accepted by lawmakers in may s conservative party , which is still deeply divided over the best route out of the bloc , and for some even the principle of leaving the eu .
may is reliant on the backing of all members of her party to put her brexit plans into action , having lost her parliamentary majority in an ill-judged snap election earlier this year which left her needing the support of a small northern irish party .
on saturday , some conservatives who want to see britain make a more radical break with the bloc baulked at a suggestion by finance minister philip hammond that the implementation phase would amount to recreating the status quo with the eu .
may will say that during the interim period , britain wants to begin registering eu citizens arrival in the country in preparation for a new immigration system , and would hope to agree , and possibly even sign , post-brexit trade deals with non-eu states .
as well as briefing parliament , may is expected to meet key ministers on monday to discuss the even thornier issue of what the country s long-term relationship with the eu should be - the first time since the june 2016 vote to leave that she has broached the topic with senior cabinet members .
a full cabinet discussion on the so-called end state of the brexit talks is then due on tuesday .
one of the key pro-brexit voices in the cabinet , foreign minister boris johnson , on sunday set out his own long-term view , warning may that britain must avoid becoming subordinate to the eu .