former conservative turned liberal activist , david brock , suffered a heart attack tuesday .
the news is scant , but it doesn t seem to be life threatening , thank goodness .
conservatives , though , are completely giddy about the fact that a man is ill.brock , who was instrumental in the right-wing campaign to take down bill clinton , and of the smear campaign against clarence thomas accuser anita hill , had a change of heart in the late 90s.since his wakeup , brock founded mediamatters , the left-wing media watchdog organization and an anti-republican pac called american bridge .
he was ( and is ) also a strong advocate for hillary clinton.it s understandable why conservatives would dislike brock .
mediamatters made its claim to fame by using republicans own words against them .
literally .
most of what they post is video and transcript of republicans putting their own feet in their mouths .
naturally , they call that fake news and worse .
the right tends to look at brock as some sort of bogeyman , much like they look at george soros .
so , imagine the glee from the pro-life party over the fact that brock suffered a heart attack.david brock had a heart attack .
maybe satan is calling one of his children home .
cailin4trump ?
( @ cailin4trump ) march 22 , 2017geei wonder if deep state is covering their assess by getting rid of evidence ? ?
?
? pic.twitter.com/w1evcnpi1i # maga david brock nunues boca vista ( @ bocavista2016 ) march 22 , 2017david brock has a heart attack the same week rockefeller croaks .
the swamp is draining itself friends !
# draintheswamp # pizzagate # nwo # maga exposing the tyrants ( @ draintheswamp17 ) march 22 , 2017 @ dcexaminer there is a god ralph valente ( @ ralphfvalente ) march 22 , 2017brock was supposedly involved in the fake right-wing story , pizzagate , which alleged that hillary clinton and her campaign manager were running a child sex ring out of the basement of a d.c. pizza place that had no basement .
some still apparently believe it , though.the pedophile case must be close to breaking : media matters founder david brock suffers heart attack https : //t.co/bveqnffpln @ zerohedge dr. dave janda ? ?
( @ docdhj ) march 22 , 2017 david brock if you are on your deathbed , implicate your buddies at comet ping pong pizza .
get well soon , hopefully behind prison bars .
conservapedia ( @ jay_pe ) march 22 , 2017david brock truth will always win # pizzagate zombellalove1 ? ?
( @ zombellalove1 ) march 22 , 2017and for the conspiratorially minded , a cigar is never just a cigar.david brock knows too much .
if it s really hitting the fan , he s no longer an asset to the dnc mafia .
not surprised to hear of heart attack heddi ( @ smithheddi ) march 22 , 2017the clinton s are cleaning house .
david brock , media matters founder and clinton ally , suffers heart attack | https : //t.co/2yfejx4luo victor stalworth ( @ victorstalworth ) march 22 , 2017 .
@ dcexaminer looks like david brock knows too much , and has possibly become a liability to the criminals in the # deepstate .
pic.twitter.com/5rrlkjwti4 morpheus ( @ redpillingyou ) march 22 , 2017sad.featured image via mad about the ban/flickr