( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump and afghan president ashraf ghani on thursday backed having companies from the united states develop afghanistan s reserves of rare earth minerals , despite formidable obstacles to industrial mining in the country .
the comments , at a meeting in new york , were the latest in a series in which both u.s. officials and the afghan government have emphasized the potential strategic value of afghanistan s vast and largely untapped mineral reserves .
both leaders also reiterated their commitment to trump s new south asia strategy to defeat terrorism .
but after 16 years in afghanistan , the u.s. is looking for ways to offset the billions of dollars spent every year in propping up the government in kabul and mining is increasingly being seen as a way to do that .
they agreed that such initiatives would help american companies develop materials critical to national security while growing afghanistan s economy and creating new jobs in both countries , therefore defraying some of the costs of united states assistance as afghans become more self-reliant , the white house said .
the u.s. geological survey has estimated the potential value of afghanistan s minerals , including gold and gemstones as well as substances like lithium and rare earths vital in modern electronics , at as much as $ 1 trillion .
but a lack of even basic transport and industrial infrastructure as well as a growing insurgency that has taken almost half the country out of government control has meant minerals have been impossible to exploit economically .
prices of some rare earths have shot up recently as demand for electric vehicle technology has grown , fuelling some talk that their value could compensate for the higher risks in getting them out of the ground .
in addition , the rare earths sector is overwhelmingly dominated by china , causing some concern in washington that beijing has a stranglehold on raw materials vital to modern defense technology and prompting an interest in finding alternative sources .
however , it remains unclear how a feasible development plan in afghanistan could be developed in the future .
extracting the minerals remains a difficult and costly process and the fact that large parts of the economic reserves of rare earths in afghanistan are located in helmand province , now mostly under taliban control , mean that miners are likely to look at easier opportunities elsewhere .
mike harrowell , an analyst at research firm harwind , based in sydney , said attempting rare earths extraction in afghanistan at the moment makes no sense on almost any level unless it were treated as a government-funded , nation-building project .
it s not a simple business , and the technology is quite tightly held .
it costs a lot , he said .
there are so many well-studied projects in north america that were assessed during the rare earths boom after 2010 that still require funding .
you would do any of those projects before you d do one in afghanistan .