donald trump apparently expects democrats to support his evil agenda just because a republican won a race in a red state.the special election in georgia s 6th district on tuesday was tight but eventually went to karen handel by a mere five points.democrats had an opportunity to take the house seat but jon ossoff fell short as republicans employed dirty tricks in the final days of the race , including an ad blaming liberals and ossoff for the congressional baseball shooting in virginia last week.trump wasted no time gloating about the win.congratulations to karen handel on her big win in georgia 6th .
fantastic job , we are all very proud of you !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 21 , 2017well , the special elections are over and those that want to make america great again are 5 and o !
all the fake news , all the money spent = 0 donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 21 , 2017in reality , trump and the republicans dodged a bullet on tuesday night , but democrats ran a tough race and nearly pulled it off .
the race was tighter this year than it was last time around when tom price won with over 60 percent of the vote.nevertheless , trump used the win to call for democrats to support him and his agenda.democrats would do much better as a party if they got together with republicans on healthcare , tax cuts , security .
obstruction doesn t work !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 21 , 2017does anyone remember republicans supporting president obama and working with him after democrats took complete control of congress and won the white house in 2008 ?
because as i recall , mitch mcconnell and a group of other republicans vowed to make president obama fail before he had even been inaugurated and they proceeded to obstruct for the next eight years .
i also do not remember trump ever calling for republicans to stop obstructing.all of a sudden , he claims obstruction does not work.and judging by the reaction on twitter , trump s message is not being well received.they re stopping you from giving tax cuts to the 1 % , taking healthcare away from veterans , ruining our relationships , and hurting security !
jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) june 21 , 2017by the way , obstruction does work !
or have you literally passed no serious legislation whatsoever in the last 5 months ?
jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) june 21 , 2017working together isn t just agreeing with the gop on everything .
it is making changed so both sides win .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) june 21 , 2017the gop obstructed obama at every turn for nearly a decade .
now you want kumbaya ? ?
your hypocrisy and lack of context is staggering .
aaron gouveia ( @ daddyfiles ) june 21 , 2017and you would do better as a president if you didn t insult & attack people everyday !
alex haditaghi ( @ alexhaditaghi ) june 21 , 2017translation : democrats should help us screw over americans on healthcare they ll lose , tax cuts for the rich & security that discriminates .
rob ( @ robcabrera ) june 21 , 2017again , handel won in a republican district .
that s what it comes down to .
it wasn t a unique victory or even an unexpected one .
but democrats made it closer than it should have been and had a real chance to win .
democrats are chipping away at the lead republicans have in their own districts and that is what should really scare them ahead of the 2018 midterm election .
because there s more than enough time between now and then for conservative voters to realize trump is screwing them.featured image via alex wong/getty images