dhaka/kutupalong , bangladesh ( reuters ) - how do you feed and shelter nearly half a million traumatized people who have made their way , over the course of just one month , to a spit of monsoon-soaked land where 300,000 refugees are already living in squalor ?
that is the challenge for aid workers scrambling to help the rohingya muslims now crowded into the cox s bazar region of southern bangladesh after a spasm of violence in myanmar s rakhine state sent them fleeing across the border .
nothing comparable , in terms of the number of people arriving in such a short space of time , has happened since 1994 in rwanda , said christopher lom , asia-pacific spokesman for the international organization for migration ( iom ) .
about 480,000 men , women and children have arrived in cox s bazar since the end of august , according to united nations estimates .
most came with nothing more than the clothes they wore .
nearly 200 of the women have given birth since they arrived and another 20,000 are pregnant .
meeting the needs of such a vast number - indefinitely , because there is nowhere else for them to go - in one of the poorest regions of a poor country is a logistical nightmare for the bangladesh government , u.n. agencies and aid organizations .
there was a taste of what was to come in october and november last year , when a smaller outbreak of violence brought and influx of 80,000 rohingya .
that prompted improvements in infrastructure and coordination in cox s bazar , said the united nations local chief coordinator , robert watkins .
it was working extremely well , he said .
and then we got this wave of humanity , and we were overwhelmed .
u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi said after a visit to cox s bazar this week that the most urgent needs were shelter , clean water and sanitation .
really the first order of business , the first challenge , is to get people out of the mud and the despair in which they are finding themselves into a place where organized relief can be provided , he told a news conference in geneva .
the combination of limited health facilities , poor sanitary and hygiene conditions and overcrowded sites ... is a recipe for disaster in terms of possible epidemics .
so far 475 tonnes of aid have arrived at chittagong airport north of cox s bazar , much of it from muslim-majority countries shocked by the killings and torching of villages in northwestern rakhine , which u.n. officials have branded ethnic cleansing .
while the initial response was chaotic , say aid experts , due to the sheer volume of people arriving , bangladesh has since won some praise for improvements in organization .
at a sept. 14 meeting in the prime minister s office in dhaka , the authorities made 22 decisions to remove logistical hurdles .
according to a document reviewed by reuters , these included building 14 storage warehouses , regulating aid distribution , protecting orphans , building roads and power infrastructure , and setting up shelters for more than 500,000 people .
mohammad shah kamal , bangladesh s secretary of disaster management and relief and the main coordinator of the aid effort , said the armed forces were scanning shipments of aid and transporting them from airports and ports to cox s bazar , where local officials take charge of distribution .
i think everyone has been surprised at the bangladeshi government , said karim elguindi , a senior world food program official in cox s bazar , noting that it was fast-tracking everything , had offered police support and helped with customs delays .
but the inter-sector coordination group , which is leading the humanitarian response to the influx of rohingya , said in a recent update that basic coordination was still lacking because staff and agencies had not been assigned to specific camps .
bangladesh hopes to make room for new arrivals by building a 2,000-acre camp in the ukhia area of cox s bazar .
the u.n. says much of this area is not suitable for habitation because it lacks water , sewerage and roads , but many refugees are already settling there anyway .
complicating aid efforts are private civic and religious groups that throw food and clothes off the back of trucks , which experts say is no way to get relief to the neediest .
thousands of tarpaulin shelters that refugees have built in recent weeks stretching across dozens of small hills and rice paddies are only accessible by long walks across flimsy bamboo bridges .
families in one of the most remote parts of the sprawling kutupalong refugee camp , a 40-minute walk from the nearest official distribution point , said they mostly rely on handouts from relatives to survive .
mushtaq ahmed , 66 , a religious teacher , sheltering from the rain under a tarpaulin , said he has resorted to begging to buy rice for his children and grandchildren .
he has tried to throw himself into the scramble for aid thrown from trucks but comes away with nothing .
there are too many people rushing , he said .
i am too weak to get it .