berlin ( reuters ) - german parties cited progress on friday after three weeks of talks about a three-way coalition , with their leaders due to thrash out remaining differences over transport and climate on sunday .
chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , which bled support to the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) in the sept. 24 election , are trying to forge a coalition government with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the environmentalist greens .
the chiefs of the parties huddled on friday evening to review progress in the talks thus far , but planned no statements .
they had initially hoped to agree on the outlines of a coalition deal by friday after the two smaller parties dropped demands this week on tax and climate policy , but later decided to meet again on sunday before a final push by full delegations for an outline deal next week .
still , the overall tone was more upbeat than at the end of the previous week .
we re heading into the home stretch , horst seehofer , head of the christian social union , the bavarian sister party of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , told reporters .
seehofer and fdp leader christian lindner said they were optimistic that the exploratory talks could be wrapped up next week , paving the way for weeks of detailed negotiations about the exact terms of a coalition contract .
but michael kellner , a top negotiator for the greens , demanded more compromises from the other parties .
the fdp this week gave ground by agreeing to accept more modest income tax cuts than a campaign pledge of 30-40 billion euros ( $ 35-46 billion ) of relief .
in an interview with the german magazine der spiegel on friday , lindner also signaled a readiness to compromise on the euro zone s european stability mechanism , moving away from a campaign pledge to shut down the rescue fund .
the greens for their part dropped their insistence on fixed dates for shutting down coal-fired power stations and banning cars with internal combustion engines .
but the parties remain divided on whether or not to push for a euro zone budget , on europe s banking union and on the use of drones in military conflicts , as well as german participation in foreign military missions , according to draft papers seen by reuters .
they must also agree how to meet key targets for reducing carbon dioxide emissions , how to deal with the pollution caused by diesel cars already on the road , and whether to introduce a law that would ease tax rates for venture capital projects .
if the parties fail to reach agreement , germany could be forced into a new election that could unsettle investors at a time when many in the european union are looking to europe s biggest economic power for leadership on issues ranging from euro zone governance to transatlantic relations .
merkel , seeking a fourth term as chancellor , hopes to reach agreement in the exploratory talks by nov. 16 .
she plans to take the broad outlines of what is agreed to key conservative party leaders in five meetings the following weekend , the cdu said .