in an interview that is a tradition before the super bowl , the obamas sat down with oprah s bff gayle king to chitty chat about trivial things .
injecting politicians into the super bowl festivities has become more and more a normality .
the obamas have taken it to an all new level .
it s to be expected but the real concern today is the question of whether michelle obama tipped her hat to the fact that she was in on the anti-american , cop-hating half-time performance by beyonce .
you be the judge : michelle obama s pre-game super bowl fluff interview revealed that she cared deeply about the halftime show , even coordinating her outfit for beyonce s approval.president and mrs. obama sat down sunday with cbs this morning anchor gayle king , a family friend , for what has become a tradition a pre-super bowl interview.sunday s performance was a far cry from the contentious exchange that occurred two years earlier with fox news host bill o reilly .
in fact , it was nothing short of a love fest that threatened to ruin the day for serious sports fans.joined by the first lady for the first time , it was a given that the obamas complained about such things like bad wi-fi service at the white house before discussing first dates and post-presidency plans , among other hard-hitting topics.the first lady said she cared deeply about the halftime game show , likely because pal beyonc , one of this year s halftime performers , was planning to get political in support of black lives matter .
i got dressed for the halftime show , michelle said .
i hope beyonc likes what i ve got on .
mrs. obama was dressed in all black , we assume in simpatico with the artist s dancers who performed in wardrobes that resembled the black panthers .
the only thing missing was a black panther beret .
furious americans are expressing their disappointment and outrage that the super bowl halftime show was allowed to be hijacked for political purposes and given a racist , black power theme.read more : biz pac review