washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate on thursday approved $ 15.25 billion in aid for areas affected by hurricane harvey and other natural disasters , along with measures that would fund the federal government and raise its borrowing limit through dec. 8 .
the 80-17 senate vote came after the house of representatives on wednesday approved roughly $ 8 billion in disaster relief .
the legislation will now return to the house , which is expected to vote on the revised package by the end of the week .
president donald trump met with congressional leaders on wednesday to work out a deal to attach short-term , three-month measures in the senate to fund the federal government at current levels and raise its borrowing limit , known as the debt ceiling .
conservatives in the house have balked at the scope of the trump-brokered deal , which attached two , crucial fiscal measures , calling it a win for senate minority leader chuck schumer and house minority leader nancy pelosi .
the $ 15.25 billion in emergency funding includes $ 7.4 billion for the disaster relief fund at the federal emergency management agency , fema , $ 450 million for the small business authority ’ s disaster loan program and $ 7.4 billion for the community development block grant program at the department of housing and urban development .
representative mark walker , chairman of the conservative republican study committee , rsc , sent a letter to house speaker paul ryan on thursday saying he opposed attaching the debt-ceiling raise to disaster aid .
he suggested that spending reforms the group would like should be attached to either the current deal or legislation in december when congress revisits the issue .
the rsc does not typically vote as a bloc but walker ’ s letter provides insight into the thinking of its members .
of 240 house republicans , 156 are rsc members .
there are 194 house democrats and one open seat , meaning passage of the package could depend heavily on democratic votes .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell had wanted to raise the debt ceiling through the 2018 midterm congressional elections but democrats knew that would “ destroy any negotiations leverage that we would have ” over the coming months , pelosi told reporters on thursday .