north charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - flaring tempers and sharp elbows may turn a debate among seven republican presidential candidates into a seven-car pileup on thursday with tensions between donald trump and rival ted cruz leading the way .
the sixth republican debate , at the north charleston coliseum in the swing state of south carolina , takes place at a tense time for the republican field with the clock ticking toward feb. 1 in iowa , the first contest in the race to choose the party ’ s nominee for the nov. 8 general election .
the 9 p.m. est ( 0200 gmt friday ) debate features the top seven candidates ranked by republican voters : new york real estate businessman and reality tv star trump , texas senator cruz , florida senator marco rubio , retired neurosurgeon ben carson , former florida governor jeb bush , new jersey governor chris christie and ohio governor john kasich .
nearly every candidate has had a bone to pick with one or more of the others this week .
beyond the trump-cruz theatrics , bush has blasted trump and rubio , rubio has slammed bush as well as cruz and christie , and christie has attacked most everyone else .
“ given all the attacks that are taking place and the counterattacks , i think it will be a more lively debate than we ’ ve seen at this point , ” said eric fehrnstrom , who was a top adviser to 2012 republican nominee mitt romney .
“ donald trump is still in complete command and the race is still about who will become his main challenger. ” in an earlier debate of low-polling candidates , republicans carly fiorina , mike huckabee and rick santorum largely focused their criticism on democrats rather than each other .
they were all in agreement that president barack obama ’ s strategy toward iran , the fight against islamic state and his executive orders last week to strengthen gun control were flawed and should be changed .
fiorina , the former hewlett-packard ceo who was demoted from the main stage because of faltering poll numbers , dominated the so-called “ undercard ” debate with a series of one-line zingers , one of them aimed at democrat hillary clinton over her prior marital strains with bill clinton , the former president .
“ unlike another woman in this race , i actually love spending time with my husband , ” said fiorina .
u.s .
senator paul rand of kentucky opted out of the “ undercard debate ” and said instead he would host a town hall session on twitter during the main debate .
front-runner trump has put cruz , his main obstacle to an iowa victory , on the defensive by suggesting cruz may not qualify to be a candidate because he was born in canada ( to a u.s. citizen mother and a cuban father ) .
this was a change in posture by trump on the issue , however , after saying in an interview with abc news last september that he had heard that lawyers believed it was not a problem for cruz .
trump and cruz have been friendly over the past year , until now .
being targeted by trump is a new position for cruz , who has taken the lead in some polls of iowa republican voters in part by avoiding tangles with trump .
in the reuters rolling national poll on jan. 12 , trump had 39 percent of the vote , cruz 14.5 percent , bush 10.6 percent , carson 9.6 percent and 6.7 percent favored rubio , once viewed by the republican establishment and many donors as a rising star .
cruz told reporters in new hampshire on tuesday that trump is relying on a judgment on the birthright question from harvard law professor laurence tribe , who cruz described as “ a liberal , left-wing , judicial-activist ” and a supporter of democratic party front-runner hillary clinton .
“ the past couple of elections we saw the democrats thrilled that they got the nominee they wanted to run against in the general election , and it seems the hillary folks are very eager to support donald trump , ” cruz said .
trump , who has proved to be a master at finding a perceived weakness in an opponent , insisted cruz ’ s canadian birth violated the u.s. constitution ’ s requirement that only “ natural born citizens ” can be president .
“ sadly , there is no way that ted cruz can continue running in the republican primary unless he can erase doubt on eligibility .
dems will sue ! ” he tweeted on wednesday .
mudslinging abounds elsewhere in the field as a grouping of other candidates fight to be the alternative to trump with battles over national security and immigration .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here )