washington ( reuters ) - legislation to bypass the u.s. labor department and have congress set standards for brokers who give retirement advice passed a major committee on wednesday and is now headed to the full house of representatives .
although the bill faces slim chances of becoming law , it reveals the depth of feuding in washington over the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform law ’ s requirement that retirement advisers follow a “ fiduciary ” standard that puts their clients ’ interests first .
the requirement aims to end potential conflicts of interest by brokers who advise on individual retirement accounts and to protect consumers from buying unnecessary investment products that line brokers ’ pockets .
last week , the labor department sent a revised proposal for an adviser rule to the white house ’ s office of management and budget .
details will not be made public until the white house completes its review .
this was the department ’ s second stab at a rule .
wide criticism from the industry and lawmakers alike forced it to withdraw its initial proposal in 2011 .
the house ways and means committee split along party lines as it debated the legislation , which would create a “ best interest requirement ” and lay out processes for advisers to follow .
republicans , the majority , touted it as a workable alternative to the labor department ’ s rule , which they said could “ frighten off ” middle-income investors from seeking advice and give advisers incentives to work only for wealthy clients .
they took issue with how the labor department drafted its rule , as well , saying the first version was panned by thousands of people and complaining that the current version lacked transparency .
“ just disclose it , ” said rep. peter roskam , of illinois , who helped write the bill , in comments directed at the department .
“ you ’ ve written it .
it ’ s done .
it ’ s not holy text. ” democrats said lawmakers should wait to see the labor department ’ s rule before bypassing it .
they also complained there were no hearings on the bill , introduced in december , and said industry pressure was behind a sudden rush to pass it .
president barack obama , a democrat , would likely veto the legislation if it passed both the house and the senate .
democrats cautioned that the bill ’ s major effect , then , will be to hamper negotiations lawmakers might want to have with his administration .
since the initial version was released , democrats have raised potential problems they see in the rule with the labor department .