craiova , romania ( reuters ) - nato ally turkey is not seeking to antagonize the u.s.-led alliance by purchasing russian s-400 surface-to-air missiles and is in talks with france and italy to buy similar weapons , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg said .
ankara s decision to buy the russian system has been seen in some western capitals as a snub to the alliance , given tensions with moscow over ukraine and syria , while the deal raised concern because the weapons can not be integrated into nato defense .
but stoltenberg said it was a sovereign decision and that he had talked it through with turkish president tayyip erdogan .
there hasn t been any request from turkey to integrate the s-400 into nato air defense system , stoltenberg told reuters in an interview on a belgian military plane returning from romania late on monday .
i spoke with president erdogan when i met him in september .
i said that the kind of capabilities different nations want to acquire is a national decision , he said of the s-400 system that turkey has made an advance payment for and hopes to see delivered in 2019 .
stoltenberg stressed that top turkish officials , as well as erdogan , had told him ankara remained a strong nato ally .
that was despite the s-400 issue and a dispute with germany over erdogan s arrest of german nationals as part of a mass purge following last july s failed coup bid .
stoltenberg said ankara was ready to brief its allies in the u.s.-led 29-member bloc on the reasons behind its decision to buy the s-400 system .
erdogan has blamed nato countries for failing to propose a viable alternative to the long-range russian missiles , but stoltenberg said erdogan was now talking to paris and rome for similar systems , a move the alliance chief welcomed .
he told me that turkey is in dialogue with france and italy on possible delivery of air defense systems from them ... on top of the s-400 , stoltenberg said .
stoltenberg did not give more details but said turkey was familiar with the so-called samp-t missiles developed because italy had stationed them in turkey as part of nato efforts to help protect ankara from rocket attacks .
such weapons are designed to protect battlefields and strategic sites such as airports and sea ports against airborne threats , including cruise missiles and aircraft .
the samp-t system is produced by italian-french consortium eurosam , a joint venture between european missile maker mbda and thales .
russia uses different technology , as well as know-how that moscow is unlikely to be willing to share , experts say .
for nato , the important thing is interoperability , stoltenberg said , speaking on his return from the launch of a nato force aimed at deterring russia in the black sea region .
we encourage , facilitate allies to develop systems , acquire and operate systems together that will reduce costs and strengthen the defense industries within the alliance , he said .
as part of nato s collective defense pledge , the allies integrate their ships , planes and weapons systems to make them work together , as well as sharing command across the alliance .
some eastern european allies that were once under soviet rule still rely on russian-made planes , but integrating russia s most advanced ground-based missile system would also be highly complicated for political reasons .
while stoltenberg , a former norwegian prime minister , took up the nato post three years ago with a more conciliatory tone toward moscow than his danish predecessor anders fogh rasmussen , russia s crimea annexation in march 2014 had already badly damaged east-west ties .
in the latest dispute , stoltenberg said moscow had given misleading information about the size of its war games , known as zapad , or west , last month .
our assessment so far shows that the scale and geographic scope of the zapad exercise significantly exceeded what was announced , he said , although he said so far there were no signs russia had left behind troops or weapons in belarus during the exercises , as some baltic nations had feared .
russia said zapad involved some 13,000 troops and has accused nato allies of exaggerating the size of the drills .