tokyo/yangon ( reuters ) - the arrest of two reuters journalists in yangon this week was a signal that press freedom is shrinking in myanmar and the international community must do all it can to get them released , u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres said on thursday .
guterres said his main concern over myanmar was the dramatic violations of human rights during a military crackdown in rakhine state that forced more than 600,000 rohingya muslims to flee the country for southern bangladesh , and the arrest of the journalists was probably related .
it is clearly a concern in relation to the erosion of press freedom in the country , he told a news conference in tokyo , referring to the detention of wa lone and kyaw soe oo , who had been working on stories about the strife in rakhine state .
and probably the reason why these journalists were arrested is because they were reporting on what they have seen in relation to this massive human tragedy , he added .
myanmar s ministry of information said in a statement on wednesday that the reuters journalists and two policemen faced charges under the british colonial-era official secrets act .
the 1923 law carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
the reporters illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media , the ministry said in its statement , which was accompanied by a photo of the two reporters in handcuffs .
rohingya refugees in bangladesh say their exodus from the mainly buddhist nation was triggered by a military offensive in response to rohingya militant attacks on security forces at the end of august .
the united nations has branded the military s campaign in rakhine state a textbook example of ethnic cleansing of the minority rohingya .
guterres said the international community should do everything possible to secure the journalists release and freedom of the press in myanmar .
he called for aid to be delivered , violence contained and reconciliation promoted in rakhine state , and for the rohingyas right of return to be fully respected and implemented .
britain has expressed grave concerns to the government of myanmar over the arrest of the two journalists , foreign secretary boris johnson told reporters in london on thursday .
we are committed to freedom of speech and people s ability to report the facts and bring into the public domain what is happening in rakhine state , he said .
canada s minister of foreign affairs chrystia freeland tweeted that she was deeply concerned by the reports about the arrests .
freedom of the press is essential for democracy and must be preserved , she said .
and the president of the european parliament antonio tajani also called on myanmar to protect media freedoms and release the two .
wa lone and kyaw soe oo went missing on tuesday evening after they had been invited to meet police officials over dinner on the outskirts of yangon .
the authorities have not confirmed where the journalists are being held and , as of thursday evening , reuters had not been formally contacted by officials about their detention .
at htaunt kyant police station , where the journalists were charged , family members of wa lone and kyaw soe oo were told that the pair were being detained at another location by an investigative team .
they are not here , said police second lieutenant tin htway oo , according to pann ei , wife of reporter wa lone .
the police investigation team took them soon after they were arrested .
he said he did not know where the journalists were , pann ei added , but he did tell her they would be brought back to the station in two to three days at most .
reuters could not immediately reach tin htway oo for comment .
police lieutenant colonel myint htwe of the yangon police division told reuters the reporters location would not be disclosed until the investigation was complete .
it will be known later .
please wait a while , he said .
reuters president and editor-in-chief stephen j. adler said in a statement on wednesday : we are outraged by this blatant attack on press freedom .
we call for authorities to release them immediately .
the foreign correspondents club of myanmar said it was appalled by the arrests and gravely concerned about the state of press freedom in the country .
in a statement , it called on the authorities to ensure the safety of the reporters and allow their families to see them .
the foreign correspondents club in neighbouring thailand said it was alarmed by the use of this draconian law with its heavy penalties against journalists simply doing their jobs .
wielding such a blunt legal instrument has an intimidating effect on other journalists , and poses a real threat to media freedom , the bangkok-based club said in a statement , calling for the journalists to be released .