zurich ( reuters ) - switzerland s putative new foreign minister called on wednesday for a fresh start to tortuous talks on cementing ties with the european union , the neutral country s most important trading partner .
parliament elected ignazio cassis , 56 , as the first minister in 18 years from the italian-speaking swiss canton of ticino .
he is likely to be named switzerland s top diplomat when the four-party coalition government allots portfolios on friday .
the polyglot physician and member of the pro-business liberal democrats is to replace foreign minister didier burkhalter , who announced in june he would resign .
should cassis get the foreign ministry - swiss cabinet members get to pick their portfolios by order of seniority - he will be point man in navigating several open political and economic issues with the eu .
brussels wants a comprehensive framework treaty to replace the patchwork of more than 100 bilateral accords that now govern ties .
but mainstream swiss parties have got cold feet about the idea ahead of britain s divorce talks with the eu .
cassis - who raised eyebrows in his acceptance speech by citing marxist theorist rosa luxemburg s comments on respecting people with different opinions - said it was time to abandon a poisoned vocabulary in the debate about eu links .
we must have the courage to make a new start , he told reporters , noting no one knew in detail what a framework treaty would entail as the partners seek to redefine relations .
words shape reality , and when reality has become poisoned by words then you have to change the words , he said .
european commission president jean-claude juncker and german chancellor angela merkel have said a new treaty is the price of any more trade deals with switzerland .
last year , the alpine state narrowly avoided a clash with the eu over a 2014 referendum vote for eu immigration quotas when parliament enacted a system of giving hiring preference to anyone registered with swiss unemployment offices .
swiss reluctance to follow through on a new accord in the window before the eu s negotiations with britain start in earnest threatens to put relations into a deep chill that could stall progress on unresolved trade issues .
the eurosceptic swiss people s party , the country s largest , has opposed any new treaty that gives the european court of justice a role in settling disputes .