yangon ( reuters ) - two reuters journalists who have been detained in myanmar for the past two weeks were remanded in custody for a further two weeks on wednesday as a probe continues into allegations they breached the nation s official secrets act .
judge ohn myint granted the 14-day extension in the case of the journalists , wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , at the request of the police , who then took them to yangon s insein prison .
they were previously being held in a police compound .
when they appeared at the mingaladon court for the proceedings , wa lone and kyaw soe oo were allowed to meet their families and their lawyer for the first time since their arrest .
the two journalists had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis in the western state of rakhine , where - according to united nations estimates - about 655,000 rohingya muslims have fled from a fierce military crackdown on militants .
they were detained on dec 12 after they had been invited to meet police officials over dinner .
the ministry of information has said they illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media and faced charges under the british colonial-era official secrets act , which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
the two journalists said they had not been mistreated in custody .
the situation is okay , wa lone said after the hearing .
we will face it the best we can because we have never done anything wrong , he said .
we have never violated the media law nor ethics .
we will continue to do our best .
a reuters spokesperson said they should be freed .
these two journalists are being held for simply doing their jobs and have done nothing wrong .
it is time for wa lone and kyaw soe oo to be released , the spokesperson said .
about 100 journalists , lawyers and farmers held a protest in the town of pyay , 290 km ( 180 miles ) north of yangon , to demand the release of wa lone and kyaw soe oo , one of the participants said .
members of the protection committee for myanmar journalists sat draped in chains in a public square in the center of the town and wrote the names of the two arrested reporters on their palms , an often used symbol in myanmar of solidarity with those in jail .
government officials from some of the world s major nations , including the united states , britain and canada , as well as top u.n. officials , have previously called for their release .
dozens of reporters and cameramen were outside the courthouse in a northern district of yangon for the appearance of the two journalists .
they were brought in a white van , rather than a police truck , dressed in casual clothes and were not handcuffed .
their lawyer , than zaw aung , who has been retained by reuters , also said the two had only been doing their job as journalists .
they are being accused under this charge while doing their work as media , he told reporters .
lieutenant colonel myint htwe , a senior staff officer from the yangon police division , said : we took action because they committed the crime .
it needs to be solved in court .
only their lawyer and the families of the two journalists , along with police and government lawyers , were allowed into the courtroom .
the families were later allowed to travel in the van as the two journalists were taken to prison .
i believe that he didn t commit any crime , pan ei mon , wa lone s wife , told reuters .
i would like to request the government to consider releasing them .
nyo nyo aye , a sister of kyaw soe oo , said her brother told her he had not committed any offense .
i believe that he can come home soon , she said .