washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump said that “ professional agitators ” bore much of the blame for violence at his rallies as video showed a protester being beaten and another apparently being grabbed by trump ’ s campaign manager .
speaking on abc ’ s “ this week ” on sunday , trump defended campaign manager corey lewandowski and declined to condemn supporters who have attacked protesters at his increasingly chaotic rallies .
nor did he back down from his warning that there would be riots in the streets if the republican party denied him the nomination for the november election , despite his being the most popular candidate among republican voters .
senior figures in the party are openly plotting to prevent trump from becoming the nominee because they view him as insufficiently conservative , and trump was due to privately meet with some party leaders in washington on monday , the washington post reported .
“ i don ’ t know what ’ s going to happen , but i will say this , you ’ re going to have a lot of unhappy people , ” he said on “ this week , ” predicting anger at the party ’ s national convention in july should someone else end up the nominee .
“ i don ’ t want to see riots , i don ’ t want to see problems .
but you ’ re talking about millions of people. ” scenes of mayhem have become increasingly common at the billionaire new york businessman ’ s rallies , which have been frequently interrupted by protesters , many of them democrats , who say trump ’ s controversial remarks on immigrants and muslims are dangerous .
the 69-year-old candidate has sometimes encouraged his supporters using violence on protesters , and on at least one occasion said that he would like to punch a protester himself .
television footage from an arizona rally on saturday showed a man punching and kicking a protester as he was led out of the event .
another video appeared to show lewandowski grabbing a protester by the back of his shirt .
trump declined to condemn the violence and said it was often provoked by protesters , who briefly blocked a highway leading to an arizona rally on saturday .
“ these people are very disruptive people .
they ’ re not innocent lambs , ” he said .
he also defended lewandowski and said a security official had actually grabbed the protester .
lewandowski also manhandled a reporter last week , according to the washington post .
“ i give him credit for having spirit , ” trump said of lewandowski .
republican leaders have said trump needs to more clearly discourage his supporters from engaging in violence .
about two dozen senior republican figures will meet with trump at a law firm near the capitol on monday afternoon in what the trump campaign described as an effort to improve “ party unity ” , the washington post reported .
the newspaper did not say who would be attending .
candidates were also required to submit their most recently monthly financial disclosures to the federal election commission on sunday .
hillary clinton , the front-runner for the democratic party ’ s nomination , raised $ 30.1 million in february , according to filings , about $ 12 million less than that raised by chief rival , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont in the same period .
clinton began march with $ 31 million in cash on hand , according to filings .