no word on when soros will be put on trial for paying protestors to riot or when al sharpton will be charged with inciting the riots with his inflammatory racist rhetoric ( all comments in italics are opinions of 100 % fed up !
) according to a report from the u.s. department of justice , police responding to race-related protests and riots in ferguson , missouri , last summer made a series of missteps , including antagonizing crowds with attack dogs and military-style tactics.yeah .. because the people inciting riots , burning down businesses and threatening anyone who dared to drive through ferguson are probably pretty credible witnesses when it comes to missteps by the ferguson police department .
the report , a copy of which was obtained by reuters , is a draft summary of a document the doj plans to release in the coming weeks evaluating law enforcement actions .
a justice department spokesperson said the after-action assessment will convey the findings and lessons learned .
the report focuses on the tactics of police from ferguson , st. louis , st. louis county , and the missouri highway patrol .
all four agencies tried to quell the protests and riots that broke out after a white ferguson police officer shot and killed michael brown , an unarmed black teenager , on aug. 9 , 2014 .
we are always willing to engage in constructive dialogue about best practices , the st. louis department said in a statement .
we are interested in the final report to identify what we did well and what we may need to improve upon .
how improving number of arrests made for arsonists/rioters who burn down businesses to make a statement ?
the justice department draft report , which covers actions over the 17 days following the shooting , found that police lacked effective protocols , were not adequately trained , struggled with communication and coordination , and made mistakes that sometimes heightened tensions.the use of dogs for crowd control during the ferguson protests incited fear and anger in the crowd , according to the report , while the use of teargas on people without warning was also a problem.in addition , police were inconsistent in using force and making arrests , and some officers removed their nameplates to evade accountability for their actions , the justice department said.the report also criticized police for positioning snipers atop armored vehicles to monitor the crowd through rifle sights , saying the tactic served only to exacerbate tensions .
yeah because why would the cops in ferguson be concerned about their own safety when clowns like this are openly walking around advocating for violence against officer wilson ? it found that law enforcement agencies set a negative tone with the media by initially offering limited public information about brown s shooting .
the report also said police inhibited protesters constitutional right to free speech.in all , the report lists 45 findings along with recommendations for improvements.via : reuters