this is hilariously perfect.hillary clinton has already responded to republican nominee donald trump s 3am temper tantrum on twitter but decided to double down early saturday morning by mocking him with a 3am twitter barrage of her very own .
except whereas trump focused on hurling sexist insults , hillary focused on touting public service and threw in some characteristic trump-speak.it s 3:20am .
as good a time as any to tweet about national service .
https : //t.co/6hrcc16uiv hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) october 1 , 2016there are hundreds of thousands more @ americorps applications than spots .
horrible !
let s expand it from 75,000 annual members to 250,000 .
hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) october 1 , 2016too many talented young people pass up on programs like @ peacecorps because of student loans .
let s use good judgment & lighten that burden .
hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) october 1 , 2016remember , don t believe the haters who describe america as hopeless and broken .
we should lift each other up , not tear each other down .
hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) october 1 , 2016for those few people knocking public service , hope you ll reconsider answering the call to help others .
because we re stronger together .
hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) october 1 , 2016prior to hillary s tweets , massachusetts senator elizabeth warren absolutely humiliated trump on her twitter feed as well.warren pointed out that trump never tweets about truly important things at 3am such as helping students and workers .
then she landed this knock-out punch.a thin-skinned bully who thinks humiliating women at 3am qualifies him to be president does not understand america & is not fit to lead .
elizabeth warren ( @ elizabethforma ) september 30 , 2016while trump acts like a petulant child , hillary clinton is demonstrating that she is the adult in the 2016 race.trump s twitter tantrum early friday morning was disgraceful and proved that he does not have the temperament necessary to be president of the united states.hillary clinton , on the other hand , is the only candidate in this race who has the experience , dedication to public service , and , yes , the perfect temperament to be an effective commander-in-chief .
this is how a presidential candidate is supposed to act.featured image : justin sullivan/getty images