it s good to know hillary s campaign chairman has such extraordinary ties with a top official involved in the reopening of hillary s fbi probe will this woman ever get the justice she deserves for decades of criminality ?
with all of her ties and crooked connections , is it even a possibility ?
the justice department official in charge of informing congress about the newly reactivated hillary clinton email probe is a political appointee and former private-practice lawyer who kept clinton campaign chairman john podesta out of jail , lobbied for a tax cheat later pardoned by president bill clinton and led the effort to confirm attorney general loretta lynch.peter kadzik , who was confirmed as assistant attorney general for legislative affairs in june 2014 , represented podesta in 1998 when independent counsel kenneth starr was investigating podesta for his possible role in helping ex-bill clinton intern and mistress monica lewinsky land a job at the united nations .
fantastic lawyer .
kept me out of jail , podesta wrote on sept. 8 , 2008 to obama aide cassandra butts , according to emails hacked from podesta s gmail account and posted by wikileaks.kadzik s name has surfaced multiple times in regard to the fbi s investigation of democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton for using a private , homebrewed server .
after fbi director james comey informed congress on thursday the fbi was reviving its inquiry when new evidence linked to a separate investigation was discovered , congressional leaders wrote to the department of justice seeking more information .
kadzik replied .
we assure you that the department will continue to work closely with the fbi and together , dedicate all necessary resources and take appropriate steps as expeditiously as possible , kadzik wrote on oct. 31.the doj is responsible for approving the bureau s warrant applications and ultimately for convening a grand jury.fox news has previously confirmed the justice department was opposed to comey making public the latest clinton revelations .
fox news