buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s president mauricio macri has pushed out the chief prosecutor , argued for federal judges to be fired and is planning judicial reforms as charges pile up against his predecessor s government .
macri s supporters have cheered what they see as an overdue effort to reform argentina s sluggish judiciary .
but his opponents smell a witch hunt against former leader cristina fernandez and fear the government is trying to use the courts to eliminate opponents .
on thursday , a federal judge dealt the hardest blow yet to fernandez , asking for congress to remove her immunity as a senator so she could be arrested .
the judge indicted fernandez for treason and allegedly covering up iran s role in a 1994 bombing of a jewish community center that killed 85 people .
that followed the arrest of two key officials from fernandez s administration days after macri s coalition swept mid-term elections on oct. 22 .
former planning minister julio de vido was detained on oct. 25 , followed by former vice president amado boudou on nov. 3 .
both deny wrongdoing .
fernandez has denied personal wrongdoing and accuses macri of using the judiciary for political persecution .
i d like to tell president macri that the campaign ended in october , although some people have not noticed , fernandez told a news conference on thursday .
she was also indicted a year ago on charges she ran a corruption scheme with her public works secretary , who was caught trying to stash millions of dollars in a convent .
fernandez has admitted there may have been corruption in her government but personally denies wrongdoing .
macri , meanwhile , has pledged to strengthen the judiciary and says he will make it more independent .
he plans changes to the federal prosecutors office and a reform of the judicial council , which appoints judges .
the reforms would require congressional approval and a source from macri s coalition said they would be presented next year , after higher profile tax and labor reforms are debated .
unions and allies of fernandez oppose many of the center-right macri s economic measures .
so do many judges , who are historically staunch defenders of workers rights .
they are using the council to tame judges who dare to make rulings that reverse government decisions , said rodolfo tailhade , a judicial council member and a lawmaker allied with fernandez .
tailhade and a federal judge , who requested anonymity , both said the reform may allow the removal of judges for poor performance with a simple majority rather than the current nine out of 13 votes .
the council is a mix of political appointments , judges and lawyers .
the justice ministry did not respond to a request for comment .
justice minister german garavano recently told radio 10 the executive branch does not exert pressure on judges .
he said the judicial system needs structural change to reduce a backlog of cases .
tensions with prosecutors , some of whom are allied with fernandez , have also increased .
former chief prosecutor alejandra gils carbo resigned in october over accusations she hampered corruption investigations of fernandez s government .
macri described gils carbo as a political activist who misused her power .
among the names mentioned as a possible replacement for her are officials who have advocated more aggressive investigation of the previous government .
another prosecutor , who declined to be identified because of the sensitive nature of the information , said colleagues are worried about potential government intervention .
however , some recent court cases have also involved people close to macri .
a prosecutor last week recommended courts freeze 54 billion pesos ( $ 3.12 billion ) in assets belonging to construction magnate angel calcaterra , a cousin of macri , over suspicion of bribe payments linked to brazil s odebrecht .
calcaterra denies wrongdoing but sold his stake in the company , iecsa , to avoid conflicts of interest that could arise due to macri s position .
even opponents of fernandez have warned macri to tread carefully with judicial reform .
the reform ... can not be used to pursue judges or prosecutors , said congresswoman margarita stolbizer , a member of a more moderate opposition party .