nairobi ( reuters ) - competing efforts to end south sudan s civil war allow the government to exploit divisions among international brokers and are unlikely to halt the fighting , a confidential u.n. report said .
south sudan became the world s newest nation when it gained independence from sudan in 2011 .
war broke out in late 2013 and has forced more than a quarter of its 12 million population have fled their homes .
the hostilities in south sudan continue against a complex backdrop of competing regional and bilateral initiatives to resolve the conflict , u.n. sanctions monitors said in a report to the security council seen by reuters on friday .
these efforts suffer from several defects , including inadequate oversight , lack of enforcement and the absence of an integrated , coherent plan for peace .
among the international bodies involved in trying to bring the warring parties to the table are regional bloc igad , the u.n. security council , a troika of south sudan s main western backers prior to independence , and an african union panel .
the efforts of these groups are affected by conflicting interests compounded by underlying rivalries in the region , the panel wrote , in what could refer to the role of leaders such as uganda s yoweri museveni , who deployed troops in 2013 to support the juba government and opposes an arms embargo .
the government of south sudan has sought to exploit this division among the competing efforts , the panel said .
absent a significant shift toward a more coherent and unified approach from east african nations , coupled with broader international support for a single and inclusive political process , current efforts are unlikely to ... halt the violence in south sudan , it said .
information minister michael makuei lueth told reporters in juba : there is nothing new in this report .
the leaked report is by a panel mandated to document arms flows and security threats .
the proliferation of diplomatic efforts has created an opportunity for parties to forum shop , the panel wrote , saying this bought the armed groups time to organize military operations and avoid attempts to enforce a settlement .
it noted the military was still able to procure weapons while opposition forces access to arms remains limited .
the main opposition figure , riek machar , is under house arrest in south africa and has declined to renounce violence .
kiir continues to buy weapons and government forces continue to attack civilians , the report said .
east african leaders said in june they want the warring sides to recommit to the deal they abandoned more than a year ago .
in july , western donors said the process was no longer viable and froze support for it .
there has been no comment in recent months from igad or the african union about a timeline for resumption of peace talks .
this week the united states imposed sanctions on two senior south sudanese officials and the former army chief .
the security council last december vetoed the imposition of an arms embargo recommended by the monitors .