istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey signed a letter of intent with france and italy on wednesday to strengthen cooperation on joint defense projects including air and missile defense systems , turkish defense ministry sources said .
as a first step , the franco-italian eurosam consortium and turkish companies will look into a system based on the samp-t missile system produced by eurosam and determine the common needs of the three countries , the sources said .
nato member turkey says it plans to buy russian s-400 surface-to-air missiles , a decision which has been seen in some western capitals as a snub to the alliance , given tensions with moscow over ukraine and syria .
the russian deal also raises concern because the weapons can not be integrated into nato defense .
that deal has not been consummated .
there are no s-400s in turkey as we speak , u.s. air force general tod walters , head of nato allied air command , told reuters in berlin .
he said he would continue to press turkish air force officials to buy weapons that could work together with nato systems , which the s-400 could not .
we obviously have systems in the region now that possess that capability and demonstrate a high , high degree of interoperability , wolters said .
raytheon , which builds the patriot missile defense system , had also put in offer before turkey chose the s-400 .
turkey has continued talks with the eurosam consortium , which came in second in the tender .
nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg last month said turkish president tayyip erdogan had told him that ankara was discussing buying air defense systems from france and italy in addition to the s-400s .
the defense ministry sources said turkey , france and italy would strengthen cooperation on joint production of military electronic systems , software and simulation systems and warfare equipments , as well as air and missile defense systems .
the letter of intent was signed in brussels , where turkey s defence minister nurettin canikli was attending a meeting of nato defense ministers .