amsterdam ( reuters ) - authorities in the netherlands tried on tuesday to defuse a threat by moscow to close russian air space to dutch planes in a dispute over landing slots at amsterdam s schiphol airport .
the dutch airline pilots association said russia has indicated it will enforce the ban from saturday .
it would mainly hurt air france subsidiary klm , the former dutch flag carrier and the only dutch airline that flies over russia .
the dispute centers on a reduction from 23 to 13 in the number of slots available to russian freight carrier airbridgecargo at europe s third-busiest airport following schiphol s half-yearly reallocation.on oct. 28 .
the dutch transport ministry is in talks with several parties over the availability of slots for freight traffic at schiphol , said spokesman roel vincken , who declined to comment further for fear of negatively impacting the talks .
a spokesman for the russian transport ministry said klm and airbridgecargo were in talks about klm giving up some of its slots as part of a possible compromise .
russian-dutch relations have been tense since the 2014 downing of malaysia passenger flight mh17 over eastern ukraine , which killed 298 people , most of them dutch .
airbridgecargo s dutch chief henk-jan van keulen said in a telephone interview that his company had been forced to reroute almost half of its traffic through liege , belgium , using trucks , because of the reallocation of slots at schiphol .
van keulen said financial damages were difficult to estimate , as they are lessened by lower fees at liege and are being partly borne by the various freight-forwarding companies it works with .
spokesman joost van doesburg said the dutch airline pilots association had received a request from klm to add an extra pilot to all flights traveling to asia , as they will have to re-route beginning on saturday .
if russia follows through on the ban , hours of travel time will be added to asian flights .
it s only a threat but you have to prepare , van doesburg said .
russia does this sometimes when it feels countries aren t giving appropriate attention to a complaint .
de telegraaf newspaper reported that around 15 percent of klm s flights would be affected .
a klm spokeswoman said the airline would respond later .
airport coordination netherlands , the organization which allocates slots at schiphol , said airbridgecargo s slots had been cut for failure to fully utilize its existing slots , according to european rules , and it did not have the power to grant any additional slots because of a cap imposed at the airport .