beijing ( reuters ) - china will provide panama with whatever help it needs after the central american country ditched long-standing ties with self-ruled taiwan in june , a senior chinese diplomat said on friday after talks between the two countries presidents .
panama s decision to end ties with taiwan was a major victory for beijing , as it lures away the dwindling number of countries that have formal relations with the island china claims as its own .
taiwan s government said at the time it was sorry and angry over the decision , and it would not compete with china in what it described as a diplomatic money game .
speaking to reporters after chinese president xi jinping and panamanian president juan carlos varela signed 19 deals , including a feasibility study on a free trade agreement , zhao bentang , who heads the chinese foreign ministry s latin america department , said their ties were not based on money .
china and panama establishing ties is a political decision made by both sides on the basis of political principles and looking at long term benefits .
there were no economic or financial strings attached , zhao said .
if our panamanian friends need , in the spirit of friendship and south-south cooperation the chinese side is willing to assist panama s economic and social development to the best of our capacity .
china and taiwan have tried to poach each other s allies for years , often dangling generous aid packages in front of developing nations , though taipei now struggles to compete with an increasingly powerful beijing .
beijing says taiwan has no right to diplomatic recognition because it is part of china .
defeated nationalist forces fled to taiwan at the end of china s civil war in 1949 .
varela told chinese state television in september the decision to switch recognition to china had nothing to do with chequebook diplomacy .
xi said varela had shown strategic vision and political courage in recognizing china and that china wanted to draw up a fine blueprint for the development of relations .
this sends an important message to the world , which is that a brand new page has been opened in china-panama relations , xi told varela in beijing s great hall of the people .
the development of ties has been delayed for many years , but that history has passed , xi added .
last month , a group including china harbour engineering company ltd ( chec ) began building a $ 165 million port in panama for cruise ships , the first project announced between china and panama since they established diplomatic ties .
china is deeply suspicious of taiwan president tsai ing-wen , who it thinks wants to push for the island s formal independence , although she says she wants to maintain peace with beijing .