will hillary s health be the only thing she can t hide by lying ?
she s the only presidential candidate who travels with a full-time physician hillary clinton stated friday that she did not know if she could even stand up because she was so exhausted during the disastrous democratic convention in philly .
by the end of those two weeks that s exactly how i felt , it was , oh my gosh , i don t know that i can get up , let alone what i will do if i am vertical , hillary clinton said in a campaign podcast .
i , knock on wood , am pretty lucky because i have a lot of stamina and endurance , which is necessary in the kind of campaign i m engaged in , clinton stated .
via : breitbart newsmeanwhile a top physicians says hillary has parkinson s disease.hillary clinton has parkinson s disease , physician confirms # hillaryshealth https : //t.co/z8qplzpvmu mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) august 12 , 2016hillary s health is declining , as anyone who has looked at her can see .
the question is : what condition does she have ?
a board certified anesthesiologist has written a memo of hillary s health.hillary clinton ( hrc ) has suffered a variety of health issues .
unfortunately , she has declined to make her medical records public .
in july of 2015 her personal physician released a letter asserting her excellent physical condition .
unfortunately , multiple later episodes recorded on video strongly suggest that the content of the letter is incorrect .
this discussion is designed to sort through the known facts and propose a possible medical explanation for these events .
in keeping with occam s razor , a single explanation that covers everything is preferred.history of hillary s health : in 2009 , hrc fell and broke her elbow .
little else was made public .
[ i ] on december 17 , 2012 , while secretary of state , hrc fell and suffered a concussion .
[ ii ] later , a transverse sinus thrombosis was diagnosed , resulting in chronic anticoagulation therapy .
[ iii ] her post-concussion syndrome was declared recovered in about six months .
[ iv ] the original fall was publicly attributed to dehydration following gastroenteritis .
an email from huma abedin ( hrc s closest advisor ) on january 26 , 2013 , says that hrc is often confused .
[ v ] photos show being assisted up what appears to be the steps of a residential porch .
this apparently happened in february of 2016 .
on august 4 , 2016 , reuters and getty published the photos .
[ vi ] at a rally on may 2 , 2016 , hrc demonstrates classic pd hand posturing .
[ vii ] she has no lectern in front , so she starts with her right hand pressed against her chest .
at the 18:02 mark , she starts gesturing with her right hand , which is in a very unnatural position that is common in pd .
on july 21 , 2016 hrc was filmed talking to reporters at close range when several spoke at once .
without warning , she started a bizarre head-bobbing episode that must be seen rather than described .
after several cycles , she regained control and declared that the reporters must try the iced chai .
[ viii ] watch here : on july 28 , 2016 , during the balloon drop , hrc suddenly looks up with a frozen wide-mouth and wide-eyed stare .
after a couple of seconds she regains control and a more normal expression .
[ ix ] on august 5 , hrc declared that she had short circuited [ x ] a response to chris wallace in an interview that aired july 31 on fox news sunday .
[ xi ] august 6 , 2016 , at a campaign rally , hrc freezes with wide eyes in response to protestors .
a large black male who commonly accompanies her leans in and tells her it s ok. we re not going anywhere .
keep talking shortly after , she laughs strangely and then says ok .
here we are .
we ll keep talking .
[ xii ] several recent photos show hrc with an inappropriately exaggerated wide-mouthed smile and extreme wide-open eyes .
several videos show her laughing inappropriately and for extended periods .
numerous events have been interrupted by prolonged episodes of coughing unrelated to any infectious cause.this discussion will not argue that the black male is carrying a diazepam injector , since there is a plausible argument that it is actually a small flashlight , and is seen in other video to be such .
we will also not discuss the circular area on her tongue .
it appears to be the site of a mass excision .
benign explanations that do not bear on chronic health issues may easily be proffered.after the 2012 fall , hrc had post-concussion syndrome ( pcs ) .
she should have declared herself unable to fulfill her duties as secretary of state .
her resignation from the position shortly thereafter may have satisfied this need without public medical discussion .
if no other questionable medical signs had appeared , this discussion would end here .
but the other events and signs point to a single cause for the fall , and it is not the public explanation .
further , hrc s statement early in her tenure as secretary of state that she would serve only four years can be read in the context of a progressive disease that was known as she assumed the post.it is the premise of this discussion the hrc is most likely suffering from parkinson s disease ( pd ) .it explains every one of the items listed above .
further , since it is a diagnosis primarily made by observation , the video record is sufficient to create a high degree of certainty.via : danger and play h/t gateway pundit