islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistan s government on saturday called on the army to help clear a sit-in by islamist hard-liners blockading the capital after police clashed with activists and religious protests spread to other cities .
more than 100 people were wounded in saturday s clashes , including at least 65 members of the security forces , according to reports from hospitals .
protesters said four of their activists had been killed , but police said there had been no deaths .
television footage showed a police vehicle on fire , heavy curtains of smoke and fires burning in the streets as officers in heavy riot gear advanced .
protesters , some wearing gas masks , fought back in scattered battles across empty highways and surrounding neighbourhoods .
by nightfall , protests spread to several other big cities with activists brandishing sticks and attacking cars in some areas .
new demonstrators had joined the camp in faizabad , just outside islamabad , in a stand-off with police , private tv stations were ordered off the air , with only state-run television broadcasting .
facebook , twitter and youtube were also blocked in many areas .
about 1,000 activists from tehreek-e-labaik , a new hard-line islamist political party , have blockaded the main road into the capital for two weeks , accusing the law minister of blasphemy against islam and demanding his dismissal and arrest .
we are in our thousands .
we will not leave .
we will fight until end , tehreek-e-labaik party spokesman ejaz ashrafi told reuters by telephone from the scene .
tehreek-e-labaik is one of two new ultra-religious political movements that have risen up in recent months and seem set to play a major role in elections that must be held by summer next year , though they are unlikely to win a majority .
interior minister ahsan iqbal told reuters in a message on saturday night that the government had requisitioned the military assistance for law and order duty according to the constitution .
the ruling party of former prime minister nawaz sharif - who was disqualified by the supreme court in july and is facing a corruption trial - has a fraught history with the military , which in 1999 launched a coup to oust sharif from an earlier term .
earlier in the day , iqbal said the protests were part of a conspiracy to weaken the government , which is now run by sharif s allies under a new prime minister , shahid khaqan abbasi .
there are attempts to create a chaos in ( the ) country , iqbal said on state-run pakistan tv .
i have to say with regret that a political party that is giving its message to people based on a very sacred belief is being used in the conspiracy that is aimed at spreading anarchy in the country , iqbal added , without saying who he considered responsible .
pakistan s army chief on saturday called on the civilian government to end the protest while avoiding violence from both sides .
opposition leader imran khan called for early elections , saying the incompetent and dithering administration had allowed a breakdown of governance .
the clashes began on saturday when police launched an operation involving some 4,000 officers to disperse around 1,000 activists and break up their camp , police official saood tirmizi told reuters .
the protesters have paralysed daily life in the capital , and have defied court orders to disband .
tehreek-e-labaik blames the law minister , zahid hamid , for wording in an electoral law that changed a religious oath proclaiming mohammad the last prophet of islam to the words i believe , a change the party says amounts to blasphemy .
the government put the issue down to a clerical error and swiftly changed the language back .
tehreek-e-laibak was born out of a protest movement lionizing mumtaz qadri , a bodyguard of the governor of punjab province who gunned down his boss in 2011 over his call to reform strict blasphemy laws .
the party won a surprisingly strong 7.6 percent of the vote in a by-election in peshawar last month .
the government had tried to negotiate an end to the sit-in , fearing violence during a crackdown similar to 2007 , when clashes between authorities and supporters of a radical islamabad mosque led to the deaths of more than 100 people .
despite the police crackdown , the protesters were largely still in place by nightfall and tehreek-e-labaik leader khadim hussain rizvi , a prominent cleric , remained at the site , party activist mohammad shafiq ameeni said .
four protesters had died in the police crackdown , he added .
by late afternoon , tehreek-e-labaik supporters were coming out on the streets in other pakistani cities in support .
police fired tear gas in karachi , pakistan s largest city , to try to disperse about 500 demonstrators near the airport .
outside the northwestern city of peshawar , about 300 protesters blocked the motorway to islamabad and started attacking vehicles with stones and sticks .
in the eastern city of lahore , party supporters blocked three roads into the city .