zurich ( reuters ) - switzerland released a national plan on monday to prevent violent extremism , including training teachers and coaches to recognize warning signs and re-integrating people who have already been radicalized .
the swiss so far have avoided the kind of attacks that have hit neighboring germany and france , but the swiss intelligence service said last month it was tracking 550 people deemed a potential risk to switzerland as part of its jihad monitoring program , up from 497 people at the end of 2016 .
last month , swiss and french police combined in a cross-border anti-terrorism swoop in which 10 people were arrested .
several high-profile criminal prosecutions have been carried out against people accused of supporting banned groups , including al qaeda or islamic state .
over the past 14 months , switzerland developed the new action plan , which includes 26 measures to better counter such threats .
the government is setting aside 5 million swiss francs ( $ 5.08 million ) to support the program over five years , although officials said the main responsibility for implementing programs lies at the local rather than federal level .
if you want to stop terrorism , you can not wait until it is at your door and the police have to take action , you have to tackle it much earlier , justice minister simonetta sommaruga told a news conference .
if we want to accomplish something , we have to prevent people from being radicalized in such a way that they resort to violence and turn themselves into terrorists .
neutral switzerland has not participated in wars in the middle east , but some fear domestic policies could put the country in the crosshairs of extremists .
voters in 2009 banned the construction of new minarets , and the italian-speaking canton of ticino has banned facial coverings .
a national referendum to ban burqas is also in the works .
the action plan comes on top of a separate effort by bern to tighten anti-terrorism laws , a push that could toughen sentences for people who support violent extremism and boost cooperation with other countries intelligence services .
( $ 1 = 0.9837 swiss francs )