by jon rappoportcnn is already claiming the whole susan rice scandal is a tempest in a teapot , and the trump team is exaggerating it to distract the public from something .
fill in the blank yourself.for example : trump isn t actually the president , he cheated his way into the oval office , while acting as a secret agent for his handler , vladimir putin , who in turn was operating on behalf of aliens from jupiter.the susan rice scandal is out in the open .
she , obama s national security advisor , led an effort to spy on legal phone calls the trump team was making during the presidential campaign , in order to gain intelligence on the enemy .
the daily caller news foundation ( dcnf ) spoke with col .
( ret . )
james waurishuk , an nsc [ national security council ] veteran and former deputy director for intelligence at the u.s. central command .
waurishuk said : many hands had to be involved throughout the obama administration to launch such a political spying program it s unbelievable of [ sic ] the level and degree of the [ obama ] administration to look for information on donald trump and his associates , his campaign team and his transition team .
this is really , really serious stuff .
michael doran , former nsc [ national security council ] senior director , told the dcnf monday that somebody blew a hole in the wall between national security secrets and partisan politics .
this was a stream of information that was supposed to be hermetically sealed from politics and the obama administration found a way to blow a hole in that wall , he said .
yes , serious stuff .
a felony , punishable by up to 10 years in prison.obama , of course , will have plausible deniability if the susan rice scandal blows up into a watergate .
he didn t know .
he didn t order the spying .
he was playing golf that day .
or any day.and if a congressional investigation of rice and her antics reaches a fever pitch , somebody can play the race card .
that s always an option .
if rice were white , this never would have happened to her .
the trump people are all over her like white on rice .
meanwhile , cnn , in alternating segments , can say a ) rice and her people never spied on anybody , and b ) everybody spies on everybody all the time , it s not a big deal and then some on-air goofball will add , in fact , we here at cnn are spying and the tv screen will go blank , then display colored stripes , then come back and the goofball will be gone , and an anchor will say , we had a technical problem for a moment .
continue this article at john rappoport s websiteread more russian hack news at : 21st century wire russian hack files