washington ( reuters ) - a washington research firm paid a former british spy ’ s company $ 168,000 for work on a dossier outlining russian financial and personal links to donald trump ’ s 2016 election campaign , the u.s. firm said in a statement on wednesday .
although it was public knowledge that fusion gps paid for the work , the amount had not been disclosed .
fusion gps hired former mi6 officer christopher steele to collect information about trump and his advisers .
fusion gps ’ statement said it had told congress about how $ 168,000 was paid last year to orbis business intelligence , steele ’ s company .
the money paid to orbis was taken from $ 1.02 million it received in fees and expenses from the perkins coie law firm , the statement said .
the law firm represented the democratic national committee and hillary clinton ’ s presidential campaign , although initial research by fusion into trump and other republican primary candidates was commissioned by a conservative website .
steele ’ s reports are central to investigations by a special counsel and congressional committees into u.s. intelligence agency allegations that russia tried to help trump ’ s campaign .
russia had repeatedly denied the allegations .
trump denies any collusion with moscow officials , calling the probes a witch hunt .
in an oct. 29 message posted on twitter , president trump said the dossier had cost as much as $ 12 million , without providing evidence .
“ never seen such republican anger & unity as i have concerning the lack of investigation on clinton made fake dossier ( now $ 12,000,000 ?
) , .... ” trump tweeted .
sources familiar with steele ’ s work said he began working for fusion gps in may 2016 and stopped with the election .
earlier , a washington-based conservative website backed by a wealthy republican donor , the washington free beacon , hired fusion to conduct research on trump and other republican candidates .
( this version of the story was corrected to say $ 1.02 million instead of $ 1.2 million in paragraph 4 )