an unfortunate part of modern-day politics is the fact that money is far too involved in our elections .
yet , until citizens united and big money is no longer allowed in elections , it s a necessary evil .
even president obama held and still holds fundraisers .
another such fundraiser was thrown for hillary clinton by george clooney and his wife amal , and even clooney himself said the price of attending , alongside the practice itself , is obscene .
clinton s rival in the democratic race , sen. bernie sanders , has definitely shown that it may not be necessary to hold such big money fundraisers so long as you have enough grassroots support behind you .
so , whether or not he wins the nomination , his legacy will be an example of things to come in the future , and how elections should be conducted as far as raising funds .
but until citizens united is overturned , and until we can get big money out of elections , there will be fundraisers .
it is what it is .
it s the nature of the beast.however , with this latest fundraiser thrown by the clooneys came a counter-fundraiser thrown by clooney s neighbor howard gold , whose family founded the 99 cents only chain of stores .
part of the fundraiser/protest was a moment when the crowd threw money at hillary s motorcade as it passed by.and it was very real money that , according to dan merica of cnn , was $ 1000 withdrawn by howard gold himself.the money was real .
and was withdrawn from a bank today by howard gold , the sanders counter fundraiser host .
https : //t.co/cmrgr7rbjq dan merica ( @ danmericacnn ) april 17 , 2016it seems , however , that these protesters didn t throw the money on clinton , but rather her secret service agents : funny part about this : the car that was showered the most was full of secret service agents , not clinton .
https : //t.co/cmrgr7rbjq dan merica ( @ danmericacnn ) april 17 , 2016yet , the point was still clearly made.the clooneys have every right to hold fundraisers for their candidate of choice , just as the protesters have every right to speak up in dissent of big money fundraisers .
and as so long as they are invited , as they were by gold , and not trespassing on private property , more of these protests are bound to pop up as the election heats up towards a potential democratic nominee.this has definitely been an entertaining election cycle to say the least .
watch the video here of the money being thrown : sanders supporters outside clinton s clooney fundraiser in la shower her motorcade in $ 1,000 .
pic.twitter.com/ivbu024icg dan merica ( @ danmericacnn ) april 17 , 2016featured image via video screen capture