vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis strongly defended immigrants at his christmas eve mass on sunday , comparing them to mary and joseph finding no place to stay in bethlehem and saying faith demands that foreigners be welcomed .
francis , celebrating his fifth christmas as leader of the world s 1.2 billion roman catholics , led a solemn mass for about 10,000 people in st. peter s basilica while many others followed the service from the square outside .
security was stepped up , with participants checked as they approached st. peter s square even before going through metal detectors to enter the basilica .
the square had been cleared out hours earlier so security procedures could be put in place .
the gospel reading at the mass in christendom s largest church recounted the biblical story of how mary and joseph had to travel from nazareth to bethlehem to be registered for a census ordered by roman emperor caesar augustus .
so many other footsteps are hidden in the footsteps of joseph and mary .
we see the tracks of entire families forced to set out in our own day .
we see the tracks of millions of persons who do not choose to go away , but driven from their land , leave behind their dear ones , francis said .
even the shepherds who the bible says were the first to see the child jesus were forced to live on the edges of society and considered dirty , smelly foreigners , he said .
everything about them generated mistrust .
they were men and women to be kept at a distance , to be feared .
wearing white vestments in the flower-bedecked church , francis called for a new social imagination ... in which none have to feel that there is no room for them on this earth .
the 81-year-old pope , who was born of italian immigrant stock in argentina , has made defense of migrants a major plank of his papacy , often putting him at odds with politicians .
austria s new chancellor , sebastian kurz , has aligned himself with central european neighbors like hungary and the czech republic in opposing german-backed proposals to distribute asylum seekers around eu member states .
in elections in germany in september , the far-right and anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party made significant gains , with electors punishing chancellor angela merkel for her open-door policy and pushing migration policy to the top of the agenda in talks to form a coalition government .
italy s anti-immigrant northern league , whose leader matteo salvini often gives fiery speeches against migrants , is expected to make gains in national elections next year .
a law that would give citizenship to children born in italy to migrant parents is stalled in parliament .
in his homily , francis said , our document of citizenship comes from god , making respect of migrants an integral part of christianity .
this is the joy that we tonight are called to share , to celebrate and to proclaim .
the joy with which god , in his infinite mercy , has embraced us pagans , sinners and foreigners , and demands that we do the same , francis said .
francis also condemned human traffickers who make money off desperate migrants as the herods of today with blood on their hands , a reference to the biblical story of the king who ordered the killing of all newborn male children near bethlehem because he feared jesus would one day displace him .
more than 14,000 people have died trying to make the perilous crossing of the mediterranean to europe in the past four years .
on christmas day , francis will deliver his twice-yearly urbi et orbi ( to the city and to the world ) blessing and message from the central balcony of st. peter s basilica .
( in fourth paragraph , this story corrects to say mary and joseph , not mary and jesus . )