( reuters ) - backers of democratic presidential contender bernie sanders have launched a campaign to win over some of his rival hillary clinton ’ s most prized supporters - the superdelegates that can make the difference in a tight race for the party ’ s nomination .
but some emails , phone messages , and petitions sent by the sanders boosters have backfired , upsetting superdelegates with their aggressive tone and leading many to dig in their heels for clinton , according to interviews conducted by reuters .
the drive to flip clinton ’ s super delegates has not been sanctioned by sanders ’ campaign , his spokesman michael briggs said .
“ bernie ’ s campaign is focused on reaching out to all voters and earning delegates at primaries and caucuses , ” he said in a statement , stressing that the sanders campaign was not coordinating with supporters to contact superdelegates .
however , the unofficial push could complicate the u.s .
senator from vermont ’ s efforts to woo the critical bloc in the coming months .
the effort has at times taken an angry tone , some of the messages reviewed by reuters showed , reflecting the anti-establishment tinge of the 2016 presidential race where many voters are unhappy with washington insiders .
some 85 percent of the 4,763 delegate votes to the democratic national convention that will decide who will face a republican rival in the november election are determined by the results of states ’ nominating contests .
but the remaining 15 percent are held by superdelegates , who get to vote however they like - meaning they could hold the key to a tight contest .
superdelegates are made up of party leaders and elected senators , members of congress , and governors .
the democratic party adopted the system in the early 1980s as a way of giving party leaders more control over the nominating process , though they have yet to play a decisive role in a nomination .
“ the idea there is that you ’ ve got people who have a long view ... who have , arguably , the best interests of the party at heart , ” said terri fine , a professor of political science at the university of central florida .
at least one superdelegate who has backed sanders , however , finds the system that can overturn the will of regular voters flawed .
“ i ’ m a superdelegate to fight to end superdelegates , ” said larry cohen , a former president of the communications workers of america union who volunteers full-time for the sanders campaign .
among super delegates that have tipped their hand so far , clinton holds 453 to 20 for sanders , according to the new york times delegate tracker .
among regular delegates , won through nominating contests , clinton leads by 91 to 65 after the south carolina primary .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/1qhzcsj ) the republican party does reserve slots for members of its national leadership , but they do not have such influence as democratic superdelegates .
interviews with 10 of the 505 super delegates supporting clinton reuters has reached show that nine of them have been approached by people purporting to back sanders , and nearly all were displeased by the tone of the outreach .
isabel framer of ohio , a superdelegate for clinton , for example , got a voice mail last week urging her to vote for sanders “ in accordance with the will of the people. ” on the voice mail , heard by reuters , the anonymous male caller says : “ i think it ’ s crap that you get to vote whichever way you want ... i ’ ll be watching your vote. ” “ i ’ m not easily frightened , ” framer told reuters .
“ i ’ m not going to change a vote over threats. ” akilah ensley , a north carolina superdelegate , said she started hearing more often from sanders supporters after her name appeared on a wikipedia list noting her support for clinton .
“ some of them were nice , and some were rather abrasive , ” she said , adding “ attacking my decisions is probably not the best way ” to change her mind .
luis heredia , an arizona superdelegate for clinton , said he has received over 30 phone calls , emails and instant messages from sanders supporters .
“ the majority of them are more angry , and the tone is more demanding , ” heredia said .
lacy johnson , an indiana superdelegate backing clinton , meanwhile , said he had received a mix of messages , including one that he said threatened : “ we will make you pay. ” andres ramirez , a political consultant in las vegas , nevada , and a superdelegate supporting clinton , said in the past campaigns would typically try to soft-sell their candidates rather than use pressure tactics .
“ the way this has gone down , in my experience , has never happened before , ” said .
while it is unclear who is directing some of the calls and emails to clinton ’ s superdelegates , seattle resident justin renquist has pushed for some of the outreach , although he stressed that such contacts needed to be civil .
renquist calls himself part of the “ superdelegate task force army ” that rallies sanders supporters to reach superdelegates via facebook , twitter and other means .
“ there are 3,000 in my group who have been slamming these guys as politely and nicely as we can ... basically saying , look this system is undemocratic , ” renquist said .
on friday , the group issued a statement saying it did not support , condone or engage in any communication with superdelegages that was “ vulgar , threatening , harassing or intimidating. ” other sanders fans , meanwhile , have gathered more than 300,000 signatures under at least two petitions on moveon.org , asking superdelegates to vote in line with the results of the primaries and caucuses .
a third petition , on the democracy for america site , also asks superdelegates to follow state nominating contests .
it was started by robert reich , who was a secretary of labor under bill clinton and who has endorsed sanders .
the sanders campaign plans its own effort to win over superdelegates , possibly in april .
“ that ’ s when we ’ ll make a much stronger approach to superdelegates , ” said tad devine , a senior adviser to the sanders campaign .
clinton ’ s campaign , meanwhile , started officially courting superdelegates months ago .
“ we are proud to have the support of these democratic party leaders , who have been in the trenches , ” said jesse ferguson , a spokesman for the clinton campaign .
( editing by richard valdmanis and tomasz janowski ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .