harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s ruling zanu-pf is planning a special vote to give veteran president robert mugabe a fresh five-year mandate as party leader , three sources said , strengthening his hand as rivals plot to succeed him .
one member of the party s politburo told reuters the 93-year-old president could also use the party election in december to end divisions in its top ranks , raising the prospect of the removal of some of his challengers .
comrade mugabe is the only one center of power in zanu-pf and that will be re-affirmed in december , another politburo member told reuters .
mugabe is the only leader zimbabwe has known since its independence from britain in 1980 and is due to stand again in presidential elections next year .
but his age , rumors about his health and a mounting economic crisis have prompted open speculation in local media of factions competing for control of the party , one led by mugabe s wife grace .
politicians and diplomats told reuters last month that vice president emmerson mnangagwa had also been positioning himself for the day mugabe either steps down or dies - an account backed up by hundreds of documents from inside zimbabwe s central intelligence organization .
leading members of the party held a five-hour meeting on wednesday and decided to start making plans to hold the vote at a special congress , three people there said .
mugabe s term as party leader would have ended in 2019 .
a new mandate would take him past his 98th birthday .
his argument is that the party is divided and only an elective congress can unite the party and go into the elections as a united team , the first politburo member said .
when asked whether mnangagwa would be fired at the meeting , the member said mugabe was a stickler for party rules and had so far resisted pressure to ax the vice president outside such a congress .
he did not elaborate further .
mnangagwa last week told reporters he had been poisoned in august - a report quickly dismissed by grace mugabe who went on to accuse the vice president of plotting to overthrow her husband .
the vice president - also known as ngwena or the crocodile -was seen as mugabe s favored heir when he was appointed in december 2014 .
but his political fortunes have dimmed in recent months .
on monday , mugabe stripped him of his control of the justice ministry in a reshuffle and fired three of his allies .