millennial propaganda tool for the democrat party , buzzfeed news publication attempted to do a hit piece on eric trump .
they claim that when eric was giving his list of reasons his father chose to run for office , which included the insanity of the political correctness we see today , that he incorrectly stated the white house christmas tree is called a holiday tree .
but did he really misspeak ? buzzfeed never addressed the core of eric trump s comments , which were really about the ruin of our nation over political correctness .
instead , buzzfeed chose to dissect one small part of what eric trump said about the white house christmas tree , which , as it turns out , was actually mostly accurate.the white house christmas tree was renamed the holiday tree in the 1990 s , republican house speaker denny hastert changed the name back to christmas tree in 2005 .
this is the garbage young americans are reading every day in their social media newsfeed .
it s one of the primary reasons we see so many young people walking around in a stupor with bernie sanders or hillary bumper stickers on their prius .from buzzfeed eric trump , listing off reasons his father is running for president , said in an interview this week that one of the motivations was the renaming of the white house christmas tree to holiday tree .
the tree placed on the white house lawn during the holiday season is still called the national christmas tree .
he opens up the paper each morning and sees our nation s leaders giving a hundred billion dollars to iran , or he opens the paper and some new school district has just eliminated the ability for its students to say the pledge of allegiance , or some fire department in some town is ordered by the mayor to no longer fly the american flag on the back of a fire truck , trump told james robison in an interview posted this week.buzzfeed never questioned the validity of the ransom money our president covertly paid to iran .
they never questioned whether or not schools and local governments are attempting to eliminate the pledge of allegiance , so as not to offend immigrants or refugees .
it s funny how they never suggested the story about the firemen being forced to remove the american flag from the back of their trucks was not 100 % accurate .
nope just the accuracy of the christmas tree comment or he sees the tree on the white house lawn has been renamed holiday tree instead of christmas tree , continued trump .
i could go on and on for hours .
those are the very things that made my father run , and those are the very things he cares about .
chain emails that began when president obama took office falsely claimed that tree had been renamed .
a tree on capitol hill was briefly called a holiday tree in the 1990s , but the name was changed in 2005 at the direction of then-speaker dennis hastert.watch eric trump s awesome speech at the rnc , where he talks about why his dad is running and why he s the most qualified man in america to step in and assume the office of president of the united states :