nairobi ( reuters ) - hours after zimbabwe s robert mugabe was forced out after 37 years in power , uganda s president , another former guerrilla in office for more than three decades , was tweeting about pay rises for civil servants and bright prospects for his army tank crews .
supporters of long-serving african leaders dismiss parallels with zimbabwe , where mugabe s former deputy - sacked during a power struggle with mugabe s wife - is about to take power with military and public backing .
[ nl8n1ns0ir ] but ugandan president yoweri museveni s tweets , which come amid rising anger at the 73-year-old s attempts to prolong his rule , suggest he is looking south and wondering about his own fate .
now that the economic situation in uganda is improving , the government will be able to look into raising of salaries of soldiers , public servants , health workers and teachers and also deal with institutional housing , museveni tweeted on wednesday .
it was unclear what improvement he meant .
uganda s faltering economy is growing too slowly to absorb a booming population of 37 million .
the number of citizens spending less than a dollar a day has surged to 27 percent , the statistics office reported in september , up from 20 percent five years ago .
museveni s office was not immediately available for comment on the tweets , but john baptist nambeshe , a ruling party lawmaker who opposes the president s attempts to have an age limit on his post lifted , said there was no coincidence .
the timing couldn t have been coincidental .
it was to underscore his might , that probably the military is still solidly behind him , unlike in zimbabwe , nambeshe told reuters .
museveni may not be alone .
several african leaders have faced popular opposition in recent years , from togo , where thousands protested this autumn , to gabon , where riots broke out last year after president ali bongo was re-elected in a disputed vote .
mugabe s fall has raised hopes among opposition politicians that other long-serving leaders will fall , but also stoked fears that those who replace them may be no better .
president since 1986 , museveni is among africa s longest-serving leaders .
they include equatorial guinea s teodoro obiang , president for 38 years ; cameroon s paul biya , president for 35 years ; congo s denis sassou nguesso , president for two stints totaling 33 years .
the gnassingb family have ruled togo and the bongo family have ruled gabon for half a century , while the kabila family have run the democratic republic of congo for 20 years .
some countries allow only two presidential terms , but several have rolled back such legislation .
in cameroon , biya scrapped term limits and cracked down on the opposition .
in congo , nguesso jailed an opposition leader this year for protesting against removal of term limits .
franck essi , secretary-general of the opposition cameroon peoples party , said opposition movements were closely watching events in zimbabwe .
leaders must put in place mechanisms for a democratic and peaceful transition that will allow new leadership .
if not , sooner or later , the people who are suffocating will wake up , he said .
some places have already seen change .
burkina faso s blaise compaore was ousted by protests in 2014 as he tried to change the constitution and extend his decades-long rule .
in january , gambia s erratic ruler yahya jammeh fled after regional pressure ended his 22-year reign .
angolan president jose eduardo dos santos stepped down this year after four decades in power ; his handpicked successor has pushed out some key dos santos allies .
for many nations , a zimbabwe-style switch in the loyalties of the armed forces or a rift in the inner circle represents one of the few ways that rulers might be forced from power .
despite zimbabwe s well-established opposition , change didn t come until mugabe s inner circle fell out over his succession plans , and the military put him under house arrest .
brigitte adjamagbo-johnson , a top togolese opposition official , said they had hoped for a zimbabwean-type change of power where the military came over to their side .
we d wanted the togolese army to fight alongside us .
we were moved seeing that zimbabwe s army and civilian population were all in the streets dancing .
that s what we want in togo , she said .
there will be change in zimbabwe this year and there will be in togo too .
a slump in commodities prices has deprived some nations of the resources they have traditionally used to muffle protests .
in some cases , corruption has also emptied state coffers .
in central africa , congo s kabila has repeatedly postponed elections after refusing to step down at the end of his term last year , sparking deadly protests .
jean-pierre kambila , kabila s deputy chief of staff , tweeted that zimbabwe s protests were a colonial fantasy .
a fabricated demonstration dreamed up by those who do not accept the liberation of africa .
other mugabes will be born .
nothing to worry about , he wrote .
uganda , a key western ally set to begin exporting its substantial oil reserves , removed term limits in 2005 to extend museveni s rule .
the east african nation has seen far less violence under museveni than the two dictators who preceded him .
but now tensions are rising as social services crumble and parliamentarians attempt to remove a constitutional age cap that would bar museveni from standing in the next election .
police have used deadly force against protesters , and repeatedly arrested the main opposition leader .
security forces dragged parliamentarians opposing the bill out of the legislature .
on wednesday , police raided a popular newspaper , detaining eight staff .
[ nl8n1ns3m0 ] [ nl8n1mv20f ] okello oryem , uganda s state minister for foreign affairs , dismissed any parallels with zimbabwe , saying mugabe s overthrow was the result of western interference .
the intelligence services of the west have worked day and night to bring down zimbabwe , he told reuters .
citizen pressure in zimbabwe can only work if and when the army allows it .
but another ugandan opposition leader , asuman basalirwa , warned that national leaders who refused to step down risked plunging their countries into conflict .
military intervention to end dictatorships ultimately leads to more repression , he said , something that many feared might be in store for zimbabwe .
it is time for the continent to democratize , he said .
those who have not yet experienced what happened in egypt , tunisia , libya and now zimbabwe should just wait for their turn because it will surely come .