he s always been in our top three .
a rock solid conservative who s not afraid to fight back against the establishment on behalf of his constituents .
a politician with a spine who respects our constitution .
you really can t ask for much more at this critical time in our nation rush : i think that there is a dark horse in this entire thing .
i think there is one candidate who is positioned here .
now , i know it s getting late .
trump has had the lead for a hundred days here or more .
well , he s been in the lead ever since he got in .
and there are now fewer days to iowa than he has been in the lead .
i mean , he s over the hump in that regard .
but there s still a long way to go .
it s politics .
any number of unforeseen , unpredictable events are potentially out there , and there has been somebody trucking along here , steady eddie that has continued to be who he is and continues to lay down foundational markers for himself , and that s ted cruz .
i think ted cruz is positioned , i wouldn t say ideally , i mean i m sure cruz would love to be in the top two , top three here , but of all the others in the race , trump and carson here , and they re at number one and two , carson s pulled ahead of trump even in iowa now , in two polls .
but overall trump leads and his lead continues to expand.but what if it doesn t ?
what if something happens ?
we re not shut out here .
we still have somebody in our roster who opposes every bit of the democrat agenda , perhaps more than anybody else in the race , and that s cruz .
i mean , cruz does not have in his record any statement like trump does of having supported certain things the democrats have done .
cruz is inarguably thoroughbred conservative .
the more i read about the millennials , by the way , and i ve got some stuff about them in the stack today , the more i read about millennials and where they are attitudinally , politically , socially , economically , cruz is somebody i think has a great opportunity to connect with them.in fact , before we get to the trump sound bites , let me find this little thing on the millennials .
survey : millennials around the world worry most about economic inequality .
now , this is typical of young people , young generations .
they see injustice and unfairness and inequality out there and they want to right it , they want to correct it .
when you have half of the country making this is unbelievable 51 % percent of the country making under $ 30,000 a year , that just can not stand .
we will not have a standard economy with that kind of reality .
we just won t.the website here is usa today , and the survey comes from the world economic forum , and they released it yesterday .
millennials around the world worry most about social and economic equality , remain skeptical of government and the media , and count tesla ceo elon musk as one their heroes , according to a world economic forum survey released sunday .
more than 1,000 young people , ages 20 to 30 , from 125 countries and who are all active in the forum s global shapers community .
it s a left wing bunch , the world economic forum , it s an establishment left-wing bunch , understand , but they still went out and they talked to these millennials all over the world , 125 different countries .
the average age was 28 .
the results were released at the beginning of a three-day world economic forum conference in abu dhabi , capital of the united arab emirates .
it s right down the road from dubai .
the survey showed that 65 % of the millennials said one of their top three goals in selecting a job was to make a difference in society , their city or country .
well , yeah , i mean , yeah , of course they want that .
they want to right wrongs .
they want to correct social injustice wherever they see it .
and when ted cruz gets going , that s ultimately what he s all about.he s all about everybody being the best they can be using their natural he s conservative top to bottom , through and through , no matter how you slice it , left , right , up , down .
they also look for an opportunity to learn , followed by career advancement .
more than nine out of 10 said they would be willing to relocate to advance their career .
that is the number one obstacle most people put in their own way .
they re unwillingness to move .
i ve always said that most of the obstacles people face in life are self-imposed , and the number one obstacle is the unwillingness to move .
if you live in a place , let s say you want to be a brain surgeon and you live in a place where there s not a hospital , you re gon na have to move.if you want to get big in media and you live in peoria , you re gon na have to move .
and a lot of people don t want to move .
the comfort level of being at home , friends , family , all that , it s a big obstacle .
people get past that and nine out of 10 of these millennials say they would be willing to relocate in order to advance their career , that s a big deal .
anyway , it s just a long way to go here and the republican establishment has made it clear they are not interested in a conservative nominee .
the republican establishment has made it clear that the role of conservatives in this primary is to once again split the vote and split money.it was the money , don t forget , it was the money that was gon na save jeb , or , if not jeb , the next chosen establishment candidate .
and the money , the ads , are not working .
the ads simply are not overcoming , and they always have , the opposition to some of these candidates .
so there s sheer panic out there now.end transcript via : rushlimbaugh.com