madrid ( reuters ) - at jose luis sosa-dias s factory near madrid , lengths of bright red and yellow polyester are being steamed and pressed as workers rush to rebuild stocks of the spanish flag after a huge surge in sales in the last few weeks .
patriotic displays of the flag are rare in spain , where it still reminds many of the franco dictatorship .
but catalonia s bid for independence has fired up national sentiment , and with it demand for flags .
we sold about 35,000 flags in 50 days .
normally we might sell 500 or 600 in a month , said sosa-dias , who is originally from uruguay .
in the 38 years i have been in spain it is the first time i have seen so many flags on balconies and houses , and at demonstrations as spaniards said i am spanish .
such displays reflect a rising nationalism that is encouraging prime minister mariano rajoy to stick to his tough line against catalonia .
it also makes it harder to reach a compromise with the region .
that nationalism was on display when hundreds of thousands of spanish unionists staged protests in madrid and barcelona in support of unity after catalonia s illegal independence referendum on oct. 1 triggered a constitutional crisis and clouded prospects for europe s fifth-largest economy .
according to a monthly official opinion poll , the level of concern among spaniards over the situation in catalonia increased threefold in september compared with august .
and while a majority say they feel they have both national and regional identities , 66 percent support rajoy s refusal to offer more autonomy to the country s 17 regions , according to the poll .
among voters who back rajoy s people s party , this number jumps to 86 percent .
conflict around national identity is moving from catalonia to the rest of the country , said lluis oriols , associate professor of politics at carlos iii university in madrid .
he said the government could therefore conclude there are gains to be made from taking a hard line .
this new willingness to wave the national flag has not been accompanied by a resurgence in far-right nationalism , despite attempts by catalan secessionists to associate spanish nationalism with franco-style fascism .
only a very few people parading with the national flag have given fascist salutes and the unionist demonstrations were instead attended by families with children draped in the flag .
the flag has a long history .
its basic design of broad red and yellow stripes has been the same since 1785 , with changes confined to its coat of arms .
but until now it has been rare to see it displayed by the public , except on sports-related occasions .
flag sellers in the capital say demand during the catalan crisis has far exceeded sales when spain won the soccer world cup in 2010 and sports fans filled the streets .
we have doubled , tripled , quadrupled what we sold for the world cup , honestly we lost count , said angel paniagua , who owns the fieltros olleros textile shop near madrid s central calle mayor .
we sold out four or five times , everyone buying flags , it has been amazing .
as vans from sosa-dias s factory rushed thousands of flags to the demonstrations in madrid and in barcelona , many ordinary citizens said they simply wanted to show they stood behind the state and its institutions .
david rodriguez , 40 , who owns an information technology company , said he hung a flag outside his home in escorial , in the province of madrid , after police were criticized for using rubber bullets and batons to thwart the independence vote .
i wanted to support the security forces .
it was a simple gesture of solidarity , he said .
with madrid now planning to suspend catalonia s autonomy , others said they wanted to show support for the silent majority of catalans who prefer a united spain .
when it s about soccer , everyone wears the spanish flag and it doesn t seem strange , but when it s about politics people get scared , said raimundo nieto , a 65-year-old retired finance director .
spain s unity is at stake right now .