brasilia ( reuters ) - a brazilian appeals court on tuesday said it would decide on jan. 24 on an appeal by former president luiz inacio lula da silva against a corruption conviction that could bar him from running in the 2018 presidential race .
despite the conviction and four other charges of corruption , the leftist icon and former labor union leader remains brazil s most popular politician and is leading early opinion polls ahead of next year s poll .
brazil s benchmark bovespa stock index rallied on the news , first reported on the website of newspaper folha de s.paulo , to close 1.4 percent higher .
investors had been wary that a delay in the appeals court decision until later next year would give lula more time to consolidate himself as the front-runner in the campaign , making it harder for judges to bar his candidacy .
lula s lawyers criticized the record speed at which the appeals process was being brought to a decision .
if the trf-4 regional appeals court in porto alegre upholds the conviction , lula can appeal to higher courts , but he would be blacklisted and unable to run for office .
a datafolha survey published on dec. 2 showed lula gaining at least 34 percent of the votes if the election were held today , double the support for his nearest rival .
it also showed him winning a runoff against likely contenders , sao paulo governor geraldo alckmin , far-right congressman jair bolsonaro or environmentalist marina silva .
lula was brazil s first working-class president and millions of brazilians were lifted from poverty by social programs introduced during his two terms in office from 2003-2010 .
his handpicked successor dilma rousseff was impeached last year for breaking budget laws , ending 13 years of rule by lula s workers party .
critics say his legacy was brazil s worst economic recession and its biggest corruption scandal .
lula was sentenced in july to nearly 10 years in jail for accepting 3.7 million reais ( $ 1.1 million ) in bribes from an engineering firm in return for help winning public contracts .
prosecutors said the money was spent refurbishing a beach resort apartment for him .
in recent months , lula has toured brazil as if he were already campaigning , rallying crowds of supporters in rural areas that benefited from his poverty relief programs .
but in an interview in august he told reuters that the conviction might mean his party will have to field a candidate other than him in the oct. 7 election .