sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull will reshuffle his cabinet within a day , media said on monday , a sign the embattled leader hopes to capitalize on a weekend by-election win to refresh his ministry .
turnbull s center-right government regained its razor-thin parliamentary majority through the poll triggered by a constitutional crisis , shoring up his support in a country where three prime ministers have been ousted by their own party since 2010 .
the changes could include attorney-general george brandis quitting parliament to become the high commissioner , or ambassador , to britain , the australian broadcasting corp. and other media said .
representatives for turnbull and brandis did not respond to requests from reuters for comment .
winning that ( byelection ) , allowing him to send off brandis to london , and then to put in some new faces and get a bit of movement there , that s the positive message running into christmas and then the new year , said stewart jackson , a specialist in australian politics at the university of sydney .
he will last until march .
if there s a new disaster there , or any more referrals to the high court , then it will be on for young and old , he added , referring to the crisis over the disqualification of lawmakers holding dual citizenship .
when turnbull unseated then prime minister abbott in 2015 , he said the move was necessary because the latter s government had lost 30 opinion polls in a row .
under turnbull , the government has lost 25 opinion polls in a row .
many commentators say that if the figure reaches 30 , which could happen as soon as march , turnbull s party may consider removing him .
social services minister christian porter and employment minister michaelia cash are frontrunners to be the next attorney general , the australian newspaper said .
turnbull may seek to exploit their relative youth - each is 47 - to appeal to a new generation of conservative voters .
a spokesman for porter declined comment .
a representative for cash did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
australian prime ministers are particularly susceptible to poor polling , as political parties have the power to call a spill , or internal leadership vote , and replace the leader with a more popular candidate .
mid-year boost turnbull s hopes to reinvigorate performance in opinion polls strengthened on monday , as his government predicted the national deficit would shrink faster than expected and return to surplus in fiscal 2021 after a decade of deficits .
treasurer scott morrison saw a deficit of about a $ 23.6 billion ( $ 18.1 billion ) for the year to end-june 2018 , down from a may forecast of a $ 29.4 billion , as stronger job creation and higher commodity export earnings offset weakness in wages and consumer spending .
the improved outlook enables turnbull to trumpet his economic credentials by nudging closer to a balanced budget while enabling him to consider income tax cuts in the year before his next scheduled election , in 2019 .
the stronger fiscal position is a welcome christmas present for treasurer morrison and the turnbull liberal-national government , as they head towards the end of an increasingly difficult 2017 , said su-lin ong , head of australian economics at rbc capital markets .