london ( reuters ) - an auction of 31 artworks donated by some of britain s most successful contemporary artists has raised close to 2 million pounds for survivors of the grenfell tower fire that killed about 80 people in june .
home to a close-knit , multi-ethnic community , the 24-storey social housing block was reduced to a charred ruin by the inferno that engulfed it in the middle of the night .
many survivors have yet to be rehoused and are still living in hotels .
the charity auction , held at autioneer sotheby s late on monday , included works by a-list artists including wolfgang tillmans , antony gormley , tracey emin , sarah lucas , mark wallinger and rachel whiteread .
the idea came from film producer and art collector hamish mcalpine and art consultant katie heller , who said the emotional impact of the grenfell tragedy was such that almost all the artists they approached agreed to donate works immediately .
grenfell touched their souls , mcalpine told reuters at sotheby s before the auction .
it s a very emotive subject for people in london .
the proceeds , which totaled more than 1.925 million pounds ( $ 2.55 million ) , will be divided equally among 158 surviving families .
they will receive the funds before christmas .
every single one of the lots on offer sold , making the auction a white glove sale in auctioneers parlance , sotheby s said .
the amount raised was double the pre-auction estimate .
the most expensive lot was freischwimmer 193 , a very large green print by the london-based german artist wolfgang tillmans , which sold for 392,750 pounds .
next came small charge , a cast iron sculpture by antony gormley , which was snapped up for 344,750 pounds .
two of the artworks were especially created for the auction .
tacita dean s lay the dust with tears , a gray and black charcoal-on-paper image reminiscent of billowing smoke , sold for 22,500 pounds , while idris khan s i remember , also a somber image in dark tones made with oil , charcoal and chalk on paper , went for 43,750 pounds .