hillary doesn t recall saying it , but bill s campaign manager , paul fray clearly remembers her saying it .
just another hillary lie what different does it make ?
hillary clinton is fighting a rearguard action to avoid further damage to her standing with the crucial jewish vote in her campaign for a senate seat after a claim that she once used an ethnic insult against one of bill clinton s aides.a book out today claims that 26 years ago she called paul fray , her husband s campaign manager at the time , a fucking jew bastard .mrs clinton denied the allegation and pressed the president into supporting her , but the author , jerry oppenheimer , said : three witnesses have now publicly acknowledged that she said it .
i have never said anything like that , ever , mrs clinton said .
i have in the past certainly , you know maybe , called somebody a name .
but i have never used an ethnic , racial , anti-semitic , bigoted , discriminatory , prejudiced , accusation against anybody .
i ve never done it .
i ve never thought it .
mr clinton , who was trying to bring about a middle east peace deal at camp david , backed her up .
i was there on election night in 1974 and the charge is simply not true , he said .
she might have called him a bastard , i wouldn t rule that out .
she s never claimed that she was pure on profanity .
but i ve never heard her tell a joke with an ethnic connotation .
she s so fanatic about it .
it s not in her .
referring to a vast rightwing conspiracy in previous elections , he said : this is part of a pattern .
they couldn t defeat me politically and they can t defeat her politically so they go after us personally .
accounts of the dispute on election night 1974 , when mr clinton failed to win a congressional seat representing arkansas , have appeared before without the ethnic insult.those present at the inquest into the defeat were mr clinton , his then-girlfriend hillary , his campaign manager paul fray , and mr fray s wife , mary lee .
neill mcdonald , a campaign worker , was just outside the room and claims to have heard everything.the frays and mr mcdonald are the three witnesses on whom mr oppenheimer , a former reporter on the national inquirer tabloid , relies for the passage in his book state of a union : inside the complex marriage of bill and hillary clinton.mr fray , 57 , said yesterday : i was a little defensive about it .
i looked to the floor thinking how do i respond ?
i didn t mind being called a son-of-a-bitch , but when it came to attacking my culture , that s a whole nother ballgame .
you ve got to understand it was the heat of the moment .
we knew we had lost .
it was a case of people lashing out at one another and it just got to that point .
mr fray is actually a southern baptist but says that he is one-eighth jewish through his great-grandfather.mrs fray said that her husband s recollection of the meeting , which lasted about an hour , was accurate .
mr mcdonald said : i don t know what provoked it or what .
i just remember that one little comment .
via : the guardian