madrid ( reuters ) - a spanish judge ordered nine catalan secessionist leaders to be held in custody on thursday pending a potential trial over the region s independence push .
the lawyer for ousted catalan president carles puigdemont said a warrant had also been issued for his client s arrest - though the statement was dismissed by a senior official in spain s high court .
the reason for the differing accounts was not immediately clear .
in an short address broadcast by catalan regional television tv3 , puigdemont called for the release of the legitimate government of catalonia , a call echoed by hundreds of people gathered outside the catalan parliament .
prime minister mariano rajoy sacked puigdemont and his government last week , hours after the catalan parliament made a unilateral declaration of independence - a vote boycotted by the opposition and declared illegal by spanish courts .
puigdemont later traveled to belgium with four associates and ignored an order to appear before the high court to answer charges of rebellion , sedition and misuse of public funds relating to the region s secessionist drive .
mr. puigdemont will stay here .
he has said that he will fully cooperate with belgian authorities during the procedure , lawyer paul bekaert told belgian state broadcaster vrt .
he said puigdemont had told him a european arrest warrant has been issued , though the court source said that would most likely happen on friday .
the detention of the secessionist leaders and puigdemont s flight to belgium make it difficult for leading figures from the independence movement to stand in a snap election in the wealthy region called by the spanish government for dec. 21 .
puigdemont said on tuesday he would go back to spain only if given unspecified guarantees by the spanish government .
his flight appears to have cost some support for his cause at home .
president , enough is enough , the influential catalan newspaper el peridico , which has been skeptical of the case for independence , said on its front page on wednesday .
ebelio ramos , a pensioner from the pro-independence town of berga said : i don t know what they re thinking about but when someone does what he did and declares independence and then flees ... a president has to fulfill the law and if he doesn t , it is better that he stays calm , because if he starts doing something outside the law , he is going to lose everything .
following a tumultuous month , attention is gradually turning to the december vote .
protests taking place in central barcelona on thursday to support secessionist leaders as they testified in madrid failed to attract a big crowd .
several hundred people took part in another protest called after the nine leaders were ordered held in custody , many fewer than the hundreds of thousands who staged several demonstrations for independence over the last two months .
cracks have appeared within the pro-independence coalition of center-right and far-left parties as well as inside puigdemont s own pdecat ( democratic catalan party ) where some of his allies are now pushing for a negotiated solution with the central government .
the struggle has divided catalonia itself and caused deep resentment across the rest of spain .
in madrid , 20 secessionist leaders had been summoned by two separate courts to testify over their role in holding a banned oct. 1 referendum on secession and later proclaiming independence from spain .
with puigdemont and four others in belgium , only 15 turned up .
all the members of the dismissed catalan cabinet but one declined to answer questions from the state prosecutor and the high court judge , who opened an investigation that could take several years before any potential trial .
the defendants have played an active role by propelling the carefully designed secessionist process and overcoming all kinds of obstacles that could make them deviate from their final objective , the judge said in the ruling that sent the defendants to jail .
she said the defendants , who could face jail sentences of up to 50 years , must be held in custody because they were a flight risk and could destroy evidence .
one of them , santi vila , who stepped down from the catalan cabinet before a unilateral declaration of independence last friday and has since then been pushing for a negotiated solution with the government , was granted bail of 50,000 euros ( $ 58,300 ) .
a lawyer for several of the jailed catalan leaders said they would appeal against the judge s decision .
the decision to hold them in custody is absolutely disproportionate as we consider the charges of rebellion and sedition lack any ground , no matter how much the prosecution insists on affirming it , lawyer jaume alonso-cuevillas said .
five senior regional lawmakers and the speaker of the catalan parliament , carme forcadell , were summoned by the supreme court , which handles the cases of people who enjoy parliamentary immunity .
the supreme court agreed on thursday to give one more week to forcadell and the catalan lawmakers to prepare their defense and a new hearing will take place on nov. 9 .
the courts have already told the catalan secessionist leaders to deposit 6.2 million euros ( $ 7.2 million ) by friday to cover potential liabilities .