beirut ( reuters ) - two suicide bombers struck a police station in damascus on monday , with at least 10 people reported dead , in the first such attack to hit the syrian capital since july .
the interior minister said the blasts killed a number of policemen and civilians in the al-midan neighborhood , but did not say how many .
at least 10 people were killed and 20 more injured when four armed men assaulted the station , the pro-damascus television channel al-mayadeen reported .
russian news agency ria put the toll at 15 .
militants targeted the al-midan police station and clashed with police officers there , interior minister mohammad al-shaar said on state television from the station .
one man blew himself up at the main entrance and another detonated his explosive device on the first floor , he said .
there was no immediate claim of responsibility .
footage on state tv showed bodies in shrouds on the floor of the station and fire fighters putting out flames .
the capital has enjoyed relative security as syria s six-year civil war has raged on nearby and across the country .
but several such attacks have hit damascus in recent years , including a car bomb that killed 20 people in july .
a bomb blast had also hit the same police station in al-midan late last year .
islamic state and the tahrir al-sham alliance - led by fighters formerly linked to al-qaeda - have each claimed separate suicide attacks that killed scores of people in damascus in the past .
monday s attack came as a response to the major victories that our armed forces are achieving on syrian land , the interior minister said .
with the help of russian jets and iran-backed militias , the government has pushed back rebels in western syria , shoring up its rule over the main urban centres .
in recent months , it has also marched eastwards against islamic state .
it s natural to expect that the terrorists will resort to acts like this ... but they are all desperate acts , shaar said .
such operations are thwarted on a daily basis .
syrian troops and allied forces have captured several suburbs of damascus from rebel factions over the past year .
the army and its allies are currently fighting insurgents in the jobar and ain tarma districts on the capital s eastern outskirts .