beijing ( reuters ) - china issued new rules on instant messaging chat groups on thursday , tightening control over online discussions ahead of a sensitive leadership reshuffle next month .
beijing has been ramping up measures to secure the internet and maintain strict censorship , a process that has accelerated ahead of the 19th national congress of the communist party , when global attention will be on the world s no.2 economy .
group chats on instant messaging apps and online commenting threads have seen a surge in popularity in china in recent years as forums for discussion , partly because they are private for members and so in theory are subject to less censorship .
internet chat service providers must now verify the identities of their users and keep a blog of group chats for no less than six months , the cyberspace administration of china said in a statement released on its website the rules , which take effect on oct 8 , just before the congress is due to begin , will cover platforms provided by china s internet titans , such as tencent s wechat and qq , baidu s tieba and alibaba s alipay chat .
the regulations also require companies to establish a credit system , and to provide group chat services to users in accordance to their credit rating , cac said .
chat group participants who break the rules will see their credit scores lowered , their rights to manage group chats suspended or revoked and should be reported to the relevant government department , it added .
the cac did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment sent after office hours on thursday .
the administration also said the owner of the chat group should bear responsibility for the management of the group .
whoever owns the group should be responsible , and whoever manages the group should be responsible , it said .
the new rules are the latest requirement for china s internet giants , who have already been subject to investigations from the cac into their top social media sites for failing to comply with cyber laws .
the administration has already taken down popular celebrity gossip social media accounts and extended restrictions on what news can be produced and distributed by online platforms , and has embarked on a campaign to remove virtual private network apps , which allow users to access websites blocked by the authorities .