moscow ( reuters ) - russia accused the united states on tuesday of pretending to fight islamic state and of deliberately reducing its air strikes in iraq to allow the group s militants to stream into syria to slow the russian-backed advance of the syrian army .
the pentagon strongly denied the accusations , saying that the u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state posts data every day on the number and result of strikes for the public to see .
in the latest sign of rising tensions between moscow and washington , the russian defence ministry said in a statement that the u.s.-led coalition had sharply reduced its air strikes in iraq in september when syrian forces , backed by russian air power , had started to retake deir al-zor province .
everyone sees that the u.s.-led coalition is pretending to fight islamic state , above all in iraq , but continuing to allegedly fight islamic state in syria actively for some reason , said major-general igor konashenkov , a spokesman for russia s defense ministry .
the result , he said , had been that militants had moved in large numbers from iraqi border areas to deir al-zor where they were trying to dig in on the left bank of the river euphrates .
the actions of the pentagon and the coalition demand an explanation .
is their change of tack a desire to complicate as much as they can the syrian army s operation , backed by the russian air force , to take back syrian territory to the east of the euphrates ? , asked konashenkov .
or is it an artful move to drive islamic state terrorists out of iraq by forcing them into syria and into the path of the russian air force s pinpoint bombing ?
in washington , pentagon spokesman colonel robert manning described the russian accusations as absolutely false .
we remain committed to killing isis and denying them safe havens and the ability to carry out strikes in the region or globally , manning said , using an acronym for islamic state .
konashenkov added that syrian troops were in the midst of trying to push islamic state out of the city of al-mayadin , southeast of deir al-zor , but that is tried daily to reinforce its ranks there with foreign mercenaries pouring in from iraq .