ankara ( reuters ) - a new emergency decree in turkey could allow vigilantes to carry out political violence with impunity against opponents of the government suspected of involvement in last year s coup attempt , turkey s main lawyers groups said on monday .
the government defended the emergency decree , issued on sunday , which it said was intended to ensure that turks who took to the streets to protect the elected government during the failed 2016 coup would not face punishment .
turkey already granted officials immunity last year from prosecution for their official actions taken to suppress the coup .
sunday s decree extended that immunity to civilians whether they have an official title or not , and whether they have carried out official duties or not .
the lawyers groups said the measure was vaguely-worded and could lead to violence .
people will start shooting each other in the head on the streets .
how will you prevent this ?
metin feyzioglu , the head of the union of turkish bar associations , said in a video response .
so you have brought out an article that leaves civilians killing and lynching each other unpunished and without compensation .
are you aware of what you have done mr. president ?
turkey s main opposition republican people s party ( chp ) said it would appeal the decree at the constitutional court .
in a rare show of opposition , abdullah gul , a former president and longtime ally of president tayyip erdogan , said the wording of the article was worrisome , adding that he hoped it would be revised to prevent problems in the future .
a separate decree on sunday dismissed 2,756 more people from their jobs , accusing them of links to terrorist organizations .
turkey has already sacked or suspended more than 150,000 police , teachers , lawyers and other professionals from their jobs in the aftermath of the coup .
more than 50,000 people have been arrested .
in a joint statement , the ankara and istanbul bar associations called sunday s two decrees the last two nails in the coffin of the law .
erdogan says tough measures in the wake of the coup are necessary to root out the perpetrators .
his government blames the failed takeover on followers of fethullah gulen , a turkish-born cleric based in the united states , who denies responsibility .
the lawyers said the decree granting immunity did not make clear what sort of actions could be seen as furthering the aims of the coup , for which civilians carrying out revenge attacks could now be protected from punishment .
the government said the decree covered only the night of the failed military takeover itself , despite the date not being specified in the text .
this regulation concerns solely the night of the coup attempt , july 15 2016 , and its aftermath , which is the morning of july 16 .
this does not encompass terror acts that were carried out later , mahir unal , the spokesman for the ruling ak party , told reporters at a televised news conference .
what we have done for this country s stability and development is evident .
what is also evident is what these people who tell these lies and black propaganda do , he said .