athens ( reuters ) - greece has won an appeal over objections from forestry officials to a major tourism project in athens that forms part of its third international bailout , overcoming one of the obstacles to turning the site into one of europe s biggest coastal resorts .
the 8 billion euro ( $ 9.39 billion ) project to develop the disused hellenikon airport site is being closely watched by greece s european union and international monetary fund lenders and potential investors in the crisis-hit country .
the project features prominently among privatization targets in the country s 86 billion euro aid package , the third since the crisis began in 2010 .
greek developer lamda signed a 99-year lease with the state in 2014 for the 620-hectare ( 1,530-acre ) area , once the site of athens airport .
but the project has faced delays , partly over a long-running row between developers and those who fear it will destroy the environment .
forestry authorities in may declared 3.7 hectares ( 9 acres ) of the estate as protected woodland , on a spot developers said was integral to the project .
greece s privatization agency , which is in charge of concluding the deal with lamda , appealed the decision .
a four-member panel of the country s forestry department ruled on monday that the plot was not forest .
the agency s appeal ... was upheld by a 3-to-2 majority , the committee s president , christos antonellis , told reuters , adding that the decision was expected to be published by wednesday .
the decision is subject to appeal .
the privatization agency s chief , lila tsitsogiannopoulou , said the decision was positive and that the agency s appeal had strong legal grounds .
separately , the government s top advisory body on the protection of antiquities recommended on tuesday that only 30 hectares ( 74 acres ) of the 620-hectare plot under the project be declared an archaeological site , according to sources close to the process .
government officials said the decision was a big step for the development of the investment , in line with greek law and the protection of cultural heritage .
lamda was not immediately available for comment .
the recommendation is not binding , but the culture ministry always respects the body s decisions .
backed by chinese and gulf investors , lamda submitted its detailed development plan for hellenikon in july .
the central archaeological council was still discussing the issue and had yet to approve the investment plan , one of the sources said .
the council has held three inconclusive meetings on this issue this month .
[ l8n1m7372 ] the hellenikon project has become a major political issue in greece , which is slowly emerging from a multi-year debt crisis .
prime minister alexis tsipras , whose leftist party strongly opposed it before coming to power in 2015 , is now seen as keen to implement the deal to help boost economic activity and reduce unemployment , the euro zone s highest .
( $ 1 = 0.8522 euro )