media silent !
twin falls , idaho police investigating videotaped sexual assault of 5 yr old girl at by 3 immigrant boys no arrests [ video ] update : the obama-appointed u.s. attorney for idaho has taken the highly unusual step of intervening in a local criminal case involving an alleged sexual assault by juvenile muslim migrants and threatened the community and media with federal prosecution if they spread false information or inflammatory statements about the perpetrators .
the following is a news release issued late friday from the office of united states attorney wendy j. olson .
boise the united states attorney s office extends its support to the five-year-old victim of assault , and her family , at the fawnbrook apartments in twin falls .
the united states attorney s office further encourages community members in twin falls and throughout idaho to remain calm and supportive , to pay close attention to the facts that have been released by law enforcement and the prosecuting attorney , and to avoid spreading false rumors and inaccuracies .
grant loebs is an experienced prosecutor , and chief craig kingsbury is an experienced law enforcement officer .
they are moving fairly and thoughtfully in this case , said wendy j. olson , u.s. attorney for idaho .
as mr. loebs and chief kingsbury informed the public , the subjects in this case are juveniles , ages 14 , 10 and 7 .
the criminal justice system , whether at the state or federal level , requires that juveniles be afforded a specific process with significant restrictions on the information that can be released .
the fact that the subjects are juveniles in no way lessens the harm to or impact on the victim and her family .
olson continued , saying : the spread of false information or inflammatory or threatening statements about the perpetrators or the crime itself reduces public safety and may violate federal law .
we have seen time and again that the spread of falsehoods about refugees divides our communities .
i urge all citizens and residents to allow mr. loebs and chief kingsbury and their teams to do their jobs .
as one of 93 u.s. attorneys , olson represents the federal government in all civil and criminal cases within her state.olson was appointed to her post in 2010 by president obama and has a history of taking strong stands against anti-muslim bias .
via : wndoriginal story : thanks to the generosity of chobani yogurt , twin falls , id has been inundated with syrian refugees .
big businesses including big meat , chobani yogurt , and other manufacturing companies are looking for cheap immigrant labor and the federal resettlement contractors act as head hunters for them.with more awareness of the effort to bring in muslim refugees and deposit them all over america , more communities are fighting back .
it s already been said by the fbi and dhs that these so-called refugees can t be properly screened but they also are a heavy financial burden to taxpaying americans .
it is true that once they arrive , they receive all of the entitlements provided a legal citizen.here are the details of a horrific crime that was reportedly committed by 3 young muslim syrian refugee boys , as reported by a twin falls resident : the little girl being born very premature she is less developed for her age.the little girl was at the fawnbrook apartment buildings where both her parents and grandmother reside .
she was playing in between those two apartment units when 3 boys ( ages 8 , 10 , 13 ) pulled a knife on her , held it to her throat , forced her into the laundry unit , stripped her naked , raped , and urinated on her .
the 13 year old coached the younger boys as he videoed .
due to age restraint the boys could not ejaculate but did urinate on her.the victim s grandmother discovered the situation and immediately called the victim s mother who called twin falls police department.the victim s mother took the video/phone from the 13 year old .
witnessed by the victims mother : the 13 year olds father arrived on the scene and hi-fived his son .
a mother of the perps arrived and knew only enough english to repeatedly say , no police .2 and a half hours later the twin falls police arrived .
mother of victim gave pd the video .
police did not ( still have not ) made any arrests , reportedly because of the language barrier .both perp refugee families are still in the apartment complex , landlord is unable to evict .
the mother of victim estimates 50+ refugees are in the complex .
prosecuting attorney grant loebs ( or his office ) suggested that the victim s family may not wish to prosecute.we believe this family ought to file a lawsuit against csi , perhaps tfpd.video link from tf city council as act members question and challenge city council .
if you listen you will see that they have no answer , didn t know anything was going on.listen close to don hall name a young lady as the victim in response to mr. edwards calling the victim a youth.kmvt has confirmed that a reported sexual assault that possibly occurred near the fawnbrook apartments is being investigated by the twin falls police department .
the incident allegedly occurred on june 2.twin falls county prosecutor grant loebs has confirmed the investigation to idaho s first news , but he says there will be no charges filed in the case until the police investigation is complete.several unconfirmed reports concerning the case are circulating on social media .
both the twin falls police department and the prosecutor s office have declined to comment publicly on the case while it is still under investigation.watch here :