ankara ( reuters ) - iran accused france on friday of fuelling tension in the middle east by taking a biased stance on tehran s regional policy , and president emmanuel macron said tehran misunderstood its balanced position .
it seems that france has a biased view toward the ongoing crises and humanitarian catastrophes in the middle east , foreign ministry spokesman bahram qasemi was quoted as saying by state tv .
this view fuels regional conflicts , whether intentionally or unintentionally .
french foreign minister jean-yves le drian said on thursday france was worried about iran s involvement in the middle east crisis and its disputed ballistic missile program .
iran s role and the different areas where this country operates worries us , le drian told a joint news conference with his saudi counterpart adel jubeir in riyadh .
i am thinking in particular of iran s interventions in regional crises , this hegemonic temptation and i m thinking of its ballistic program , he said .
iran has repeatedly rejected france s call for talks on its missile program , saying it is defensive and unrelated to its 2015 nuclear agreement with world powers .
asked at an eu summit in gothenburg about iran s accusations , macron said tehran misunderstood france s balanced position of talking to everyone and not taking sides between sunni and shi ite muslims .
our wish is that iran has a less aggressive strategy in the region and that we can clarify its ballistic missile strategy which seems to be uncontrolled , he said .
iran is a power that we wish to have a dialogue with and that we will continue to talk to .
paris suggested this week that new european union sanctions against iran could be discussed over its missile tests .
but eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini seemed to dismiss that idea on tuesday .
shi ite-dominated iran and its regional arch-rival sunni saudi arabia are involved in proxy wars across the region , backing opposite sides in syria , yemen , iraq and lebanon .
jubeir told reuters on thursday that the kingdom s actions in the middle east were a response to what he called the aggression of iran .
qasemi said jubeir was repeating baseless claims , the state news agency irna reported on friday .
saudi arabia s foreign minister s gestures and his blame game will definitely not reduce the responsibility of this country in undermining the regional stability and security , qasemi said .