21st century wire says more than 50 ngo partners of the women s march on washington were found to be tied to social movement financier george soros .
while the dc gathering was billed as a grassroots movement for women s rights in america , it was anything but as a string of multi-million dollar democratic party-affiliated ngo s organized what was clearly an anti-donald trump event following the us presidential inauguration this past week .
divide by design ( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) as we ve stated before here at 21wire , this kind of political protest is designed to first cause public disruption , while also fomenting a form of socially-engineered cultural , gender and class warfare.in the case of the women s march on washington , a militant style of identity politics was on a full frontal display .
enter stage left the celebrities this was never more apparent than the hate filled diatribe of hollywood actress ashley judd , whose angry rhetoric was eclipsed only by famed singer madonna , who during her obscenity laced speech admitted to harboring violent thoughts directed at the white house .
consequently , the material girl is now reportedly under secret service investigation for her bomb related threat this past saturday.watch how both judd and madonna are driven by rage during their politically divisive speeches at the women s march on washington https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=p-5zkrqhyncduring an interview with abc news , trump advisor kellyanne conway didn t see the point , of the women s march .
additionally , conway underscored that 29-30 million women across america voted for trump and their voices were heard in the 2016 election https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=lveigct9wd4question : was the heavily organized women s march on washington just another example of a radical globalist and cultural marxist progressive agenda at play ? historically speaking , many social movements have worked to erode the legitimacy of a democratically elected government through a series of artificial color upheavals ( color revolutions ) , and where possible weakening a country s national sovereignty through forced dependency on multilateral globalist institutions like the un or imf , while presenting shock and awe imagery in order to manipulate the public s political perspective.this is how the us and its cia conduct their destablization color revolution campaigns overseas , and now astute observers will recognize these exact same methods being deployed here inside the us.overseas , washington tends to use the same cast of ngo fronts to build-up pro-us political opposition groups , as well as plan and generate civil unrest .
they include the albert einstein institute ( aei ) , national endowment for democracy ( ned ) , international republican institute ( iri ) , national democratic institute ( ndi ) , freedom house and later the international center for non-violent conflict ( icnc ) , and the us agency for international development ( usaid ) , the financial and contractor arm of the department of state.inside the us , deep state actors in washington generally work through democratic party affiliated organizations like moveon.org , as well as through labor union organizations like afl-cio , and unite here .
these , along with many other similar organizations have been involved in organizing this latest protest movement in america.while it still remains to be seen if trump s stated political vision for america can unite an embattled nation , one thing is clear many ngo groups operating inside the us will continue their organized opposition to the newly elected president over the course of his time in the white house .
bitter pill madonna s waning singing career gives way to cultural upheaval and demagoguery .
( image source : extra.ie ) other partners for the march included the american atheists and unitewomen.org , who ran a public relations campaign which featured videos with the hashtags # imwithher , # demsinphily and # thanksobama .
once again , all road lead back to billionaire hillary clinton financier , george soros and his open society ngo empire.writer asra nomani expands on the soros web here : by my draft research , which i m opening up for crowd-sourcing on googledocs , soros has funded , or has close relationships with , at least 56 of the march s partners , including key partners planned parenthood , which opposes trump s anti-abortion policy , and the national resource defense council , which opposes trump s environmental policies .
the other soros ties with women s march organizations include the partisan moveon.org ( which was fiercely pro-clinton ) , the national action network ( which has a former executive director lauded by obama senior advisor valerie jarrett as a leader of tomorrow as a march co-chair and another official as the head of logistics ) .
other soros grantees who are partners in the march are the american civil liberties union , center for constitutional rights , amnesty international and human rights watch .
march organizers and the organizations identified here haven t yet returned queries for comment .
note : see her full story below.the free thought project illustrates the contrived socially engineered nature behind the women s march on washington in lengthy passage below : washington , d.c. an investigation by a new york times affiliate has revealed that billionaire globalist financier george soros , who recently called donald trump a would-be dictator during an interview at davos , and whose open society foundation works to finance and forward progressive causes across the world , and is intimately connected to numerous color revolutions , the arab spring , and various other political uprisings across the globe , has been revealed to be connected to more than 50 of the groups that organized the nationwide women s marches that saw millions of americans take to the streets across the country.the march s official website says , we stand together , recognizing that defending the most marginalized among us is defending all of us .
many people turned out to be a manifestation of that ideal , but it s important to understand the reality of what is happening on a strategic political level as an inorganic politically contrived and funded event .
this , in no way , takes away from the validity of standing up for women s issues but is important to note that women are being used as pawns in a larger ideological political game that has international overtones of power politics.these marches were largely billed as spontaneous and grassroots actions , by publications like the guardian and vox .
however , the reality exposed by an investigation by self-described liberal feminist asra q. nomani , writing for new york times affiliate women in the world , revealed that after studying the funding , politics and talking points of the some 403 groups that are partners of the march , contrary to the non-partisan rhetoric used in these marches , they were not really women s march but were rather for women who are anti-trump .
nomani reveals that the women s marches were actually organized as political tools to be used to strategically forward a progressive political agenda against president donald trump exposing the protests to largely be an organized , top-down driven political operation and not an organic movement of concerned americans taking to the streets as reported by the mainstream media .
more from the ny times affiliate women in the world below soros march ?
the women s march in washington dc revealed some deep ngo pockets lurking behind the scenes .
( image source : thefederalist.com ) .
asra q. nomani ny times women in the worldin the pre-dawn darkness of today s presidential inauguration day , i faced a choice , as a lifelong liberal feminist who voted for donald trump for president : lace up my pink nike sneakers to step forward and take the dc metro into the nation s capital for the inauguration of america s new president , or wait and go tomorrow to the after-party , dubbed the women s march on washington ?
the guardian has touted the women s march on washington as a spontaneous action for women s rights .
another liberal media outlet , vox , talks about the huge , spontaneous groundswell behind the march .
on its website , organizers of the march are promoting their work as a grassroots effort with independent organizers .
even my local yoga studio , beloved yoga , is renting a bus and offering seats for $ 35 .
the march s manifesto says magnificently , the rise of the woman = the rise of the nation .
it s an idea that i , a liberal feminist , would embrace .
but i know and most of america knows that the organizers of the march haven t put into their manifesto : the march really isn t a women s march .
it s a march for women who are anti-trump .
as someone who voted for trump , i don t feel welcome , nor do many other women who reject the liberal identity-politics that is the core underpinnings of the march , so far , making white women feel unwelcome , nixing women who oppose abortion and hijacking the agenda .
to understand the march better , i stayed up through the nights this week , studying the funding , politics and talking points of the some 403 groups that are partners of the march .
is this a non-partisan women s march ? continue the ny times article here read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv