big government is never efficient and this is the perfect example of that .
the ssa can t collect money without spending more that it s trying to collect .
unreal ! the social security administration ( ssa ) spends more money than it collects when trying to recover payments to individuals who received benefits for which they were not eligible.according to the office of inspector general ( oig ) , the ssa issued $ 128.3 million in low-dollar overpayments between 2008 and 2013 , and then spent $ 323 million to collect them .
the agency ultimately recovered only $ 109.4 million .
this resulted in ssa spending over $ 213.6 million more than it collected , the oig said , in an audit released wednesday.the oig defines an overpayment as benefit payments greater than the amount to which individuals are entitled .
the overpayments were distributed through the ssa s retirement and survivors insurance ( rsi ) , disability insurance ( di ) , and supplemental security income ( ssi ) programs .
the ssa issued approximately $ 16.8 billion in disability insurance overpayments alone in the past decade .
generally , ssa attempted to collect overpayments regardless of the amount , the oig said .
in some cases , the value of the overpayment was less than what ssa spent to collect the overpayment .
therefore , for some overpayments , collection was not always cost-beneficial .
a low-dollar overpayment is less than or equal to the agency s average cost to retrieve an overpayment.it cost the ssa an average $ 164.11 to collect each rsi overpayment , $ 268.32 for each disability insurance overpayment , and $ 56.63 for each ssi overpayment in 2013 , according to the agency s cost analysis system ( cas ) .however , the oig found errors within the accounting system .
the cas was not able to take into account ssi overpayments that took more than one step to recover .
some overpayments can take as many as five actions by the agency in order to get the money back , costing $ 283.15 for a single overpayment .
therefore , it is not possible to determine how much the average cost to collect an ssi overpayment in cas is understated when multiple actions are required to collect an ssi overpayment , the oig said.read more : wfb