mexico city ( reuters ) - for a country still in mourning and counting its dead from tuesday s devastating earthquake , frida the navy rescue dog has emerged as a source of inspiration and pride in the search for survivors .
known for her custom-made doggy goggles and boots , the 7-year-old yellow labrador has become a social media star , appearing on one man s tattoo and the unofficial image of a 500-peso note .
some posts have wildly exaggerated her feats .
in her career , frida has located 12 people alive beneath the rubble plus more than 40 others dead , more than any other mexican rescue dog , the navy said .
she has put her nose to work in disasters such as an earthquake in ecuador last year , another one in southern mexico two weeks ago , a landslide in guatemala in 2015 and a mexico city gas explosion in 2013 .
her credits for the most recent disaster has not been tallied yet , said navy captain armando segura , because she is still busy trying to save lives .
the 7.1-magnitude quake has killed nearly 300 people , and rescuers were still digging through some of the 52 buildings that collapsed in mexico city alone .
frida has spent most of her efforts at a school in southern mexico city where 19 school children and six adults died , but 11 more children were rescued .
as one of the of the country s most trusted institutions , the mexican navy has a wider role than most armadas , including a canine unit that has two other dogs , a pair of 18-month-old belgian shepherds , echo and evil .
mexico s army also has rescue dogs digging through the debris of damaged buildings , and a dog named maya from the jalisco state government was credited with finding two dead bodies on thursday .
the united states and chile have also brought rescue dogs for the mexican quake .
none can match the fame of frida .
it s a source of pride to work with frida .
she s a very , very special dog , said israel arauz , her handler for the past two years .
frida only has about a year left as a life-scent dog before her olfactory senses are expected to decline , after which she will retire to live with arauz .