santiago ( reuters ) - conservative billionaire sebastian pinera will face center-left senator alejandro guillier in a runoff for chile s presidency next month , after a first round vote on sunday that pinera won , but with fewer votes than expected .
both candidates would keep in place the top copper exporter s longstanding free-market economic model , but former president pinera has promised investor-friendly policies to turbocharge growth , while guillier wants to press on with outgoing president michelle bachelet s overhaul of education , taxes and labor .
with over 98 percent of votes counted , pinera , a 67-year-old businessman , had clinched 36.6 percent , falling short of the 50 percent needed for an outright victory , chile s electoral agency servel said .
guillier , a 64-year-old bearded former tv news anchor elected to the senate in 2013 , had 22.7 percent , just over two points ahead of the third placed candidate , leftist beatriz sanchez , whose better than expected showing will likely ensure her frente amplio coalition will yield sway in congress .
pinera s result was below pollster expectations , indicating that the dec. 17 runoff will likely be a more closely-fought contest than previously forecast , especially if guillier can rally supporters of sanchez and four other left-leaning rivals behind him .
we re going to have a very competitive second round , pinera s campaign chief andres chadwick told journalists on sunday evening .
the most recent opinion survey by cep last month had forecast pinera securing 42 percent of likely votes in the first round , and easily defeating guillier in the runoff .
after a divisive race , guillier called for profound unity to unite chile s fractured left against pinera .
there are more of us , and therefore we must win in december ! , guillier told his cheering supporters .
sanchez did not endorse guillier in a fiery speech before her followers , even as she pilloried his opponent .
sebastian pinera is a step backward for the country and the country is going in a different direction !
sanchez said .
but pinera , who previously led chile between 2010 and 2014 , flashed the optimism he has shown on the campaign trail , where he has repeatedly plugged his campaign slogan better times .
this result is very similar to the one in 2009 .
and you ll remember that in 2009 we won the election , pinera said , before a buoyant crowd .
voter turnout was higher than expected , a factor which analysts forecast will count against pinera if repeated in a runoff .
bachelet can not run again this year because of term limits .
guillier was one of two candidates her center-left coalition nueva mayoria backed in the first round .
speaking from the presidential palace on sunday evening , she urged chileans to vote in december , saying her policy changes were at stake .
guillier faces a more polished opponent in pinera , who oversaw robust economic growth in his first presidential term that overlapped with higher copper prices .
pinera has vowed to double chile s economic growth rate , with proposals that include trimming corporate taxes , making state-run miner codelco more self-sufficient , and tweaking the pension system to include incentives for later retirement .
but he must ease fears that he would wipe out gains made in bachelet s government for students , women and workers - from expanding free education to strengthening unions .
should guillier triumph in the runoff , he has pledged to tackle stubbornly high inequality in one of latin america s most business-friendly economies .
he wants to diversify chile s dependence on copper , increase access to free higher education and write workers rights into a new constitution .
i voted for guillier because i think we have to continue to provide free education .
it s a social right , said unemployed voter mario giannetti , 53 .
since its transition to democracy from dictatorship in 1990 , chile has stood out as one of the region s most developed countries .
but public debt has grown as lower copper prices hit government revenues in recent years , and bachelet s critics say she failed to court investments or prioritize economic growth that slowed to an annual average of 1.8 percent .
in a first since the 1990s , credit ratings agencies fitch and s & p downgraded chile s debt rating this year .
while investors see pinera as a safe pair hands for the economy , his previous term was marred by massive student protests seeking an education overhaul .
his responses were often seen as out of touch and grassroots groups still oppose him .
early on sunday , a group of young protesters stormed pinera s campaign headquarters before being arrested by police , tv images showed .