washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on friday questioned facebook inc s ( fb.o ) decision to overhaul how it handles paid political advertisements amid investigations into alleged russian interference in u.s. elections .
the russia hoax continues , now it s ads on facebook , trump wrote on twitter .
what about the totally biased and dishonest media coverage in favor of crooked hillary , referring to hillary clinton , his rival in the 2016 presidential campaign .
earlier this month , facebook said an internal review had shown that an operation likely based in russia spent $ 100,000 on 3,000 facebook ads promoting divisive messages in the months before and after the 2016 u.s. presidential election .
the company initially declined to turn over details on the ads to congress but said on thursday it would do so , making a concession to u.s. lawmakers who have threatened to regulate the world s largest social network over ads that run during election campaigns .
chief executive mark zuckerberg said facebook , for the first time , would now make it possible for anyone to see any political ads that run on facebook , no matter whom they target .
facebook also will demand that political advertisers disclose who is paying for the advertisements , a requirement that under u.s. law applies to political ads on television but not on social media .
zuckerberg said on thursday the changes would help address concerns that governments including russia are using facebook ads to meddle in other countries elections .
u.s. intelligence agencies concluded that russia engaged in cyber attacks to sway the 2016 election against democrat hillary clinton in favor of trump .
u.s. congressional investigators and a special counsel are investigating the matter .
moscow has denied any interference .
while trump dismissed the advertisement controversy , his secretary of state , rex tillerson , expressed concern .
well , i think all of these social media providers are faced with many challenges , tillerson said on abc s good morning america , pointing to their use by militant groups around the world as well as in election campaigns .
but they also have responsibilities , he said .
and i think they re going to have to think carefully about their responsibilities in this regard .
u.s. election law bars foreign nationals and foreign entities from spending money to expressly advocate the election or defeat of a candidate .