catano , puerto rico ( reuters ) - wading through highways swamped by turbid waters that sloshed over scattered , sunken belongings , residents of this puerto rican barrio flooded by hurricane maria have begun emerging from their shattered homes .
lying southwest of the capital san juan , the juana matos neighborhood in catano municipality took a huge hit from maria after the storm slammed winds of up to 155 mph ( 249 kmh ) into puerto rico early on wednesday , destroying or damaging an estimated 80 percent of housing in the working-class barrio .
the storm , the second category 5 hurricane to batter the caribbean this month , claimed at least 32 lives across the region , including 15 in puerto rico , and shut down power and communications across the island of 3.4 million people .
by thursday , maria s floodwaters had turned the heart of the predominantly wood-built juana matos barrio into a series of waterways more suited to boats than walking .
it s like we re in venice , said 69-year-old steel worker joaquin rebollo , looking out across a broad channel that is normally teeming with cars .
it was a really bad experience , really bad .
i almost died of fright .
pitching the roof off his home and dozens of others in the area , maria began to work through the wiring around the house as darkness descended across the island .
it was like ( maria ) was chewing the cables , he said , vividly making as if to bite through power lines with his teeth .
opposite him , residents trudged up to their knees in waters covering what was the main highway connecting catano with the municipality of bayamon further south .
rebollo and many neighbors left their homes in the hope the flooding that rose to four feet in some areas would recede .
houses locked for the storm were stripped of roofs or walls .
stranded cars stood half-sunk in driveways and satellite dishes tilted towards the sky to receive signals that had gone .
i peeked my head out during the storm and felt the wind - and saw the wood , the roof , and the windows in the air , said domingo avilez , 47 , who took cover inside a small cement stock room beneath his mother s house when maria struck .
by the end , the stock room was the only room left .
local officials estimate upwards of 2,000 people live in juana matos , and many too old or unwilling to evacuate watched from upper floors as the floodwaters turned streets into stagnant canals that seeped through their homes .
well , we re alive , said 75-year-old grandfather angel santos from the debris-strewn second floor of his wooden home .
these are the works of god , so there s nothing you can do , santos said , reflecting the faith evident among many puerto ricans hit by maria just days after hurricane irma left .
even those on the edge of the flood-prone barrio in homes high enough to avoid shipping huge quantities of water suffered brutal incursions .
magdalena oliveras , a 52-year-old housewife , showed the twisted metal blinds of her two-meter high washroom window she said had been mangled by a deluge from a nearby building .
lidia espinal , 57 , a longtime juana matos resident from the dominican republic , suffered a double blow on wednesday morning before phone lines went down with a call from her homeland to say her younger brother had suffered a fatal heart attack .
but maria s presence meant she could not travel back .
i lost everything in my house , the good things , the roof , the windows .
the stove is full of water , she said .
but the death of my brother taught me that we can t hold on to material things .
because life does not come back .