the bashing of donald trump is getting so old and tiresome .
people with common sense know the truth and know what the left is trying to do .
it s the same old playbook of demonizing what you don t like repeatedly .
the problem is that americans are finally wising up to this alinsky strategy .
you d think the liberals are all coordinating their talking points .hummm billy crystal bashed trump during his eulogy of ali in a line similar to clinton s speech on tuesday : life is best when you build bridges between people , not walls .
do you think for one minute that trump would have gotten where he is if he d not reached out to people and built bridges literally and figuratively ?
the reason trump wants to build a literal wall with mexico is that , without borders , we don t have a country .
we can certainly reach out to others but trump knows open borders do not work !
just take a look at europe and the eu !
what a mess !
trump has said he wants legal immigration and doesn t want illegal immigration !
he s protecting the people of america and that s putting america first ! the problem with billy crystal s swipe at trump is that he isn t practicing what he preaches .
anyone who knows los angeles knows that the homes have gates and walls .
well , billy crystal has walls and a fence surrounding his home people in glass houses ! it was easy to get photos above of the fence and wall around billy crystal s home but we can t just walk onto his property uninvited .
isn t that the same as people walking over our border illegally ? comedian billy crystal gave an emotional tribute during muhammad ali s funeral on friday , but may have sneaked in a low-key dig at republican presidential nominee donald trump .
crystal , a friend of the champ s for more than 40 years , said at the end of his eulogy for the boxer in the kfc yum !
center in louisville , kentucky that ali taught us that life is best when you build bridges between people , not walls .
that line crystal said sounds similar to what hillary clinton said during her victory speech on tuesday .
we believe that cooperation is better than conflict , unity is better than division , empowerment is better than resentment , and bridges are better than walls , the democratic presidential candidate front-runner said .
read more : daily mail