new delhi ( reuters ) - indian prime minister narendra modi will discuss rising violence in myanmar s western rakhine state during a visit that begins on tuesday , and push for greater progress on long-running indian infrastructure projects , officials said .
india seeks to boost economic ties with resource-rich myanmar , with which it shares a 1,600-km ( 1,000-mile ) border , to counter chinese influence and step up connectivity with a country it considers its gateway to southeast asia .
two-way trade has grown to around $ 2.2 billion as india courted myanmar following the gradual end of military rule , but indian-funded projects have moved slowly .
modi s promises to act east and cement ties with india s eastern neighbor have slipped even as china has strengthened its influence .
his first bilateral visit comes amid a spike in violence in rakhine , after a military counter-offensive against insurgents killed at least 400 people and triggered the exodus of nearly 90,000 villagers to bangladesh since aug. 25 .
the violence could hit development of a transport corridor that begins in rakhine , with the indian-built port of sittwe and includes road links to india s remote northeast , analysts said .
it s going to be a very vexed and complex issue , said tridivesh singh maini , a new delhi-based expert on ties with myanmar .
you need to play it very smartly .
you need to make it clear that rakhine violence has regional implications ... but india will not get into saying , this is how you should resolve it .
last month , india said it wanted to deport 40,000 rohingya refugees who left myanmar in previous years .
modi arrives from china late on tuesday in the capital naypyidaw to meet president htin kyaw on a three-day visit .
new delhi believes the best way to reduce tension in rakhine is through development efforts , such as the kaladan transport project there , said indian foreign ministry official sripriya ranganathan .
we are very confident that once that complete corridor is functional , there will be a positive impact on the situation in the state , she told reporters .
modi will meet myanmar leader aung san suu kyi and visit the heritage city of bagan and a hindu temple .
the countries share close cultural ties , and several in myanmar trace their roots to india .
modi will also talk up a trilateral highway project connecting india s northeast with myanmar and thailand .
there is a fear that china is already going full steam ahead , said udai bhanu singh of delhi think-tank , the institute for defence studies and analyses .
from the indian side , there has been some laxity .
singh said india could offer myanmar help in building its navy and coastguard , while myanmar would seek assurances that india was a reliable economic partner and an alternative power to beijing .