taipei ( reuters ) - after taiwan s state-run mega financial holding co was fined $ 180 million by u.s. authorities for lax enforcement of anti-money-laundering rules at its new york branch , the bank started a rigorous training program for its staff .
now , like mega financial , companies across taiwan are working to get staff and systems up to speed after the island passed laws to meet international standards on combating money laundering and was taken off a watchlist by the asia pacific group on money laundering ( apg ) .
unfortunately , taiwan has earned a name for itself as a paradise for money laundering , deputy justice minister tsai pi-chung told reuters .
money laundering and cybercrime connections to taiwan , which is also in the process of pushing through a cyber security bill , have grabbed global headlines .
u.s. authorities fined mega financial $ 180 million last year for lax enforcement of anti-money-laundering rules at its new york branch .
some money from the $ 170 million cyber heist of india s union bank of india was transferred through taiwan s bank sinopac .
an international crime ring used malware to steal $ 2.6 million from the atms of taiwan s first bank .
taiwan was one of the six most targeted countries of the wannacry ransomware attack earlier this year , according to security company avast .
since 2011 , 800 people from china and taiwan have been deported from cambodia on suspicion of telecoms fraud .
following its u.s. fine , mega financial said cleaning up its act is a top priority .
u.s. authorities had said the mega branch had been indifferent to the risks associated with transactions involving panama , a high-risk area for money laundering .
what happened at our new york branch was just terrible , said robert tsai , a senior executive vice president , referring to the fine and ensuing scandal .
half of our 6,000 clerks have been certified with anti-money laundering training .
how each of our branches implements the rules and ensures proper training is the top priority for our business .
to gain international confidence in its anti-money laundering measures , taiwan will have to demonstrate it is putting the laws into practice .
the apg will review taiwan in 2018 .
the visit will focus on how effectively taiwan will have actually implemented the anti-money laundering rules , said liang hung-lieh , partner of pricewaterhousecoopers taiwan .
the apg s on-site review will be new to most of the assessed , including banks , non-bank financial institutions and in particular non-financial institutions such as lawyers , public certified accountants and other professional service providers .
under the anti-money laundering laws , these financial professionals will be required to report suspicious transactions , including bank transfers exceeding t $ 500,000 ( us $ 16,500 ) .
they will have to determine where the money came from , provide details about the client and report that to taiwan s newly established anti-money laundering office .
these are similar to regulations that countries that have signed up to global anti-money laundering rules overseen by the financial action task force ( fatf ) have adopted .
the cost to companies of implementing the new rules may be significant as they put processes , workers and data systems in place .
there s a lot of extra work for them to do now , such as determining the identities of their clients beneficiaries , said an official with the financial supervisory commission , the island s financial regulator .
he declined to be identified in the absence of permission to speak to the media .
they don t yet know exactly what they have to do , and to what extent , to be considered compliant with the new regulations .
they re going to need some time to digest all of these new rules , he said .
the potential costs and increased difficulty of getting transactions done under the new rules worry those in the property market , said wong jui-chi , the spokesman for taiwan s chinese association of real estate brokers , while emphasizing that his industry intends to fully comply with the regulations .
the property market is already in a bad shape and these new rules will make things worse by making the process of real estate transactions more complicated .
more or less everyone in our industry is complaining about it , he said .