oslo ( reuters ) - myanmar s leader aung san suu kyi is the latest in a long line of nobel peace prize laureates to disappoint many of those who once applauded her , and probably won t be the last , a cautionary tale for the 2017 laureate who will be named next week .
suu kyi is facing international criticism , including from fellow peace prize winner desmond tutu , for not doing more to stop what the u.n. says are mass killings , rapes and the burning of villages taking place in rakhine state .
the violence has forced 421,000 rohingya muslims into neighboring bangladesh .
that is a turnaround from 1991 , when the norwegian nobel committee awarded her the prize and praised her non-violent struggle for democracy and human rights .
once awarded , the prize can not be withdrawn .
this has happened many times before that laureates have been criticized , said professor geir lundestad , who was the secretary of the norwegian nobel committee from 1990 to 2014 .
lundestad said the prize remains a force for good , even if some winners later fall short of its ideals : aung sang suu kyi was a very important spokeswoman for human rights in burma and much of asia .
you can not take that away from her .
the nobel prizes were established by alfred nobel , the inventor of dynamite , whose fortune came in part from making and selling arms .
the peace prize , worth 9 million swedish krona ( $ 1.1 million ) will be announced on oct. 6 and can go to one or more individuals or organizations .
a number of winners of the peace prize have gone on to launch wars or escalate them .
israeli leader menachem begin ordered the invasion of lebanon in 1982 , four years after sharing the nobel with egypt s anwar sadat for their camp david peace accord .
sadat was assassinated by an islamist army officer in 1981 .
palestinian leader yassir arafat shared the 1994 prize with israel s yitzhak rabin and shimon peres for the oslo accords , which have not brought a lasting settlement to the arab-israeli conflict .
rabin was assassinated by a far-right nationalist in 1995 and peres was voted out of office eight months later .
arafat later presided over the palestinians during the second intifada , a violent uprising against israeli occupation .
soviet leader mikhail gorbachev , awarded the prize in 1990 for his role in bringing the cold war to a peaceful end , sent tanks in 1991 to try to stop the independence of the baltic countries , though he later let them become independent .
u.s. secretary of state henry kissinger shared the 1973 prize with north vietnam s le duc tho for what turned out to be failed efforts to end the vietnam war .
tho declined the award , the only laureate ever to do so , accusing washington of violating the truce .
the war ended in 1975 with the fall of saigon to the north vietnamese .
when u.s. president barack obama won in 2009 just months after taking office , even he said he was surprised .
by the time he came to oslo to collect the prize at the end of the year , he had ordered the tripling of u.s. troops in afghanistan .
i would be remiss if i did not acknowledge the considerable controversy that your generous decision has generated , he said in his speech .
i m responsible for the deployment of thousands of young americans to battle in a distant land .
some will kill , and some will be killed .
and so i come here with an acute sense of the costs of armed conflict .
among suu kyi s critics is tutu who , in a sept. 7 letter to his dearly beloved younger sister writes : if the political price of your ascension to the highest office in myanmar is your silence , the price is surely too steep .
on sept. 19 , suu kyi condemned rights abuses in rakhine state and said violators would be punished .
while western diplomats and aid officials welcomed the tone of her message , some doubted if she had done enough to deflect global criticism .
dan smith , the director of the stockholm international peace research institute , said the 1991 nobel peace prize might even have harmed the rohingya .
she has an aura , he said of suu kyi , adding that maybe her stellar international reputation masked the true awfulness of abuses over many years of the rohingya .
when she responded to questions about the rohingya by saying why are you focusing on them , not on other issues ? , people were inclined to give her the benefit of the doubt .
suu kyi was the rare winner , like nelson mandela , to rise from political prisoner to national leader .
mandela stepped down after five years as south africa s first black president with his reputation largely unblemished , but some of his allies from the apartheid-era liberation movement faced scandals in office .
maybe it s this move from the image of the bold , heroic defender of human rights and ordinary people ... into what is inevitably a more grubby world of politics where compromises are made that tarnishes reputations , said smith .
even saints face criticism .
mother teresa , the 1979 nobel winner canonized by pope francis last year , was faulted in 1994 by british medical journal the lancet for offering neither diagnoses nor strong pain killers to dying patients in her calcutta hospice .
the decision to give the award in 2012 to the european union was criticized at the time .
brussels was then imposing tough financial bailout conditions on member greece that many economists said destroyed livelihoods .
tutu , among others , also faulted the eu as an organization that uses military force .
the risk of disappointment arises because nobel committees pick laureates for the hope they carry or a recent achievement , rather than the sum of a career , said asle sveen , a historian of the nobel peace prize .
it is a always a risk when they promote somebody , because they are getting involved in politics , he told reuters .
and they can not predict what is going to happen in the future .
that is what makes the nobel peace prize different from all the other peace prizes , said sveen .
otherwise you would give the prize to very old people just before they die .
among the favorites are parties to the 2015 iran nuclear deal , such as iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif , eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini and john kerry , the u.s. secretary of state at the time .
the deal , which saw iran agree to curbs on its nuclear program in return for the lifting of international sanctions , has been criticized by hardliners in both tehran and washington .
u.s. president donald trump called it an embarrassment to the united states in a speech at the united nations this month , and has suggested washington could repudiate it .
experts on the prize say it is precisely the sort of breakthrough among foes that the committee tends to recognize .
this is the first time that a country subjected to chapter vii ( of the u.n. charter ) has seen its situation resolved peacefully , said henrik urdal , director of the peace research institute oslo , referring to how iran s nuclear program is no longer labeled a threat by the u.n. security council .
focusing on the eu and iran would also be a signal to the united states that the iran nuclear deal has a broad support base , urdal told reporters .
other possible contenders are pope francis , syria s white helmet rescue crews , the un refugee agency unhcr and its high commissioner filippo grandi .
unhcr has already won twice .
last year s prize went to colombian president juan manuel santos for his efforts to end half a century of war that killed a quarter of million people .