brussels ( reuters ) - european union foreign ministers approved economic sanctions , including an arms embargo , on venezuela on monday , saying regional elections last month marred by reported irregularities had deepened the country s crisis .
anxious not to push caracas any closer to economic and political collapse as debt restructuring talks begin , eu governments held back from targeting any individuals .
the bloc instead left names for a later stage to try to persuade president nicholas maduro to calm the situation .
everything we do is aimed at seeking dialogue between the government and the opposition to find a democratic and peaceful solution , spain s foreign minister alfonso dastis told reporters at a meeting with his counterparts where the sanctions decision was made .
venezuelan opposition leaders said last week they would resume efforts to hold a dialogue with maduro , even though they say he previously used such talks to stall for time instead of implementing serious reform .
over the weekend , maduro had termed imminent sanctions by the bloc as stupid .
on monday , his government said the illegal and absurd eu measures were a violation of international norms .
the european institutions show their lamentable and shameful subordination to the u.s. government , it added .
spain has long pushed for sanctions on those close to maduro , whom washington accuses of installing a dictatorship and slapped sanctions on in july .
but the eu has been divided over whom to target .
the arms embargo adds venezuela to an eu list that includes north korea and syria , where european defense companies can no longer do business and to which the sale of any goods deemed as being used for repression are also banned .
britain sold 1.4 million pounds ( $ 1.83 million ) worth of arms to venezuela between may 2010 and march 2017 , according to the campaign against arms trade ( caat ) , which lobbies to end arms sales to repressive governments .
in a joint statement , all 28 eu ministers said the legal basis for individual travel bans to the eu and the freezing of any venezuelan assets in the bloc will be used in a gradual and flexible manner and can be expanded .
representatives of maduro s government were due to meet investors in caracas on monday to discuss renegotiating $ 60 billion in foreign debt .
some eu governments want to give former spanish prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero , the eu s main envoy for venezuela , another chance to try negotiations despite unsuccessful efforts in 2016 .
but in the statement , ministers said regional elections held in venezuela on oct. 15 were a turning point that had hardened the bloc s position , having taken place amid reported numerous irregularities .
the results appeared to favor maduro s ruling socialists , while polls had suggested the opposition would easily win a majority .
in the end it won only a handful of governorships , according to the pro-government electoral board .
eu ministers will decide whom to target with sanctions at a later stage , but said they would focus on security forces and government ministers and institutions accused of human rights violations and the non-respect of democratic principles or the rule of law .
experts say individual u.s. sanctions spearheaded by u.s. president donald trump , while providing strong symbolism , have had little or no impact on maduro s policies and that oil-sector and financial sanctions may be the only way to force the venezuelan government to change .