washington ( reuters ) - two republican u.s. senators who oppose the nuclear agreement with iran introduced a bill on wednesday that would keep iran from gaining even indirect access to the u.s. financial system or using u.s. dollars in business transactions .
the measure introduced by senators mark kirk and marco rubio came amid media reports that u.s. officials were moving toward allowing such transactions .
president barack obama has denied having such plans .
the legislation would prohibit the president from issuing any license for conducting an offshore u.s. dollar clearing system for iranian transactions or providing any such system with u.s. dollars .
it also would impose secondary sanctions on any financial institution found to be participating in any offshore dollar clearing system with iran .
state department spokesman mark toner acknowledged the united states was advising banks and other businesses about how to conduct business with tehran without running afoul of u.s. authorities , but that does not involve converting money to dollars .
“ these banks don ’ t want to violate existing sanctions , ” he said , “ but they are allowed to under certain condition to do business with iran , so we do consider it as an obligation on how to counsel them. ” along with some of obama ’ s fellow democrats , congressional republicans unanimously opposed the deal announced in july in which iran agreed to scale back its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief .
several lawmakers have been working on legislation since to keep tight controls on iran , especially over its repeated ballistic missile tests since late last year .
u.s. representative ed royce , the republican chairman of the house foreign affairs committee , published a column in the washington post on wednesday saying obama was so eager to preserve a signature foreign policy agreement that he would consider measures that would let iran “ launder dollars while the administration looked the other way. ” the issue is particularly potent in this u.s. election year , when americans will pick a new president , and every member of the house and one-third of senators are up for re-election .
the three remaining republican presidential candidates have all vowed to tear up or back away from the nuclear deal , which obama administration officials say would be calamitous .
rubio suspended his 2016 presidential campaign last month , and kirk ’ s senate re-election race is seen as one of this year ’ s most competitive .