sofia ( reuters ) - bulgaria should tighten rules on foreign financing for religious communities and restrict visits by foreign clerics to help counter the potential spread of radical islam , deputy prime minister krasimir karakachanov said on thursday .
karakachanov is a co-leader of the nationalist united patriots , a junior partner in the coalition government that is known for its tough rhetoric on migration and bulgaria s roma .
he said proposals to parliament to amend laws on religion and education as well as the criminal code would be submitted by the end of the year .
bulgaria s government banned the wearing of full face veils in public places last year .
bulgaria has one of the biggest muslim communities in europe at about 12 percent of its 7.1 million population a legacy of almost 500 years of ottoman turkish rule that ended in the late 19th century .
historic resistance to the muslim ottomans is a core element of national identity for the mainly orthodox christian majority and some nationalists have cast the recent arrival of muslim migrants via turkey as a threat to the nation s security .
it turns out that problems we see in a number of european countries already exist in bulgaria , karakachanov said after a meeting to discuss how to prevent the spread of radical islam in the country .
he said extremely liberal laws were allowing the spread of non-traditional islam through the private provision of education and training .
it is mostly the ... financing by private structures of religious communities that attempt to realize political influence in the country , karakachanov said .
many islamist organizations in europe are financed largely with foreign donations .
karakachanov has previously complained that many imams preaching in bulgaria come from abroad and do not speak bulgarian , and has spoken of fostering native imams who are more deeply integrated into bulgarian society .
the wave of mainly muslim refugees and migrants reaching europe s borders over the past years has contributed to a rise in right-wing nationalism across the continent .