in normal times , americans would demand these jihad compounds be shut down .
but we re not living in normal times .
americans have been bullied into submission by the leftist shame police .
we ve been told we re racists and islamophobes for even suggesting islamic terrorists have any ties to islam .
our government tells us , if you see something , say something .
but beware of the wrath of the left if you say something against someone who happens to be part of the protected victim class .
if the fact that there are 23 jihad training camps within u.s. borders isn t frightening enough , the fact that president barack obama has done absolutely nothing about them should be.according to a document released by the clarion project , 23 confirmed terrorist jihad compounds belonging to jamaat ul-fuqra , a pakastan muslim brotherhood and al qaeda-related organization , were operating within our own borders.the group of muslims of america ( moa ) are documented to have a connection to terrorism with training inside the united states .
there was a 2002 unsolved murder at one of these compounds in texas .
when the clarion project obtained the 2007 fbi document detailing the texas enclave of moa , what they found was deeply disturbing.the organization says it has a network of 22 villages around the u.s. , with islamberg as its main headquarters in new york .
theclarion project obtained secret moa footage showing female members receiving paramilitary training at islamberg .
it was featured on the kelly file on fox news channel in october .
a second moa tape released by clarion shows its spokesman declaring the u.s. to be a muslim-majority country.a 2007 fbi record states that moa members have been involved in at least 10 murders , one disappearance , three firebombings , one attempted firebombing , two explosive bombings and one attempted bombing.it states : the moa is now an autonomous organization which possesses an infrastructure capable of planning and mounting terrorist campaigns overseas and within the u.s .
the documented propensity for violence by this organization supports the belief the leadership of the moa extols membership to pursue a policy of jihad or holy war against individuals or groups it considers enemies of islam , which includes the u.s. government .
members of the moa are encouraged to travel to pakistan to receive religious and military/terrorist training from sheikh gilani .
the document also says that , the moa is now an autonomous organization which possesses an infrastructure capable of planning and mounting terrorist campaigns overseas and within the u.s. ~clarion projectjamaat ul-fuqra is known to be an extremely militant group of international terrorists .
the compounds allaegedly provide paramilitary training to new recruits for jihad against america.the document also claimed that jamaat ul-fuqra was an autonomous organization which possesses an infrastructure capable of planning and mounting terrorist campaigns overseas and within the u.s .
this document was obtained in 2007 , but still nothing has been done about these compounds or their activities.if you re wondering why , the answer lies with our very own president and department of homeland security , which refuse to classify jamaat ul-fuqra as a foreign terrorist organization even though plenty of evidence proving they are terrorists reportedly exists.the fact that obama has done nothing to stop these groups only reinforces the notion that he chooses to support muslim interests over american interests , and that is disturbing in every way.what kind of president allows this kind of training to happen in his own backyard ? this is as good a reason as any for americans to exercise their second amendment rights .
if our president is more worried about being politically correct than he is the safety of our country , then the people deserve the right to defend themselves.via : conservative tribune