brasilia ( reuters ) - former brazilian senator and environmental minister marina silva said on saturday that she would seek her party s nomination to run for president next year .
silva announced her plans at a meeting of her sustainability network party , or rede , which would officially nominate her at its national convention in april .
the 59-year-old environmentalist , born into a rubber-tapping community in the amazon rainforest , was minister under former president luiz inacio lula da silva .
she has run in the previous two presidential elections but never made it to a second-round vote .
silva said she would seek her party s nomination because brazilians want a country free of corruption and that she had the ethical bearings to deliver on that .
supporters have praised her as brazil s most principled politician , which could play a large role in the next election .
since early 2014 , brazilian prosecutors and police have carried out an unprecedented anti-corruption drive that has revealed political graft touching every major party , but not silva s. silva has remained committed to fiscal responsibility , inflation targeting and a floating exchange rate , the so-called tripod of economic policies that gave brazil stability after a period of rampant inflation and erratic growth in the 1990s .
in the latest election survey conducted by the respected datafolha polling institute and published saturday on the folha de s.paulo newspaper s website , silva ranked third , with 10 percent of respondents saying they would vote for her .
but that poll included lula as a possible candidate .
lula was convicted in a corruption trial in july .
if a higher court upholds that conviction before the october election , he could not run .
without lula , the datafolha poll had silva trailing right-wing candidate jair bolsonaro , a federal lawmaker who won 21 percent approval , compared with her 16 percent .
datafolha interviewed 2,765 voters across brazil on nov. 29-30 .
the poll had a two-percentage-point margin of error .
in the 2010 election , silva , then with the green party , took a surprising 20 percent of the first-round vote , but it was not enough to push her into a runoff with eventual winner dilma rousseff .
in 2014 , she ran for vice president on the brazilian socialist party ticket headed by eduardo campos , who died when his campaign plane crashed just two months before the election .
silva took his spot and won 21 percent in the first round , again missing out on a runoff .