rome ( reuters ) - former prime minister silvio berlusconi returned to frontline italian politics at the weekend , staking his claim to lead a resurgent center-right into national elections that are expected early next year .
at exactly the same moment , berlusconi s outspoken ally , matteo salvini , was addressing his northern league party and laying down his own marker to become the next prime minister .
salvini premier read a sign stuck to the lectern .
in reality , neither man looks likely to head the next government if they pull off an election victory , and possible alternative candidates are already emerging .
there is an apparent power struggle going on between berlusconi and salvini , but it will not get out of hand .
they know a violent clash would be suicidal with voters , said piero ignazi , politics professor at bologna university .
the truth is both men will remain head of their respective parties , but they won t be the next prime minister , he said .
this would open the way for a consensus candidate who would have to bridge the huge divergences between the three main rightist parties from the fierce anti-eu agenda put forward by both the northern league and brothers of italy to the pro-european vision embraced by berlusconi on sunday .
latest opinion polls show this trio of long-standing allies are pulling ahead in the polls and predicted to win a combined 35 percent of the vote , with the anti-migrant northern league just ahead of berlusconi forza italia on some 15 percent .
by contrast , the anti-establishment 5-star movement and ruling center-left democratic party ( pd ) are seen on around 28 percent apiece .
the 5-star has ruled out any coalition alliances and the center-left pool of votes is shrinking as various leftist parties engage in ferocious infighting .
under the current electoral system no party or bloc looks like winning enough seats to govern alone .
however , political analysts say the wind is filling the center-right s sails after years of adverse conditions , giving it pre-election momentum .
berlusconi ignominiously resigned from power in 2011 during a sovereign debt crisis .
mired in sex scandals and legal woes , he was subsequently expelled from the senate and banned from running for office due to a 2013 tax fraud conviction .
open heart surgery last year left most analysts writing his political obituary .
but not for the first time , the media tycoon , now 81 , bounced back and has appealed to the european court of human rights to overturn the ban on seeking election .
a hearing is scheduled for november , but a verdict is unlikely to come for several months , meaning he almost certainly will not be able to stand in the next national ballot , which is due by may 2018 and widely expected to be held in march .
despite his age , berlusconi would love to be prime minister again .
it would be his last hurrah .
but realistically speaking , it is not about to happen , said a forza italia official , who declined to be named because of the sensitivity of the issue .
significantly , berlusconi made his political comeback speech at an event organized by forza italia stalwart antonio tajani , the president of the european parliament .
party sources said tajani was in pole position to be berlusconi s surrogate .
while berlusconi s name abroad evokes memories of bunga bunga sex parties and wisecracks , tajani is a much less colorful character , whose pro-european instincts would make him a reassuring figure for international markets .
those very same instincts would pose a problem for berlusconi s hardline allies , who have regularly denounced the european union and have called for italy to quit the euro .
the leader of the center-right needs to be chosen through a clear process , perhaps a primary , giorgia meloni , the head of brothers of italy , told sky italia television on sunday .
i imagine that whatever grassroots method you decide , tajani will not win out , she said .
brothers of italy is a small , nationalist party , which is anti-migrant and anti-euro .
it tries to differentiate itself from the league by saying it focuses on the whole country , not just the wealthy north .
buoyed by the league s strong poll numbers , salvini says the leader of the party which wins the most votes next year should automatically be the prime ministerial candidate .
but berlusconi , a four-times premier , has ruled out handing over the baton of power to salvini , who has embraced europe s far-right and endorsed france s national front .
we created the center-right in italy and we have always been its leader , laying out and fulfilling its program , berlusconi said on sunday .
the two men have not spoken for months , saying they are in no hurry to discuss strategy .
political analysts have speculated that the pro-business forza italia might find it easier to create a government of national unity with former prime minister matteo renzi s pd party rather than the populist northern league .
forza italia loyalists reject this notion .
we ruled with the northern league for years in national government and we are ruling with them now in the regions and it is going well , said forza italia lawmaker deborah bergamini .
one such regional coalition is in liguria , headed by forza italia s giovanni toti .
he attended both the forza italia and northern league rallies at the weekend and is due to take part in a brothers of italy meeting this weekend .
toti has been carefully building bridges between the three parties and would be a natural choice to head any national coalition , bologna university s ignazi said .