barcelona ( reuters ) - the spanish government has urged catalans to accept madrid s decision to dismiss their secessionist leadership and to take control of the restive region , as the nation s biggest political crisis in decades enters a decisive week .
spain s foreign minister made the comment on sunday , a day after madrid vowed to take the unprecedented step of firing the catalonia government , in a last resort to thwart the region s push for independence and to calm fears of unrest and economic turmoil in the heart of the euro zone .
catalan president carles puigdemont rejected madrid s decision , to be implemented this week , and thousands of pro-independence protesters marched in barcelona on saturday .
the regional parliament s speaker , carme forcadell , said she too would not accept madrid s move and accused spanish prime minister mariano rajoy of staging a coup .
spanish foreign minister alfonso dastis responded on sunday with the call to obey madrid .
all the government is trying to do , and reluctantly , is to reinstate the legal order , to restore the constitution but also the catalan rules and proceed from there , dastis told bbc tv .
we are going to establish the authorities who are going to rule the day-to-day affairs of catalonia according to the catalan laws and norms ...
i hope everyone will disregard whatever instructions they will be planning to give because they will not have the legal authority to do that .
however , dastis sought to calm nerves in the region , saying madrid would not conduct arrests among the pro-independence leadership , though two prominent secessionists were detained on court order this month on allegations of sedition .
we are not going to arrest anyone , he said .
catalonia s leaders say they will not accept direct rule imposed by madrid , raising the prospect that they and their supporters will seek to defy the spanish government when the time comes to remove them from office .
rajoy s use of special constitutional powers still needs senate approval in a session set for friday .
once it gains the expected approval , madrid can take full control of catalonia s finances , police and public media and curb the powers of the regional parliament for up to six months , until fresh regional elections .
street protests for and against independence in catalonia have involved hundreds of thousands of people .
though a violent crackdown by national police during catalonia s oct. 1 independence vote left hundreds injured , according to regional authorities , the protests have remained peaceful so far .
but rajoy s unprecedented plan to use special constitutional powers has angered both sides and raised concern over the potential for unrest if catalan leaders resist and call for civil disobedience .
they have not done that , but investors are worried about the possible fallout from such moves in a region that makes up a fifth of spain s economy .
hundreds of companies have shifted their headquarters outside the region and madrid has made downward revisions to its economic forecasts .
mikel lekue , a 24-year-old spaniard studying in barcelona , said he did not support catalan independence but criticized rajoy s tactics in invoking article 155 of the national constitution for the first time to take control of a region .
i don t agree with article 155 .
for all the errors the catalan government has made , and they have made many , i don t think the solution is to remove catalan autonomy , he said as he walked in central barcelona with a friend .
i think they need to sit down and talk .
rajoy , who acted with backing from king felipe and the main opposition party in madrid , said the crisis was jeopardizing political and economic stability in the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .
puigdemont , who made a symbolic declaration of independence on oct. 10 after the referendum , called rajoy s move the worst attacks against the people of catalonia since spain s military dictatorship .
he stopped short of saying he would make good his threat to push ahead with a parliamentary vote on independence before direct rule takes effect .
but he has called the catalan parliament to meet next week to agree on a response to madrid , something many observers said could pave the way for a formal declaration of independence .
the regional assembly is expected to decide on monday when it will hold a session .
several influential catalan newspapers called on puidgemont on sunday to resolve the crisis by calling a snap election before direct rule becomes effective .
however , an opinion poll published by the el periodico newspaper on sunday showed a snap election would probably have results similar to the last ballot , in 2015 , when a coalition of pro-independence parties formed a minority government .
catalan government spokesman jordi turull , however , told catalan radio this was not an option and instead suggested that the parliament could move forward with secession .
catalonia will be what decides the parliament , which is the legitimate representative of the citizens , and not what others decide , turull said .