hyderabad , india ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s daughter ivanka trump kicked off a global business summit in southern india on tuesday calling for better opportunities for women entrepreneurs battling heavy odds around the world .
ivanka , also an informal adviser to her father , received a warm welcome in india s high-tech hub of hyderabad with all the trappings of a state guest .
prime minister narendra modi joined her in the opening of the u.s.-backed global entrepreneurship summit which new delhi is hoping will further boost political and economic ties with the united states under the trump administration .
ivanka , wearing a bright green floral dress , said fuelling the growth of women-led businesses and closing the gender entrepreneurship gap could help expand global gdp by 2 percent .
women still face steep obstacles to starting , owning and growing their businesses .
we must ensure women entrepreneurs have access to capital , access to networks and mentors , ivanka said to loud cheers from a packed audience in a heavily-guarded conference center .
in developing countries , 70 percent of women-owned smaller businesses were being denied access to capital , she said , leading to a near $ 300 billion annual credit deficit for them .
ges is an event conceived by former u.s. president barack obama .
it has previously been held in countries such as the united states and turkey , but this year s edition is the first under the trump administration .
the theme of the conference this year is women first , prosperity for all .
more than half the participants at the summit are women , and all-female delegations are representing countries such as afghanistan , israel and saudi arabia .
ivanka , who ran an eponymous clothing and jewelry business before becoming an adviser in the white house , has made women s issues one of her main policy areas .
she cited a harvard business review report that found that in the united states investors ask men questions about their potential for gains , whereas they ask women questions about their potential for loss .
billboards with pictures of ivanka dotted many parts of hyderabad which is also home to major u.s. firms such as microsoft ( msft.o ) .
in recent days , authorities took beggars off city streets in a clean-up drive before the meeting , media said .
more than 10,000 police officials were deployed in the city and sniffer dogs as well as spotters , or men trained to detect any suspicious activity or people , were on stand by , a police officer said .
on the sidelines , ivanka held talks with modi , as well as indian foreign minister sushma swaraj .
later she toured the conference center with modi and met a few entrepreneurs , before watching traditional indian dance performances in the inaugural session .
this event not only connects the silicon valley with hyderabad but also show-cases the close ties between the united states of america and india .
it underlines our shared commitment toward encouraging entrepreneurship and innovation , modi said .
india has become a major market for the united states , with two-way trade of about $ 115 billion last year .
they aim to raise that to $ 500 billion by 2022 .
military and strategic ties are also improving as china s influence rises in asia and beyond .
the trump administration sees india as a strategic partner and wants to engage with india more .
when you look at sending of ivanka trump , it is sending a very strong signal , said mukesh aghi , president of the us-india strategic partnership forum .