a san antonio , texas school is under fire for an outrageous skit portraying the assassination of president-elect donald trump by two 10th grade students .
the skit provoked outrage from the parents of a student who watched it unfold last week .
harold and melinda bean said that in the skit , entitled the assassination of donald trump , one of the boys made a gunfire sound effect with his cell phone as the other boy , portraying trump , fell to the ground in mock death.melina bean made a great point when she explained her concern that the boys weren t punish enough : younger children using their hands to simulate guns on the playground have been suspended , she said , and this was far worse .
melinda beanall of the students were required to submit descriptions of their english class presentations beforehand to be approved by their teacher , the parents said , but these two students in particular changed their skit afterward .
appropriate action was taken to reprimand both boys and their teacher , said northside isd spokesman barry perez .
the parents , however , believe more should have been done , including suspending the two students .
honestly i have run out of words to describe how angry i am and how shocked i am that they re still in school today , melinda bean said.younger children using their hands to simulate guns on the playground have been suspended , she said , and this was far worse .
the teacher apologized monday , harold bean said , but that wasn t enough .
i don t understand how the teacher can repeat an apology and be right there back at work on monday morning , he said .
though we understand she is apologetic , it does not make the situation right .
perez said campus officials investigated the incident and found that the teacher didn t condone it and stopped the skit .
but harold bean questioned why she allowed it to start once she heard the title .
pardon my language but i think that it s a bunch of b.s .
if they re going to tell you the kids were stopped , harold bean.via : mysa