tunis ( reuters ) - the bodies of 36 men found near the eastern libyan town of al-abyar in october appear to have been summarily executed by armed groups loyal to khalifa haftar s libyan national army ( lna ) , human rights watch said on wednesday .
local police found the bodies on a main road about 50 km east of benghazi in an area controlled by the lna .
shortly afterwards , the lna said it was launching an investigation .
libya is divided between rival governments and armed factions .
the lna controls most of the east , where haftar has expanded his power over the past three years , waging a long campaign against islamists and other opponents for control of benghazi .
haftar s buy-in is seen as crucial for any effective political deal to unify the oil-rich north african country , and he has been increasingly courted by western powers .
the bodies found near al-abyar were the latest in a number of such cases in eastern libya .
relatives of six of the victims told hrw they had been seized from their homes on different dates by armed groups loyal to the lna in benghazi or other locations , the u.s.-based group said in statement .
all the relatives said that the victims bore gunshot wounds and had their hands tied behind their backs , and that families had been prevented from putting up tents outside their houses in benghazi to receive guests during a traditional three-day mourning period , hrw added .
it cited a forensic investigator who reviewed pictures of 23 of the bodies as saying the injuries were consistent with executions at point-blank range .
the libyan national army s pledges to conduct inquiries into repeated unlawful killings in areas under their control in eastern libya have so far led nowhere , said eric goldstein , hrw s deputy middle east and north africa director .
the lna will be condoning apparent war crimes if their pledge to investigate the gruesome discovery in al-abyar proves to be another empty promise .
an lna spokesman gave no immediate comment .
the lna has said it is investigating the commander of an elite forces unit who is sought by the international criminal court ( icc ) for allegedly executing dozens of prisoners , though his exact whereabouts remain unclear .