manila ( reuters ) - as she announced in january 2016 that the philippines would immunize one million children with a new dengue vaccine , the nation s then health secretary janette garin boasted it was a world-first and a tribute to her country s expertise in research .
at the time , it seemed the philippines could be on the cusp of a breakthrough to combat a potentially lethal tropical virus that had been endemic in large parts of the southeast asian nation for decades .
almost two years later , the program lies in tatters and has been suspended after sanofi pasteur , a division of french drug firm sanofi , said at the end of last month the vaccine itself may in some cases increase the risk of severe dengue in recipients not previously infected by the virus .
documents reviewed by reuters that have not been disclosed until now , as well as interviews with local experts , show that key recommendations made by a philippines department of health ( doh ) advisory body of doctors and pharmacologists were not heeded before the program was rolled out to 830,000 children .
after garin s announcement , the formulary executive council ( fec ) of advisers urged caution over the vaccine because it said its safety and cost-effectiveness had not been established .
after twice meeting in january , the panel approved the state s purchase of the vaccine on feb 1 , 2016 but recommended stringent conditions , minutes of all three meetings show .
based on the available scientific evidence presented to the council , there is still a need to establish long-term safety , effectiveness and cost-effectiveness , the fec told garin in a letter on that day .
the letter was reviewed by reuters .
the fec said dengvaxia should be introduced through small-scale pilot tests and phased implementation rather than across three regions in the country at the same time , and only after a detailed baseline study of the prevalence and strains of dengue in the targeted area , the fec letter and minutes of the meetings said .
the experts also recommended that dengvaxia be bought in small batches so the price could be negotiated down .
an economic evaluation report commissioned by garin s own department had found the proposed cost of 1,000 pesos ( $ 21.29 ) per dose was not cost-effective from a public payer perspective , the minutes from the meetings reveal .
for reasons that reuters was unable to determine , these recommendations were ignored .
the doh purchased 3 million doses of dengvaxia in one lot , enough for the required three vaccinations for each child in the proposed immunization program and paid 1,000 pesos per dose , a copy of the purchase order reviewed by reuters shows .
it did conduct a limited baseline study in late february and march 2016 , but the survey looked at common illnesses rather than the prevalence of dengue , according to guidelines issued by garin s office at the time and reviewed by reuters .
garin , who was part of the government of former president benigno aquino and replaced when president rodrigo duterte took power in june , 2016 , did not respond to requests for comment on why she ignored the local experts recommendations .
a physician , garin has defended her conduct and a program that she said was implemented in accordance with who guidance and recommendations .
i understand the concern , she told philippine tv station abs-cbn on friday .
even us , we re also very angry when we learned about sanofi s announcement about severe dengue .
i m also a mother .
my child was also vaccinated .
i was also vaccinated .
doh spokesman lyndon lee suy also did not respond to text messages or questions emailed to him .
sanofi philippines declined comment on the philippines government decision .
however , dr. su-peing ng , global medical head of sanofi pasteur , told reuters : we communicated all known benefits and risks of the vaccine to the philippines government .
rontgene solante , former president of the philippines society for microbiology and infectious diseases , said health officials were motivated to end the debilitating impact of dengue on the philippines , where there are about 200,000 reported cases each year and many more unreported .
over 1,000 people died of the disease in the country last year .
two months after the fec wrote to the health secretary , the doh began immunizing one million students around the age of 10 in all three target areas in april 2016 , in accordance with its original plan but at odds with the fec s recommendations to conduct a slow roll-out of the vaccine .
the usual process for the doh that has protected our children for so many decades was not followed .
that s a fact , said susan mercado , a former philippines health department undersecretary and former senior official at the world health organization ( who ) .
who said in april 2016 that the philippines campaign appeared to meet its criteria for using dengvaxia because the targeted regions had high levels of dengue exposure ; the vaccine would be provided to children 9 years and older ; and they would each receive three doses .
who was not involved in the deliberations of the fec , according to the minutes .
it said in a statement last week that a position paper on the dengue vaccine it published in july 2016 did not include a recommendation for countries to introduce it .
now , after sanofi s warnings , who has said it agrees with the government s decision to suspend the immunization program .
the current secretary of health in the duterte administration , francisco duque , said he would carry out a thorough analysis of the fec s recommendations and the program before passing judgment .
he said the council s recommendations were not legally enforceable .
at the end of the day , the final decision is made by ( the ) secretary of health , he told reuters .
but because of the expertise that the members of the fec have , it is something that you don t want to ignore .
underpinning the concerns in 2016 about dengvaxia , since confirmed by sanofi , were fears that the vaccine would act like a primary infection for those who had never had dengue .
if they were bitten by a mosquito carrying the virus after the vaccination , it could be akin to getting dengue a second time , which often leads to far more severe symptoms and potentially death if bad cases are not treated quickly .
the concerns were first raised by noted u.s.-based tropical disease expert , dr. scott halstead , who urged both sanofi and the who to proceed with caution .
in the philippines , dr. antonio dans , an epidemiologist from the university of the philippines , led a delegation of physicians to the doh in march 2016 where , citing halstead s research , they pressed for the campaign to be aborted .
the data was not definitive but it was clear there were uncertainties and risks .
why not wait for the complete studies to be finished before endangering so many children ?
dans told reuters .
in a senate hearing late last year , garin said she was aware of halstead s assessment but dismissed it .
this is a theory ... it has not been proven , she said at the time .
two sources involved in the program said no antibody testing was undertaken , as recommended by the fec .
antibody testing , while not 100 percent accurate , indicates whether an individual has had dengue before .
duque , the current health secretary , is demanding the company refund the 3 billion pesos ( $ 60 million ) paid for the vaccinations and has threatened legal action against sanofi if it is proven to have withheld information .
a criminal probe is underway into how a danger to public health came about and two congressional inquiries have been convened in the philippines .
duque told reuters he was concerned that the program was paid from an off-budget allocation , meaning it bypassed congressional scrutiny .
reuters was unable to confirm this .
until now , one child out of the 830,000 vaccinated , a girl who was hospitalized with severe dengue , has been linked definitively by the doh to the campaign .
but the department of health says it still does not have complete data on those who fell ill after taking dengvaxia .