an iraqi interpreter who put his life on the line for the u.s. military told reporters that he likes donald trump , even though the president s executive order resulted in his airport detention .
his praise for america was even stronger.hameed khalid darweesh , 53 , was freed after spending hours at john f. kennedy airport in new york .
an ebullient darweesh also told the crowd of reporters that he thinks america is the greatest nation in the world and a symbol of freedom.hameed khalid darweesh on president trump : i like him , but i don t know .
this is a policy , i don t know .
https : //t.co/sf0zka9pim joshua chavers ( @ joshuachavers ) january 28 , 2017darweesh was one of at least 13 refugees who were detained at airports after trump signed his executive order on immigration , according to a new york representative , jerry nadler , who is working to secure their release.according to cnn , darweesh will be allowed to remain in the united states due to provisions in trump s order that allow the state and homeland security departments to admit individuals into the us on a case-by-case base for certain reasons , including when the person is already in transit and it would cause undue hardship and would not pose a threat to the security of the us .
here s a transcript of what darweesh said : first of all i want to thank the people that take care of me and support me .
they leave their family , their business , and they come to support me .
this is the humanity .
this is the soul of america .
this is what pushed me to move , leave my country and come here .
i am very , very thankful to all of the people who come to support me .
thank you very much and always , we know , america is the land of freedom .
the land of freedom , the land of the right .
so this is what took me to come here .
i am very thankful , and i am very happy .
really , i forget whatever happened to me because of those people .
america is the greatest nation , the greatest people in the world .
asked what he would say to donald trump , he responded : i like him .
but i don t know .
this is a policy , i don t know .
he is a president not a normal person .
i have a special immigration visa in my pocket , me and my family , because i worked for the u.s. government .
i support the u.s. government from the other side of the world .
heavy