since march of 2010 , the american people have had to suffer under the incredible economic burden of the affordable care act obamacare .
this legislation , passed by totally partisan votes in the house and senate and signed into law by the most divisive and partisan president in american history , has tragically but predictably resulted in runaway costs , websites that don t work , greater rationing of care , higher premiums , less competition and fewer choices .
obamacare has raised the economic uncertainty of every single person residing in this country .
as it appears obamacare is certain to collapse of its own weight , the damage done by the democrats and president obama , and abetted by the supreme court , will be difficult to repair unless the next president and a republican congress lead the effort to bring much-needed free market reforms to the healthcare industry.congress must act .
our elected representatives in the house and senate must:1 .
completely repeal obamacare .
our elected representatives must eliminate the individual mandate .
no person should be required to buy insurance unless he or she wants to.2 .
modify existing law that inhibits the sale of health insurance across state lines .
as long as the plan purchased complies with state requirements , any vendor ought to be able to offer insurance in any state .
by allowing full competition in this market , insurance costs will go down and consumer satisfaction will go up.3 .
allow individuals to fully deduct health insurance premium payments from their tax returns under the current tax system .
businesses are allowed to take these deductions so why wouldn t congress allow individuals the same exemptions ?
as we allow the free market to provide insurance coverage opportunities to companies and individuals , we must also make sure that no one slips through the cracks simply because they can not afford insurance .
we must review basic options for medicaid and work with states to ensure that those who want healthcare coverage can have it.4 .
allow individuals to use health savings accounts ( hsas ) .
contributions into hsas should be tax-free and should be allowed to accumulate .
these accounts would become part of the estate of the individual and could be passed on to heirs without fear of any death penalty .
these plans should be particularly attractive to young people who are healthy and can afford high-deductible insurance plans .
these funds can be used by any member of a family without penalty .
the flexibility and security provided by hsas will be of great benefit to all who participate.5 .
require price transparency from all healthcare providers , especially doctors and healthcare organizations like clinics and hospitals .
individuals should be able to shop to find the best prices for procedures , exams or any other medical-related procedure.6 .
block-grant medicaid to the states .
nearly every state already offers benefits beyond what is required in the current medicaid structure .
the state governments know their people best and can manage the administration of medicaid far better without federal overhead .
states will have the incentives to seek out and eliminate fraud , waste and abuse to preserve our precious resources.7 .
remove barriers to entry into free markets for drug providers that offer safe , reliable and cheaper products .
congress will need the courage to step away from the special interests and do what is right for america .
though the pharmaceutical industry is in the private sector , drug companies provide a public service .
allowing consumers access to imported , safe and dependable drugs from overseas will bring more options to consumers .