new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump ’ s odds at winning the white house improved significantly after his decisive victory in tuesday ’ s primary in new hampshire , online betting site ladbrokes plc said on wednesday .
trump ’ s odds for winning the presidency in the november election are now 9/2 , compared to 7/1 following the iowa caucuses last week .
iowa kicked off the parties ’ process of nominating their presidential candidates and in the republican race , the real estate tycoon placed second .
his chances of victory in november are now 18 percent , up from 13 percent , putting him second to democrat hillary clinton , whose odds of winning the presidency were even , or 50/50 , on wednesday .
clinton was roundly beaten by bernie sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , in new hampshire .
her odds of winning the presidency slipped from 4/5 , or a 56 percent chance at the white house , seen immediately after the iowa caucuses .
clinton , a former secretary of state , has for long been the front-runner to win the democratic nomination but has been challenged by a surge of support for sanders .
“ new hampshire couldn ’ t have worked out much better for trump , ” said matthew shaddick , head of political odds at ladbrokes .
“ this might be bad news for the republican party , but it ’ s not much better for us bookmakers , who are facing some huge payouts on the one-time 100/1 no-hoper. ” he was referring to trump ’ s 100/1 odds , giving him a 1 percent chance , when he declared his candidacy last june .
marco rubio , a u.s. senator from florida whose chances for the republican nomination improved after he did well in the iowa caucuses , faces longer odds after his middle of the pack finish in new hampshire .
according to ladbrokes , rubio ’ s odds are now 8/1 , giving him an 11 percent chance at becoming president .
after iowa , rubio ’ s odds at becoming president had been 11/4 , giving him a 26 percent chance .
ohio governor john kasich , who surged to a surprising second place finish in the new hampshire ’ s republican primary , still faces relatively long odds of 33/1 , giving him a 3 percent chance at winning the presidency .
the candidates have embarked on what can be a months-long state-by-state battle to win party support .
the parties formally announce their presidential nominees at summer conventions .
interest in kasich on social media surged - he received 30,500 mentions on twitter on tuesday , more than four times what he got during the iowa caucuses , according to brandwatch .
( reporting by anjali athavaley ; editing by frances kerry ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .