warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s president and its ruling party have reached a compromise on judicial reform , a parliamentary deputy said on friday , bringing them closer to resolving an issue that has kept them at odds for more than three months .
the government and president andrzej duda have been negotiating since july , when duda unexpectedly vetoed legislation backed by the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party to overhaul the polish court system .
we ve reached a preliminary agreement ...
i hope that in late november we could discuss the project in parliament , pis parliamentary deputy and negotiator stanislaw piotrowicz said on friday .
the proposals vetoed by duda would have immediately removed all current supreme court judges unless they had the approval of the justice minister .
parliament would have gained the right to name most of the national council of the judiciary , which would nominate future candidates to preside over the supreme court .
by giving parliament effective control over appointing - and sacking - senior judges , the proposals raised alarms in the rest of the european union , of which poland is a member .
the eu said they undermined the independence of the courts and threatened the rule of law .
the proposed compromise would still give parliament the right to name members of the national council of the judiciary , but that would require a three-fifths majority in the lower house of parliament , piotrowicz said .
opposition parties would gain the right to propose judges , too .
if candidates failed to gain approval , they could be chosen by a simple majority , he said .
the pis says the judicial system needs to be reformed because the courts are slow , inefficient and steeped in a communist-era mentality .
duda s veto of parts of the reforms and his proposed limits on its authority over the court system created a stalemate that could have stalled the party s plans to reform not just the courts but the media and the electorate system as well .
the compromise announced today still needs to be approved by the president and the leadership of pis .