phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s main opposition party was blocked from holding a memorial ceremony on wednesday for victims of a 1997 grenade attack on a political rally , with tension running high after the arrest of its leader last week .
the u.s. embassy urged its citizens to exercise caution after prime minister hun sen s government accused the united states of conspiring with opposition leader kem sokha , who has been charged with treason .
potentially further fanning anti-american sentiment , the embassy announced it had stopped issuing visas for some cambodian foreign ministry officials .
kem sokha s cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) had planned to hold a ceremony at a memorial in the capital , phnom penh , to mark an attack in which at least 16 people were killed at a rally on march 30 , 1997 organized by former opposition leader sam rainsy .
similar memorials have been permitted in previous years around the pchum ben festival , when cambodians pay respects to deceased ancestors .
we tried to hold the ceremony at the memorial and we were stopped , mu sochua , one of the cnrp s deputy presidents , told reuters .
we don t want to confront the authorities but we want to show that these are signs of intimidation , she said , adding that the ceremony was then moved to a nearby pagoda .
phnom penh s city hall spokesman met measpheakdey said the pagoda was the right place for the ceremony and the party s request to do it at the monument had been denied .
opponents of hun sen accuse him of arresting kem sokha and cracking down on independent media and other critics ahead of a general election next year in which he could face the toughest electoral challenge of more than 30 years in power .
the united states and western countries have called for kem sokha s release , drawing further anti-american rhetoric from the government .
the u.s. embassy said it had no specific warnings of security issues but urged u.s. citizens to show caution .
the embassy announced it had stopped issuing visas to some senior foreign ministry officials in a separate dispute over cambodia s refusal to continue accepting cambodian citizens the united states wants to deport china , cambodia s biggest donor and investor by far , has stood by hun sen s government .
chinese friends are like a strong back that continues to help cambodia in every circumstance so that no foreign country can break it up , hun sen said on his facebook page on wednesday after returning from a trip to china .