barack obama already had secret service detail by this point in his campaign and didn t have any credible threats to substantiate it .
it almost makes you wonder if obama has a hand in keeping these republican candidates unprotected almost.the secret service will give agent protection to ben carson and donald trump while heavily upgrading hillary clinton s existing detail , a washington source close to the agency s plans confirmed to newsmax.the deployment of agents around republican candidates trump and carson is set to begin as early as next week .
approximately two dozen agents will be assigned to each candidate.clinton , the democratic front-runner , has had secret service protection since leaving the white house as first lady in 2001 , but her detail will be heavily upgraded by the agency s move.the agency s decision was primarily triggered by a significant number of threats to carson , including death threats and terrorist chatter , the source said.the threats to the retired pediatric neurosurgeon have been off the charts , the source said .
polls show carson either tied with trump for front-runner status or in second place.armstrong williams , carson s business manager , told newsmax he could neither confirm nor deny the secret service protection .
we don t comment on security matters involving dr. carson , he said.but newsmax has learned that the secret service and other federal agencies , including the fbi , became increasingly alarmed in recent weeks as their own monitoring activities indicated that carson faced serious danger.carson caused a political brouhaha in september when he told chuck todd on nbc s meet the press that a muslim should not become president .
i would not advocate that we put a muslim in charge of this nation .
i absolutely would not agree with that , carson said .
he later clarified his remarks , saying any muslim who believed in sharia law should be disqualified from serving in the oval office.the source said there was evidence that home-grown terrorists might be targeting a major political candidate like carson .
the secret service approached the carson campaign to offer federal protection.both carson and his campaign strongly resisted the secret service s request at first , the source said.but then carson reluctantly agreed to the deployment of agents after the agency warned of grave danger and shared certain intelligence .
it is widely believed isis would like to strike a major political target in the u.s. , the source said .
the fbi has not offered such an assessment publicly.but earlier this week , fbi director james comey told reporters in the cincinnati area that the bureau s efforts to monitor isis activities continue 24 hours a day.he added that the islamic state group is encouraging potential u.s.-based supporters to either come to syria or if you can t come , kill where you are .
unlike carson , republican front-runner trump has officially requested secret service protection.the billionaire noted that he has drawn by far the biggest crowds of any candidate at his events .
he also said that president barack obama had received protection at this stage of his first campaign in 2008 .
i want to put them on notice because they should have a liability , trump told the hill .
personally , i think if obama were doing as well as me he would ve had secret service [ earlier ] .
obama , who was an illinois senator during the 2008 contest , received secret service protection on may 3 , 2007 , with law enforcement officials saying that the protection was not approved because of any specific threats.in july , shortly after trump criticized the mexican government for the escape of drug lord joaquin el chapo guzman from a maximum-security prison , a twitter account linked to guzman issued a threat against the billionaire : keep f king around and i m gon na make you swallow your whore words you f king whitey milks tter .
earlier this month telesur , a latin american television network based in venezuela , reported uncorroborated claims that el chapo has placed a $ 100 million bounty on trump to encourage his assassination.eric trump , one of the candidate s three sons , also expressed concerns about his father s safety on the campaign trail .
trump has five children .
my father s my best friend , eric trump told fox news on friday .
he s my idol .
he s my boss .
we work side by side .
we spend every weekend together , he added .
he s really my best friend in the world .
the younger trump estimated that as many as 30,000 or more people have been attending trump rallies .
via : newsmax