berlin ( reuters ) - germans are far more satisfied with the direction of their country and less politically polarized than other european nations , a survey showed on wednesday , underscoring why angela merkel is expected to win a new term as chancellor this month .
the survey by the bertelsmann foundation showed that 59 percent of germans believe their country is headed in the right direction .
some 77 percent say their personal economic situation has improved or stayed the same over the past two years , while 80 percent describe themselves as political centerists .
the results contrast with other european countries where dissatisfaction with the economy and political establishment has led to a surge in support for populist parties on the right and left in recent years .
by contrast , german voters seem keen for continuity .
merkel is widely expected to win a record-tying fourth term on sept. 24 , with polls showing her center-right bloc 13-15 percentage points ahead of its closest rival , the social democrats ( spd ) .
these findings point to a highly content and status quo oriented german society and contrast starkly with the situation elsewhere in europe , the authors catherine de vries and isabell hoffmann said .
in italy , for example , just 13 percent of respondents said they were satisfied with the direction of their country .
in france and britain , satisfaction levels stood at 36 and 31 percent , respectively .
the average satisfaction level across the 28 countries in the eu was 36 percent .
both germany and france showed sharp increases in satisfaction levels over the past months .
in a survey conducted in march , before young centrist emmanuel macron was elected president , just 12 percent of french said their country was headed in the right direction .
german satisfaction levels stood at 32 percent in march .
among the big european countries , france was the most politically polarized , with just 51 percent of respondents describing themselves as centrist .
some 24 percent identified as left or extreme left , while 25 percent described themselves as right or extreme right .
in germany , just 13 percent of respondents described themselves as left or extreme left , and only 7 percent as right or extreme right .
the bertelsmann survey was conducted in july and based on interviews with 10,755 europeans in all eu member states .