washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. military will fight islamic state in syria as long as they want to fight , defense secretary jim mattis said on monday , describing a longer-term role for u.s. troops long after the insurgents lose all of the territory they control .
as u.s.-backed and russian-backed forces battle to retake the remaining pockets of islamic state-held terrain , mattis said the u.s. military s longer-term objective would be to prevent the return of an isis 2.0 .
the enemy hasn t declared that they re done with the area yet , so we ll keep fighting as long as they want to fight , mattis said , speaking to reporters at the pentagon about the future of u.s. operations in syria .
he also stressed the importance of longer-term peace efforts , suggesting u.s. forces aimed to help set the conditions of a diplomatic solution in syria , now in its seventh year of civil war .
we re not just going to walk away right now before the geneva process has traction , he added .
u.s. president donald trump and russian president vladimir putin affirmed joint efforts to stabilize syria as its civil war wanes , including with the expansion of a july 7 truce in the southwestern triangle bordering israel and jordan .
mattis said he believed the southwestern zone was working , and spoke hopefully about additional areas in the future that might allow for more refugees to return home .
you keep broadening them .
try to ( demilitarize ) one area then ( demilitarize ) another and just keep it going , try to do the things that will allow people to return to their homes , he told reporters at the pentagon .
he declined to enter into specifics about any future zones .
russia , which has a long-term military garrison in syria , has said it wants foreign forces to quit the country eventually .
turkey said on monday the united states had 13 bases in syria and russia had five .
the u.s-backed syrian ypg kurdish militia has said washington has established seven military bases in areas of northern syria .
the u.s.-led coalition says it does not discuss the location of its forces .
one key aim for washington is to limit iranian influence in syria and iraq , which expanded during the war with islamic state .