washington ( reuters ) - democratic u.s .
senator elizabeth warren released on friday a report criticizing what she called “ shockingly weak ” punishments for corporate crimes and condemned the justice department and securities and exchange commission for their lax approach .
warren , in a 13-page report titled “ rigged justice , ” outlined 20 civil and criminal cases from 2015 that she said illustrated patterns of weak and problematic enforcement of white-collar crimes , either as a result of “ limited resources or lack of political will. ” “ the obama administration has made repeated promises to strengthen enforcement and hold corporate criminals accountable , and the doj announced in september that it would place greater emphasis on charging individuals responsible for corporate crimes , ” warren wrote .
“ nonetheless ... accountability for corporate crimes is shockingly weak. ” warren , a favorite among progressives , criticized the justice department and federal law enforcement agencies for rarely prosecuting individuals .
she called the sec “ particularly feeble ” and said loose regulation at other agencies often turns legal rules into suggestions , which companies can freely ignore .
warren said federal law is unambiguous in stating that if a corporation has committed a violation , individuals working there also must be at fault , but that federal agencies rarely pursue convictions of large corporations or their executives .
“ if justice means a prison sentence for a teenager who steals a car but it means nothing more than a sideways glance at a ceo who quietly engineers the theft of billions of dollars , then the promise of equal justice under the law has turned into a lie , ” she wrote .
“ the contrast between the treatment of highly paid executives and everyone else couldn ’ t be sharper. ” the report , which warren said will be the first in an annual series on enforcement , described low-punishment cases ranging from for-profit colleges engaging in deceptive recruitment practices to general motors covering up years of ignition switch problems in its vehicles .
another example listed was the upper big branch mine disaster , in which massey energy ceo donald blankenship was convicted of one misdemeanor following a mine explosion that killed 29 people , despite his company ’ s history of safety failures .