mombasa , kenya ( reuters ) - kenyan police raided an islamic school on tuesday , arresting two teachers and taking around 100 children into protective custody in what police described as a counter-terrorism operation involving foreign law-enforcement agencies .
police described the school in likoni , south of the port city of mombasa , as a center for indoctrinating young men and children with militant ideology .
the place has been monitored for a long time , said a police source who asked not to be named .
the police spokesman was unavailable for comment .
kenya is mostly christian but has a large islamic population .
it is relatively free from religious tension , although it has suffered repeated deadly attacks from somali islamist extremists .
a local muslim leader confirmed the operation but said there was no evidence of any illegal activity .
a group of local and foreign police officers raided the madrasa ( islamic school ) where the pupils were sleeping and took them with their teachers , sheikh hassan omar , a senior official in the council of imams and preachers of kenya ( cipk ) , an umbrella body for kenya s religious leaders , told journalists in mombasa .
there are nearly 100 pupils and four madrasa teachers who have been arrested and detained at police headquarters and nobody is telling us what crime they have committed .
it was not immediately clear why the police and cipk gave different totals for the number of teachers arrested .
omar said the officers asked for identification documents , including birth certificates from the children , and their teachers before they took them .
another police source told reuters the operation was sparked by intelligence information that both foreign and local children were being indoctrinated in the school .
we have been assisted by some friends from outside with information and monitoring of this madrasa .
that is normal with such cross-border criminal issues , said another senior police officer , who also asked not to be named .
he did say which foreign country was involved in the raid .
they ( the children ) will be released one by one after we interrogate and clear them , he said .