new york ( reuters ) - donald trump was the big winner across social media on thursday night during the seventh republican presidential debate - despite the fact that he did not attend .
in all , trump commanded 36 percent of the twitter traffic during the debate , according to the social media company .
the real estate billionaire tweeted on friday : “ great twitter poll-and i wasn ’ t even there .
thank you ! ” trump was also the most searched-for candidate on google during the debate , according to data supplied by the search engine , which co-sponsored the event with fox news .
senator ted cruz of texas , senator marco rubio of florida , retired neurosurgeon ben carson and former florida governor jeb bush also gained traction on google .
trump boycotted the event after fox news refused to yield to his demand that network anchor megyn kelly be replaced as a moderator .
after fox news issued a sarcastic news release about the contretemps , trump hosted his own event in des moines , a fund-raiser for veterans .
he was rewarded with positive social media buzz .
not long after he took the stage on thursday night at his event at drake university , a group of protesters chanted loudly .
trump responded : “ i love the protesters in the big arena because the cameras ( don ’ t move away from ) my face. ” that quip won him praise on social media , and his twitter sentiment measured largely positive during the event , according to social media analytics firm zoomph .
“ an unbelievable night in iowa with our great veterans ! ” donald trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) tweeted on thursday .
“ we raised $ 6,000,000.00 while the politicians talked ! ” to be sure , he failed to garner as much attention on twitter as the last time he was on a debate stage .
according to brandwatch , a social media monitoring company , trump received roughly 130,000 twitter mentions during the debate .
this marked a roughly 40,000-tweet decline from the previous gop debate - which he attended .
while trump led the field in terms of mentions , yik yak , a location-based mobile app popular with millennials , said on friday that senator rand paul of kentucky had the highest approval rating with app users at 73.6 percent .
at the debate , cruz came out swinging against trump in his initial comments , mocking the tycoon ’ s penchant for brash criticism .
“ i ’ m a maniac , and everyone on this stage is stupid , fat and ugly , ” joked cruz , in an effort to , as he put it , get “ the donald trump portion ” of the program out of the way .
cruz ’ s joke became one of the standout moments in the first half of the debate , gaining momentum on twitter among news outlets and average twitter users .
the debate moved on to discussion of substantive issues .
foreign affairs , national security , immigration , reproductive rights and healthcare were the most tweeted-about topics during the debate , according to twitter .