in march 2015 , only months after detroit emerged from largest municipal bankruptcy filing in american history , the democrat detroit city clerk janice winfrey , who was making over $ 73,000 per year , and had access to take-home city-owned car boldly asked the city to give her a raise .
winfrey argued that , i oversee a budget of $ 13 million and approximately 200 full- and part-time employees .
she told wwj s charlie langton that the timing might be terrible but she feels justified .
she claimed people should consider all of her responsibilities.on march 30 , 2015 a compensation panel on monday agreed that the overworked janice winfrey s pay should be increased to $ 78,761 per year.but how hard did janice winfrey really work and did she really deserve a raise ? michigan s largest county voted overwhelmingly for democratic candidate hillary clinton , but officials couldn t reconcile vote totals for 610 of 1,680 precincts during a countywide canvass of vote results late last month.most of those are in heavily democratic detroit , where the number of ballots in precinct poll books did not match those of voting machine printout reports in 59 percent of precincts , 392 of 662.detroit elections are a total mess !
janice winfrey should have called a news conference last january and said detroit could not run its 2016 elections effectively without people stepping up to replace aging , incapable poll workers.had she done that , the detroit city clerk , who was widely praised for transforming the department when she ousted former clerk jackie currie in 2005 , would not be facing a firestorm of criticism over mishandled voter ballots and malfunctioning machines.she also wouldn t have had some precincts where capable veterans worked alongside some people who could not read , weren t properly trained , weren t mobile and didn t know how to use new electronic polling books that long ago replaced paper sheets , one veteran polling supervisor who has worked the polls for 30 years asserted thursday .
the one thing i noticed and this is where the problem is cropping up is that a lot of folks have mobility issues and other issues , said christopher flournoy , 52 , a residential home improvement salesperson who lives in russell woods.flournoy has been working the polls since he was in his 20s , and said things are not as they should be .
i have personally been shocked when i go to training , he said .
they do provide training and you ll see people come in on walkers and with crutches , and the one thought i had is how on earth are they going to carry on their responsibilities as an elections inspector ?
the biggest problem is training and i don t like to say disparaging things but the trainers are not trained to provide instruction .
they re winging it .
they don t have people who have been trained to provide training to adults .
it becomes a gripe session about the previous election .
you get handed some materials and nobody says good luck , but that s implied .
you ll figure out as you go along .
the average age of poll workers nationwide is 68 .
detroit workers are older , winfrey said earlier this week .
and the work is grueling 15-18 hours with only two one-hour meal times and two other 15-minute breaks .
we re getting older folks doing it because they ve always done it like me , and we re getting another group doing it because it s an easy way to make a $ 150 , flournoy said .
i ve had workers in precincts i supervise who couldn t read .
they absolutely could not read and couldn t operate the computer , he said , adding that winfrey should return to giving the aptitude test she created when she was first elected .
that s where it goes back to training .
training is supposed to be mandatory , but i ve had people to show up and say no , i didn t do training , but they gave me a credential .
read more : dfp