washington/new york - democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton has spent about $ 15 per vote so far in the race for the party ’ s nomination , less than her rival bernie sanders , who spent $ 22 , according to campaign finance reports filed on wednesday .
clinton ’ s efficiency with money could offset concern among some of her backers that sanders , the u.s .
senator from vermont , has outraised her in each of the last two months as he wages a fierce fight to get onto the presidential ballot .
the former first lady ’ s campaign has spent a total of $ 157.8 million since launching last april and has yielded a total of 10.4 million votes in state nominating contests .
that includes $ 28.7 million for 8.7 million votes in march , the filings show .
sanders , in turn , has spent $ 168.4 million since launching his bid for the white house , while netting 7.7 million votes .
sanders ’ campaign has often touted its ability to tap a large number of small donors to outraise clinton .
in march , sanders pulled in nearly $ 46 million from 900,000 people , with an average donation of just over $ 26 , it said .
that compared to $ 29.3 million for clinton in march , from 400,000 people .
some 96 percent of sanders ’ donors have given less in total than the $ 2,700 maximum , according to his campaign , meaning he can go back to them for more funds .
some of clinton ’ s backers say they are nervous about her campaign ’ s fundraising strategy of relying heavily on donors who are able to write big checks , and who max out more quickly .
“ i think we ’ re going to see her doing more small dollar fund raisers , ” said lorraine hariton , who has raised more than $ 100,000 for the campaign .
but the clinton campaign ’ s spending efficiency has helped it preserve a warchest .
at the end of march , clinton had $ 29 million left in the bank — more than anyone else running for president .
sanders had just $ 17 million .
preserving the war chest is crucial for clinton ’ s chance of winning the white house in the general election against a republican , letting her campaign effectively in swing states , attack her opponent ’ s vulnerabilities and defend her own .
should she face off against republican front-runner donald trump , she will need a bank account sufficient to compete with a candidate who has mastered the knack of earning free coverage .
approaching the end of the primary campaign with a surplus is a far different scenario from the one in which clinton found herself at the end of her failed 2008 bid for the nomination against barack obama , when she ended up $ 9.5 million in debt .
an example of the campaign ’ s frugality : it cut advertising spending by $ 5 million to $ 12 million in march , a month heavy with primaries and caucuses , by using more digital advertising instead of television ads .
clinton spent only $ 1.6 million on digital ads .
the campaign also reduced real estate costs and limited increases in payroll as it staffed up .
“ we set ambitious goals to ensure we ’ d have the resources we need to win a competitive primary and we ’ ve blown past every goal , recently surpassing the million-donor mark , ” spokesman josh schwerin said .