white house counselor kellyanne conway has previously said to take alleged president donald trump s tweets seriously but now , she thinks the media should stop reporting about his crazy-time messages on the social media site .
aides agree with her .
pay no attention to his mean-girl tweets .
but , the former reality show star wants his tweets to be taken seriously .
trump wrote tuesday morning , the fake msm is working so hard trying to get me not to use social media .
they hate that i can get the honest and unfiltered message out .
the fake msm is working so hard trying to get me not to use social media .
they hate that i can get the honest and unfiltered message out .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 6 , 2017that s something we can agree with trump on .
keep tweeting , amateur .
former fbi director james comey is testifying in two days and trump s twitter timeline is a goldmine for investigators looking into his possible collusion with russia to interfere in the 2016 election .
in addition , every time white house officials are interviewed to defend their boss , trump inevitably tweets out messages which debunk their defense.twitter users responded because trump is cray , that s why .
`` honest '' like yesterday when trump blamed ds for obstructing confirmation of ambassadors he has n't even nominated https : //t.co/lrsajg2ugf robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) june 6 , 2017when the mayor of london told his city to not be alarmed by the police presence following the terror attack , trump took his words out of context on twitter to attack our ally.or the other moments of `` honesty '' when trump insinuated that the mayor had said not to be alarmed about a terrorist attack pic.twitter.com/vlxvrdxhfz robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) june 6 , 2017trump claims to use twitter so his honest message can be relayed to the public .
you know , like his inaugural crowd size and covfefe.unfiltered like covfefe .
honest like 3-5 million illegal voters .
ram prasad ( @ ramprasad_c ) june 6 , 2017keep it up , sport.mate , no one wants you to stop , this is more entertaining than a pug in a squirrel suit chris york ( @ chrisdyork ) june 6 , 2017in the following tweet , trump wrote , sorry folks , but if i would have relied on the fake news of cnn , nbc , abc , cbs , washpost or nytimes , i would have had zero chance winning wh .
sorry folks , but if i would have relied on the fake news of cnn , nbc , abc , cbs , washpost or nytimes , i would have had zero chance winning wh donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 6 , 2017but trump had a little help winning the election.all you needed was russia mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) june 6 , 2017this is all a distraction.keep in mind that any tweet trump does this week is intended for one purpose only : distraction .
richard blair ( @ allspinzone ) june 6 , 2017in all seriousness , though , we do appreciate the apology .
if you had just ended it at `` sorry folks '' it would have been your best tweet ever !
ben hooper ( @ benhooperwrites ) june 6 , 2017do you still believe mexico will pay for the wall ?
morten verbye ( @ morten ) june 6 , 2017whoops ! in other things that were more helpful to your campaign than the media and twitter : pic.twitter.com/17jo9vkpnk ben hooper ( @ benhooperwrites ) june 6 , 2017it s d-day remembrance day and our idiotic fake president is tweeting about his election win.it s d-day remembrance day and all you re whining on about is winning the election .
you re pathetic .
emma kennedy ( @ emmakennedy ) june 6 , 2017honestly just shut the fuck up please brittany van horne ( @ _brittanyv ) june 6 , 2017he thinks d-day stands for donald .
buddy winston ( @ buddywinston ) june 6 , 2017more gaslighting.more gas lighting , donald , which seems to be the only thing you re good at .
joel l. watts ( @ ejoelwatts ) june 6 , 2017the world is laughing at us.the wh also has zero chance of winning for america as long as you are in the oval office .
pic.twitter.com/sh3kqmg6wm adam best ( @ adamcbest ) june 6 , 2017because you placate to a base that has the collective intelligence of a gravel driveway .
# trumprussia # trump # resistance pic.twitter.com/9k46ekipkn t. rafael cimino ( @ trafaelcimino ) june 6 , 2017on monday , trump held a signing event which was totally fake because he had no bills to sign.do n't forget yesterday 's fake signing of air-traffic `` legislation . ''
reality show realtor = terrible president .
mike mestas ( @ emmjayymest ) june 6 , 2017trump s tweets are quoted verbatim by the media and that angers him .
if you want to see what fake news looks like , take a peek at his twitter timeline every day .
he s a petulant 70-year-old baby with no impulse control .
trump is plagued with scandals and he s only been on the job for 137 days.featured image via win mcnamee/getty images