tunis ( reuters ) - hundreds of tunisians protested on saturday in the streets of the capital against a widely contested new law that grants officials from the former regime involved in corruption amnesty from prosecution .
tunisia s parliament on wednesday approved a law protecting officials accused of graft during the rule of autocrat zine el-abidine ben ali , triggering angry protests by the opposition and activists .
waving flags and banners saying no to forgiveness , resisting against mafia rule , around 1,500 people marched through the capital s central avenue habib bourguiba in the company of opposition leaders .
after months of protests , the law was amended from an original draft which would have also granted amnesty to corrupt businessmen .
now they will be liable to prosecution for crimes committed during ben ali s 24-year rule .
critics of the so-called economic reconciliation law say it is a step back from the spirit of tunisia s 2011 revolution to oust ben ali , who fled after weeks of protests against corruption and inequality .
the counterrevolution is being led today by the president of the republic , hamma hammami , leader of popular front party , told reuters .
the people returned to the streets again today as before the revolution and will not be silent against the corrupt system .
ruling parties ennahda and nidaa tounes supported the law .
the law was proposed by president beji caid essebsi , himself a former ben ali official , and sent to parliament in 2015 .
but debate was postponed after criticism that the original bill benefited business elites tied to the government .
government officials say the law helps to turn the page on the past , improves the climate for investment and gives confidence to the administration and officials .
slim azzabi , the director of the president s office , said reconciliation would include about 2,000 employees and officials and will contribute to additional economic growth by 1.2 percent because of returned funds .
despite the consensus between secular and islamist parties that helped the country s transition toward democracy , the bill has divided tunisians between those who want to draw a line under the past and those who say they must deal with past graft .
since the 2011 uprising , tunisia has been held up by western partners as a model of democracy for the region .
economic progress has lagged , though , and corruption remains a major problem in the north african state .