taipei ( reuters ) - taiwan and china need to drop historical baggage to seek a breakthrough in relations , taiwan president tsai ing-wen said in her first public comments since china s ruling communist party unveiled a new leadership line-up .
relations nose-dived after tsai , who leads the pro-independence democratic progressive party , took office last year , with china suspecting that she wants to push for the island s formal independence , a red line for beijing .
beijing has suspended a regular dialogue mechanism with taipei established under taiwan s previous , china-friendly government , and there has been a dramatic fall in the number of chinese tourists visiting taiwan under tsai s administration .
right now is a turning point for change .
i once again call on leaders of both sides to ... seek a breakthrough in cross-straits relations and to benefit the long-term welfare of people on both sides and to forever eliminate hostilities and conflict , tsai told a forum .
while acknowledging the changes in china s leadership announced on wednesday , tsai did not comment specifically on the composition of xi s core team .
but she reiterated that while the island s goodwill towards china would not change , taipei would not submit to pressure .
responding to tsai s speech , china s taiwan affairs office said the political basis for relations across the taiwan strait was the one china principle , which states that the mainland and taiwan are part of one china .
as long as that is recognized , there are no obstacles to any talks between the sides , the office said in a statement carried by state media .
china has been stepping up the pressure on taiwan .
this year , china s air force has carried out several rounds of drills near taiwan , prompting the island s air force to scramble fighters .
defence ministry spokesman ren guoqiang said taiwan was a part of china and the military exercises would continue as normal , adding that china was sincere in seeking peaceful reunification .
at the same time , we have the ability , confidence and means to protect the country s unity , sovereignty , security and territorial integrity , he told a monthly news conference in beijing later in the day .
chinese president xi jinping drew strong applause at last week s start of the communist party congress when he said any attempt to separate taiwan from china would be thwarted .
taipei s mainland affairs council delivered a swift response , saying it was absolutely the right of taiwan s 23 million people to decide their future .
china regards self-ruled and democratic taiwan as a wayward province , to be brought under beijing s rule by force if necessary .