it s a shame barbara boxer is leaving the senate .
a fierce defender of working families and minority communities , boxer is the kind of firebrand progressive we need in the senate .
she s also one of the funniest , apparently.in 2010 , when republicans swept the house of representatives and picked up six seats in the senate , boxer faced carly fiorina , who mounted a tough and controversial campaign to unseat boxer in california.in the end , boxer prevailed , garnering 52 percent of the vote to fiorina s 42 percent .
after that , fiorina , a sore loser , packed up and moved to virginia , leaving california behind.now she s cruz s vice presidential choice ( should he win the nomination ) .
well , with this rather unusual and obviously pandering move cruz admitted he needs fiorina to win california boxer wasn t going to hold back.taking to twitter , boxer took fiorina and ted cruz to task in the most brilliant way possible : .
@ tedcruz talks tough on iran , but his running mate was soft on iran when she skirted the law to sell them computer parts .
barbara boxer ( @ barbaraboxer ) april 27 , 2016 slogan idea for the cruz/fiorina ticket : mean & meaner barbara boxer ( @ barbaraboxer ) april 27 , 2016cruz/fiorina= a perfect match .
he wants to ship immigrants out and she s a champion at shipping jobs out .
barbara boxer ( @ barbaraboxer ) april 27 , 2016 cruz thinks fiorina will help in california .
maybe he doesn t know carly left after she lost by a million votes ?
barbara boxer ( @ barbaraboxer ) april 27 , 2016and this last one is quite possibly the best commentary on the subject : i predict that the latest @ carlyfiorina merger will be as successful as her last one .
barbara boxer ( @ barbaraboxer ) april 27 , 2016john dingell is the king of twitter , and now it appears barbara boxer is the queen .
if ted cruz thinks his new hail carly move will secure a win in california , maybe he should have considered just how much of a loser she is in california.if boxer s prediction is correct , cruz s merger with fiorina will be as successful as her last one , and donald trump will be the nominee , thus giving us president hillary clinton.featured image via alex wong/getty