for months , donald trump has denied that russia meddled in the 2016 election on his behalf .
that changed on friday night after his aides apparently failed to take his phone away from him again.in yet another twitter slip-up , trump admitted that russia did interfere with the election , and then he tried to blame it on president obama.just out : the obama administration knew far in advance of november 8th about election meddling by russia .
did nothing about it .
why ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 24 , 2017keep in mind that this tweet comes after months of trump referring to russian meddling as fake news and a hoax .
he has also accused democrats of making up an excuse for why hillary clinton lost .
as it turns out , hillary clinton lost because russian hackers messed with our democratic process.not only did russian hackers hit voting systems in 39 states across the country , all at the direct order of vladimir putin.rather than take issue with this , trump has been busy thanking russia by doing things they want him to do such as not endorsing amendment 5 of nato , which provides common defense if a member nation is attacked by russia .
trump is also trying to remove sanctions placed on russia by the obama administration and has refused to open an investigation into russia s cyberattack against us.but the bottom line is that trump has finally admitted that russia interfered with the election.blaming obama , however , is nothing more than trump scapegoating in an effort to save his own ass.president obama did slap sanctions on russia in retaliation , but he was unable to do anything at the time because trump was out there claiming that the election was rigged .
if obama had made a move to stop russia , trump would have used it as evidence to support his claim.twitter users mercilessly mocked trump for it.um .
already knew about it ; and so did you when obama told you ( as we all heard ) .
that s what the investigation was about .
do keep up .
dr. craig malkin ( @ drcraigmalkin ) june 24 , 2017maybe obama admin trying to figure out why you & kremlin were saying the same things at the same time while election hacks were occurring pic.twitter.com/hsydcxun09 clint watts ( @ selectedwisdom ) june 24 , 2017or maybe they were trying to figure out why you would cite russian false propaganda to mislead americans and attack a fellow american pic.twitter.com/4ydq6rfvek clint watts ( @ selectedwisdom ) june 24 , 2017pic.twitter.com/9puomdvzfl melissa evans ( @ melissacevans33 ) june 24 , 2017the sanctions the trump admin is trying to ease were established by obama in december in response to the hacking https : //t.co/1ptn944jqy robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) june 24 , 2017a prison with a view of a golf course he is never allowed to play on .
joimonki ( @ joimonki ) june 24 , 2017russia hacking and interference is what trump has called a hoax and fake news .and tarnished + undermined our own intelligence agencies pic.twitter.com/y4bu3snbqp dcresisterbee ?
( @ dc_resister_bee ) june 24 , 2017trump insulted the us intelligence community which protects our nation falsely accusing of leaks and comparing to nazis and russia .
pic.twitter.com/8q5ewkoawo dcresisterbee ?
( @ dc_resister_bee ) june 24 , 2017trump co-opting both narratives : hoax & obama s fault .
because .
diabolic narcissists gaslight american citizens .
sarah smith ( @ sarahlsmith677 ) june 24 , 2017you realize you are admitting russia put you in the white house which technically means you shouldn t be president .
why are you so dumb ?
daniel danger marin ( @ dangermarin ) june 24 , 2017it s not only time to oust trump and his entire administration , it s time to hold a new presidential election .
it is clear that russia attacked our democracy to help trump win .
therefore , trump and his administration are totally illegitimate.featured image : joe raedle/getty images