koguta/kisumu , kenya ( reuters ) - the body of a man was found in a sugarcane field in western kenya on sunday , a day after high-level officials visited the area aiming to calm ethnic tensions inflamed by this week s presidential election .
the luo community largely boycotted thursday s election , which was supposed to pit opposition leader raila odinga , a luo , against president uhuru kenyatta , a kikuyu with a kalenjin deputy president .
the supreme court ordered a repeat of the vote after it nullified kenyatta s win in an august election on procedural grounds .
the motive for the killing of 64-year-old george odumbe and the identity of its perpetrators were unclear .
it came a day after villagers from the luo and kalenjin communities armed themselves against each other .
the body of odumbe , a luo laborer at a sugar company , was found with three arrows in the back and severe head wounds , a reuters witness in the village of koguta said .
it was found in a field between koguta and the nearby kalenjin village of mau .
locals warned the death of the luo man could spark tit-for-tat violence .
there s a desire for revenge by the luo community , i m trying to tell them to stay calm , but they are so bitter and angry , gordon onyango , 32 , a luo , said .
the two sides are both having meetings now and they are both armed .
reuters was unable to speak with the kalenjin community in mau , but saw a group of young men from the village gathered under a tree .
most were armed with bows and arrows .
odinga withdrew from the rerun election , saying it would not be fair .
in his strongholds in the west , an area that has long felt excluded from political and economic power , protesters prevented polling stations from opening in four counties .
across kenya , 10 percent of polling stations were unable to open , although there were no problems in kenyatta s areas .
turnout dropped to 43 percent from 80 percent in august , the election commission said .
in some parts of the country , such as koguta in kisumu county , protests damaged relations with other communities who wanted to vote for kenyatta .
that anger risks igniting ethnic violence , which killed around 1,200 people after a disputed 2007 presidential vote , but which has been largely absent from this election .
at least 51 people have been killed in political violence since august , but most deaths have occurred in clashes between protesters and police .
police , although stationed only 400 meters from where the body was discovered , declined to visit the scene for several hours until reinforcements arrived .
police did not answer calls from reuters .
but julius genga , a county legislator , said by phone while he was driving to the scene : we want the police to be deployed to try to restore calm because after the death of this man , tension is boiling up and we don t want it to escalate it to unmanageable levels .
kericho county governor paul chepkwony told reuters that he hoped the death would be an isolated one .
not all recent attacks were ethnically based .
on friday police shot dead a man who was part of a group that stormed the home of former lawmaker james rege , who had defected to the ruling party from odinga s movement three years into his term , homa bay police commander marius tum told reuters on sunday .
both rege and his attackers were luo , tum said , and police were investigating whether other lawmakers had organised the attack .