london ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson singled out the muslim brotherhood and its associates for criticism on thursday in a speech calling for a renewed western diplomatic push in the middle east to tackle islamic extremism .
speaking to diplomats and experts at the foreign office in london , johnson called for better engagement with muslim populations worldwide and argued that blaming western intervention for the rise of islamist extremism played into the jihadi narrative .
he said the west needed to collectively re-insert itself in the process towards peace in syria and called for the united states to bring fresh impetus to the resolution of the israeli-palestinian conflict .
johnson said the muslim brotherhood - a global islamist organization which started in egypt in 1928 - was one of the most politically savvy operators in the muslim world , but he also criticized its conduct in the middle east and britain .
it is plainly wrong that islamists should exploit freedoms here in the uk - freedoms of speech and association - that their associates would repress overseas and it is all too clear that some affiliates of the muslim brotherhood are willing to turn a blind eye to terrorism , he said .
the muslim brotherhood in egypt was designated as a terrorist organization in that country in 2013 .
a 2015 british government review into the organization concluded that membership of or links to it should be considered a possible indicator of extremism but stopped short of recommending that it should be banned .
johnson admitted there had been policy missteps in iraq and syria interventions , but said that did not justify a diplomatic retreat from the region .
british foreign policy is not the problem , it is part of the solution , he said , calling for a renewed role in syria , more work to halt conflict in yemen and progress in bringing factions together in libya .
we need more engagement , not less , he said .
his remarks come a day after the united states recognized jerusalem as the capital of israel , drawing international criticism .
british prime minister theresa may has said that decision was wrong , and johnson repeated the government criticism that the u.s. move was premature .
we ... think that the future of jerusalem must be settled as part of the negotiated agreement between israel and the palestinians and as part of the two-state solution , he said .
this decision , having been announced by president trump , the world would like to see some serious announcements by the u.s. about how they see the middle east peace process and how to bring the two sides together .