edmonton , alberta ( reuters ) - a somali refugee who had been on a watch list over extremist views faced five counts of attempted murder and terror charges on sunday after canadian police said he stabbed a police officer and ran down four pedestrians with a car in edmonton , alberta .
the suspect , a 30-year-old man whom police did not identify , had been investigated two years ago for promoting extremist ideology but was not deemed a threat , the royal canadian mounted police ( rcmp ) said .
rcmp assistant commissioner marlin degrand said an exhaustive investigation into the man in 2015 did not uncover sufficient evidence to pursue charges .
canadian media identified the suspect as abdulahi hasan sharif , although reuters was not immediately able to confirm his identity .
police cordoned off an apartment block near downtown edmonton and plainclothes officers were seen carrying large bags of equipment into the building .
the attacks in the western canadian city began when a chevy malibu hit a police officer standing in front of a football stadium at about 8:15 p.m. mountain time on saturday ( 10.15 p.m .
et ) , sending him flying into the air .
the driver got out of the car and stabbed the officer multiple times before fleeing , according to police accounts and surveillance footage of the incident .
police identified the suspect when he was stopped at a checkpoint and his license showed that he was the owner of the malibu .
he fled the checkpoint and was apprehended after a police chase across a downtown street , during which he hit four pedestrians .
a flag of the islamic state militant group was found inside the malibu , said rod knecht , police chief of edmonton , alberta s provincial capital .
edmonton mayor don iveson told reporters : to the best of our knowledge , this was a lone-wolf attack .
there s no immediate cause for panic or concern .
u.s. national security agencies strongly leaned toward the conclusion that the suspect acted alone , although they were reviewing the matter , a u.s. official told reuters .
the police officer , who had stab wounds to the head and face , was released from a hospital on sunday along with two pedestrians .
a third pedestrian was upgraded to stable from critical , while the fourth suffered a fractured skull and had regained consciousness .
on sunday , two women were stabbed to death and their assailant shot dead by a soldier in the southern french port city of marseille in what officials describe as a likely terrorist act .
prime minister justin trudeau called the edmonton attack another example of the hate that we must remain ever vigilant against .
canada s government said it would keep the terrorist threat level at medium , where it has been since late 2014 .
the alberta muslim public affairs council denounced the attack and hundreds attended a sunday evening rally organized by the group .
these types of acts , whether terrorism or not , seek to divide communities .
we have to show that s not going to happen , not in edmonton , said group spokesman aurangzeb qureshi .
canada has been dealing in recent months with a surge in illegal border crossings by people seeking refugee status , which has renewed debate over whether it should tighten its borders .
the north american country has not experienced as much violence from extremist attacks as the united states and western european nations , but there have been several deadly incidents in recent years .
in january , a french-canadian university student was charged with murder after six people were shot and killed inside a quebec city mosque , in what trudeau called a terrorist attack .
in august 2016 , canadian police raided an ontario home and killed aaron driver , who they said was an islamic state supporter preparing an attack on a canadian city with a homemade bomb .
in 2014 , canada was stunned by two deadly attacks that police said were the work of homegrown radicals and led to tougher new anti-terrorism measures .
a gunman killed a soldier at ottawa s national war memorial before launching an attack on the canadian parliament in october 2014 .
in the same week , a man ran down two soldiers in quebec , killing one .
in 2015 , a videotape attributed to al shabaab , a somali-based islamist militant group behind a deadly 2013 attack on a kenyan shopping center , threatened north american malls , including the west edmonton mall .