miami ( reuters ) - u.s .
senator marco rubio suspended his campaign for the republican presidential nomination on tuesday , having lost his home state of florida despite support from a party establishment worried about the rise of billionaire donald trump .
“ while this may not have been the year for a hopeful and optimistic message about our future , i still remain hopeful and optimistic about america , ” rubio , 44 , told supporters in miami after his projected loss to trump .
it was a second straight disappointing week for rubio .
last week in nominating contests in michigan and mississippi , he drew only single-digit support .
a first-term senator , rubio had been considered by many mainstream republicans to be the last best option to defeat billionaire businessman trump and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas for the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 election .
his voice strained and hoarse , rubio did not launch the attack on trump that many observers had expected , but instead seemed to rationalize the anger he said that led so many of his fellow floridians to support trump over himself .
rubio congratulated trump but also took several veiled jabs at the real estate developer ’ s campaign tone , saying republicans should not prey on fear and anger .
“ from a political standpoint , the easiest thing to have done in this campaign would be to jump on all of those anxieties , to make people more angry , to make people more frustrated , but i chose a different route and i ’ m proud of it , ” rubio said .
in recent weeks rubio had become more aggressive in attacking trump .
the personal insults appeared to backfire and rubio later said he regretted them .
after former republican governor jeb bush quit the race , rubio drew some of his financial backers to his side .
but it took weeks for him to win a primary , notching wins only in minnesota , puerto rico and washington , d.c .
supporters had encouraged rubio to get out of the race before the florida voting after he consistently trailed in opinion polls , arguing that losing to trump in the primary in his own state would hamper his future in politics .
rubio has already said he will not run for re-election to his senate seat .
there has been speculation he could run for governor in 2018 .
“ history has shown republicans never mind a second act and if a trump candidacy fails , rubio is likely to be the starting point the gop looks to as it charts the way back from another white house defeat , ” said texas-based republican strategist joe brettell .
rubio ’ s departure leaves three candidates in the race – trump , cruz and ohio governor john kasich .
establishment republicans will now likely give kasich a hard look , since most oppose trump or cruz being the nominee .
once he announced he was suspending his campaign , there were cries of “ no ! ” and “ don ’ t quit ! ” but most in the crowd had seemed to know what was coming .
volunteers in t-shirts began to weep and hug one another .
the rest of the crowd left the arena for the balmy night .