london ( reuters ) - there will be zero tolerance of sexual harassment in britain s parliament , the government said on monday , toughening rules after allegations of abuse at the 800-year-old institution fueled demands for reform .
after sexual abuse allegations against hollywood producer harvey weinstein prompted hundreds of thousands of women and men to share stories about inappropriate behavior , britain s parliament - a bastion of tradition - has been no exception .
prime minister theresa may has ordered an investigation into a report that one of her ministers asked a female secretary to buy sex toys and the opposition labour party has suspended one of its lawmakers while it looks into his comments and behavior .
the growing scandal could damage may if there are further allegations against members of her conservative party as it relies on a small northern irish party for a majority in parliament .
on monday , may made a rare appearance in parliament to sit beside leader of the house of commons andrea leadsom as she set out the government s plans to tackle sexual harassment , including measures to enforce a code of conduct and to set up an independent grievance procedure .
we absolutely are determined to get a grip on this , leadsom told parliament , outlining government plans for a zero-tolerance approach .
but critics said measures should go further and tackle the culture in parliament , where some female politicians said power was concentrated in lawmakers hands and wielded often unchecked over more junior workers .
there is obviously a problem , it s a good thing that it s been exposed , labour lawmaker harriet harman said .
no one should have to work in the toxic atmosphere of sleazy sexist or homophobic banter .
the allegations against weinstein - who denies all accusations of non-consensual sex - has prompted discussion of sexual harassment around the world .
last week , labour lawmaker jared o mara was suspended for reportedly making slurs against a woman he dated and other comments , and at the weekend , mark garnier , a junior trade minister , was reported by the mail on sunday newspaper to have asked his secretary caroline edmondson to buy sex toys and called her sugar tits .
on sunday , may ordered an investigation and wrote to the speaker for advice on changing the culture in parliament , where aides , researchers and secretaries are dependent on their employers , the lawmakers .
she is deeply concerned at the recent media reports regarding the alleged mistreatment of staff by some members of parliament , may s spokesman told reporters .
she has been clear that any unwanted sexual behavior is completely unacceptable in any walk of life and she strongly believes it s important that those working in parliament are treated properly and fairly .
but in a sign the scandal may widen , british media carried unconfirmed reports that parliamentary aides have drawn up a list of other allegations of inappropriate behavior in parliament .
the list could not be confirmed by reuters .
are you on the list ?
one male member of parliament asked another on monday in the presence of a reporter , to nervous laughter .