seoul ( reuters ) - north korea may be planning a new missile test , south korea s spy agency told lawmakers on thursday , after brisk activity was spotted at its research facilities , just days before u.s. president donald trump visits seoul .
reclusive north korea has carried out a series of nuclear and missile tests in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions , but has not launched any missiles since firing one over japan on sept. 15 , the longest such lull this year .
however a flurry of activity including the movement of vehicles has been detected at the north s missile research facilities in pyongyang , where the most recent missile test was conducted , pointing to another possible launch , south korea s intelligence service said in a briefing to lawmakers .
it did not say how the activity was detected .
north korea has made no secret of its plans to perfect a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the u.s. mainland .
it regularly threatens to destroy the united states and its puppet , south korea .
there is a possibility of a new missile launch given the active movement of vehicles around the missile research institute in pyongyang .
the north will constantly push for further nuclear tests going forward , and the miniaturization and diversification of warheads , the intelligence agency said at the briefing .
the north s nuclear testing site in the northwestern town of punggye-ri could have been damaged by its sixth and largest nuclear test on sept. 3 , according to kim byung-kee , yi wan-young and lee tae-gyu , members of south korea s parliamentary intelligence committee .
the explosion triggered an aftershock within eight minutes and three additional shocks .
japanese broadcaster tv asahi , citing unnamed sources , said on tuesday a tunnel at the test site collapsed after that explosion , possibly killing more than 200 people .
reuters has not been able to verify the report which north korea on thursday denounced as false and defamatory .
pyongyang will likely detonate more devices as it tries to master the miniaturization of nuclear warheads to put atop missiles , the lawmakers said .
the third tunnel at the punggye-ri complex remained ready for another test at any time , while construction had resumed at a fourth tunnel , making it unable to be used for a considerable amount of time , they added .
trump is to visit five asian nations in coming days for talks in which north korea will be a major focus .
the visit includes the north s lone major ally , china , and u.s. allies japan and south korea , which have watched with increasing worry as trump and north korea have exchanged bellicose rhetoric .