nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s opposition leader raila odinga , who says he will boycott a presidential election re-run due next week , said on friday he would announce a way forward the day before the scheduled poll , raising the possibility he might participate after all .
at a memorial in western kenya for opposition supporters killed in protests against the vote set for oct. 26 , odinga told his supporters not to attack innocent people including people who support his rival president uhuru kenyatta .
he did not comment on an announcement by the electoral board chief executive ezra chiloba earlier on friday that he would take three weeks leave .
kenya is holding the re-run after the supreme court threw out the result of an aug. 8 election won by the incumbent kenyatta but disputed by the challenger odinga .
the opposition leader has refused to participate in the re-run , arguing that reforms were needed first to prevent fraud .
the opposition has demanded chiloba resign , and the announcement that he will not participate in running the vote suggests progress in behind-the-scenes negotiations involving western diplomats and religious and civil society leaders .
uncertainty over whether odinga will participate in the election and concerns that it may not proceed peacefully have left kenya , a traditionally stable western ally in an often chaotic region , mired in political crisis .
the volatile build-up to the oct. 26 vote has revived memories for kenyans of ethnically charged violence that killed around 1,200 people after a disputed election in 2007 , when odinga also lost and disputed the result .
chiloba told reuters that , in light of the opposition s demands , he was going on leave , and that all arrangements for next week s vote were in place .
at least 45 people died nationwide in a police crackdown on opposition supporters after the august vote , including a six-month old baby struck on the head by a police baton .
with odinga yet to respond to chiloba s decision to go on leave , diplomats said they were unsure what would happen next .
the crystal ball is very cloudy at the moment , a senior western diplomat in nairobi told reuters .
the situation is changing by the hour .
the electoral board has said next week s election will go ahead .
odinga met its chairman wafula chebukati on thursday and later told reporters that if there were serious consultations and serious reforms , the opposition could review its boycott .
chebukati had said a day earlier that he could not guarantee the election would be free and fair , citing interference from politicians and threats of violence against colleagues .
a fellow board member resigned this week after fleeing to the united states , saying she feared for her life .
the opposition has held near-daily protests demanding electoral reforms and the sacking of board officials .
police said on friday four people were killed as a result of their interventions to stop demonstrations .
kenyatta has meanwhile urged kenyans to come out in large numbers to vote , insisting the ballot be held .
on thursday , he snubbed an invitation to meet chebukati , saying he would instead spend the time campaigning .
in a speech in nairobi on friday , kenyatta said the election must not divide the nation or push it to the brink .
disruptions of the vote by those who thrive in chaos and relish anarchy would not be tolerated , and security forces have been enhanced and appropriately deployed to maintain law and order , he said .