united nations ( reuters ) - russia on thursday cast its 10th veto of united nations security council action on syria since the war began in 2011 , blocking a u.s.-drafted resolution to renew an international inquiry into who is to blame for chemical weapons attacks in syria .
the mandate for the joint inquiry by the u.n. and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) , which found the syrian government used the banned nerve agent sarin in an april 4 attack , expires on friday .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , france , russia , britain or china to be adopted .
the u.s. draft text received 11 votes in favor , while russia and bolivia voted against it and china and egypt abstained .
the vote sparked a war of words between russia and the united states in the council , just hours after white house spokeswoman sarah sanders said president donald trump believed he could work with russian president vladimir putin on issues like syria .
the april 4 sarin attack on khan sheikhoun that killed dozens of people prompted the united states to launch missiles on a syrian air base .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley warned after the council vote on thursday : we will do it again if we must .
russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia said the u.s. draft resolution was not balanced .
we need a robust , professional mechanism that will help to prevent the proliferation of the threat of chemical terrorism in the region and you need a puppet-like structure to manipulate public opinion , nebenzia said .
syrian ally russia withdrew its own rival draft resolution to renew the inquiry , known as the joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) , after unsuccessfully pushing for its proposal to be considered second and not first , as council rules required .
however , following the vote on the u.s. draft , bolivia then requested a vote on the russian text .
it failed , receiving only four votes in favor , seven against and four abstentions .
nebenzia said he was deeply disappointed and that those who voted against the russian draft bear the full brunt of responsibility for the cessation of operation of the jim .
after the meeting ended japan circulated a draft resolution to roll over the mandate for the inquiry for one month , diplomats said .
it was not immediately clear when the council could vote .
ahead of the council votes on thursday , trump urged the security council in a twitter post to renew the inquiry , saying it was needed to prevent assad from using chemical weapons .
while russia agreed to the 2015 creation of the jim , it has consistently questioned its findings , which also concluded that the syrian government used chlorine as a weapon several times .
russia has now vetoed 10 resolutions on syria , including blocking an initial u.s. bid on oct. 24 to renew the jim , saying it wanted to wait for the release two days later of the inquiry s report that said the syrian government used sarin .
russia has killed the joint investigative mechanism , haley said .
in effect russia accepts the use of chemical weapons in syria .
how then can we trust russia s support for supposed peace in syria ?
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .
we condemn the use of chemical weapons by anyone , nebenzia said .