vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis on friday excoriated politicians who foment fear of migrants , saying they were sowing violence and racism , and urged them to practise the virtue of prudence to help them integrate .
the pope , who has made defense of migrants and refugees a major plank of his papacy , made his comments in a message prepared for the roman catholic church s world day of peace , which is celebrated on jan. 1 each year .
the message , whose title for 2018 is migrants and refugees : men and women in search of peace , is traditionally sent to heads of state and government and international institutions .
the message is being released as migration has become a top political issue in countries including the united states , italy , australia and germany .
many destination countries have seen the spread of rhetoric decrying the risks posed to national security or the high cost of welcoming new arrivals , and doing so demeans the human dignity due to all as sons and daughters of god , he wrote .
those who , for what may be political reasons , foment fear of migrants instead of building peace are sowing violence , racial discrimination and xenophobia , which are matters of great worry for all those concerned about the safety of every human being , he said .
in elections in germany in september , the far-right and anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party made significant gains , with electors punishing chancellor angela merkel for her open-door policy and pushing migration policy to the top of the agenda in talks to form a coalition government .
italy s anti-immigrant northern league , whose leader matteo salvini often gives fiery speeches against migrants , is expected to make gains in national elections next year .
francis urged governments to make legal immigration easier but said that leaders should also recognize that many people move mainly out of desperation , when their own countries offer neither safety nor opportunity , and every legal pathway appears impractical , blocked or too slow .
in the united states , president donald trump has promised to build a wall along the mexican border to keep illegal immigrants out , something the pope has criticized in the past .
the pope said richer countries should show a spirit of compassion toward those forced to flee war , hunger , discrimination , persecution , poverty and environmental degradation .
he acknowledged that immigrants can sometimes compound numerous existing problems and that leaders have a clear responsibility toward their own communities ; but practical ways had to be found to welcome newcomers , who can enrich society with their cultures , skills and energy .
by practicing the virtue of prudence , government leaders should take practical measures to welcome , promote , protect , integrate and , within the limits allowed by a correct understanding of the common good , to permit ( them ) to become part of a new society , he said .
francis urged the united nations to make compassion , foresight and courage the foundations for global compacts on migration and refugees that the world body is preparing for next year .
only in this way can the realism required of international politics avoid surrendering to cynicism and to the globalization of indifference , francis said .