rome/palermo ( reuters ) - the death of sicilian mafia boss salvatore toto riina on friday does not mark the end of cosa nostra , but the crime group is unlikely to allow one man such power ever again , a top magistrate and former mobster said .
the 87-year-old riina died in a hospital in parma , the northern italian city where he had been serving 26 life sentences for murders committed between 1969 and 1992 .
the end of riina isn t the end of cosa nostra , the chief magistrate in sicily s capital of palermo , francesco lo voi , told reuters .
what remains to be understood is whether the men of cosa nostra will seek a direct successor or a new organizational structure , lo voi said .
gaspare mutolo , who admits to having strangled some 20 people , agrees .
mutolo , now 77 , turned state s witness in the early 1990s at the age of 51 , and became a key witness in dozens of mafia cases .
he shared a jail cell with riina in the 1960s , and became his trusted bodyguard and driver afterward .
mutolo , who still wears a balaclava to hide his identity from cameras , felt pity when he heard his former friend and cell mate had died , he said .
he was a friend .
he helped me .
he even saved my life .
i saw him a little bit as a father figure , mutolo told foreign reporters in rome .
riina s death changes little in sicily , he said : palermo still has the mafia .
back-room deals as several recent cases show , the mob still extorts business owners on the island , and it still seeks to win lucrative public contracts through back-room deals with corrupt politicians and bureaucrats .
i can t imagine politics without the mafia , mutolo said .
but the future of cosa nostra without riina , whose brutality undermined the trustworthiness of the organization by driving mafiosi like mutolo into the hands of the state , is uncertain .
the calabrian mob , known as the ndrangheta , has had few turncoats and has taken over drug routes once dominated by cosa nostra .
the calabrians now are major importers of cocaine from south america to europe and to north america .
even politicians are wary of doing deals with the sicilian mob now , mutolo said .
cosa nostra is not the same as it was in the 1980s mainly because of the turncoats , mutolo said .
the calabresi have taken over because they are more trusted .
cosa nostra has always had a military-like structure , but before riina there was no single boss of bosses .
power was divvied up by territory , and the local bosses met together in a so-called commission to discuss strategy and settle disputes .
but riina made himself the dictator of cosa nostra .
it s not a given that cosa nostra will see a charismatic leader as a necessity in the future , lo voi said , returning to a decentralization of operations and decision making as there was before riina took over .