the patriot spring is coming this excellent piece by geert wilders predicts an awakening of national pride in europe and in america a revolution , wikipedia says , is a fundamental change in political power or organizational structures that take place in a relatively short period of time when the population rises up in revolt against the current authorities .
in europe and america , revolutions are brewing .
they are peaceful and democratic , but they are going to send the elites home that are running our nations into the ground.i have just reread ronald reagan s 1982 westminster speech , in which he predicted that freedom and democracy would soon send the communist dictatorships in eastern europe and russia to the ash heap of history .
reagan spoke of poland s struggle to be poland .
and today , three decades later , history is about to repeat itself in the united states and in several west european countries .
of course , i am not comparing our current political elite with the communist dictatorships with their prison cells for dissidents , but the fight of a nation to be itself , remain itself and defend its identity , that fight is also being waged today.we are witnessing america s struggle to be america , and the struggle of several european nations , among them the netherlands , britain , france , germany and many others to preserve their identity and liberty , to remain the netherlands , britain , france , germany .
everywhere , patriots are on the march .
we are living the patriot spring.everywhere , democratic revolutions are underway .
they will drive the elites from power .
people are sick and tired of seeing their nations lose .
they are fed up with how the political and media elites are weakening their country .
they want to regain their national sovereignty from supranational organizations such as the european union .
they want to get rid of the fake parliaments that sell out the national interests because they no longer stand for what the majority of the people want .
they want brave and patriot politicians in the legislatures .
they also want more direct democracy , so that the people can correct those who misrepresent them.for decades , westerners have been told by their elites that multiculturalism was a virtue and patriotism a thing of the past .
the values of the middle classes with their common sense , rooted in the traditions and morals passed down by their parents , were undermined and ridiculed by the mindless political correctness of the educational system , the government apparatus , and the mainstream media .
the economic prosperity of the people was squandered by high taxes , foolish monetary experiments , and bailouts for foreign countries .
our nation first became our nation last .
the elites applaud politicians such as german chancellor angela merkel .
president obama praised her for her leadership .
time dubbed her chancellor of the free world , for one single reason .
because she has foolishly sold out the safety and wellbeing of her own people to hordes of largely male fortune seekers who rather than fight for their own country , have come to live on german taxpayers money.frau merkel is not the only western politician conducting policies that harm the interests of her own people .
in fact , most of our western leaders , including my own dutch prime minister mark rutte , are politically correct adherents of detrimental open door policies .
before the year in which angela merkel became person of the year was over , germany experienced its own sexual 9/11 .
on new year s eve in cologne alone , over 1,000 women were assaulted , groped , raped .
so far , 30 suspects have been caught .
all of them north-africans , and half of those asylum seekers .
also in other west european countries we see a rise of sexual assaults.unlike the ruling elites in politics , media , and academia , ordinary people recognize an existential threat when they see one .
years ago already , they have begun to realize that the democratic institutions in their national capitals no longer represent the will of the people .
they realize that time is running out for the west , and that the moment has come for a democratic revolution to halt the folly of the elites , otherwise our superior western civilization will perish , our nation will change beyond recognition , and our children s future will be endangered .
it is clear what millions of europeans and americans want .
they want to protect national sovereignty , stop the tsunami of asylum seekers , close the borders to mass immigration , stop spending their taxes on foreigners , they want leaders who truly represent them and defend the national interest .
they do not want their countries to be islamized.and that is why we should add a new chapter to the long list of historical examples of people standing up for democracy and freedom .
let us add the patriot spring of 2016 to the list .
and let us all be part of it.geert wilders , a member of the dutch parliament , is the leader of the dutch party for freedom ( pvv ) and the author of marked for death : islam s war against the west and me , published by regnery.via : breitbart