the trend of young muslim men targeting and attacking white non-muslims continues world wide .
a group of three muslim men attacked strangers at the liverpool city center because they were white non-muslims .
one witness feared the men were isis terrorists because they were using racist language , talking about muslims and christians .
a very similar occurrence took place in one of minneapolis more upscale neighborhoods last year when a mob of up to 30 young somali men marched through the streets yelling disparaging comments and threatening homeowners : somalis living in minneapolis are almost all sunni muslims .
residents of the lake calhoun area say this wasn t the first time a group of somali men have made an intimidating march through their neighborhood , which is filled with million-dollar homes.they first approached victim gary bohanna inquiring what religion he was affiliated with .
when bohanna answered i m a christian , the attacker shouted why aren t you a muslim ?
before punching him twice .
the three men then approached paul lynch , labour councillor for moss bank , and his girlfriend .
one of the men punched mr. lynch with a sickening blow that could be seen and heard .
he did not utter any racist comments , but the attackers laughed as the victim fell .
both men were taken to the hospital for their injuries.witness edris nosrati called police but one of the men tried to flee , so the witness chased and caught him .
the teenager struck mr. nosrati , but the hero held on .
when questioned by police , one of the men claimed he was too intoxicated to remember anything .
another denied the assaults and suggested they had been racially abused by other men .
however , he later confessed to targeting people because they were white and non-muslim .
the counter terrorism unit became involved in the investigation and the mens family homes were turned upside down by the police .
amin mohmed cried in court as he was jailed for 42 weeks .
mohammed and faruq patel received 42 and 18 weeks respectively in a young offenders institution.read more : the echo