london ( reuters ) - theresa may appointed a strong brexit supporter as aid minister on thursday following a resignation that left the british prime minister struggling to ward off open conflict in a cabinet divided over leaving the european union .
may is grappling with crises on several fronts .
her team is struggling to make headway in exit talks with the eu , several ministers are embroiled in a wider sexual harassment scandal and her ability to command a majority in parliament is facing its most serious test .
penny mordaunt , 44 , who has previously held junior ministerial roles , had a short meeting with may at downing street during which her appointment as the new international development secretary was confirmed .
fellow brexit supporter priti patel resigned from the position on wednesday over undisclosed meetings with israeli officials that breached diplomatic protocol .
patel s resignation forced may into her second cabinet reshuffle in a week after michael fallon resigned as defense secretary in the sexual harassment scandal .
two other ministers , including may s deputy , are also being investigated .
although may and her cabinet are united in their intention to take britain out of the eu , her ministerial team is seen as a delicate balancing act between lawmakers who are still identified as remainers or leavers according to how they voted in the referendum .
leaving aside penny mordaunt s qualifications for the job , the main one is obviously that she s a brexiteer .
it doesn t seem now that any appointment can be made in this government other than on the basis of whether that person supported leave or remain , said tim bale , a politics professor at queen mary university of london .
that is indicative of the difficult position that theresa may is in and you ve got to ask whether that is good for the country .
mordaunt campaigned for the vote leave group during the eu referendum , and was criticized by then-prime minister david cameron for inaccurately saying that britain would not be able to stop turkey from joining the eu if it remained a member .
all eu states have veto powers on new members .
the former junior defense minister was elected in 2010 to represent the southern english coastal city of portsmouth , where she also serves as a volunteer reservist for the royal navy .
in the early 1990s she worked in hospitals and orphanages in romania , and recently spoke about the medieval conditions she witnessed there .
until thursday s appointment , mordaunt held a junior ministerial post with responsibilities for disabled people , health and work within the department of work and pensions .
the instability in may s top team adds to what is already a difficult political situation .
an ill-judged snap election in june cost her party its majority in parliament and has sapped her authority at a time when she is trying to heal deep divisions within her own party and negotiate britain s departure from the eu .
the european parliament s brexit negotiator doused hopes that those negotiations were nearing a breakthrough , saying major issues must still be resolved on safeguarding citizens rights .
a fresh round of negotiations between britain and the european commission began on thursday .
progress in brussels is vital to help may keep onside nervous businesses who say they urgently need to know what will happen when britain leaves the bloc ; otherwise they will be forced to start triggering contingency plans .
on wednesday , eu envoys discussed delaying the launch of talks with london on a post-brexit relationship to next year .
sixteen months after britain narrowly voted to leave the eu in a referendum , opinions are still split over brexit at every level from voter to minister .
in replacing patel , an outspoken leaver , with another brexiteer , may looked to maintain her senior team s balance .
the promotion of a junior minister could also help placate younger members of the party , many of whom are angry at her mishandling of the snap election campaign and feel they should be given a chance to regenerate the party s support .
failure to satisfy the party is seen as a risk to may s future as leader .
she is reliant on uniting all her lawmakers to pass legislation , including the laws needed to enact brexit which will be up for debate in parliament next week .
if she is unable to prove her ability to pass legislation and govern effectively , the conservative party - historically intolerant of weakened leaders - could seek to replace her , although there are currently no clear candidates to do so .