kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia s coast guard will not turn away rohingya muslims fleeing violence in myanmar and is willing to provide them temporary shelter , the maritime agency s chief said on friday .
rohingya insurgents attacked several police posts and an army base in myanmar on aug. 25 .
the ensuing clashes and a military counter-offensive have killed at least 400 people and triggered an exodus of more than 160,000 to neighboring bangladesh .
malaysia , hundreds of km ( miles ) to the south on the andaman sea , is likely to see more boat people from myanmar in coming weeks and months because of the renewed violence , said zulkifli abu bakar , the director-general of the malaysia maritime enforcement agency .
however any such voyage would be hazardous for the next few months , because of the annual monsoon .
we are supposed to provide basic necessities for them to continue their journey and push them away .
but at the end of the day , because of humanitarian reasons , we will not be able to do that , zulkifli told reuters , adding that no fresh refugees had been seen yet .
malaysia , a muslim-majority nation already home to more than 100,000 rohingya refugees , will probably house the new arrivals in immigration detention centers , where foreigners without documents are typically held , he said .
malaysia , which has not signed the u.n .
refugee convention , treats refugees as illegal migrants .
thailand has also said it is preparing to receive people fleeing the fighting in myanmar .
malaysia will send a humanitarian mission to help refugees seeking shelter at the bangladesh-myanmar border , prime minister najib razak said .
the mission , to be led by the malaysian armed forces , is a manifestation of malaysia s strong objection of the continued suppression of the rohingya community by the myanmar security forces , najib said in a statement .
the mission will leave on saturday to review the situation in refugee camps .
malaysia airlines and malindo air will help in the distribution of aid , the statement added .
malaysia will hold talks with bangladesh to set up a military hospital at the border , najib added .
there are about 59,000 rohingya refugees registered with the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) in malaysia although unofficial numbers are almost double .
in 2015 , mass graves were exhumed at jungle camps on the border between thailand and malaysia that were thought to be mainly rohingya victims of human traffickers .