melbourne ( reuters ) - nearly half the 19 people injured when a driver with no known extremist links plowed into pedestrians in the southern city of melbourne were foreign nationals , australian prime minister malcolm turnbull said on friday .
police allege that the 32-year-old australian man , a refugee from afghanistan , had a history of mental illness and drove a car into christmas shoppers on one of the busiest roads in australia s second-largest city on thursday .
the incident was a chilling reminder of attacks using vehicles in cities around the world .
four people were killed in a similar incident in melbourne in january .
turnbull and police said the driver had no known ties to extremist organizations , although they also said he had spoken of the perceived mistreatment of muslims after his arrest .
police have yet to interview , charge or identify the man .
turnbull said nine of the victims were foreign nationals .
he did not specify their nationalities but australian media reported they included people from china , india , ireland , italy , new zealand , south korea and venezuela .
this is a shocking incident to occur just on the eve of christmas but we will not be cowed by it , turnbull told reporters in sydney .
four people were killed and more than 20 injured in january when a man deliberately drove into pedestrians just a few hundred meters away from thursday s attack .
that was also not designated as a terror attack .
police had cordoned off the area immediately after the incident but roads in central melbourne were open and trams were operating as usual on friday morning .
reuters witnesses reported a heavy police presence around exits from nearby flinders street train station , with trauma support and red cross workers in the area .
department store staff said foot traffic was down from the day before .
it s definitely quieter , said a saleswoman at a beauty counter in the david jones department store , who declined to give her name .
more people are coming in from the back entrance .
i think they re trying to avoid flinders street station , she said .
workers at walker s doughnuts , which overlooks the site of the incident , said business was normal .
we thought it would be less , but we re very busy , said store worker bindu kaki .
police vehicles lined the streets and volunteers for the victorian council of churches in australia stood in high- visibility shirts with labels reading personal support .
community group the ahmadiyya muslim community of victoria issued a statement denouncing the incident and offering to donate blood to victims .
as australian muslims it is not just a moral but also a religious duty to condemn in the strongest possible terms ( the ) horrific and senseless act of violence , it said .
police said a second man arrested at the scene was released and was expected to be charged with possession of cannabis and a controlled weapon , although those offences were not linked to the car incident .