copenhagen ( reuters ) - ( this october 3 story has been refiled to corrects detention period to four weeks , not four months , in seventh paragraph . )
a danish inventor charged with murdering swedish journalist kim wall in his home-made submarine had video footage on his computer showing women being violently killed , a court heard on tuesday .
a police prosecutor said officers found images which we presume to be real of women being strangled and decapitated on the hard drive on peter madsen s computer in a laboratory he ran .
that , together with new post-mortem evidence showing wall was stabbed in her ribcage and genitals around or shortly after her death , was adding to the case against madsen , the prosecutor , jakob buch-jepsen , told the copenhagen court .
dna tests from madsen s nails , face and neck showed a clear match with wall s , buch-jepsen said , though the exact cause of death remained unknown .
our suspicion hasn t changed , it has been strengthened since ( the last hearing on ) september 5 , he added .
madsen , who denies murdering wall and another charge of mutilating her body , appeared in court via video link dressed in a green boilersuit .
he said the computer searched by police was not his .
they are the space laboratory s tools which have been used by everyone in the laboratory , he said .
the court heard he had been working on building a space rocket in the lab .
he remained calm during the pre-trial session , sitting with his hands folded most of the time .
the court ordered him detained for another four weeks as investigations continued .
wall , a 30-year-old freelance journalist who was researching a story on madsen , went missing after he took her out to sea in the 17-metre ( 56-foot ) craft in august .
madsen has told the court in past hearings wall died accidentally , saying she was hit by a heavy hatch cover on his uc3 nautilus submarine .
on august 23 , police identified a headless female torso washed ashore in copenhagen as wall s. madsen has also denied amputating her limbs , saying he tried to bury her whole body at sea .