( reuters ) - presidential candidate john kasich , the governor of ohio and a former congressman , has positioned himself as a conservative republican who is nonetheless willing to listen to all sides in order to solve problems .
kasich is challenging outsiders donald trump , the republican front-runner , and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , who is known for antagonizing his party , as an alternative who can win the party ’ s support in the july convention ahead of the nov. 8 election .
these policies are drawn from his website , statements made at debates and interviews .
kasich has said it is “ silly ” to think the united states could round up more than 11 million undocumented immigrants and send them back to their home countries .
while he does not support a path to full citizenship for undocumented immigrants , kasich believes the focus of immigration policies should be keeping families together and creating a path to a legal status for those already in the country who are working and have not committed violent crimes , including establishing a guest worker program .
kasich does believe this should be underpinned by sealing u.s. borders and has said he would support building a wall on the u.s.-mexico border .
“ i ’ m a free trader , ” kasich said in a january presidential debate , saying he supported both the north american free trade agreement and the trans-pacific partnership .
he has supported granting the president authority to fast-track trade deals in the past .
he has opposed withdrawing from the world trade organization .
kasich ’ s top priority is a balanced budget and he did a national “ balanced budget tour ” last year ; his presidential campaign events often have a clock with numbers ticking upward , tracking the level of national debt .
kasich has pledged to cut taxes for individuals and families and increase the earned income tax credit , along with eliminating the estate tax .
kasich would also like to lower taxes and create incentives for those who create jobs , including by lowering the top business tax rate to 25 percent from 35 percent .
under kasich ’ s tax plan , the highest individual tax rate would be lowered to 28 percent from 39.6 percent .
he has said he would launch a “ top-to-bottom review ” of the internal revenue service to eliminate inefficiencies .
kasich wants to increase defense spending by $ 102 billion .
he has called for a no-fly zone over syria and a “ combat coalition ” to fight the islamic state militant group .
he has said the syrian refugee crisis is a fundamentally european problem , but the united states should play a role .
he believes the united states should “ pause ” accepting syrian refugees and that there should be stringent checks .