rome ( reuters ) - italy s defense minister has said there is some basis to allegations by two american students that they were raped in florence by carabinieri policemen .
the two women , aged 19 and 21 , have said they were raped in the early hours of sept. 7 after they were given a lift home from a nightclub in the italian city by a carabinieri police patrol .
the two policemen have denied the accusations .
italian media say the police were called to the nightclub after a fight broke out on the premises .
the students told investigators that two officers had offered to give them a ride back to their residence .
the students said they were raped inside the building before they could reach their rooms .
investigations are still ongoing , but there is some basis regarding the allegations , defense minister roberta pinotti told a conference on women s issues late on friday .
rape is always a serious matter .
but it s of unprecedented seriousness if it is committed by carabinieri in uniform .
the carabinieri is a paramilitary police force under the control of the defense ministry .
it works alongside the national police , which is controlled by the interior ministry .
italian media say the two women , who come from the states of maine and new jersey , told investigators they had drunk alcohol and smoked cannabis the night of the attack .
they said they had been too frightened to scream or shout as the alleged assault took place .
police are carrying out dna tests to try to verify their accusations , with results expected in the coming days .
the case , which has received wide play in the italian media , comes less than two weeks after a polish tourist and peruvian transsexual were brutally raped in the seaside resort of rimini .
two moroccans , a nigerian and a congolese asylum seeker have been arrested over the attacks , which led to a sharp increase in anti-immigrant sentiment in italy .
the allegations levelled against the carabinieri have dismayed the italian establishment .
if this is true , and i hope that light is shed on the matter as soon as possible , then it would be an act of unheard of gravity , tullio del sette , the head of the army , told the ansa news agency .