cape town ( reuters ) - jacob zuma told south africa s parliament on thursday he had received no payments from private companies or individuals during his time as president , as opposition lawmakers walked out in protest over the cost to the state of his legal fees .
allegations by government and opposition politicians that the wealthy gupta family of businessmen used a friendship with zuma to control state businesses and influence appointments are among many scandals that have dogged his presidency .
the guptas and zuma have denied any wrongdoing and say they are victims of a politically motivated witch-hunt .
my government is committed to fighting corruption , zuma said in response to a question .
he also said he would establish a judicial commission to investigate allegations made in a 2016 report by south africa s corruption-fighting public protector .
i did not receive any payments from private individuals or companies during my tenure as president of the republic of south africa , other than those disclosed or reported to the necessary authorities , he said in answer to another question .
the main opposition party then walked out of the session , saying zuma was refusing to answer questions on how much the state had spent on legal fees to fight corruption allegations against him .
democratic alliance leader mmusi maimane had asked how much had been spent since may 1 , 2009 to defend 783 corruption charges against zuma that were dropped by the national prosecuting authority ( npa ) before he ran for the presidency .
he is going to jail .
the president is going to jail , maimane shouted before leading the walkout .
south africa s high court reinstated the charges last year and the supreme court upheld that decision in october , rejecting an appeal by zuma .
the 75-year-old president is still trying to prevent the npa from filing the charges .
the state of capture report by the public protector , whose job is to uphold standards in public life , recommended a judicial probe into allegations of systemic corruption by zuma , some of his ministers and heads of state-owned companies .
but the president filed an application asking the high court to set aside the report , saying he would instead set up a judicial commission of inquiry into the allegations .
the court is expected to rule on that case soon .
zuma told parliament the judicial commission would investigate those corruption allegations and any others brought to its attention .
after the ( high court ) judgment , i will establish it immediately .
we will prove the lies and the truths , zuma said .
the truth will be found .
the report focused on allegations that zuma s friends , the businessmen and brothers ajay , atul and rajesh gupta , had influenced the appointment of ministers , which zuma and the guptas have denied .