tallinn ( reuters ) - israelis and palestinians will face more unrest over the next year without a revival of a long-fractured middle east peace process that the european union must be part of , ireland s foreign minister said on friday .
simon coveney , who met israeli and palestinian leaders less than a month after taking up his post in june , is leading the charge to involve the eu in a fresh attempt at peace talks and overcome divisions that have weakened the bloc s influence .
speaking to eu foreign ministers at a meeting on middle east policy in tallinn on thursday , coveney said the bloc had a duty to make its voice heard in any new u.s. initiative as the palestinians biggest aid donor and israel s top trade partner .
my concern is that it will be a much more difficult political challenge in a year s time or in two years time , coveney told reuters .
if you look at cycles of violence in gaza , for example , without intervention and new initiatives in my view , we are heading there again , he said , describing the israel-palestinian situation as an open sore that could erupt at any time .
coveney said eu governments had to pull together and keep the focus on a two-state solution .
now is the time for the european union ... to become more vocal , said coveney , who met israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu and palestinian president mahmoud abbas in july .
coveney has also met jason greenblatt , trump s middle east envoy , and said it was crucial that the eu sought to influence u.s. plans that are being drawn up by greenblatt and trump s son-in-law and senior adviser , jared kushner .
coveney said the european union had a right to be heard because eu governments and the european commission spend 600 million euros ( $ 724 million ) a year on aid to the palestinians and on projects with israel .
we can not simply wait for the u.s. to take an initiative on their own , we should be supportive of them and helping them to shape it and design it in a way that is likely to have international community support , he said , although he added he still did not know what the u.s. proposals would look like .
in the absence of the u.s. being able to bring forward a new initiative , i think the eu will have to do that itself .
hurdles for the european union include its range of positions , ranging from germany s strong support for israel to sweden s 2014 decision to officially recognize the state of palestine , something ireland considered three years ago .
coveney said the european union is also perceived by some in israel as being too pro-palestinian , partly because of the eu s long-held opposition to israeli settlements .
but coveney said the european union could build trust with israel by deepening ties in trade , science , scholarships for students and to pursue what he called a positive agenda .
the eu aims to hold a high-level meeting with israel to broaden trade and other economic links later this year , although a date is still pending .
it would be the first such meeting since 2012 .