beijing ( reuters ) - the ruling communist party s flagship newspaper on thursday provided more evidence that president xi jinping should be regarded as china s most powerful leader since mao zedong after this week s party congress .
xi s official portrait dominated the people s daily s front page report on the unveiling of the party s new top leadership .
below that was a smaller group photograph of the new top leadership - the seven members of the politburo standing committee including xi .
it is a stark departure from recent precedent , with mao zedong the last leader to be granted such status on the front page after the party conclave - which is held once every five years .
the people s daily did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
since deng xiaoping introduced collective leadership three decades ago to ward off the rise of another mao-like cult of personality , the official portraits of all newly-selected politburo standing committee members have been presented together on the front page in a grid .
the portrait of the party s top leader , the general secretary , is usually only slightly more prominent ; reflecting his position as the first among equals .
xi is the party s general secretary , chairman of the central military commission , and president of the country .
in thursday s people s daily , the portraits and biographical information of the six other standing committee members - li keqiang , li zhanshu , wang yang , wang huning , zhao leji and han zheng - were relegated to the inside pages .
that s definitely the first time since mao , said ryan manuel , a china expert at the university of hong kong , referring to xi s oversized portrait on the front of the paper .
the people s daily is closely parsed by party cadres and others , and sets the tone for media coverage in state-run newspapers at the provincial level .
manuel said the paper closely followed regimented rules and norms and would have done so especially meticulously for its most important front page in five years .
it s a strict system , he said .
the rules of placement and the rules of what type of photos you put on there are incredibly tightly argued and defined .
xi s status as china s most powerful leader since mao was underlined on wednesday when the party , in another break with precedent , revealed a new leadership line-up without naming an obvious successor to him .
there has been persistent speculation xi could seek to stay on in some capacity beyond the end of the customary second five-year term in power , which ends in 2022 .
during the congress , xi became the first leader since mao to have a political ideology bearing his name enshrined in the party s constitution while in office .