berlin ( reuters ) - key allies of chancellor angela merkel on sunday downplayed reports about a crisis among parties in a potential coalition government , saying it was important to work out differences and reach a sustainable agreement .
merkel was due to meet with leaders of the other parties on sunday to smooth the waters after last week s exploratory talks ran into trouble over immigration and climate policy .
the chancellor , whose conservative alliance came first but lost seats in the sept. 24 national election , is trying to forge a three-way coalition with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmental greens that is untested at a national level .
bild am sonntag newspaper said merkel would try to rescue the talks by meeting with horst seehofer , who heads the conservative bavarian csu party , two officials from the greens and fdp leader christian lindner at an undisclosed location .
volker kauder , parliamentary leader of the conservatives , told broadcaster zdf that such meetings were not unusual , even once a coalition had been formed .
he said it was important to demonstrate that the mainstream parties could govern , a clear nod to the protest votes that propelled the far-right alternative for germany party into parliament for the first time .
it s about more than the individual party positions , it s about building trust in the ability of the democratic parties to take action , kauder said .
peter altmaier , merkel s chief of staff , told broadcaster ard a coalition deal looked more promising now than weeks ago , but it could take time to work out solutions on climate and immigration that would stand the test of time .
we need a result that is in the interest of the country and that will last for four years , he said .
the exploratory talks are due to continue monday after the three sides failed to reach agreement on immigration and climate issues during an 11-hour session on thursday .
the possible coalition partners remain at odds over how to meet carbon dioxide emission targets and capping migration .
many conservatives want to take a harder line on immigration , blaming their election setback on merkel s decision to allow in more than a million migrants in 2015 and 2016 .
they want to limit refugee numbers , but the greens reject such a cap .
other issues such as pensions and labor regulations - which could be on the agenda on monday - appear less contentious .
the three blocs are also nearing agreement on the issue of legalizing marijuana through pharmacies or other licensed distributors , the stuttgarter zeitung newspaper reported .
alexander lambsdorff , deputy leader of the fdp parliamentary group , said the fdp and greens had no choice but to talk to each other given the current political circumstances .
the social democrats , junior partner to the conservatives over the last four years , have vowed to stay in opposition .