manila ( reuters ) - philippine authorities were on the lookout on monday for a malaysian who could be the new leader of pro-islamic state groups in southeast asia , security chiefs said , following the deaths of several high-profile regional extremists .
the army terminated combat operations in southern marawi two weeks ago after killing what it believed were the last remnants of a rebel alliance that held parts of the lakeside city for five months .
following the country s biggest security crisis in decades , troops have made significant gains in the week since they killed isnilon hapilon , a leader of the abu sayyaf group and anointed emir of islamic state in southeast asia .
his assumed deputy , malaysian mahmud ahmad , was also believe killed , as was omarkhayan maute , a top operative in the alliance .
we are still looking for amin baco , defence secretary delfin lorenzana said , describing the malaysian as the likely new successor as the emir of those terrorists .
more than 1,100 people - mostly militants - were killed and 350,000 displaced by the marawi unrest , a crisis that shocked predominantly catholic philippines and led to unease about islamic state gaining traction in muslim parts of the island of mindanao .
police chief ronaldo dela rosa said he received similar information that baco , an expert bomb-maker , had assumed the role of islamic state s point man .
experts say baco was trained under malaysian militant zulkifli bin hir , alias marwan , who was killed in 2015 in a clash in marshlands in maguindanao province that left 44 police commandoes dead .
the information that baco could be in charge came from an indonesian arrested in marawi last week , dela rosa said .
despite declaring the end of operations , troops are still fighting some hold-outs hiding amid the ruins of a city battered by months of air strikes .
troops have since killed nine gunmen in marawi , colonel romeo brawner said on monday , emphasizing why residents were being kept out of the pulverized battle zone .
baco was reported to have been killed in marawi but intelligence sources said he had fled .
he could be somewhere on jolo island or in nearby maguindanao , an army colonel familiar with islamist militant groups in mindanao , told reuters .
he said baco had been in the philippines for a long time and had links with regional extremist group jemaah islamiah .
he was married to a daughter of a local militant sub-leader .
as early as 2011 , he was facilitating movements into the philippines of funds , arms and fighters from indonesia and malaysia , but his links to the islamic state network were not known to be strong , another military intelligence official said .
he said baco was in a position to take over because of his familiarity with extremists from various groups in mindanao .