manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on wednesday defended his bloody war on drugs , telling southeast asian lawyers he had been demonized and denying allegations of state-sponsored killings of drug dealers and users .
duterte s crackdown has caused international alarm , and domestic polls have shown growing scepticism about the 16-month old campaign that has killed thousands of mostly urban , poor filipinos .
his government s human rights record has been strongly criticized by western countries , and is one of the issues u.s. president donald trump plans to raise on a visit to manila next month to attend a regional summit .
i know that i have been demonized , duterte said , invoking god and his oath as a lawyer as he offered his assurance .
the extra judicial tag that has been placed on me is simply not true .
he was speaking to members of the asean law association , attending a commemorative session in manila , the host of this year s activities of the association of southeast asian nations grouping .
duterte spoke for more than an hour after delivering a prepared speech , as he defended the campaign and explained why many of those killed were from among the poor .
he used united nations pamphlets to describe how different types of illegal drugs , including the highly addictive methamphetamine , or shabu , could trigger aggressive behavior among users .
i do not deny that there were people killed in that campaign , he added .
but why were they killed ?
because a shabu user , a lieutenant of the shabu syndicate , always has a gun and this was my experience when i was mayor .
they always fight it out .
during his 22 years as mayor of the southern city of davao , duterte estimated 600 drug suspects had been killed in police encounters .
his anti-narcotics crackdown has come under unprecedented scrutiny following the high-profile aug. 16 killing of a 17-year-old student , among the 90 people killed in less than a week of intensified police raids .
a recent poll showed fewer filipinos believe the official stance of the philippine national police that those killed in anti-drugs operations had refused to go quietly .
when i say , i will kill you if you destroy my country , and i will kill you if you destroy the young of my country , i am asking everybody to find me a fault in those two statements , duterte told the audience .