helsinki ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on monday he backed diplomatic efforts to bring an end to the syrian civil war , which has claimed hundreds of thousands of lives over more than six years of conflict , as islamic state militants near defeat .
mattis was traveling to finland to meet with leaders from the northern group , a forum for 12 northern european countries , where concern about russia is growing after it annexed crimea from ukraine and gave its backing to eastern ukraine separatists fighting against the kiev government .
russia also supports syrian president bashar al-assad , and with its help assad has recovered control of swathes of lost syrian territory over the last two years and appears militarily unassailable .
the united states , however , has supported the opposition to assad during the syrian war .
secretary of state rex tillerson recently reiterated that assad should leave power , saying the reign of the assad family is coming to an end and the only issue is how that should be brought about .
secretary tillerson engaged strongly with staffan de mistura about how do we move what has been going on in astana , how do we move that over to geneva where we can actually get the u.n. engaged on the way forward , mattis told reporters on a plane en route to finland .
russia has backed peace talks in astana , the capital of kazakhstan , to end the syrian civil war .
u.n. special envoy for syria staffan de mistura announced that stalled peace talks between the syrian government and still-to-be-united opposition would resume in geneva on nov. 28 .
however , russia is also fighting against islamic state in syria , at times their goals aligning with the united states , whose forces have helped kurdish-led militias recapture raqqa and other parts of northern and eastern syria from the militants .
with islamic state s territory rapidly shrinking , the focus was on defeating it in the final few areas , mattis said - and avoiding conflict as the gap between russian and u.s. forces shrinks .
what the u.s. strategy wills after the defeat of islamic state is likely to come up when mattis visits brussels later this week , where he will meet with his counterparts from nato .
mattis declined to comment on whether the united states would take back arms from kurdish ypg fighters after the defeat of islamic state , a sensitive point given the concerns of its nato ally turkey .
ankara views the ypg as an extension of pkk militants waging an insurgency on turkish soil , and has sharply criticized u.s. support to the group .