who knew legendary rocker roger daltrey was such a patriotic guy ?
the who s lead singer , roger daltrey feels very strongly about what s happening with the dysfunctional eu and he s making sure everyone knows how he feels about the leaders who ve pushed immigration at the peril of the citizens.roger daltrey wants britain to quit the undemocratic , highly dysfunctional eu which he claims is raping southern european countries.the who frontman backed brexit in an exclusive interview with the sun , labelling our membership a disaster .the legendary rocker said : the only way we re going to get the europe that we want is to get rid of this bunch of f * * * ing useless w * * * ers that are running it .
he said it was set up by a bunch of crooks , adding : it s like these things on the internet where they tell you to read the conditions no one s going to bloody read the conditions !
but that s how they did this , we all thought we were voting for a common trade area .
blasting the impact on our own sovereignty he said : what it s done to our parliament is put them down to level of parish council .
hitting out at the unnecessary layers of government it has created , he added : because there are so many politicians we get so much useless f * * * ing law .
attacking the way the eu has impacted on people s lives , he said : that s the biggest issue for me , it s undemocratic , highly dysfunctional , i mean you name me one area of europe that s functioning really well at the moment .
they talk about the immigration thing being the number one issue and i think it is a big issue for our country because we are an island .
but no one talks about the other side of that immigration issue which is the fact that all those southern european countries have been robbed of their youth , the countries have been raped .
their youth have had to leave to get work , so how are they going to rebuild their futures ?
read more : the sunwill anyone ever forget the passionate performance roger daltrey gave in nyc at the garden to show his support for america right after 9/11 ?
his legendary band played for the first responders .
here s a clip from the 9/11 show just in case you didn t see it : part one :