united nations ( reuters ) - leaders of france , italy and the united kingdom urged social media companies on wednesday to more swiftly remove terrorist content from the internet , with the aim of stopping it from being uploaded in the first place .
the tech companies have made significant progress on this issue , but we need to go further and faster to reduce the time it takes to remove terrorist content online , british prime minister theresa may said in a speech to the united nations general assembly of world leaders in new york .
she said there was a need to increase significantly the efforts to stop ( extremist content ) being uploaded in the first place .
french president emmanuel macron and italian prime minister paolo gentiloni later pushed in a separate event hosted by may for such content to be removed swiftly .
this is what must be done .
in one hour the content must be identified , analyzed and withdrawn to avoid it being broadcast widely .
experience shows that this is possible , said macron , speaking through an interpreter .
we have a real battlefield for hearts and minds and ( it ) is the web , gentiloni said .
he said economic and privacy issues were a hurdle in this process , but we also have to know , if we are aware of the fact that this battlefield is so relevant , that we can t reduce our ambition because of the difficulties .
several websites across the internet list ingredients for making bombs or instructions on how to use vehicles to attack pedestrians .
online retailer amazon.com said on wednesday it was reviewing its website after an investigation found it could help users buy the ingredients to make a bomb using its frequently bought together and customers who bought this also bought features .
the european union has threatened legislation if internet companies do not better police what is available on the web .
removing all of this content within a few hours - or indeed stopping it from appearing on the internet in the first place - poses an enormous technological and scientific challenge , said kent walker , general counsel for alphabet inc s google .
the haystacks here are unimaginably large and the needles are both very small and constantly changing .
walker spoke on behalf of facebook inc , microsoft corp , google subsidiary youtube and twitter inc , all members of the global internet forum to counter terrorism created in june under pressure from governments in europe and the united states after a spate of militant attacks .
its aim is to share technical solutions for removing extremist content and work more closely with counter-terrorism experts .
walker said between august 2015 and june 2017 , twitter had suspended almost a million accounts for the promotion of terrorism , and that the use of technology and artificial intelligence had allowed facebook to root out terrorist clusters .