harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s opposition movement for democratic change ( mdc ) said on wednesday it had no plans to join factions of the ruling zanu-pf party to form a national unity coalition after the eventual death of 93-year-old president robert mugabe .
a reuters investigation this week revealed that vice-president emmerson mnangagwa , favorite to succeed mugabe , has been looking to build a broad coalition that would kickstart the economy by reintegrating thousands of white farmers booted off their land in the early 2000s .
the report was based on leaks from inside zimbabwe s central intelligence organisation and interviews with top political players , including mdc leader morgan tsvangirai .
the 63-year-old , who has been mugabe s main political rival for the last two decades , told reuters at the time he had not met mnangagwa for several years but that he had received overtures about a meeting that were turned down .
in a statement , the mdc said it would never consider joining an administration that was not the product of an election .
zimbabwe s next vote is next year and mugabe is running as zanu-pf s presidential candidate .
while stability is important , president tsvangirai and the mdc have always placed a far higher premium on legitimacy and democracy , the statement said .
the reuters story also revealed that senior members of zimbabwe s military were starting to swallow their disdain for tsvangirai , who has never enjoyed their respect because of his background as a union leader rather than a liberation fighter .
the intelligence reports suggested top generals had given mnangagwa their backing .
tsvangirai did not deny any contact with military leaders or british ambassador catriona laing , who the intelligence reports said favored a mnangagwa-led succession , but said post-mugabe deal-making was not on the agenda .
president tsvangirai has not had any meeting with either the british or the military involving this purported deal , the mdc statement said .
any purported deal outside elections and involving diplomats , the military and other such characters will not be legitimate and will not rescue zimbabweans from their current predicament .
mugabe has been zimbabwe s only leader since independence from britain in 1980 .
its once promising economy collapsed in the early 2000s after the violent seizure of thousands of white-owned commercial farms by pro-mugabe gangs .