ankara ( reuters ) - turkish prime minister binali yildirim on tuesday described the united states move to partially resume issuing visas in turkey as a positive step , but said washington should extradite a cleric blamed for last year s failed military coup in turkey .
the limited reissuing of visas between the united states and turkey ... prior to our visit can be seen as a positive development , yildirim told reporters before leaving for the united states , where he is due to meet u.s. vice president mike pence .
the united states said on monday it would resume limited visa services in turkey after getting what it said were assurances about the safety of its local staff .
washington halted issuing visas at its missions in turkey last month , citing the detention of two local employees .
turkey said it would match the move , relaxing a visa ban of its own that was instituted last month in retaliation against washington .
however , yildirim reiterated turkey s stance that it had not offered assurances to washington .
both countries are states of law , and procedures are being carried out in accordance with the law .
negotiations regarding the offering of assurances to the united states or vice-versa would breach the principles of laws of state , he said .
in may , a translator at the u.s. consulate in the southern province of adana was arrested and , more recently , a u.s. drug enforcement administration ( dea ) worker was detained in istanbul .
both are accused of links to last year s coup attempt .
the u.s. embassy has said the accusations are baseless .
turkey has been angered by what it sees as u.s. reluctance to hand over the cleric fethullah gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 and whom ankara blames for orchestrating the coup .
u.s. officials have said courts require sufficient evidence to order his extradition .
yildirim said gulen s extradition would be discussed during his visit , as well as the fate of some turkish citizens arrested in the united states - a reference to the wealthy gold trader who was arrested over iran sanctions evasion last year and an executive at a state-owned bank arrested this year .
we have strong evidence that gulen was behind the july 15 coup attempt and we want his extradition .
we want the concerns we have regarding the cases of our citizens arrested in the united states to be eased , yildirim said .
they also have similar requests , and diplomatic channels are being used for discussions , we are both seeking a way out .