federal prosecutors warned u.s. district judge gregory presell that gang member and radical muslim , marcus dwayne robertson was dangerous and was recruiting inmates for terrorism , yet the judge released him .
the gunman who murdered at least 50 people in a florida nightclub early sunday morning was a follower of a controversial gang leader-turned-bank robber who was released from prison last year despite warnings from prosecutors that he would recruit people to carry out violent acts , sources told foxnews.com.omar mateen , whose bloody siege inside a packed orlando gay nightclub ended when swat teams stormed the building and killed him , was a radical muslim who followed marcus dwayne robertson , a law enforcement source said .
it is no coincidence that this happened in orlando , said a law enforcement source familiar with robertson s history of recruiting terrorists and inciting violence .
mateen was enrolled in [ robertson s online ] fundamental islamic knowledge seminary .
robertson and several associates were rounded up for questioning early sunday , according to law enforcement sources , a development his attorney refused to confirm or deny.robertson s school may not have been the only source of mateen s spiritual guidance .
the gunman was at the islamic center of fort pierce with imam shafiq rahman two days before the nightclub attack , according to the washington post .
that mosque was frequented by american-born suicide bomber monar abu salha , who blew himself up in syria in 2014 , and the two knew each other , according to officials .
mateen s association with salha led the fbi to interview him in 2014 .
rep. michael mccaul , chairman of the house homeland security committee mike mccaul told fox news law enforcement determined at the time their contact was minimal .
foxnews.com has reported extensively on robertson , a former u.s. marine who served as a bodyguard to the blind sheik involved in the 1993 world trade center attack and led a gang of new york bank robbers called ali baba and the 40 thieves before resurfacing in orlando , where he started an islamic seminary.the school , recently renamed the timbuktu seminary , is operated by robertson , a 47-year-old firebrand known to his thousands of followers as abu taubah.robertson , who recently spent four years in prison in florida on illegal weapons and tax fraud charges before being released by a florida judge one year ago , has openly and enthusiastically preached against homosexuality .
the targets of mateen s bloody rampage were members of the gay community of orlando , 120 miles from the 29-year-old s home in fort pierce.prosecutors said wiretaps from 2011 proved robertson instructed one of his students , jonathan paul jimenez , to file false tax returns to obtain a tax refund to pay for travel to mauritania for terror training.jimenez studied with robertson for a year in preparation for his travel to mauritania , where he would study and further his training in killing , suicide bombing , and identifying and murdering u.s. military personnel .
he pleaded guilty in 2012 to lying to authorities and conspiring to defraud the irs and was sentenced to 10 years in federal prison.robertson was arrested on a firearms charge in 2011 and pleaded guilty in january 2012 .
on march 14 , 2012 , federal authorities charged him with conspiring to defraud the irs , which he was convicted of in december 2013.while in the john e. polk correctional facility in seminole county , robertson was considered so dangerous , he was kept in shackles and assigned his own guards .
whenever he was transported to court , a seven-car caravan of armed federal marshals escorted him .
he was initially moved into solitary confinement after prison authorities believed he was radicalizing up to 36 of his fellow prisoners.in seeking enhanced terrorism charges during sentencing for the two crimes , prosecutors said robertson has been involved with terrorism activities , focused on training others to commit violent acts as opposed to committing them himself overseas instead of inside the united states .
yet efforts by federal prosecutors to tack on another 10 years to his sentence , based on enhanced terrorism charges under the foreign intelligence surveillance act , were not persuasive enough for u.s. district judge gregory presnell , who freed robertson in june 2015 with time served.robertson had denied being involved with terrorist activities , in court and in postings on social media and in statements from his attorney to fox news.federal law enforcement has been familiar with robertson since 1991.as a former u.s. marine who became the leader known as ali baba of a notorious new york gang ali baba and the 40 thieves , robertson and his crew robbed more than 10 banks , private homes and post offices at gunpoint , shot three police officers , and attacked one cop after he was injured by a homemade pipe bomb.during the same period , federal authorities claimed robertson served as a bodyguard to omar abdel rahman , nicknamed the blind sheik , who led the terrorist group that carried out the 1993 bombing of the world trade center and donated more than $ 300,000 in stolen funds to mosques he attended , both claims robertson denied .
robertson has adamantly denied the claims.after he was arrested in 1991 along with most of the other members of the gang , prosecutors cut a deal with robertson , and let him serve four years in prison before going to work undercover for the fbi between 2004 and 2007 to document terrorists plans and networks in africa , egypt and the united states.many of the court s filings , including robertson s own testimony from his most recent criminal case , remain under federal seal , which means only prosecutors , the judge and the defense can review the records .
via : fox news