london ( reuters ) - pro-european campaigners accused ministers of failing to take preparations for brexit seriously enough on thursday , after a committee of lawmakers published the government s sector-by-sector analysis on the impact of leaving the european union .
the analyses have become a focal point for critics of the government s approach to brexit since last year s referendum vote to leave .
the government revealed in october the 58 economic sectors it had analyzed to help it prepare for leaving , but refused requests to publish them .
brexit minister david davis said the reports contained excruciating detail and that their publication could undermine negotiations with the eu .
however , lawmakers demanded to see the papers and used an unusual parliamentary procedure to compel the government to hand them over to a parliamentary committee .
the committee published them on thursday , but with some sensitive sections redacted .
there is little or nothing in them that couldn t be learned from the annual reports of different trade bodies , said pat mcfadden , a member of the committee and spokesman for the open britain campaign group .
breezy busking won t cut it when people s jobs and livelihoods are on the line .
winging it should not be a matter of principle , the opposition labour party lawmaker said .
since his initial remarks , davis has stressed that the work does not constitute a formal impact assessment - a detailed document setting out the economic implications of policy decisions .
he said earlier this month that it was too soon for such work to have been conducted .
the documents released on thursday cover sectors from asset management to tourism , describing each sector , the current eu regulatory regime and a summary of how trade is conducted in these areas .
a section entitled sector views was redacted by the committee .
non-profit organization the energy and climate intelligence unit , which has previously warned of the risks posed by leaving the eu , also criticized the documents .
what leaps out at you is the total absence of analysis .
search , and you do not find , said the organization s director richard black .