washington/tel aviv ( reuters ) - israel would have shown good manners had it informed the united states directly rather than through the news media that it was turning down a proposed summit meeting with u.s. president barack obama , the white house said on tuesday .
but spokesman josh earnest said there was “ no offense taken ” by the decision which israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu on tuesday ascribed to a desire to steer clear of the u.s. presidential election campaign .
it was the latest episode in a fraught relationship between the right-wing israeli leader and the democratic u.s. president that has yet to recover from deep differences over last year ’ s u.s.-led international nuclear deal with israel ’ s foe iran .
in a stark reminder of the paralysis in peace talks which obama tried to revive earlier in his tenure , an american tourist was stabbed to death on a boardwalk in tel aviv in the most serious of several palestinian attacks on tuesday .
the stabbing occurred about the time u.s. vice president joe biden began a two-day visit to israel .
biden met former israeli president shimon peres and was due to hold talks on wednesday with netanyahu in jerusalem and with palestinian president mahmoud abbas in the occupied west bank .
with a wave of palestinian street attacks now five months old , u.s. officials did not expect a peace breakthrough during biden ’ s visit .
a 2010 biden visit was marred by acrimony over a jewish settlement plan israel announced during his trip .
the white house said on monday it had been “ surprised ” to learn first from israeli media that netanyahu had decided against coming to a conference of the pro-israel lobby aipac in washington on march 20 , and to see a suggestion in some reports that obama ’ s unavailability had been one of the reasons .
it said netanyahu had been offered a march 18 meeting with obama , ahead of the president ’ s landmark visit to cuba on march 21 and 22 .
asked whether the netanyahu government should have told the obama administration before the media , earnest said on tuesday , “ i think it ’ s just good manners. ” zeev elkin , an israeli cabinet minister close to netanyahu , countered that israeli ambassador ron dermer had given the white house advance warning the trip might not happen .
netanyahu ’ s office cited the u.s. election campaign in saying he would not travel to washington for the aipac event , and voiced appreciation for obama ’ s willingness to host him .
in 2012 , netanyahu hosted republican presidential contender mitt romney in israel in what many democrats saw as a bid to undermine obama ’ s attempt to secure a second term .
israel denied meddling .
while candidates for the republican and democratic presidential nomination have been vying to assert their credentials as friends of israel , obama is not up for re-election in november , having served a maximum two terms .
earnest said biden was not in israel to handle talks over a memorandum of understanding about the united states providing military support to israel .
there was a separate channel through which those negotiations were taking place , he said .