as meryl streep delivered a smack down for the ages aimed at donald trump , conservative actors mel gibson and vince vaughn could be seen sitting together silently seething.during the golden globes on sunday , streep took aim at trump without mentioning his name , specifically pointing out his attack on a disabled reporter as an example of his bullying .
there was nothing good about it , streep said of trump s campaign .
but it was effective , and it did its job .
it made its intended audience laugh and show their teeth .
it was that moment when the person asking to sit in the most respected seat in our country imitated a disabled reporter someone he outranked in privilege , power , and the capacity to fight back .
it kind of broke my heart .
when the powerful use their position to bully others , we all lose .
most americans across the country and most of those in attendance cheered .
mel gibson and vince vaughn , however , did not.gibson and vaughn were caught on camera having a silent meltdown as streep spoke.here s the video via youtube : the footage of their reaction only lasts a few seconds but it perfectly represents the reaction most trump supporters had last night while watching streep s speech.and twitter users couldn t resist commenting about it.when you re the only two conservatives in a room where trump is getting his ass dragged pic.twitter.com/bt5okjx71l jesse berney ( @ jesseberney ) january 9 , 2017when you look up and want to drop a racial slur but realize meryl streep is a white woman pic.twitter.com/shohwpydw2 kenny ( @ phillycustoms ) january 9 , 2017the conservative table was not feeling meryl s speech .
# goldenglobes pic.twitter.com/zdxdfhcz1r jillian ?
? sederholm ( @ jilliansed ) january 9 , 2017give some credit to gibson and vaughn though .
at least they didn t throw a hissy fit about it like donald trump did.seriously , donald trump literally lost his shit when he heard streep s speech.meryl streep , one of the most over-rated actresses in hollywood , doesn t know me but attacked last night at the golden globes .
she is a .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 9 , 2017hillary flunky who lost big .
for the 100th time , i never mocked a disabled reporter ( would never do that ) but simply showed him .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 9 , 2017 groveling when he totally changed a 16 year old story that he had written in order to make me look bad .
just more very dishonest media !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 9 , 2017gbson and vaughan may have looked angry , but at least they had the class to remain silent.featured image via screenshot