donald trump s stunning neglect to disavow the nazis who stormed through the streets of charlottesville , virginia in his name while shouting nazi germany era slogans prompted an african-american ceo of a major pharmaceutical company to resign .
kenneth c. frazier announced his resignation from trump s american manufacturing council .
our country s strength stems from its diversity and the contributions made by men and women of different faiths , races , sexual orientations and political beliefs , frazier wrote .
america s leaders must honor our fundamental values by clearly rejecting expressions of hatred , bigotry and group supremacy , which run counter to the american ideal that all people are created equal , the ceo continued.pic.twitter.com/a1pnqzism5 merck ( @ merck ) august 14 , 2017frazier said his resignation was a matter of personal conscience and he felt a responsibility to take a stand against intolerance and extremism .
trump remarks in which he blamed many sides for the attack in which a nazi murdered 32-year-old heather heyer , and injured 19 others caused a backlash.trump responded by lashing out at frazier on twitter , writing , now that ken frazier of merck pharma has resigned from president s manufacturing council , he will have more time to lower ripoff drug prices !
now that ken frazier of merck pharma has resigned from president 's manufacturing council , he will have more time to lower ripoff drug prices !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 14 , 2017that didn t go down well on twitter.his vague `` violence on many sides '' was seen by them as approval .
( from # neonazi paper the daily stormer ) # realnews ?
https : //t.co/nwj67bhmmp pic.twitter.com/6prpr0yr37 alexander hamilton ( @ ahamiltonspirit ) august 14 , 2017trump has surrounded himself with the alt-right.we are not exaggerating .
his deputy asst . @ sebgorka .
is literally a nazicheck out his cool nazi threads from hungary # firegorka # firebannon pic.twitter.com/cr4ed9ytty alexander hamilton ( @ ahamiltonspirit ) august 14 , 2017trump did not disavow his nazi supporters , but he did attack this guy.trump had no harsh words for nazis and klansmen over the weekend , but he just rage tweeted this african american ceo _ ( ) _/ pic.twitter.com/qbup1eseif robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) august 14 , 2017trump would rather attack a principled black man who was formerly on his own team than condemn white supremacy .
adam best ( @ adamcbest ) august 14 , 2017trump can not disavow nazis because they elevated him to the white house.way to go , mr. big pharma guy .
wait , did i just type that out loud ?
it s remarkable that someone who is with big pharma has more principles that our so-called president .
that speaks volumes .
anything trump says now about the charlottesville attack is moot since it s been days since the young lady was murdered and he just can t find it in himself to call out the group responsible because they are his people .
trump was supported by white supremacist groups accross the board during his campaign.photo by ron sachs pool/getty images .