london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may said on sunday she would not be derailed from leaving the european union , laying the groundwork for difficult meetings this week in which she will try to unite a divided cabinet behind her vision for post-brexit britain .
may was applauded by european union leaders in brussels on friday after securing an agreement to move previously-deadlocked talks forward onto the topic of interim and long-term trading arrangements .
the progress has gone some way to easing concerns of businesses and investors who fear britain could crash out of the bloc without an exit deal , or that may s fragile government could collapse under the pressure of delivering brexit .
amid all the noise , we are getting on with the job , may wrote in the sunday telegraph .
my message today is very clear : we will not be derailed from this fundamental duty to deliver the democratic will of the british people .
but may can expect some difficult exchanges this week when she and senior ministers discuss the so-called end state of the brexit negotiations for the first time since britain voted to leave the eu in a referendum in june 2016 .
the type of long-term relationship the country should have with the eu is a vexed question at every level in britain , including within may s cabinet where some want to keep close ties with the eu and others want a more radical divorce from brussels .
mindful of the need to keep both sides happy , may has so far plotted a careful path .
may says she wants a wide-ranging free trade deal with the eu and a more outward-looking trade policy , but has largely steered clear of the more contentious issues such as whether britain should stay aligned with eu trading rules and the future role of european courts .
meetings expected to take place on monday and tuesday are likely to force those issues out into the open .
one of the key pro-brexit voices in the cabinet , foreign minister boris johnson , has set out his own view ahead of the meetings , warning may that britain must avoid becoming subordinate to the eu .
what we need to do is something new and ambitious , which allows zero tariffs and frictionless trade but still gives us that important freedom to decide our own regulatory framework , our own laws and do things in a distinctive way in the future , he told the sunday times newspaper .
he said that mirroring eu laws would leave britons asking what is the point of what you have achieved ?
because we would have gone from a member state to a vassal state .