havana ( reuters ) - cuba marks the first anniversary of the death of revolutionary leader fidel castro on saturday with a week of vigils nationwide , as the island embarks on a political cycle that will end 60 years of the castro brothers rule .
fidel , a towering figure of the 20th century who built a communist-run state on the doorstep of the united states and defied u.s. efforts to topple him , died aged 90 on nov. 25 last year .
the cold war icon had already been largely out of public view for around a decade , having formally ceded the presidency to his younger brother , raul castro , in 2008 due to ill health .
cubans say his death changed little on the island .
the pace of reforms instigated by raul to update the soviet-style command economy has continued as hesitantly as before .
cuba s relationship with the united states , meanwhile , has actually worsened due to u.s. president donald trump s more hostile stance .
more significant politically , analysts say , will be the electoral cycle that starts sunday with a municipal vote and will end with the selection of a new president in late february .
raul , 86 , has said he would step down at the end of his two consecutive terms .
the transition is expected to be gradual as raul will remain head of the communist party .
it comes , however , as the country faces a tricky time with a decline in aid from ally venezuela , weaker exports and a resulting cash crunch .
not even we know what our future will be , said ariadna valdivia , 45 , a high school teacher .
raul is ending his term in 2018 , fidel is already history , and i don t really see any way of improving things .
salaries are the same , food is always getting more expensive and now we have trump tightening the embargo .
by the time of his death , castro had been out of the public limelight since an intestinal ailment nearly killed him in 2006 , occasionally writing columns and receiving foreign dignitaries at his home .
his death last year plunged cuba into nine days of national mourning .
a funeral cortege carried his ashes on a three-day journey from havana to his final resting place in the east of the island , where he had launched the cuban revolution .
i am fidel became a nationwide chant , as many cubans pledged to stay faithful to the revolution he led that in 1959 overthrew a u.s.-backed dictator .
he was the best we ve had as a leader , said rene perez , a havana taxi driver , echoing the feelings of many cubans who miss fidel s leadership , especially at times of crisis .
raul did not appear in public after hurricane irma thrashed the island in september .
in keeping with his wishes to avoid a personality cult , no statues have been made of fidel or public places named after him in cuba .
even his tomb is a sober affair , a large granite boulder in santiago de cuba s santa ifigenia cemetery with a plaque simply reading fidel .
galas and vigils in honor of fidel will be held around the country this week , according to state-run media .
cultural institutions like the national ballet are dedicating their shows to his memory , and state television is running archived footage on a loop .
the municipal vote on sunday , the only part of the electoral process with direct participation by ordinary cubans , is being cast in state media as a show of support for his ideas .
posters of fidel hung at assemblies where neighborhoods nominated candidates over the last two months .
it will be followed by provincial and national assembly elections in which candidates are selected from slates by commissions .
the new national assembly will then in late february select a successor to castro , widely expected to be first vice president miguel diaz-canel .
eduardo torres , the director of cuba s national library , said there were several politicians well placed to become president but there would never be another fidel and the country faced a generational transition .
raul had the weight of the historic generation , said torres .
when he leaves , it is another generation and another history we will start to build .