( reuters ) - pope francis ’ s remarks on thursday that u.s. republican presidential candidate donald trump is “ not christian ” due to his views on immigration sparked jokes on social media , and the pope quickly trended on twitter in the united states .
the businessman and former reality tv star called the pope ’ s comments “ disgraceful ” and said he was proud to be a christian .
twitter users poked fun at the brouhaha .
“ watching trump fight with the pope might be the most fun you can have with your clothes on , ” tweeted actor albert brooks ( @ albertbrooks ) .
television comedy writer wendy molyneux ( @ wendymolyneux ) joked about the controversy by attributing a fake quotation to trump that mocked the presidential candidate ’ s penchant for bawdy exaggeration .
“ ‘ you know , a lot of my friends are popes , and they love what i ’ m doing .
this one pope is such a loser .
and fat. ’ - @ realdonaldtrump , ” molyneux wrote thursday .
paul begala ( @ paulbegala ) , a political consultant who is an adviser to a super pac helping democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton , said : “ how long before realdonaldtrump says the pope is totally broke .
doesn ’ t own a single golf course .
never even dated a supermodel .
# loser. ” “ how dare the pope be concerned with the poor & disenfranchised !
i mean jesus never was ! ” tweeted actor rainn wilson ( @ rainnwilson ) .
“ the late show , ” hosted by comedian stephen colbert , tweeted a poll thursday in which it asked “ how can donald trump get back in the pope ’ s good graces ? ” the options listed were “ cabinet position , ” “ purchase indulgences , ” “ evict protestants ” and “ sensual back rub. ” trump , long the leader in national opinion polls , and five republican rivals face off on saturday in south carolina ’ s primary .
while the pope and trump are now at odds , the real estate developer had previously praised the pontiff .
in 2013 , the year francis began his papacy , trump compared himself to the pope favorably .
on christmas day 2013 : trump tweeted , “ the new pope is a humble man , very much like me , which probably explains why i like him so much ! ” the pope was not the only powerful figure to run afoul of the republican candidate on thursday .
media titan rupert murdoch weighed in on twitter to contest trump ’ s claims that fox news is biased against him after a national poll by nbc and the wall street journal showed senator ted cruz inching ahead of trump .
“ trump blames me for wsj poll , fights foxnews , ” tweeted murdoch ( @ rupertmurdoch ) , executive chairman of both fox news parent 21st century fox inc ( foxa.o ) and journal owner news corp ( nwsa.o ) .
“ time to calm down .
if i running anti-trump conspiracy then doing lousy job ! ” for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here ) .