tokyo ( reuters ) - pledges to spend on education and child care , stay tough on north korea and revise the pacifist constitution are likely to be pillars of japanese prime minister shinzo abe s campaign in a snap election next month , government sources said on tuesday .
abe is expected to announce on monday that he will call a general election on oct. 22 to take advantage of a rebound in his damaged approval ratings and disarray in the opposition , ruling party and government sources said .
the prime minister , whose ratings have recovered from below 30 percent in july , is betting his ruling bloc can at a minimum retain a simple majority in the chamber and at best keep the two-thirds super-majority needed to achieve his long-held goal of revising the constitution to clarify the military s role .
a solid victory would boost abe s chances of a third term as ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) leader in a party election next september , putting him on track to become japan s longest-serving premier .
that is his biggest goal , said veteran independent political analyst minoru morita .
abe s support rose 6.5 points to 50.3 percent in a poll conducted over the weekend by the sankei newspaper and the fuji news network , while backing for the ldp was at 38 percent compared to 6.4 percent for the main opposition democratic party .
abe wants to go ahead with a planned rise in the nation s sales tax to 10 percent from 8 percent and use some of the revenue to create a social security system for all generations , which would invest in education while decreasing the proportion of sales tax revenue used to pay down government debt , the sources said .
japan s social welfare system is weighted toward spending on the elderly , with people aged 65 and over accounting for a whopping 27.7 percent of the population according to the latest government data .
you can promise anything you want - make a nod toward a more equitable society , empowering women , work-life balance , welfare for all generations , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .
he s got a strategy that is going to win .
using less tax revenue to pay down debt , however , would make more difficult an already ambitious pledge to balance the budget - excluding debt-servicing and new bond sales - by the year through march 2021 .
that could in turn raise concerns about less rigid fiscal discipline .
we have to maintain fiscal discipline , regardless , finance minister taro aso told reporters when asked about reports of such a shift .
abe has said he will decide on a snap election after he returns from the united states on friday .
the opposition democrats are struggling not only with single-digit support but also a raft of defections .
and while the nascent japan first party , which boasts ties to popular tokyo governor yuriko koike , could attract votes , it has yet to draft a platform , pick candidates or formally register as a party .
that means the ldp and its junior coalition partner , the komeito , have a shot at retaining their two-thirds majority in the lower house , political analysts said .
however , some analysts believe abe s electoral base could be undermined by voter distaste over suspected cronyism scandals and concerns about creating a political vacuum even as north korea raises tensions with its nuclear and missile tests .
i don t dismiss the possibility of the voters giving abe a nasty surprise , said gerry curtis , professor emeritus at columbia university in new york .