moscow ( reuters ) - a court on wednesday found a crimean dissident opposed to russia s annexation of ukraine s crimea guilty of separatism and sentenced him to two years in a prison colony , a punishment supporters said amounted to a death penalty for such an ill man .
ilmi umerov was deputy head of the crimean tatars semi-official mejlis legislature before it was suspended by moscow after it took control of the peninsula in 2014 , a move condemned by the west and ukraine .
state prosecutors had accused the 60-year-old of making statements that undermined russia s territorial integrity by calling in an interview for an end to russian control of crimea .
umerov , who suffers from parkinson s disease and attacks of high blood pressure , said he did oppose russia s annexation but that the interview which prosecutors objected to had been badly translated and his words distorted .
the ukrainian government called the verdict an illegal and politically-motivated sentence which it said violated umerov s human rights .
russia continues its shameful policy of pressure on the independent leaders of occupied crimea , ukraine s ministry of foreign affairs said in a statement .
ukrainian president petro poroshenko described the verdict as embarrassing , saying on social media that he hoped the west would now increase pressure on the russian authorities .
umerov s lawyer , mark feygin , said he would appeal wednesday s verdict which was delivered by a court in simferopol , the crimean capital .
feygin said his client s life was on the line .
his dispatch to a prison colony would mean his death , he wrote on social media , alluding to umerov s frail state of health .
the tatars , a mainly muslim community that makes up about 15 percent of crimea s population , have largely opposed russian rule in the peninsula and say the 2014 annexation was illegal , a view supported by the west .
moscow says the overwhelming majority of crimeans voted to join russia in a proper and fair referendum .
ahtem chiygoz , another crimean tatar leader , was found guilty of stirring up anti-russian protests earlier this month and jailed for eight years , a move ukraine s president called an act of russian repression .
a u.n. human rights report said on monday that russia had committed grave human rights violations in crimea , including its imposition of citizenship and by deporting prisoners .
moscow said it deemed those allegations groundless .