donald trump s introduction of gov .
mike pence as his running mate continued the republican presidential campaign s streak of completely screwing up and mangling the basic elements of running for president .
here are five ways trump bungled the introduction of his running mate.1 .
he relived winning the nomination , againtrump s introductory comments barely even mentioned pence .
instead the candidate did what comes most naturally to him : talking about himself .
trump went on and on discussing his path to the nomination , again reliving the only political victory he s had so far , triumphing over the weak 2016 republican presidential field.2 .
he gave a lecture about turkeytrump then blamed the attempted military coup in turkey on president obama and his presidential rival , former secretary of state hillary clinton .
he claimed , we re seeing unrest in turkey , a further demonstration of the failures of obama-clinton .
3 .
he tried to stop rumors he didn t want pencethen trump decided , for some reason , to use the event to push back on reports from outlets that indicated that trump was considering changing his mind on pence .
trump said , indiana governor mike pence was my first choice .
in fact , the new york times has reported that trump settled on pence.in conversations late into the evening , mr. trump repeatedly hesitated over selecting mr. pence , according to people briefed on the tense deliberations , who insisted on anonymity to describe the confidential talks .
even as his emissaries reassured mr. pence , mr. trump fielded a last-ditch appeal from gov .
chris christie of new jersey , another finalist , who once again pressed his own case.advisers and family members stressed over and over to mr. trump that he was selecting a running mate to unite the republican party , not a new best friend.4 .
he kept talking about himselfin a moment that was quickly mocked on social media , trump proclaimed back to mike pence , then kept on talking about himself and the campaign.is pence even there ?
pic.twitter.com/bmbqyi1y4v joe strupp ( @ joestrupp ) july 16 , 2016trump has been speaking for 23 minutes .
where 's @ mike_pence ?
# freemikepence dana bash ( @ danabashcnn ) july 16 , 20165 .
he abandoned pence on stagehistorically , when candidates have introduced their running mates , they remain on stage with them during their remarks in a sign of unity and coming together .
but trump continued his campaign s themes of being in it for himself .
as he finally got to introducing pence , trump abruptly left the stage , leaving his running mate to wing it solo as trump walked off.it was an unusual moment in a campaign that has become a string of unusual incidents connected to each other via donald trump.featured image via youtube