shanghai ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party has expelled the nation s former top insurance regulator and the head of the finance ministry s anti-graft committee after an anti-corruption watchdog said investigations found serious violations of party discipline .
in a statement on its website on saturday , the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) said an investigation had determined that xiang junbo , former chairman of the china insurance regulatory commission ( circ ) , had committed serious violations of political discipline and rules in order to serve personal political interests .
the statement also said xiang was suspected of bribery and accused him of engaging in superstitious activities , an allegation often levelled at discredited officials to further tarnish their names .
president xi jinping has presided over a far-reaching anti-corruption drive since coming to power in late 2012 , punishing more than a million party members , jailing top military figures and retired security tsar zhou yongkang , the most senior official toppled for corruption since 1949 .
china s top leaders have also pledged this year to address financial risks and asset bubbles , ahead of a once-every-five-years congress of the communist party which will start on oct. 18 .
xiang will be handed over to legal authorities , the statement added , meaning he will be prosecuted .
xiang , who also served as a member of the central bank s monetary policy committee , was removed from his position in april for suspected serious disciplinary violations , a phrase that usually refers to graft .
he is the most senior financial regulator to be targeted by the chinese government s ongoing fight against graft .
as head of the insurance regulator , xiang oversaw rapid growth of the insurance industry , along with liberalisation of investment rules that provided insurers greater latitude to invest more of their assets at home and overseas .
xiang was previously a deputy central bank governor and vice chief at the national audit office .
reuters was not able to reach xiang or a family or legal representative for comment and it was unclear if he has been allowed to retain a lawyer .
mo jiancheng , appointed the top graft buster at china s ministry of finance in december 2015 , was also expelled from the party after an investigation found he had seriously violated the spirit of political discipline , was suspected of bribery and had accepted numerous invitations to banquets , the ccdi statement said .
mo was also a member of the ministry s party committee and previously served as deputy party secretary and vice governor of jiangxi province .
reuters was unable to reach mo or a family or legal representative for comment and it was unclear if he has been allowed to retain a lawyer .