brasilia ( reuters ) - brazil s lower house of congress on tuesday gave initial approval to a bill to reduce the huge array of political parties that have made it hard to govern the country and contributed to corruption .
the chamber voted 384-16 for the establishment of a minimum national vote threshold that parties must reach to get public funding and free radio and television time for their election campaigns .
the requirement would be 1.5 percent of votes in 2018 , rising to 3 percent in 2030 .
the constitutional amendment must be approved twice in each chamber of congress by oct. 7 to apply in next year s general elections .
the proliferation of parties has forced brazilian governments to forge unwieldy coalitions to stay in power by distributing jobs , influence and pork barrel spending , which critics say has provided fertile ground for graft .
small parties facing extinction opposed the vote threshold , which they said would favor larger established parties and hinder renewal of brazil s scandal-plagued political class .
the amendment also seeks to do away with the loose , ad hoc coalitions that parties often form on an election-by-election basis , regardless of ideology or platform .
brazil currently has 35 political parties , 28 of which are represented in congress .
one of them , the brazilian women s party , has only one federal lawmaker , who is a man .
brazil s public funding model has encouraged the founding of new parties , several of them with no clear platforms .
there are currently 67 requests to register new parties , according to brazil s top electoral court .
a sweeping three-year-old probe of endemic corruption in brazil has uncovered a web of political bribes and kickbacks implicating dozens of politicians , including president michel temer and a quarter of his cabinet .
next week lawmakers will vote on a separate amendment creating a new fund of taxpayer money to finance campaigns .
that amendment would also replace a system of party lists to elect congressmen with races in which individual candidates with the most votes would win office .