warsaw ( reuters ) - poland plans to bar ukrainians with anti-polish views , its foreign minister said on thursday , emphasizing the nationalist credentials of his ruling party that often talks of the historic wrongs inflicted on poles by their neighbors .
witold waszczykowski said the policy was a reaction to disrespect shown at a polish cemetery in the western city of lviv , which was part of poland before world war two .
the foreign ministry said lion sculptures at the cemetery s entrances that hold shields inscribed with the polish phrases always faithful and to you , poland had been covered up with boxes .
waszczykowski said ukrainians who express anti-polish sentiments or make it difficult to maintain ageing polish symbols in ukraine would be refused visas .
he did not say how the policy would be applied in practice .
at the moment , we are launching procedures that will not allow people with extremely anti-polish views to come to poland ... those who demonstrate and use administrative instruments against poland will also bear the consequences , waszczykowski told state-run tvp1 television .
poland is home to between 1.5 million and 2 million ukrainians who left their country seeking jobs after the 2014 maidan uprising and conflict with pro-russian rebels in eastern ukraine plunged their economy into recession .
despite poland s support for an independent ukraine that can stand up to russia , tensions over the countries troubled shared history have risen since the law and justice ( pis ) party came to power in poland two years ago .
poland last year passed a resolution that declared the world war two-era killing of tens of thousands of poles by units in the ukrainian insurgent army ( upa ) genocide .
ukraine rejects that label , saying the killings were tragic and calling for reconciliation and forgiveness .
waszczykowski said poland s sympathy for ukraine s struggles with russia must not push historical issues into the background .
it can not be that geopolitics , that the russian aggression will be an excuse and that for years we will not settle the issues that divide us , waszczykowski said .