yangon ( reuters ) - two reuters journalists completed a week in detention in myanmar on tuesday , with no word on where they were being held as authorities proceeded with an investigation into whether they violated the country s colonial-era official secrets act .
journalists wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , were arrested last tuesday evening after they were invited to dine with police officers on the outskirts of myanmar s largest city , yangon .
we and their families continue to be denied access to them or to the most basic information about their well-being and whereabouts , reuters president and editor-in-chief stephen j. adler said in a statement calling for their immediate release .
wa lone and kyaw soe oo are journalists who perform a crucial role in shedding light on news of global interest , and they are innocent of any wrongdoing .
the news group democratic voice of burma ( dvb ) on tuesday cited government spokesman zaw htay as saying that the journalists were being treated well and in good health .
it gave no further details in its online report .
reuters was unable to reach zaw htay for comment .
myanmar s civilian president , htin kyaw , a close ally of government leader aung san suu kyi , has authorized the police to proceed with a case against the reporters , zaw htay said on sunday .
approval from the president s office is needed before court proceedings can begin in cases brought under the official secrets act , which has a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
the two journalists had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis that has seen an estimated 655,000 rohingya muslims flee from a fierce military crackdown on militants in the western state of rakhine .
a number of governments , including the united states , canada and britain , and united nations secretary-general antonio guterres , as well as a host of journalists and human rights groups , have criticized the arrests as an attack on press freedom and called on myanmar to release the two men .
the u.s. state department on tuesday called for their immediate release .
we ve been ... following the cases of the two reporters , the reuters reporters , very closely .
we re deeply concerned about their detention .
we do not know their whereabouts .
that is of concern also , state department spokeswoman heather nauert told a news briefing .
today i want to make it clear that we re calling for their immediate release .
on monday , the spokeswoman for the european union s foreign affairs chief federica mogherini , described the arrests as a cause of real concern .
freedom of the press and media is the foundation and a cornerstone of any democracy , the spokeswoman said .
myanmar has seen rapid growth in independent media since censorship imposed under the former junta was lifted in 2012 .
rights groups were hopeful there would be further gains in press freedoms after nobel peace laureate suu kyi came to power last year amid a transition from full military rule that had propelled her from political prisoner to elected leader .
however , advocacy groups say freedom of speech has been eroded since she took office , with many arrests of journalists , restrictions on reporting in rakhine state and heavy use of state-run media to control the narrative .
about 20 local reporters belonging to the protection committee for myanmar journalists ( pcmj ) posted pictures on tuesday of themselves wearing black shirts as a sign of protest .
they said their act was meant to signify the dark age of media freedom .
by wearing black shirts , all journalists should show unity , said tha lun zaung htet , a producer and presenter at dvb debate tv and a leading member of the pcmj .
we must fight for press freedom with unity .
but most journalists in yangon did not take part in the campaign .
mya hnin aye , senior executive editor at the voice weekly , said few participated because the arrested journalists work for foreign media , much of whose reporting on the rakhine issue is biased .
myo nyunt , deputy director for myanmar s ministry of information , told reuters the case against wa lone and kyaw soe oo had nothing to do with press freedom , and said journalists have freedom to write and speak .
the ministry of information said last week that the two journalists had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media , and released a photo of them in handcuffs .
the authorities have not allowed the journalists any contact with their families , a lawyer or reuters since their arrest .
the international commission of jurists ( icj ) called on the authorities to immediately disclose the whereabouts of the pair .
all detainees must be allowed prompt access to a lawyer and to family members , frederick rawski , the icj s asia-pacific regional director , said in a statement on monday .
authorities are bound to respect these rights in line with myanmar law and the state s international law obligations .
on sunday , spokesman zaw htay said the journalists legal rights were being respected .
your reporters are protected by the rule of the law .