clark , philippines ( reuters ) - china and southeast asian navies aim to hold an inaugural joint maritime exercise next year , singapore s defense minister said on tuesday , as they try to build trust amid conflicting claims over the south china sea .
china claims almost the entire strategic waters through which about $ 3 trillion in ship-borne trade passes every year .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam also have claims , with tensions exacerbated by beijing s island-building and washington s increasing freedom of navigation patrols .
singapore supports it , defense minister ng eng hen told reporters when asked about china s offer to hold maritime exercises .
we will push it ... for the very reason that all asean and china want that .
if you exercise , you at least build understanding and trust .
the exercises were discussed at a meeting between china and singapore on the sidelines of the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) defense ministers meeting at the former u.s. air force base at clark , north of the capital manila .
we ll work out the details .
see the logistics ... and find a suitable area where asean and china navies can exercise together , ng said .
singapore and china have not always seen eye to eye in recent months .
singaporean troops have trained in self-ruled taiwan , an island china claims as its own , which had been an irritant in ties .
last november , chinese-controlled hong kong impounded nine singaporean armored military vehicles being shipped home from taiwan , inflaming tension .
hong kong later released the vehicles .
ng said singapore also had a proposal to reduce risk of actual conflict by agreeing to a new code of unexpected encounters in the air after asean adopted a code to avoid sea encounters .
asean and its eight regional partners , the united states , russia , china , south korea , japan , india , australia and new zealand , had agreed to set up a direct communications link among them to ease tension .
ng said the united states and japan also welcomed the idea of exercises .
secretary ( of defense jim ) mattis welcomed the exercises together with asean countries , he said .
ng also hoped for the early conclusion of a code of conduct in the south china sea after a framework agreement was reached this year to reduce conflicts and misunderstanding .