( reuters ) - the mayor of stockton , california , was arrested on thursday on a felony eavesdropping charge stemming from a strip poker game he is accused of surreptitiously recording at a summer camp he hosts for disadvantaged inner-city children , prosecutors said .
mayor anthony ray silva , 41 , was also charged with three misdemeanor counts - contributing to the delinquency of a minor , child endangerment and furnishing alcoholic beverages to individuals under the legal drinking age of 21 , according to a criminal complaint filed in court .
silva is accused of using his cellphone to make an audio recording of conversation among several young people , including a 16-year-old boy , who were playing strip poker with the mayor inside his cabin at the camp .
prosecutors said in a media statement it was evident that the participants , who were naked , were recorded against their will .
amador county district attorney todd riebe said those present besides the mayor included two to three females and three males , all ranging in age from 18 to 20 .
the criminal complaint further accuses silva of supplying alcohol to six underage youths .
prosecutors said some were camp counselors .
the incidents , according to prosecutors , took place last august at the stockton silver lake camp in amador county , which lies in california gold country on the edge of the sierras northeast of stockton .
in addition to hosting unprivileged children at the city-leased camp each summer , silva has served as president of the boys & girls clubs of stockton for the past six years .
silva ’ s lawyer , mark reichel , told reuters his client “ will be vindicated ” and suggested the case was politically motivated , noting that the mayor , a republican , faces a tough election run-off in november against a democratic city councilman .
asked whether silva was playing strip poker with youths from his camp , reichel replied , “ i highly doubt it. ” reichel added , “ i can ’ t wait to fight them in court , so we can expose the epidemic of kids at summer camp playing strip poker. ” silva was elected mayor of stockton , a city of about 300,000 east of san francisco , in november 2012 , months after the municipality filed for bankruptcy .
the city emerged from bankruptcy protection in february 2015 .
silva , who is not married , was arrested by fbi agents thursday morning at the camp and released on $ 20,000 bond later in the day .
his next court date is aug. 18 .
if convicted of the charges , he could face up to three years in prison .