this woman s having trouble entering the walmart so people go to help her she spits on them !
her reasoning for this disgusting behavior is that americans are pushing us around .
she s arrested but what happens next is what s so disturbing.a saudi arabian national faces hate crimes charges after allegedly spitting on several people at a florida walmart.nuha mohammed al-doaifi was arrested in palm bay after police responded to a 911 call , florida today reported tuesday.the 21-year-old , who was with her 2-year-old son at the time , allegedly admitted to authorities she spat on several people because americans are pushing us around .
the incident began , police said , when a woman approached al-doaifi when she appeared to be having difficulty entering the walmart .
all i was trying to do was tell her she was coming in through the out door , terry rakowski told florida today .
she was just ramming ( her cart ) into the door .
the 39-year-old then claims the woman spat in her face .
she just spit all over me , she said.al-doaifi then allegedly did the same thing to several others inside the walmart .
her actions were directed at random people based on their ethnicity , and that s according to her own statement , said a spokeswoman for the palm bay police department.but this is what s even more disturbing : don t bother trying to hit the link to the original source florida today .
as soon as this story started to appear at other websites they yanked the story , scrubbed it completely .
you can t even find the original report by searching for this woman s name , all you get is a 404 page not found .
it s like it never happened and she doesn t exist.apparently , hate crimes is a one way street , especially when committed by a muslim against white folks.you have to wonder why she s even here if she hates white americans so much .
the next question is whether the obama regime will deport her back to the big sandbox from whence she came.i m gon na say , probably not.via : blur brain