brussels ( reuters ) - ride-hailing app uber [ uber.ul ] said on monday it was joining a global public transport association to improve mobility in the cities it operates in , although north america s largest public transit union said there was no place for the u.s. company .
uber s move to join the international association of public transportation ( uitp ) is part of a drive by uber to improve its relationships with local authorities after a series of regulatory and legal setbacks .
uitp represents public transport providers around the world , including transport for london ( tfl ) - which in september stripped uber of its operating license .
scandal-hit uber has just had to reassure authorities it is changing the way it does business after the disclosure of a massive data breach cover-up that has prompted investigations from regulators around the world .
andrew salzberg , uber s head of transportation policy and research , said aligning the company with public transport authorities was a good way to make uber a better partner for cities .
uber , currently valued at $ 69 billion , has been testing a more collaborative approach to regulators under its new ceo dara khosrowshahi in a shift away from a more aggressive culture under former ceo travis kalanick .
one of the big emphases that dara has made ... is that we want to be better partners for the cities we operate in , salzberg said .
uber said it would work on a series of training sessions with uitp aimed at connecting people better with public transport .
salzberg said the company also wanted to help reduce congestion on roads by encouraging people to move to shared modes of transport .
alain flausch , secretary general of uitp , said uber s decision to join the association was a sign that the company wanted a better relationship with regulators .
flausch said he had told members of uitp that he would check the company stuck to its promises .
it s a work in progress and having uber join is a good sign .
of course they keep their business model but ... they need to be a bit more flexible and open to talking , he told reuters .
however , larry hanley , president of the amalgamated transit union ( atu ) , which represents public transit employees in the united states and canada , said uber should start being a better partner to the cities it operates in by paying a living wage to their drivers who call those cities home .
public transportation should serve the public good , and until uber demonstrates that they meet that standard they have no business being a part of the international association of public transport , hanley said .