are these faux blacks cashing in on victim status or simply taking white guilt too far ? an investigative blogger has accused shaun king , a key figure in the black lives matter movement , of misleading media icon oprah winfrey by pretending to be biracial in order to qualify for an oprah scholarship to historically black morehouse college .
the blogger says king is white and has been lying about his ethnicity for years .
king is a high-profile campaigner against police brutality and justice correspondent for the liberal daily kos website who told rebel magazine in 2012 that he was biracial , with the magazine reporting that he is the son of a caucasian mother and an african-american father .
he has also described himself as mixed with a black family on twitter.king has been lionised by the press , praised as hero of civil rights and social activism .
he has written extensively about a childhood in which he was terrorised by decades old racial tensions .
he claims to have been the focus of constant abuse of the resident rednecks of my school .
yet , in recent weeks , rumours have been circulating about his ethnicity .
a 1995 police incident report lists shaun king s ethnicity as white .
and blogger vicki pate , who has been assembling forensic accounts of shaun king s background and family tree on her blog , re-newsit ! , has published her findings.she claims that king is entirely white and says a birth certificate , which breitbart has since independently acquired from the kentucky office of vital statistics , names a white man as his father .
king s case echoes that of rachel dolezal , a civil rights activist from washington who claimed to be biracial while in fact being of caucasian origin .
dolezal continues to insist she identifies as black , despite her parents revealing that she is entirely white.if pate is right , shaun king , who often uses black and white photographs of himself online rather than colour images , may have misled african-american hero winfrey by applying for and accepting an oprah scholarship to the historically black morehouse college .
oprah scholarships are given exclusively to black men.in his daily kos diary , king refers to himself as a brother , writing : oprah winfrey paid my way through morehouse .
the leadership scholarship that i received from her is why i have a college degree today .
five hundred other brothers have the exact same story .
shaun king s biography has attracted the attention of bloggers and journalists thanks to several bizarre inconsistencies in his public claims .
he often struggles when asked to recall basic facts about his own life .
for instance , in august 2014 , king wrote on twitter that he was father to three black girls , while , six months earlier , he claimed to be father to four.it is of course possible that a family tragedy is responsible for the inconsistency , but the unexplained change in biographical details is not a one-off .
in october 2009 , king claimed to have endured four spinal surgeries .
by february 2010 , the number of surgeries had shrunk to three .
there is also some confusion about when an alleged car crash may or may not have happened.as it turns out , these explosive new racial allegations are just the latest in a string of controversies surrounding shaun king : on july 21 , a conservative blog reported that his account of a brutal , racially-motivated beating in 1995 , which at least two reports have described as kentucky s first hate crime , did not match up with a police report from the case .
king , 35 , has related the story of the hate crime on his blogs and in his recent self-help book , seemingly to bolster his credibility as an activist and as a self-help guru , wrote the daily caller s chuck ross .
while king has said that he was attacked by up to a dozen racist and redneck students , official records show that the altercation involved only one other student .
and while king has claimed that he suffered a brutal beating that left him clinging to life , the police report characterized king s injuries as minor , ross reported.this month , more details have emerged from king s account that do not match up with the police report or eyewitness accounts from journalists who noticed that king s public claims did not square with reality.remarkably , king s own publication the daily kos , at which he is listed as a staff writer , ran a provocatively titled blog post in july of this year : is there something fishy about shaun king ?
the post alleged that people had been asking questions about king for some time and linked to the earlier daily caller report .
while i know that it s in a right-wing publication , there was something that prevented me from instantly dismissing the article i ve seen a number of people on daily kos complain that shaun plays fast and loose with the truth , wrote contributor burt miles .
so i started to do some digging on the internet and found a lot of information which , if true , makes me very concerned about shaun , his motives , and how his actions could reflect badly on this site and be used to smear the black lives matter movement .
miles continued : is there anything to all this , or is it some kind of organized smear campaign ?
and , if it is a smear campaign , how does it involve so many different sites , publications and individuals ?
it was around the same time that breitbart contacted vicki pate , who has been investigating king s claims for several years .
pate provided key documents that appear to show that king has two white parents and that he has been lying to the public about his race .
here is a picture of shaun king ( left ) with his mother and brother ( left ) via : renewsitone of them is his birth certificate , listing his parents as naomi kay fleming and jeffery wayne king and a birth date of september 17 , 1979 in versailles , kentucky .
king had already told journalists his mother was white .
so all that remained for pate to determine was whether his father was white too.king has always claimed that his father is black .
but king s father , jeffery , is white , says pate .
she points to a man born 11 november 1955 in campbell , kentucky who has been the subject of multiple arrests , including for motoring and drug offences .
that birth date would make him 23 at the time of shaun king s birth , the same age given on shaun s birth certificate.the jeffery wayne king whose name and date of birth concord with shaun king s birth certificate is pictured below , in a 2007 police mug shot .
various documents give his name as jeffery and jeffrey wayne king , names which are common variants of one another , but king snr s date of birth and place of residence is the same in all records .
jeffrey king , king s alleged father , who he has claimed in the past is black ( top ) ; king s brother jason is pictured ( bottom ) what s more , pate says she has definitively linked the man pictured in these mugshots to shaun king via shaun s brother , kentucky air guard russ king , who is also clearly caucasian .
finally , public records show only one j wayne king in the state.by 2015 , shaun king had finessed his account of growing up black and suffering discrimination .
i was raised in rural kentucky , he told the blog generation progress .
it was actually pretty rough .
african americans faced a lot of racism and discrimination growing up .
i never really experienced overt racism myself until high school , he claimed .
i was put into a weird position when a huge group of students ( who called themselves rednecks ) hated me for no reason .
king must have known while giving interviews as late as 2015 that vicki pate was tracking down his family history .
but he continued to deliver craftily-worded answers to interview questions that gave the impression he was a person of color and that he had been the victim of hate crimes.neither is true , says pate .
she told breitbart last night that king has never denied her accusations .
shaun king has not denied the story to me , or anyone else , as far as i know , she said .
whenever it is mentioned on twitter he simply blocks whoever is asking and reports them for harassment .
he did reply to one person but only to say , haters gon na hate .
i myself have been suspended from twitter just for posing the question .
via : breitbart news