raleigh , north carolina ( reuters ) - on election day in 2014 , joetta teal went to work at a polling station in lumberton , north carolina .
like all poll workers , she was required to stay until voting booths closed , so she decided to cast her own vote there .
that was a mistake , she later discovered .
what she didn ’ t know was that under a 2013 state law she had to vote in the precinct where she lived .
the polling station where she voted was not in her precinct , so her vote was not counted .
a reuters review of republican-backed changes to north carolina ’ s voting rules indicates as many as 29,000 votes might not be counted in this year ’ s nov. 8 presidential election if a federal appeals court upholds the 2013 law .
besides banning voters from voting outside their assigned precinct on election day , the law also prevents them from registering the same day they vote during the early voting period .
the u.s. justice department says the law was designed to disproportionately affect minority groups , who are more likely to vote out of precinct and use same-day registration .
backers of the law deny this and say it will prevent voter fraud .
the battleground state has a recent history of close races that have hinged on just a few thousand votes .
barack obama , a democrat , won north carolina by just 14,177 votes in 2008 .
in 2012 , mitt romney , a republican , narrowly carried the state by a margin of just 2.04 percent .
reuters reviewed state election board data showing the number of north carolinians who made use of out-of-precinct voting and same-day registration in previous elections , including march ’ s state nominating contest , or primary , when voters nominated their preferred presidential candidate .
the reuters analysis includes some assumptions .
for 29,000 votes to go uncounted on nov. 8 , north carolinians would need to vote in the same numbers and in the same ways they have in previous elections , including the march primary .
in that primary , after a court temporarily ordered a stay on the bans , 6,387 north carolinians voted out of their assigned precinct and 22,501 registered the same day they voted .
the north carolina board of elections did not respond to requests for comment on reuters ’ findings .
north carolina senator bob rucho , a republican who backed the law , declined to comment specifically on the findings but disputed the notion that the law suppressed votes , saying the increased turnout between the 2010 and 2014 elections shows it has not had a disparate impact on minority voters .
“ how can it show voter suppression when more black voters voted and more white voters voted , and there was more opportunity , and there are more black voters registered than there were before ? ” turnout between those elections did rise by 1.8 percentage points for black voters and by 1.1 percentage points for white voters , according to data the state election board entered as evidence in court .
advocacy group democracy north carolina , however , said their poll monitors saw many people attempting to vote out of precinct in 2014 who were told by officials their ballots would not count , and as a result cast no vote .
and it says 23,500 voters would have used same-day registration to vote in 2014 if it had not been banned , basing its findings on a review of election board data , hundreds of hotline calls , and the observations of more than 300 poll monitors .
north carolina board of elections executive director kim strach said her office looked into claims of voters being turned away “ but generally did not find statewide evidence of it. ” the fourth u.s .
circuit court of appeals , which is considering legal challenges to the law from the justice department and civil rights groups and citizens , is expected to issue a ruling in the next few weeks .
north carolina ’ s senate passed its new voting laws weeks after the u.s. supreme court voted 5 to 4 in june 2013 to eliminate a requirement that nine states mostly in the south with a history of discrimination , including north carolina , receive federal approval before changing election laws .
had that requirement been in place , “ it may have blocked the provisions now at issue , ” said kristen clarke , president of the lawyers ’ committee for civil rights under law , a non-profit legal defense fund .
the justice department alleged a “ race-based purpose ” to the new law in a legal brief .
studies the department cited show that minority and low-income voters are more likely to use same-day registration and out-of-precinct voting because they are less likely to own a car or have flexible working hours .
these voters are also more likely to vote for democratic candidates .
“ if you pick out precisely the way minority voters are engaging with the process , that ’ s intentionally treating minority voters differently , ” justin levitt , who oversees the justice department ’ s voting unit , said in an interview .
north carolina state officials say the changes cut fraud by making it harder for people to cast multiple ballots or impersonate other voters .
the justice department said in court documents that voter fraud was “ virtually non-existent ” in the state .
rucho , the state senator , said while the law banned some voting methods and cut the early voting period from 17 to 10 days , it extended the hours during which voters could vote .
“ we opened up more locations for them to vote , more times to vote , more flexible times , ” said rucho .
four-person team teal , who is african american , was one of 14 north carolina voters reuters contacted whose votes were invalid in 2014 because of the law .
ten of them , including teal , did not realize their votes were not counted until informed by reuters .
one was told his vote would not count by a voter advocacy group , and the other three were told by poll workers that their ballots likely would not count .
in all , 1,390 ballots were rejected in the 2014 election because they were cast out of the voter ’ s assigned precinct — up from 49 rejected for the same reason in 2010 , according to the reuters review of provisional ballots .
“ if they could have just sent people letters and told them exactly where to go , that would have been helpful , ” teal said .
the north carolina board of elections website has a tool for residents to look up their assigned precincts , but teal did not know about it .
this year she plans to vote early .
in other developed democracies , “ the government takes a greater responsibility for ensuring that voter registration lists are kept up to date and accurate , ” said tova wang , senior fellow at the policy research group demos .
the election board has been trying to educate north carolinians about the ban on out-of-precinct voting through ads and a four-person voter outreach team that travels around the state to raise awareness about the changes , said strach , the board ’ s director .
“ we ’ re telling people , go find out where you are , make sure you ’ re showing up at the right precinct , ” strach said .
( related stories : insight-native americans move to frontlines in battle over voting rights insight-thousands of voters in limbo after kansas demands proof they ’ re american insight-use it or lose it : occasional ohio voters may be shut out in november )