president barack obama danced the night away in buenos aires at a glitzy state dinner alongside argentine president mauricio macri and his first lady juliana awada as part of a two-day state visit .
watch obama s dirty dancing display here.when he wasn t sporting a half-naked argentinian woman with her legs wrapped around him , he was telling argentines , there s little difference between communism and capitalism .
( watch video of speech here ) president barack obama s two-day visit to argentina , where he tangoed and downplayed the differences between capitalism and communism , cost taxpayers nearly $ 1.4 million.the president traveled to argentina last week after his two-day stop in cuba .
the visit racked up substantial costs for hotels , transportation , and advance bathroom maintenance , according to government contracts signed by the state department and department of homeland security.lodging for the president and white house staff totaled $ 115,588 , while conference rooms cost $ 35,584 .
another contract for hotel rooms cost $ 31,585.u.s .
secret service costs associated with the trip included $ 120,782 for hotel rooms at the hyatt park in buenos aires and $ 707,801 for transportation.use of marine one , the presidential helicopter , during obama s trip cost $ 44,611 .
other transportation costs included contracts worth $ 68,597 , $ 23,304 , $ 4,789 , $ 8,212 , and $ 24,955.transportation costs for journalists traveling with the president as part of the white house correspondents association totaled $ 141,794.finally , a contract signed march 9 for repair and maintenance for pool bathrooms for the president s visit to argentina cost $ 50,218.president obama arrived in argentina on march 23 , after he posed in front of a mural of marxist and mass murderer che guevara and did the wave at a baseball game in cuba.contracts for obama s visit to cuba have not been made public , except for one worth $ 18,400 for potus press credentials .
in all , taxpayers were billed $ 1,394,294 for the argentina trip and press credentials in cuba .
one hotel contract was refunded , subtracting $ 1,926 from the total.the president was widely criticized after he was photographed doing the tango in buenos aires just two days after the terrorist attacks in brussels , belgium .
the attacks killed 32 people , including four americans , and wounded over 300 others.during the visit , obama also apologized for america s role in argentina s dirty war in the 1970s and gave a less-than-ringing endorsement of capitalism in a speech to argentinian youth .
so often in the past there has been a division between left and right , between capitalists and communists or socialists , and especially in the americas , that s been a big debate , the president said .
oh , you know , you re a capitalist yankee dog , and oh , you know , you re some crazy communist that s going to take away everybody s property .
those are interesting intellectual arguments , but i think for your generation , you should be practical and just choose from what works , obama said .
you don t have to worry about whether it really fits into socialist theory or capitalist theory .
you should just decide what works , he added .
and i said this to president castro in cuba .
via : washington free beacon