caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s doctors , fed up with what they called the world health organization s passive attitude toward the country s deep medical crisis , protested at the agency s caracas office on monday to demand more pressure on the government and additional assistance .
venezuela is suffering from a roughly 85 percent shortage of medicines , decrepit hospital infrastructure , and an exodus of doctors during a brutal recession .
once-controlled diseases like diphtheria and measles have returned due in part to insufficient vaccines and antibiotics , while venezuelans suffering chronic illnesses like cancer or diabetes often have to forgo treatment .
malnutrition is also rising , doctors say .
rare government data published in may showed maternal mortality shot up 65 percent while malaria cases jumped 76 percent .
the former health minister was fired shortly after the bulletin s publication , and it has not been issued since .
in the latest protest by an umbrella group of health associations , dozens of doctors and activists gathered at the pan american health organization ( paho ) , the who s regional office , urging the agency step up pressure on nicolas maduro s leftist government and provide more aid during its 29th pan american sanitary conference this week .
there s been a complicit attitude because they haven t denounced things , dr. rafael muci said during the rally .
this is an unlivable country , and no one is paying attention , he said , adding he earns about $ 8 a month at a state hospital .
in a statement on monday , paho stressed its main role was to provide technical cooperation and highlighted recent help in providing vaccines .
the venezuelan government , which accuses activists of whipping up panic and the business elite of hiding medicines , did not respond to a request for comment .
venezuelans seeking certain drugs often have to scour pharmacies , seek foreign donations or turn to social media .
sociologist maria angelica casanova , 51 , has struggled to find psychiatric medicines for a year .
sometimes they come , sometimes they don t. it s serious , she said , as passers-by shouted down with maduro !
measles , which were controlled after a mass immunization in the 1990s , has returned to venezuela s jungle state of bolivar , paho data show .
as the crisis stokes emigration , venezuela s health problems could be exported , doctors warned .
we don t know how many people who are emigrating could have some of these pathogens in incubation period , said andres barreto , an epidemiologist who had participated in the measles vaccination drive .