berlin ( reuters ) - after a series of setbacks for far-right parties in europe this year , austria s anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) delivered one of its strongest performances ever in an election on sunday and could rejoin the government after a 12-year absence .
early projections showed the center-right people s party ( ovp ) , led by sebastian kurz , had won the most votes in austria , with about 31 percent .
the fpo was vying with the center-left social democrats ( spo ) for second place , with both parties between 26-27 percent .
kurz could now look to form a coalition with the fpo , which was last part of a government in austria between 2000 and 2005 .
below are key take-aways from the austrian vote and its implications for europe .
the far-right is not dead there was a temptation after the dutch and french elections this year to declare an end to the far-right populist wave in europe .
but last month s german election , which saw the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) party surge into the bundestag , and now the austrian election , say otherwise .
despite a hard shift right by the conservative ovp under kurz , the fpo appeared close to the all-time high of 26.9 it won in 1999 .
that result paved the way for it to enter government , a move which prompted a horrified european union to impose sanctions against austria .
if the fpo enters the government this time , expect little more than a whimper .
the austrian result showed that the refugee crisis of 2015 has left deep scars among european voters , especially in countries that were at the center of the storm .
the number of asylum seekers entering austria has fallen sharply over the past year .
but migration was the dominant theme in the election .
the german election brought populism back to the center of the debate and the austrian election will strengthen that , said cas mudde , an expert on far-right politics at the university of georgia .
center-right and far-right converge the austrian election showed that the lines between europe s center-right and far-right parties are blurring , with mainstream conservatives adopting a much tougher tone on immigration , islam and domestic security .
austria s kurz is the poster-child for this shift and his success could encourage other centrist parties in europe to adopt the same strategy .
during the campaign kurz denounced the welcoming culture towards refugees of 2015 , said migrants rescued in the mediterranean should be returned to africa and promised to slash the benefits for newly arrived migrants .
we see kurz as a model for conservatives in germany , a senior figure in bavaria s christian social union ( csu ) told reuters .
we applaud him .
he will change the dynamic in europe .
after bleeding support to the afd in the german vote , the csu is promising a far harder line on immigration - a headache for german chancellor angela merkel as she tries to form a new coalition government .
elsewhere in europe , dutch prime minister mark rutte successfully fought off a challenge from far-right leader geert wilders in march by talking tough on migration .
in france , hardliner laurent wauquiez , is in pole position to take over the leadership of the centre-right republican party .
as centrist parties shift right on migration , radical right-wingers - from austria s freedom party to france s national front - are adopting a softer tone on europe , dropping their threats to exit the eu and ditch the euro currency .
although differences on economic policy remain , the shifts could make the center-right and far-right virtually indistinguishable in some countries .
a new austrian coalition of kurz s ovp and heinz-christian strache s fpo would be a tougher partner for merkel and french president emmanuel macron as they push reforms of the euro zone and eu asylum policies .
kurz has praised hungary s prime minister viktor orban for building a fence along his border to keep out immigrants .
and strache has said austria should join the visegrad group of central and east european states - hungary , poland , the czech republic and slovakia - that are united in their opposition to eu migrant quotas pushed by berlin and brussels .
both parties are skeptical about steps towards closer integration of the euro zone , especially changes that would centralize powers in brussels , such as macron s idea to create a budget and finance minister for the euro zone .
kurz , on track to become the next chancellor of austria , is just 31 years of age - young even by the standards of europe s recent youth movement , which saw macron enter the elysee palace at the age of 39 and christian lindner , 38 , lead germany s liberal free democrats ( fdp ) back into the bundestag .
kurz and lindner showed that young new faces can inject dynamism into old establishment parties that have lost their way with voters .
kurz rebranded the ovp as the new people s party and changed its colors from black to turquoise .
lindner used trendy black-and-white campaign posters that showed him staring at his smartphone to revitalize the fdp s image .
macron , who formed his own political movement , was able to paint himself as a rebel outsider despite having served for four years under failed french socialist francois hollande .
and don t forget italy , where the two top candidates in next year s election are likely to be luigi di maio , the new 31-year-old leader of the upstart 5-star movement and former prime minister matteo renzi , who at 42 looks positively old by europe s new standards .