the president s visit stretches from friday afternoon to monday morning , when he will travel to macdill air force base in tampa .
he s then expected to head back to washington , d.c.here are five key things to know while trump is in town:1 .
this is trump s first visit to palm beach since his jan. 20 inauguration.before this trip , trump s last visit to his palm beach home was over the christmas and new year s holidays , when he was still president-elect.while in town , he played golf twice : once with tiger woods at trump s west palm beach golf course , and a second time on new year s eve at the trump national golf club in jupiter.trump and first lady melania attended a christmas eve church service at the historic episcopal church of bethesda-by-the-sea , where the couple was married and their son , barron , was christened.2 .
the trumps are expected to attend the 60th annual red cross ball on saturday night.the event was planned to be held at mar-a-lago well in advance of trump s presidential election win , but that hasn t kept it from being a source of controversy .
as the red cross prepares to possibly aid refugees affected by trump s recent executive order , some have called for the organization to postpone or move the gala.however , the red cross ball has a history at mar-a-lago .
the estate s first owner , cereal heiress marjorie meriweather post , was a noted supporter of the red cross , and began hosting the annual fundraiser there in 1957.3 .
this will be melania trump s first public appearance with her husband since the inauguration.soon after the election , it was announced melania and barron , 10 , would live in trump tower in new york city until barron finishes his school year.trump s daughter , ivanka , has accompanied him on visits typically attended by the first lady , according to the new york times.4 .
protesters are expected to march through west palm beach on saturday.two local groups , south florida activism and women s march florida , are hosting a modified version of an earlier plan to march from trump towers in downtown west palm beach to mar-a-lago .
now , organizers say the march will head south to an area in west palm beach that sits just across the intracoastal from trump s lavish estate.the march , which kicks off at 5 p.m. , could draw more than 2,200 people.5 .
mar-a-lago s original owner wanted the estate to be used as a winter white house .
post , who built the mansion and named it mar-a-lago because it stretches from ocean to lake , left mar-a-lago to the federal government in her will .
however , federal officials said , thanks but no thanks , citing the high cost to maintain the property and its position under one of palm beach international airport s primary flight paths.more than 10 years later , trump purchased the estate and its furnishings for a bargain : $ 10 million.via : palm beach post