( this version of the october 15 story corrects pm s first name to ramush from ramuch in first paragraph ) by fatos bytyci pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo s newly appointed prime minister , ramush haradinaj , on monday urged the united states , his country s main ally , to become involved in eu-sponsored talks between kosovo and serbia aimed at settling their differences .
serbia refuses to recognize independence of kosovo , its former province , but it has committed to eu-supported talks in order to accelerate its own accession to the eu bloc .
since 2013 the two countries have reached a series of agreements but few have been implemented so far and the talks themselves have been stalled since this spring .
haradinaj said u.s. participation was vital to move the talks forward .
a u.s. role is necessary for peace , haradinaj , a former guerrilla leader told reuters .
we see a u.s. role at the table as an essential necessity .
the talks should conclude with mutual statehood recognition between kosovo and serbia , he said .
kosovo albanians have looked on the united states as their main ally since the start of their struggle for independence in the late 1990s .
kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 , almost a decade after nato air strikes drove out serbian forces accused of killing and expelling ethnic albanian civilians during a counter-insurgency war .
kosovo has been recognized by 115 countries , including 23 of the eu s 28 members .
but its u.n. membership is blocked by serbia s allies russia and china .
haradinaj said by end of the year his government would sign a deal with the u.s. power company contourglobal for a billion euro coal-fired power plant project .
the new york-based company was the only bidder for the 660 megawatt ( mw ) plant that will replace the balkan country s 40-year-old kosovo a power plant .
the project has been criticised by environmentalists who say kosovo should rely more on renewable energy sources rather than on coal .
it will have a clean and advanced technology and it will guarantee enough power for the next 20 years , haradinaj said .
kosovo still faces power shortages in winter with its two ageing coal-fired power plants under strain to meet demand .