baghdad ( reuters ) - the iraqi government said on thursday it would not hold talks with the kurdish autonomous region on reopening its airports and providing dollars for its banks , unless the kurds commit to iraq s unity .
iraq s central government imposed a ban on direct international flights to the autonomous kurdish region after the kurds held a sept 25 referendum on independence , which baghdad says was illegal .
it is calling for its neighbors to shut the landlocked region s borders .
among other measures to isolate the kurdish region , baghdad stopped selling dollars to four kurdish-owned banks and called for a halt to its independent crude oil sales .
the kurds have repeatedly called for negotiations following the referendum in which an overwhelming majority voted for independence .
to avoid this collective punishment , we invite ( iraqi prime minister ) haider al-abadi , again , ... ( to ) any form of dialogue and negotiations in conformity with the iraqi constitution , the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) said in a statement .
it offered discussions regarding the crossings , internal trade , providing services to the citizens , the banks and the airports .
but baghdad has said the kurds must disavow the referendum result as a pre-condition for any talks .
asked about the latest offer , an iraqi government spokesman said there could be no talks until the kurds gave a commitment to iraq s unity .
the krg must accept the sovereign authority of the federal government on ( .. ) oil exports , security and border protection , including land and air entry points , he told reuters .
the kurds , who have sought an independent state for generations , say their referendum was meant to be the start of a negotiation that would see them gain independence after agreement with the iraqi government .
but baghdad considered the vote illegal , especially as it was held not only in territory that forms part of the kurdish autonomous region , but also in disputed neighboring parts of iraq occupied by kurdish troops .
iraq has maintained its tough line toward the kurds with support of neighbors turkey and iran , which strongly oppose the secessionist movement .
washington , long friendly with the kurds , had also called on them before the referendum to cancel it .
president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said on thursday turkey would gradually close border crossings with northern iraq in coordination with the central iraqi government and iran .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim is expected to visit baghdad on sunday to meet with iraqi prime minister haidar abadi .
on wednesday , the kurdish authorities accused iraqi forces and iranian-trained iraqi paramilitaries of preparing a major attack on the oil-rich region of kirkuk and the area near mosul .
both are in parts of northern iraq outside the kurdish autonomous region but held by kurdish forces since islamic state fighters were driven out .
[ l8n1mm5j1 ] baghdad has denied it has plans for a military move against the kurds .
abadi said on thursday he would not use the army against the kurdish region , and a military spokesman denied any attack on kurdish forces was planned , saying government troops were preparing to oust islamic state militants from an area near the syrian border .
we won t use our army against our people or to launch a war against our kurdish citizens , abadi said in a statement .
iraq s supreme judicial council issued arrest warrants on wednesday for the chairman of the kurdish referendum commission and two aides for violating a valid court ruling banning the independence vote as against the constitution .
kirkuk , a kurdish-held , multi-ethnic city and surrounding province with large oil reserves , has emerged as a flashpoint in the crisis as it is claimed by both baghdad and the kurds .
iraqi forces and shi ite muslim paramilitaries , known as popular mobilisation , are deployed south and west of kirkuk , in areas previously under the control of islamic state .
the iraqi government spokesman said the krg must acknowledge the authority of the federal government over kirkuk as another pre-condition for talks .
the area around al-qaim , where the euphrates river crosses into iraq from syria , is the last part of iraq still under the control of islamic state fighters , who overran a third of the country in 2014 .
on thursday , the iraqi military dropped leaflets on al-qaim urging the militants to surrender or face death .
is also holds areas on the syrian side of the border , but is retreating there in the face of two sets of hostile forces - a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led coalition and syrian government troops with foreign shi ite militias backed by iran and russia .
islamic state s cross-border caliphate effectively collapsed in july when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , after a nine-month battle .