san juan ( reuters ) - puerto rico ’ s semi-public power utility , known as prepa , on thursday said it would make all of a $ 415 million debt payment due on friday , a relief for bond insurers who might have been on the hook in the event of default .
prepa , which had been on the brink of collapse under $ 8.3 billion in debt , last year reached an exchange deal with most of its creditors , which is being finalized .
on thursday , the utility said it would make its $ 415 million payment using operational funds and proceeds from the new bond sales .
“ today ’ s outcome is another step toward prepa ’ s transformation , ” lisa donahue , the utility ’ s chief restructuring officer , said in a statement .
the payment is not a shock because prepa and its creditors have had the framework of a restructuring deal in place since december .
but debt payments in the u.s. territory are being watched closely as the island is expected to default on pieces of $ 1.9 billion owed on friday , and president barack obama prepares to sign a bill putting the island ’ s finances under federal oversight .
puerto rico faces $ 70 billion in total debt , a stalled economy , and high poverty and unemployment .
the $ 1.9 billion due on friday - of which prepa ’ s payment was a portion - includes nearly $ 800 million in general obligation ( go ) debt , the island ’ s highest-ranking debt protected by a constitutional pledge .
it was unclear on thursday whether puerto rico would make that payment .
on wednesday night , the u.s. senate passed the puerto rico oversight , management , and economic stability act ( promesa ) , which obama has said he will sign , providing for a bankruptcy-like debt restructuring process for puerto rico , as well as federal oversight of its finances .
while promesa contemplates a stay on litigation in the event of default , missed payments matter for the insurers who have to pay out on claims .
mbia ’ s national public finance guarantee insures about $ 139 million of the prepa payment due on friday , while assured guaranty covers about $ 35 million .
national insures another $ 211 million in other debt due on friday , including $ 173 million in go debt , a company spokesman said on wednesday .
assured covers another $ 329 million due friday , about $ 184 million of which is go debt , a spokeswoman said .
ambac , which insures more than $ 2 billion of puerto rican bonds , is on the hook for $ 122 million in principal and interest due on friday , including some $ 40 million in go or go-guaranteed debt , according to the company ’ s public documents .