luanda ( reuters ) - angola s new president jo o louren o is making swift moves to wrest power from his predecessor jose eduardo dos santos , pushing out some of his key allies and vowing to combat monopolies controlled by a family that has run angola for four decades .
dos santos , 75 , handpicked louren o , 63 , to succeed him when he stepped down last month after 38 years in power , prompting critics to suggest the little-known newcomer would be a puppet of the dominant dos santos family .
but analysts , diplomats and politicians have been surprised by the speed at which louren o has tried to take on some of the entrenched vested interests that control sub-saharan africa s third largest economy and second biggest oil exporter .
heavyweights from the previous administration , such as vice president manuel vicente and minister of state manuel kopelipa h lder vieira dias jr , have found themselves out of a job .
dos santos still retains significant power as the head of the ruling mpla party , and key posts such as the finance minister and central bank governor have not yet been touched .
but in the vital oil sector , responsible for 75 percent of government revenue , louren o curbed the control of dos santos daughter , isabel , who runs national oil company sonangol .
this month louren o appointed carlos saturnino , who was sacked by isabel dos santos last year , as secretary of state for oil , a technically more senior role than that of his old boss .
it was unexpected at this early stage , said marcolino moco , a former angolan prime minister and critic of jose eduardo dos santos .
it s very early still , but louren o is sending a sign that the excesses of the dos santos era will not continue .
isabel dos santos , africa s richest woman , denied any tension with louren o , telling reuters last week that their views were in full alignment .
in his state of the nation address on october 16 , louren o vowed to break up monopolies in the economy , directly mentioning the cement industry in which isabel and her husband have large holdings .
he also abolished government communications department grecima , with which a company co-owned by another dos santos daughter , welwitschia , had lucrative contracts .
the company , semba comunica o , could not be reached for comment .
breaking the monopolies enjoyed by the dos santos family would be going for the jugular , said ricardo soares de oliveira , an author and expert on angola who teaches at oxford university .
but there is a danger of confusing a vendetta against dos santos with a true reform agenda , oliveira said .
major reform is desperately needed .
although an oil boom has made angola one of africa s richest countries per capita , it is also one of the world s most unequal , with the vast majority of the population sharing little of its wealth .
angola s economy fell into recession last year and unemployment is at least 25 percent .
a lack of foreign currency has forced companies , such as airlines and oil services , to pull back operations .
a dollar fetches three times the official rate on the black market .
ratings agency moody s downgraded angola s credit rating last week , saying the economy remained constrained by foreign currency shortages , high inflation , low public spending and a weak banking system .
there are early indications louren o may be placing capable technocrats into roles to fix some of these problems .
ricardo viegas de abreu , a banking executive and former deputy governor of the central bank , was appointed last week presidential secretary for economic affairs .
jos massano , a former central bank governor popular with international investors , could return to his old job , local media reported wednesday .
a spokesperson for the central bank declined to comment .
for louren o s opponents the jury is still out .
we re still in the phase of promises action hasn t brought us anything yet , adalberto costa j nior , parliamentary head of main opposition party unita , told reuters .