this is truly where we re heading with freedom of speech in america and it s scary .
there are people on the left who want to silence conservatives .
the only speech allowed is the speech from the left .
sounds very 1930 s germany to us .
the left wants you to march in lock-step to what they say or they ll beat the h * ll out of you .
just try and wear a make america great again hat to a rally and see what the lefties do to you .
this is disturbing but what s even more disturbing is that we have lawmakers who are going overboard in their rhetoric barbara lee is a great example of this : stay woke !
democrat barbara leedemocratic lawmakers joined alt-left protesters who want to ban conservative news websites at a protest outside of the federal communications commission , thursday.rep .
barbara lee ( d. calif. ) told the crowd of protesters and antifa members to stay woke in fighting against fcc chairman ajit pai s proposal to roll back obama era net neutrality rules.politico pro reported that four democrats joined the protest , which included members of the alt-left groups who have targeted pai and held protests in his neighborhood .
politico did not mention protesters wearing masks and identifying themselves as part of the antifa movement .
they held signs advocating to ban news websites such as the drudge report and breitbart .
we must stay vigilant , lee said .
we must insist that our freedom of speech is preserved .
senators ron wyden ( d. , ore. ) , ed markey ( d. , mass .
) , and rep. jared polis ( d. , colo. ) also joined the activists protesting pai s proposal , which would bring less regulation for internet service providers.the fcc voted 2-1 thursday afternoon to begin the process of reversing net neutrality rules , including title ii , which subjected internet companies to regulations on how they can manage traffic on their networks .
the proposal will now be open to public comment for 90 days.politico mentioned protect our internet as one of the groups that organized the fcc protest , but failed to mention the group s ties to members of disruptj20 and antifa , which have been involved in violent protests against the presidential inauguration and conservative speakers on college campuses.read more : washington free beacon