sabratha , libya ( reuters ) - an armed alliance involved in a three-week battle over the libyan smuggling hub of sabratha said on saturday it had taken over protection of the mellitah oil and gas terminal after expelling a rival group .
an organization called the operations room and its allies have been fighting the anas al-dabbashi brigade , a major facilitator of migrant smuggling that recently said it had changed tack and struck a deal with the u.n.-backed government in tripoli to stop boats setting off across the mediterranean .
the fighting killed 17 and wounded 164 , omar abduljaleel , commander of the operations room , told reporters in sabratha , a town west of the capital tripoli .
the dabbashi brigade had been guarding the facility west of sabratha since 2015 .
it is run jointly by libya s national oil corporation ( noc ) and italian firm eni .
the setback for the dabbashi brigade creates new uncertainty over the control of migrant flows from libya .
since a 2016 deal between the eu and turkey to block crossings in the aegean , libya has been the gateway for the vast majority of migrants trying to reach europe by boat , and the area around sabratha has been the most common departure point .
from july , the number of crossings dropped sharply , a change attributed to increased activity by libya s eu-trained coastguard and to the dabbashi brigade blocking departures in return for offers of amnesty and jobs in the security forces .
asked whether the operations room would stop illegal migration , abduljaleel said : god willing we will work on illegal migration after the biggest smuggler has been eliminated .
the dabbashi brigade has confirmed the retreat from sabratha , where the operations room took reporters on a tour .
several houses in the main street had been hit by rockets or were burned out but otherwise the city was calm .
both the dabbashi brigade and the operations room , which was created last year to force islamic state from sabratha , have links to the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) .
italian officials have visited sabratha as part of efforts to block migrant flows from there .