21st century wire says former nsa executive and whistleblower william binney confirmed that president donald j. trump is absolutely right to claim he was wiretapped and monitored .
binney , a 36 year nsa veteran also considered a legend within the agency , created the agency s mass surveillance program for digital information and served as the senior technical director within the agency , who managed six thousand nsa employees .
after the events of september 11th , 2001 , binney resigned from the nsa and became a whistleblower when discovering that the data-monitoring program he had helped develop nicknamed thinthread was being used to spy on americans , as reported by pbs.more on this report from zerohedge tyler durden zerohedgelegendary nsa whistleblower william binney ( and creator of nsa s global surveillance system ) confirmed to fox news , that president trump is absolutely right to claim he was wiretapped and monitored he was.as we noted previously , binney is the nsa executive who created the agency s mass surveillance program for digital information , who served as the senior technical director within the agency , who managed six thousand nsa employees , the 36-year nsa veteran widely regarded as a legend within the agency and the nsa s best-ever analyst and code-breaker , who mapped out the soviet command-and-control structure before anyone else knew how , and so predicted soviet invasions before they happened ( in the 1970s , he decrypted the soviet union s command system , which provided the us and its allies with real-time surveillance of all soviet troop movements and russian atomic weapons ) .
binney is the real mccoy.binney resigned from nsa shortly after the u.s. approach to intelligence changed following the attacks of sept. 11 , 2001 .
he became a whistleblower after discovering that elements of a data-monitoring program he had helped develop nicknamed thinthread were being used to spy on americans , pbs reported.on monday he came to the defense of the president , whose allegations on social media over the weekend that outgoing president barack obama tapped his phones during the 2016 campaign have rankled washington .
i think the president is absolutely right .
his phone calls , everything he did electronically , was being monitored , bill binney , a 36-year veteran of the national security agency who resigned in protest from the organization in 2001 , told fox business on monday .
everyone s conversations are being monitored and stored , binney said.binney also told sean hannity s radio show earlier monday , i think the fisa court s basically totally irrelevant .
the judges on the fisa court are not even concerned , nor are they involved in any way with the executive order 12333 collection , binney said during the radio interview .
that s all done outside of the courts .
and outside of the congress .
binney also told fox the laws that fall under the fisa court s jurisdiction are simply out there for show and trying to show that the government is following the law , and being looked at and overseen by the senate and house intelligence committees and the courts .
that s not the main collection program for nsa , binney said continue this report at zerohedgeread more trump at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv