( this story from november 16 corrects paragraph 15 to say aden port only partially open and sanaa airport remains closed , not open for commercial flights ) by stephanie nebehay and tom miles geneva ( reuters ) - the heads of three u.n. agencies urged the saudi-led military coalition on thursday to lift its blockade of yemen , warning that untold thousands would die if it stayed in place .
the coalition closed all air , land and sea access to yemen on nov. 6 following the interception of a missile fired towards the saudi capital , saying it had to stem the flow of arms from iran to its houthi opponents in the war in yemen .
yemen already has 7 million people on the brink of famine , but without the reopening of all ports that number could grow by 3.2 million , the heads of the world food programme , unicef and the world health organization said in a joint statement .
the cost of this blockade is being measured in the number of lives that are lost , the statement from david beasley , anthony lake and tedros adhanom ghebreyesus said .
together , we issue another urgent appeal for the coalition to permit entry of lifesaving supplies to yemen in response to what is now the worst humanitarian crisis in the world .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres wrote to saudi u.n .
ambassador abdallah al-mouallimi to warn him that the blockade was already reversing the impact of humanitarian efforts , u.n. spokesman stephane dujarric said on thursday .
the secretary-general is very much disappointed we ve not seen a lifting of the blockade .
the secretary-general and his humanitarian team are heartbroken at the scenes we re seeing from yemen , dujarric told reporters .
saudi arabia has since said that aid can go through liberated ports but not houthi-controlled hodeidah , the conduit for the vast bulk of imports into yemen .
for months , the u.n. has warned that the closure of hodeidah would dramatically escalate the crisis .
as of wednesday , 29 vessels , with 300,000 tonnes of food and 192,000 tonnes of fuel , had been blocked , while u.n. ships carrying $ 10 million of health and nutrition supplies and 25,000 tonnes of wheat were waiting to berth at hodeidah , according to another u.n. statement .
without fuel , the vaccine cold chain , water supply systems and waste water treatment plants will stop functioning .
and without food and safe water , the threat of famine grows by the day , the u.n. agency heads said .
at least one million children are at risk if a fast-spreading diphtheria outbreak is not stopped in its tracks , and the lives of 400,000 pregnant women and their babies are under threat because of the lack of medicines .
there is also the risk of a renewed flare-up in cholera , which was on the wane after the most explosive outbreak ever recorded - with over 900,000 cases and 2,200 deaths in the past six months .
the number of new cholera cases has declined for the last eight weeks , sherin varkey , unicef deputy representative in yemen , said in a telephone interview from sanaa on thursday .
the government-controlled port of aden has partially re-opened for limited shipments of aid , while sanaa airport remains closed for commercial and humanitarian flights .
humanitarian access is inadequate as needs are so huge , he said .
there is a fuel crisis .
some estimates say fuel will only last in the country for 20 days because of the blockade and challenges of getting fuel into the country , varkey said .
unicef is helping provide clean water to 6 million yemenis by ensuring fuel is delivered to water pumping stations in cities , he said .
our worry is with the fuel shortage this could affect and even we assume reverse the declining trend ( in cholera ) , he said .