wow these are some pretty eye-opening statistics republican presidential candidate donald trump has made illegal immigration a cornerstone of his campaign , proposing a simple solution for the nation s immigration woes : build a wall and make mexico pay for it .
texas sen. ted cruz said , if elected president , he would seek out and deport anyone in the country illegally .
in contrast , democratic candidate and former secretary of state hillary clinton proposes a path to full and equal citizenship .
the varied policy proposals by presidential candidates reflect the schism of opinion among americans on immigration issues.in order to better comprehend this issue , insidegov synthesized the most recent estimates and broke down the undocumented immigrant population groups by country of birth .
this information comes from the migration policy institute s unauthorized immigrant population profiles , which was published in 2013 and contains the most recent data estimates .
we then ranked the 25 u.s. states with the largest populations of people living there illegally , and ordered the states from smallest to largest undocumented populations.see the 25 states with most undocumented immigrantsnote : data is not provided by the source for montana , north dakota or vermont.oklahoma # 25 estimate of undocumented population : 80,000in 2007 , oklahoma passed a state bill , hb 1804 , that made it illegal to house or transport immigrants lacking legal status , allowed law enforcement to verify the citizenship status of anyone arrested and made it more difficult for undocumented immigrants to receive government ids or assistance.minnesota # 24 estimate of undocumented population : 81,000jose antonio vargas , an immigration activist who publicly revealed his illegal status in 2011 , was arrested in 2012 in minnesota for driving without a valid license .
he was interviewed by immigration and customs enforcement but neither detained nor deported.ohio # 23 estimate of undocumented population : 83,000a sheriff in ohio made national headlines when he sent a controversial open letter to mexican president enrique pe a nieto asking for $ 900,000 .
the sheriff calculated that was the total cost for jailing mexican immigrants who were in the u.s. illegally and committed crimes in his community .
he wrote : i think it only fair that you provide me with some financial support for dealing with your criminals .
there was no response from nieto.indiana # 22 estimate of undocumented population : 93,000michigan # 21 estimate of undocumented population : 97,000although republican gov .
rick snyder has been a vocal advocate for immigration reform , he was the first governor to pause the resettlement of syrian refugees in light of the november paris attacks.south carolina # 20 estimate of undocumented population : 99,000south carolina sen. lindsey graham , a former member of the gang of eight , has advocated for comprehensive immigration reform .
this failed 2016 gop presidential candidate declared that policies in republican frontrunner donald trump s immigration plan are not practical and self-deportation on steroids .
connecticut # 19 estimate of undocumented population : 108,000in 2015 , connecticut state lawmakers expanded in-state tuition and financial aid to undocumented immigrants .
republican senate minority leader len fasano said of the reforms : what are we going to do as a nation ?
what are we going to do as a state ?
are we going to leave you behind .
what this says is we re going to give you that chance .
why not let that happen .
we ll be a more productive state for it .
in light of where we are and how we got here , we are here .
oregon # 18 estimate of undocumented population : 115,000cylvia hayes , the fiancee of former democrat gov .
john kitzhaber , once married an ethiopian migrant so he could receive a green card .
she explained during a press conference : i was struggling to put myself through college and was offered money in exchange for marrying a young person who had a chance to get a college degree himself if he were able to remain in the united states .
kitzhaber was re-elected for a fourth term despite the controversy stemming from this revelation.tennessee # 17 estimate of undocumented population : 119,000a woman living in tennessee received $ 200,000 in damages due to her mistreatment at a detention center following an arrest for driving without a legal license .
she went into labor during her detainment and said she was shackled throughout this experience.pennsylvania # 16 estimate of undocumented population : 136,000in 2007 , a federal judge ruled unconstitutional an ordinance in hazleton , pennsylvania , that prevented undocumented immigrants from securing housing because it denied them basic civil rights , legal citizens or not .
the judge wrote : hazleton , in its zeal to control the presence of a group deemed undesirable , violated the rights of such people as well as others within the community .
nevada # 15 estimate of undocumented population : 138,000although nevada ranks at 15th for its overall population of people living in the state illegally , a 2012 study by the pew research center found that this group comprises the highest proportion of the state s population compared to the rest of the u.s.colorado # 14 estimate of undocumented population : 164,000illegal pete s , a colorado-based mexican restaurant , received criticism from local community members for its name .
they said the use of illegal implies a negative context regarding citizenship and racial discrimination .
the name has not been changed.massachusetts # 13 estimate of undocumented population : 185,000in revere , massachusetts , a high school cheerleading captain faced criticism for a tweet that commented on immigration .
her tweet , supposedly inspired by 2016 presidential candidate donald trump , stated : when only 10 percent of revere votes for mayor cause the other 90 percent isn t legal .
school officials started a cultural sensitivity program as a result of this tweet.washington # 12 estimate of undocumented population : 204,000after the vietnam war , the governor of washington welcomed about 30,000 vietnamese refugees who were denied entry by then-california gov .
jerry brown .
chandler felt , a king county demographer , said : so that kind of established a beachhead of recognition that king county was a welcoming place for refugees and immigrants .
it really started to increase the rate of immigration .
since then we ve been getting refugees and immigrants from all different parts of the world .
maryland # 11 estimate of undocumented population : 233,000a maryland second-grader made national headlines in 2010 when she posed a question about immigration to first lady michelle obama .
the young girl asked : my mom she says that barack obama is taking everybody away that doesn t have papers .
but my mom doesn t have any papers .
virginia # 10 estimate of undocumented population : 247,000a virginia immigration law passed in 2007 by prince william county required police to investigate the citizenship status of suspects under arrest .
this ordinance is still in effect.arizona # 9 estimate of undocumented population : 264,000the passing of senate bill 1070 reflected the severity of immigration issues in arizona .
this controversial law allows police to pull over motorists on the assumption they may be in the country illegally .
most of the law s provisions were overturned in the supreme court decision arizona v. united states.north carolina # 8 estimate of undocumented population : 342,000georgia # 7 estimate of undocumented population : 393,000new jersey # 6 estimate of undocumented population : 509,000new jersey s ellis island , a historic gateway to the united states for immigrants , processed over 12 million arrivals during its 62 years of operation.illinois # 5 estimate of undocumented population : 519,000illinois passed legislation in 2014 that allows residents to receive kidney transplants , regardless of their legal status .
the program could be financially beneficial by offsetting the cost of emergency dialysis services , which are part of a state-funded program.florida # 4 estimate of undocumented population : 605,000florida holds a significant population of cuban immigrants .
many make the dangerous journey across the florida strait from cuba on rafts in an attempt to secure citizenship .
the united states has a special immigration policy for cubans , informally referred to as the wet-foot , dry-foot policy , where those who successfully make the journey to u.s. soil can apply for legal status after one year.new york # 3 estimate of undocumented population : 867,000 many immigrants without proper documentation in new york claim asia as their area of birth .
they represent 10 percent of the total undocumented population in the united states.texas # 2 estimate of undocumented population : 1,464,000a case against texas , stemming from the refusal to issue birth certificates for u.s.-born children , made its way to federal courts in 2015 .
texas officials required specific forms of id from the mother before issuing her child s certificate , which immigrants without documentation could not produce.california # 1 estimate of undocumented population : 3,034,000california has the largest population of immigrants without proper documentation .
the state provides a variety of benefits and protections to these populations .
the city of huntington park attracted controversy when it was revealed that two members of city commissions were undocumented immigrants from mexico.via : insidegov.com