brussels/berlin ( reuters ) - jewish groups in europe and the united states expressed alarm at the success of the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party in sunday s parliamentary election and urged other parties not to form alliances with it .
but a leading member of the afd , which won 12.6 percent of the vote in the federal election to become the third largest party in germany s lower house of parliament , said jews had nothing to fear from his party s success .
the far-right has not been represented in parliament since the 1950s , a reflection of germany s efforts to distance itself from the horrors of the nazi holocaust .
ronald lauder , president of the new york-based world jewish congress , called chancellor angela merkel a true friend of israel and the jewish people and decried the afd s gains at a time when anti-semitism was increasing across the globe .
it is abhorrent that the afd party , a disgraceful reactionary movement which recalls the worst of germany s past and should be outlawed , now has the ability within the german parliament to promote its vile platform , lauder said .
israeli justice minister ayelet shaked also expressed concern about the afd s success : i hope that the german people learn carefully the history of germany and remember the holocaust and all the ... reasons that led to this tragedy .
the afd , which has surged in the two years since merkel opened germany s borders to more than 1 million migrants mainly fleeing middle east wars , says immigration jeopardizes germany s culture but denies it is racist or anti-semitic .
there s nothing in our party or in our program that could or should in any way concern jewish people who live here in germany , alexander gauland , the afd s top candidate , told reporters on monday .
gauland also cited germany s strong diplomatic support for israel , suggesting that it should also be ready to send troops if necessary to help defend the country as it faces off against the palestinians and hostile neighboring states .
volker beck , a member of the greens , said gauland s comments suggested that he was questioning germany s support for israel - a fundamental principle of its post-war foreign policy .
the message to his anti-semitic fans is clear : there s no need for the npd because the afd is your political home , beck said , in a reference to the far-right national democratic party ( npd ) , which germany s constitutional court has said resembled adolf hitler s nazi party .
gauland provoked outrage during the election campaign when he said germans should be proud of what their soldiers achieved in two world wars .
the european jewish congress urged other german political parties to stick to pre-election vows and not to consider any coalition talks with the afd .
some of the positions it has espoused during the election campaign display alarming levels of intolerance not seen in germany for many decades and which are , of course , of great concerns to german and european jews .
the central council of jews in germany said the election results had confirmed its worst fears and urged other parties to remain united in opposing the afd .
a party that tolerates right-wing extremist thinking in its ranks and incites hatred against minorities ... will now be represented in parliament and nearly all state legislatures , the group s president josef schuster said in a statement .
i expect our democratic forces to expose the true nature of the afd and its empty , populist promises , he added .
germany , home today to an estimated 200,000 jews , has built a reputation in recent decades as a tolerant , safe place for jews to live , though data show anti-semitic crimes reported to the police rose 4 percent to 681 in the first eight months of 2017 from the same period last year .