beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed syrian militias said russian warplanes struck their positions in deir al-zor province on monday , which moscow denied , generating friction between two rival campaigns against islamic state .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting with a u.s.-led coalition said the attack killed one of its fighters and injured two .
major-general igor konashenkov of russia s defense ministry was cited by ria news agency as issuing a denial , saying russia was always careful to ensure its air strikes were accurate .
a spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition , colonel ryan dillon , said rounds had hit in the area around the sdf but he could not confirm they were fired by russia .
a war monitor , the syrian observatory for human rights , said russian rounds had not hit the sdf near deir al-zor .
the sdf later said it had responded to the source of fire that targeted it from near the city of deir al-zor on monday morning without specifying which forces it had attacked .
russia and the united states back separate offensives against islamic state in eastern syria , both of which are advancing in oil-rich deir al-zor province bordering iraq .
the assaults are converging on islamic state from opposite sides of the euphrates that bisects the province , the jihadists last major foothold in syria , with the river often acting as a dividing line .
but their proximity has at times raised the risk of clashes that could stoke tensions between the competing world powers .
with russian air support and iran-backed militias , syrian troops are advancing along the west bank of the river .
a kurdish commander of the sdf , which has approached along the east bank with u.s. jets and special forces , told reuters on monday the alliance expected to completely push islamic state out of its former syrian headquarters of raqqa within a month .
with the kurdish ypg militia at its forefront , the sdf said last week that , after seizing 80 percent of raqqa , the battle for the city had entered its final stages .
in the coming days , the battles will be at their most intense ... , said jihan sheikh ahmed , spokeswoman for the offensive .
we expect , under our plan , that we will be able to liberate raqqa in less than a month .
right to self-defence the sdf also captured a large gas field on the euphrates bank on saturday .
russian and regime forces have mounted a treacherous attack against our forces ( there ) ... with artillery and aircraft , the sdf said in a statement .
we will not stand by with our arms crossed and we will use our legitimate right to self-defense .
on monday , russia s deputy foreign minister sergei ryabkov said u.s. policy in syria was to blame for the death from shelling of russian general valery asapov near deir al-zor , which the defense ministry in moscow announced on sunday .
ryabkov called into question u.s. commitment to the fight against islamic state , accusing it of trying to slow the syrian army s advance .
last week , the pentagon accused moscow of bombing sdf positions on the eastern side of the river .
russia denied this , warning the united states it would target the sdf if its own forces came under fire .
dillon , spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition , said it was communicating with russia to ensure measures to avoid unintended conflict between the offensives were being followed .