craig s list ads offering to pay protesters $ 16 to stir up violence at trump events makes us want to puke !
what in the world has free speech come to when hillary clinton and george soros via moveon.org offer to pay people to stop free speech ?
pretty shameful !
soros has his hand in the 2016 election and is funding much of the protests against trump .
the guy is just plain evil ! the daily caller reported : the establishment on both the left and the right , who want to disenfranchise the millions of republican voters who support donald trump , have blamed the staged riots near trump rallies on trump or on bernie sanders .
that s like blaming the russians for the reichstag fire .
bernie has little to do with these manufactured protests .
this is a clinton operation , a faux protest.at # crushtrump nyc , dancing loons think democracy means chanting and dancing , rather than free speech and voting .
pic.twitter.com/6dtibaisik raheem kassam ( @ raheemkassam ) march 20 , 2016false flag operations have long been common in politics , but these riots are poisonous to the electorate , intentionally designed to turn violent and stifle free speech .
dad tells kids : look at [ veterans for trump ] in the eye we re gon na be fighting against them kkk # crushtrump pic.twitter.com/ioenypqccu raheem kassam ( @ raheemkassam ) march 19 , 2016 this free speech-busting goon squad operation is directed by supporters of hillary clinton .
it is paid for mostly by george soros and moveon.org and pushed by david brock at media matters for america .
it s also funded by reclusive billionaire jonathan lewis , who was identified by the miami new times as a mystery man .
he inherited roughly a billion dollars from his father peter lewis ( founder of progressive insurance company ) .a march and demonstration against trump at trump tower essentially fizzled saturday when only 500 protesters of the promised 5000 showed up .
infiltrating the crowd , i learned most were from moveon or the occupy movement .
soap was definitely in short supply in this crowd .
several admitted answering a craig s list ad paying $ 16.00 an hour for protesters.read more : gp