( reuters ) - after 21 weeks at the controls of the white house and both chambers of the u.s. congress , president donald trump and his republicans have yet to pass major legislation into law and are short on time to do so before washington ’ s long summer recess .
the house of representatives reconvened on tuesday .
it will be in session for the next nine weekdays , along with the senate , which reconvened on monday .
both chambers will take a break from july 1-9 , then return and work july 10-28 .
after that , capitol hill will be quiet through the annual august vacation .
trump set high expectations as a candidate and early in his presidency , promising to repeal and replace obamacare , invest in infrastructure and work to cut taxes and regulations .
these pledges have helped fuel a powerful stock market rally .
trump ’ s only big domestic policy win , aside from killing a handful of obama-era regulations , has been senate approval 10 weeks ago of a new supreme court justice .
the white house has not sent congress a legislative proposal on any major issue .
trump has been swamped by investigations into possible ties between his campaign and alleged russian meddling in the 2016 election .
in congress , the house has approved an obamacare rollback bill , but it has stalled in the senate .
on tuesday , vice president mike pence predicted a republican healthcare bill would be enacted by the end of summer .
competing tax reform plans have divided republicans in both chambers .
no firm infrastructure plan has emerged , and lawmakers have not yet formulated a budget plan for 2018 .
urgent budget deadlines will follow the august break , and later in the year , lawmakers will begin focusing on the 2018 congressional elections .
here is a look at key dates coming up .
june 20 : special house elections in georgia and south carolina .
june 30 : congress starts independence day break .
july 7-8 : trump attends g20 summit in germany , his first face-to-face meeting with russian president vladimir putin .
july 28 : congress adjourns for five-week summer recess .
july-august : u.s. treasury may no longer be able to postpone the federal debt limit , although this may not arrive until late 2017 .
sept. 5 : congress reconvenes .
sept. 30 : end of federal fiscal year 2017 .
without congressional action , funding for many programs will expire .
oct. 1 : start of federal fiscal year 2018 .
current federal spending deal expires .
without a new deal , the federal government could shut down .