tangerang , indonesia ( reuters ) - police investigating a fire that killed nearly 50 people at a fireworks factory on the outskirts of jakarta late last month have found multiple safety violations at the plant , which was crammed with three times the number of workers allowed .
one of indonesia s worst industrial disasters , the oct. 26 blaze in the congested industrial suburb of tangerang , has cast a new spotlight on lax safety standards in indonesia , where rules are often ignored or weakly enforced .
reuters interviews with police investigators , government officials and survivors show that at the time of the fire , the factory was overcrowded , had only one exit , and a single mid-sized fire extinguisher even though it had reported having four on site .
the building housed more than 4,000 kg of combustible materials in various locations , which , police say , made it all too easy for the fire to rip through the 2,600 square meter factory within minutes , killing 49 workers and injuring dozens more .
survivors told reuters they had not had any emergency training or drills , and were not familiar with evacuation routes .
police spokesman argo yuwono said there was no indication anyone had tried to use the fire extinguisher .
it was total panic and the fire was quickly out of control , yuwono said .
the workers had zero training in how to respond in an emergency or how to use a fire extinguisher .
police have detained the owner and operations manager of the company on suspicion of negligence leading to death .
they face at least five years in prison if found guilty .
a representative for the parent company of pt panca buana cahaya sukses said the firm would pay for all survivors medical treatment , but declined comment on the legal case .
on the day of the fire , 103 workers had filed into the dusty and stuffy factory .
many lived in small houses nearby that are dotted among the neighborhood s factory complexes , and sent their children to school just a block away from the fireworks workshop .
workers , paid an average of 40,000 rupiah ( $ 2.96 ) a day , fanned out across the factory to storage facilities for raw materials and finished fireworks , a machine room where the fireworks were produced , and packaging stations .
some milled around in the workers canteen near the front of the building .
police say that soon after the day s work got underway , at around 9.20 a.m. , sparks from unauthorized welding work landed on tall stacks of unpackaged fireworks , causing at least two explosions that shook neighboring buildings and could be heard miles away .
survivors say that within minutes the front area and only exit of the warehouse was engulfed in fire and thick black smoke , trapping the workers and sending them scrambling towards the back of the building .
police found 44 bodies piled up in a back corner of the building , all charred beyond recognition .
clothes and identifying accessories had melted .
bodies were identified using dental records and dna samples from families .
uwang , a 36-year-old woman hired to package fireworks , said she and four others survived by jumping into a small water tank .
at first , i tried to get out the front gate , but the smoke was already very thick .
my friend pulled me into the water tank .
i only dared to put my face up to the surface every few seconds to breathe , she said , lying in a hospital bed with at least half her face , and hands , feet and thighs wrapped in thick , white bandages .
as the flames leapt higher and people screamed for help , a contingent of police officers that happened to be temporarily stationed just across from the factory , started breaking down one of the walls of the warehouse using hammers and iron bars .
more than 30 workers , many severely injured and some with their clothes burned off , managed to scramble out of the hole in the wall , including uwang .
others scaled the factory s walls , jumped to safety or used ladders that residents had propped up against the burning building , witnesses said .
the local fire brigade , winding through narrow streets swarming with bystanders and motorbikes , arrived nearly an hour later and had brought the blaze under control by noon .
authorities suspect that violations are rampant among thousands of factories in the area , and they are threatening to close any don t meet safety requirements .
small- and medium-sized companies are the ones likely to ignore the rules , and they re the ones that are difficult to regulate , said ahmed zaki iskandar , the regent of tangerang , adding that companies making products like paper , fuel , or paint will be targeted first .
he said the company in question had been inspected by safety officials and was issued a permit to employ up to 35 people , but had actually recruited over 100 .
the layout made sense for 35 people ... but they broke the rules and they must take responsibility , iskandar said , adding that since the fire he had ordered dozens of fireworks home industries in the area to be shut down .
risk analyst keith loveard said the crackdown was little more than an instant solution for a deep-seated problem of industrial safety .
the regent s proposal is positive and much needed , but similar moves have followed disasters in the past , only to see compliance and oversight return to earlier low levels a few months later .
( $ 1 = 13,495.0000 rupiah )