has anyone else out there noticed the total bias with promotion of certain candidates running for president ?
i ve noticed who they re supporting like never before .
i should say i ve noticed who they detest also trump no matter which candidate you support , this isn t fair to the american people who really want the truth in the media to come back .
fox is now no better than the liberal leaning cnn and msnbc .
watch with caution after you read this excellent piece about the connections between big business , politics and the push for mass immigration to america .
yes folks , it s all about cheap labor and money mr. rupert s most visible investment is fox s princess megyn kelly , who just coincidentally signed a book deal with another of ruperts business interests , harper collins books.murdoch is a long time supporter of senator marco rubio .
the fox news head even structured media coverage on behalf of rubio during the gang-of-eight legislative fiasco in 2013.mr .
murdoch , who is also leading the executive decision-making on fox programming , also contracts pollster frank luntz to appear on fox news broadcasting during the 2016 election cycle .
[ ] since june , murdoch has been attending ailes s daily executive meeting held on the second floor of fox headquarters .
the secretive afternoon gathering in ailes s conference room is attended by about a half-dozen of the network s most senior lieutenants .
it s where some of the most sensitive decisions about running the channel are discussed .
( link ) frank luntz has sub-contracts with marco rubio and a long-term relationship with rubio going back to the freshman senator s time in the florida legislature .
rubio alone has paid luntz $ 350,000+frank luntz focus groups regularly find marco rubio as the winner of debate and opinion programming.the executive in charge of fox news debate programming , debate questioning and debate structure is bill sammon .
( circled below ) the washington post has an outline describing how bill sammon runs the entire show at fox regarding debates ; and how he is the person who chris stirewalt , megyn kelly , chris wallace and brett baier directly report to for all debate issues , construction , and question organization.in essence , bill sammon runs the show.bill sammon s daughter is brooke sammon who is the press secretary for marco rubio s presidential campaign.a generally interested observer would consider this a conflict of interest worthy of full disclosure .
however , none of the above have ever been publicly disclosed prior to the media presentation by any fox entity.during the fox business news debate several political junkies noted a rather curious omission : senator marco rubio was never questioned about the 2013 senate gang-of-eight bill and his stance on comprehensive immigration reform .
in fact , if you were to review the debate substance you d note that candidate rubio wasn t directly questioned about his immigration positions at all.read more : conservative treehouse