jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian police detained 51 men including several foreigners in a raid on what authorities described as a gay spa in jakarta late on friday , and some could face up to six years in prison under pornography and prostitution laws .
the arrests are the latest in a spate of high-profile police actions against gay clubs and parties in indonesia this year that have called the country s reputation for tolerance into question .
with the exception of the ultra-conservative aceh province in northern sumatra , where islamic law is enforced and two men were publicly flogged last month for gay sex , homosexuality is legal in indonesia , home to the world s largest muslim population .
among those detained at the spa in central jakarta on friday were four chinese nationals , a singaporean , one thai national , one malaysian , and one dutchman , although none of the foreigners would be charged , jakarta police spokesman argo yuwono told reuters on saturday .
when asked about what the people in the spa were doing at the time of the raid , yuwono noted that it was dark at the time .
lgbt is clearly between men and men or same-sex relationships .
male prostitution , yuwono said , without clarifying further .
he said those charged could face up to six years in prison under indonesia s pornography law .
there s a cashier , the manager there and also those providing facilities like towels and other things , he said .
activists say police targeting of consensual gay sex has shone a light on discrimination and harassment in the world s third-largest democracy .
andreas harsono , a jakarta-based researcher for human rights watch , referred to a pattern of discriminatory police action against lesbian , gay , bisexual , and transgender ( lgbt ) people in indonesia .
if they raided ( this club ) because they are gay , it is abusive , it is abuse of power , he said , adding that there is no law against homosexuality as long as relationships are consensual .
if there is no victim , there is no crime , he said .
police often used to the pornography law to criminalize such cases , but that law itself is also problematic , harsono said , noting that people could be charged if they had pornographic material on a cell phone .
just imagine if every person in indonesia had their cell phones checked , how many hundred million people would go to jail ?
in may , officers detained 141 men in a raid on the atlantis sauna , accusing them of involvement in a gay prostitution ring in a part of jakarta that is also home to many heterosexual spas .
( this version corrects month of floggings in aceh province to may from last month in paragraph 3 )