washington ( reuters ) - donald trump will travel to asia in november for the first time since becoming president , stopping in japan , south korea , china , vietnam and the philippines on a trip expected to be dominated by the north korea nuclear threat .
joined by his wife melania , trump will travel nov. 3-14 .
his visit will include attending two major summits , the asia-pacific economic cooperation forum in vietnam and the association of southeast asian nations conclave in the philippines .
trump s attendance at the manila summit had been in doubt until recent days , with officials saying he was reluctant to show support for philippine president rodrigo duterte , who has been responsible for a number of anti-american outbursts .
a u.s. official said asian leaders who met trump at the united nations general assembly in new york last week helped persuade him to attend in unity with key asian allies .
an asian diplomat welcomed trump s decision to visit manila because that reassures the region that asia policy is not just about north korea , it s about southeast asia as well .
the diplomat said trump s decision to withdraw from the trans pacific partnership trade deal early this year had raised questions about the administration s commitment to the region .
but visits by senior officials , including the secretaries of state , defense and commerce , and trump s planned trip , showed washington intended to remain engaged .
philippine foreign secretary alan peter cayetano said duterte was looking forward to meeting trump , adding that the relationship between the two countries was so resilient that ties would always recover , regardless of disagreements .
trump , who has been locked in an increasingly bitter war of words with north korean leader kim jong un , will have the opportunity to bolster allied resolve for what he calls the complete denuclearization of pyongyang .
he has denounced kim as a rocket man on a suicide mission for test launches of ballistic missiles and for nuclear weapon tests .
he has warned north korea would face total devastation if it threatens the united states .
kim has blasted trump as mentally deranged .
the president s engagements will strengthen the international resolve to confront the north korean threat and ensure the complete , verifiable , and irreversible denuclearization of the korean peninsula , the white house said in announcing the trip .
trump s visit to china will reciprocate a trip to the united states made in april by chinese president xi jinping .
trump has applied heavy pressure on china to rein in north korea .
while his efforts have had limited success thus far , he went out of his way to thank xi on tuesday for his efforts .
i applaud china for breaking off all banking relationships with north korea - something that people would have thought unthinkable even two months ago .
i want to thank president xi , trump said at a news conference with spanish prime minister mariano rajoy .
speaking in beijing , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson told china s top diplomat state councilor yang jiechi that the two presidents had established a very regular and close working relationship .
yang described trump s visit as of great importance to the bilateral relationship .
let us concentrate on cooperation and properly manage our differences in a spirit of mutual respect and mutual benefit , he said to tillerson .
at the same time , trump s national security team is conducting a broad review of u.s. strategy toward china in search of ways to counter chinese trade practices and open up market access , a senior administration official said .
the united states also considers chinese entities behind the theft of intellectual property and cyber attacks and wants to find ways to address these concerns , the official said .
there was no definite timetable for concluding the review .
we re looking at all of it , the official said .