obama has filled his cabinet with radical yes men and women who hold similar anti-american , leftist views .
his radical treasury secretary , jack lew is no exception .
treasury secretary jack lew is expected to announce this week that alexander hamilton s face will remain on the front of the $ 10 bill and a woman will replace andrew jackson on the face of the $ 20 bill , a senior government source told cnn on saturday.lew announced last summer that he was considering redesigning the $ 10 bill to include the portrait of a woman .
the decision to make the historic change at the expense of hamilton drew angry rebukes from fans of the former treasury secretary .
the pro-hamilton movement gained steam after the smash success of the hip-hop broadway musical about his life this year.those pressures led lew to determine that hamilton should remain on the front of the bill .
instead , a mural-style depiction of the women s suffrage movement including images of leaders such as susan b. anthony will be featured on the back of the bill.along those lines , lew also plans to announce this week that andrew jackson a less beloved former president whose face graces the front of the $ 20 bill will be removed in favor of a female representing the struggle for racial equality , according to the government source.that decision would place a female on one of the most widely circulated bills in the world .
but the historic change placing a female on the front of the $ 20 note won t come for more than a decade , the source said , since the process for changing the design of that note is still in the early stages.while some pointed to the many accomplishments and qualities of hamilton for why he should stay on the currency printed by the very treasury the man created , the more popular argument for the founding father s retention was an argument about how awful the man on the $ 20 dollar bill was.the daily beast described jackson as villainous and linked to a february article that called him a mass murderer .
the new york post argued that old hickory may well have been our most racist president and was a vicious , power-mad kook .
so a lot of folks really don t like the victor of the battle of new orleans .
they hate him for owning slaves .
they hate him for taking the side of the masses against financial experts .
they hate him for ignoring laws and enforcing his own will when it came to policy decisions.and they hate jackson most of all for his treatment of american indians.these are pretty strong views , but jackson s critics usually fail to comprehend important aspects of u.s. history in their denunciations of the rough-and-tumble general.for one , jackson was not the only important american to own slaves .
far from it .
for example , as most people should know , george washington and thomas jefferson were slaveholders .
both washington and jefferson are respectively featured on two different forms of currency and have large , imposing monuments dedicated to their memory in washington d.c.there are no calls for their erasure from our coins or demolishing their monuments.fewer people know that the cherokee victims of jackson s indian removal act also owned slaves.there are no calls for renaming places and monuments designed to honor the cherokee people.when it comes to jackson s controversial handling of the second bank of the united states , it helps to realize the motives behind the president s actions .
jackson was opposed to the central bank not out of cookery but because he saw it as an undemocratic institution which did not care for the interests of the common man .
via : daily caller the soonest that a new $ 20 note will be issued is 2030 , the source said , citing a lengthy process convened by the advanced counterfeit deterrence steering committee , which includes representatives from the u.s. secret service , the treasury , and the federal reserve .
via : cnn news