amman ( reuters ) - the syrian army backed by russian jets on wednesday stepped up shelling and air strikes on a besieged rebel-held enclave in damascus a day after rebels stormed an army base in the area , rebels , a war monitor and residents said .
the bombardment follows a surprise ground offensive by jihadist rebels on tuesday on an army complex in the heart of the city s eastern ghouta region that has defied opposition assaults since the start of the conflict .
the fortress-like military vehicles administration in the government-held part of harasta town has long been used to strike at the densely populated eastern ghouta , where over 300,000 people live under siege .
rebels have failed in repeated offensives to seize the sprawling compound , from where surface-to-surface rockets are launched against the rebel enclave .
douma , the main city in opposition-held eastern ghouta , is only three km away .
the fighting is continuing and the shelling and air strikes are heavy near the base and most of the towns of the ghouta , said abu kutaiba , a military commander for ahrar al sham , an islamist rebel group that has spearheaded the attack .
a syrian military source said on state media the army had repelled terrorists who sought to infiltrate in large numbers , killing tens and destroying their weaponry .
it did not mention the heavy aerial strikes on opposition areas .
backed by russian strikes , government forces have escalated military operations against eastern ghouta in recent weeks , seeking to tighten a siege on the area , residents and rebels say .
the rebel assault aims partly to relieve that pressure .
the eastern ghouta is part of several de-escalation zones which russia has brokered with rebels across syria that has freed the army to redeploy in areas they can regain ground .
the rebel offensive which began on tuesday is the first since last march when mainstream free syrian army ( fsa ) rebels staged an attack against government-held areas in northeastern damascus .
the rebels were forced to retreat after initial gains .
in retaliatory attacks , aerial strikes and shelling hit harasta , irbin , misraba , hamouriya , and saqba towns in eastern ghouta with at least eight civilians killed and about 94 wounded in the last 20 hours alone , according to the syrian observatory for human rights and residents .
after securing the last rebel pocket inside the capital s qaboun district last may , the syrian army has since concentrated its military drive against ain terma and jobar , northeast of the capital in the ghouta area .
rebels helped by an elaborate network of underground tunnels have repelled repeated attempts to storm these areas .
the army and its militias have failed to make any progress and have had heavy losses , said alwan , a spokesman for the fsa s failaq al rahman rebel group .
backed by russian strikes , the army has however gradually succeeded in the last year in shrinking rebel held control over eastern ghouta .
the loss of agricultural land has compounded the humanitarian plight of civilians .
the united nations has warned of impending starvation if aid does not reach the area , where international deliveries have long been erratic and obstructed .