barack hussein obama the most anti-american president to ever occupy the white house this isn t an article from the onion .
obama s department of education is proposing that schools spend a week celebrating illegal aliens , including an undocumented immigrant awareness day .
can celebrate destruction of america day be far behind ? the document , which was released on tuesday , also urges schools to provide welcoming environments for illegal alien students by hosting events such as undocumented week .
the guide also provides tips for schools and educators on how to support illegal alien youth who are in high school and college .
it also provides information for non-citizens on how to access federal financial aid [ .
] the guide also urges schools to create welcoming environments for such students.suggestions for how to support the students including hosting an undocumented immigrant awareness day .
you know , my idea of an undocumented immigrant awareness day is being educated what an illegal alien looks like and how to report them to the police .
but in obama s america , it s all about throwing them a big party , complete with a donald trump pi ata .
consider partnering with community and stakeholder groups to amplify the event , the guide suggests.a stakeholder group ?
are they talking about taxpayers or citizens ? other proposals include : publicly demonstrate support for undocumented students how do you think schools will demonstrate support for undocumented students ? student : hey , pedro , i know you re in the country illegally , but we re cool with that .
we think all laws should be enforced , except ones that inconvenience you .
and educate all students about the challenges and strengths of undocumented students , such as by hosting an undocumented week .
challenges are easy .
figuring out how to sign up for welfare .
filling out the paperwork to register to vote .
each day , highlight an issue faced by undocumented students or celebrate an accomplishment of the undocumented immigrant community , it continues.what accomplishments ?
living off the american taxpayer ?
continuing to resist learning our language ?
our nation s public schools should be welcoming , safe , and supportive places where all students , regardless of their zip code or where they were born , are given the opportunity to succeed , john king , a senior adviser at the department of education said in a statement .
regardless of what zip code they were born in ?
king is making it sound as though we re discriminating against people born in a different part of nebraska .
these are people from other countries who came here illegally .
why should we be welcoming people who invaded our borders illegally ?
via : american thinker