bogota ( reuters ) - pope francis arrived in colombia on wednesday with a message of unity for a nation deeply divided by a peace deal that ended a five-decade war with marxist farc rebels but left many victims of the bloodshed wary of the fraught healing process .
francis , making his 20th foreign trip since becoming pontiff in 2013 and his fifth to his native latin america , started his visit in colombian capital bogota .
he will travel later in the week to the cities of villavicencio , medellin and cartagena .
greeted at the airport by president juan manuel santos as attendees waved white handkerchiefs , the argentine pope hopes his presence will help build bridges in a nation torn apart by bitter feuding over a peace accord with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) .
speaking to reporters on the bogota-bound plane , francis said the trip was a bit special because it is being made to help colombia go forward on its path to peace .
francis will encourage reconciliation as colombians prepare to receive 7,000 former farc fighters into society and repair divisions after a war that killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions over five decades .
references to the recent peace deal were immediate .
a teenage boy , born in 2004 to vice presidential candidate clara rojas when she was held captive in the jungle by the farc , handed francis a white porcelain dove as a welcome present .
on his drive to the vatican embassy in central bogota , the leader of the world s roman catholics was mobbed in the pope mobile by screaming crowds tossing flowers and holding up children to be kissed .
peace is what colombia has been seeking for a long time and is working to achieve , the pope said in a video message ahead of his arrival .
a stable , lasting peace , so that we see and treat each other as brothers , never as enemies .
the farc , which began as a peasant revolt in 1964 and battled more than a dozen governments , has formed a political party and now hopes to use words instead of weapons to effect changes in colombia s social and economic model .
but many colombians are furious that the 2016 peace deal with the government granted fighters amnesty and some will be rewarded with seats in congress .
a referendum on the deal last year was narrowly rejected , before being later modified and passed by congress .
trumpet players , singing children and white-clad rappers greeted the pope - wearing a traditional woolen poncho - at the embassy where he urged young people to keep smiling and then led the crowd in the hail mary prayer .
don t let anyone steal your hope , he said .
people lined up all day to see the pope pass by , queues stretched around the cathedral in bogota as residents sought passes for his events , and street vendors sold t-shirts , baseball caps and posters carrying francis s image .
pope francis coming to colombia has to unite the people .
we can not continue to be polarized .
we must learn to live in peace and respect our differences , lucia camargo , a pensioner , said as she lined up for a glimpse of the pontiff .
although most church leaders have voiced support for the accord , some politicians and catholic bishops have criticized the deal for being too lenient on the guerrillas .
the pope is expected to urge them to set aside their differences .
the visit will leave us a sense of union , of forgiveness , bogota mayor enrique penalosa told reuters .
colombia is very polarized at the moment .
there are many passions , many hatreds .
reconciliation will be the emphasis for events on friday in the city of villavicencio , south of bogota , where the pope will listen to testimonials from people whose lives were affected by the violence and then deliver a homily .
victims and former rebels who demobilized prior to the accord will attend .
the pope will not meet farc leaders or the opposition .
he also had a message of dialogue and forgiveness for neighboring venezuela , wracked by months of protests against president nicolas maduro , who has tightened his hold on power as an economic crisis has escalated .
as his plane flew over the socialist nation , the pope sent cordial greetings in a telegram to maduro and venezuelans .
praying that all in the nation may promote paths of solidarity , justice and harmony , i willingly invoke upon all of you god s blessings of peace , he said .