luxembourg ( reuters ) - britain s rejection of a transgender woman s claim for a women s state pension because she was still married to her spouse from before her transition is discriminatory , an eu court adviser said on tuesday .
advocate general michal bobek of the court of justice of the european union ( ecj ) stated in a non-binding opinion that marriage status does not play a role in accessing state retirement pensions for people who are not transgender .
this amounts to direct discrimination on the basis of sex , which is not open to objective justification , a news release of the opinion stated .
the opinion was issued for a case where a transgender woman - who was registered as a boy at birth but has lived as a woman since 1991 and had gender reassignment surgery in 1995 - in the uk applied for a state retirement pension when she turned 60 in 2008 .
according to uk law , a woman born before apr .
6 , 1950 must be 60 to access the state retirement pension , whereas for a man born before dec. 6 1953 the age is 65 .
her application was denied because she didn t apply for a full gender recognition certificate due to the fact that she remained married to a woman and her marriage would have been annulled at the time as same-sex marriage was not legal in britain .
the uk supreme court asked the ecj if the requirement to be unmarried to recognize a change in gender , and thus determine the qualifying age for a state pension , was allowed under eu law .
the advocate general concludes that there is unequal treatment since marital status does not play any role for cisgender persons in order to access a state retirement pension , whereas married transgender persons are subject to the requirement to annul their marriage , the court s press release said .
the court tends to follow the advice given by the advocate general in most cases , but it is not bound to do so .
the advocate general stressed that this was not a case about same-sex marriage .
member states are not compelled to recognize same-sex marriage , and they can still determine the conditions under which a change of gender will be legally recognized .