new york ( reuters ) - donald trump chipped away at hillary clinton ’ s lead in the presidential race this week , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday , as the candidates clashed over how to respond to the worst mass shooting in modern u.s. history .
the poll , conducted from monday to friday , showed clinton , the presumptive democratic nominee , with a 10.7 point lead among likely voters over trump , her likely republican rival in the november presidential election .
that ’ s down from a lead of 14.3 points for clinton on sunday , the day an american-born shooter who declared allegiance to militant group islamic state killed 49 people at a gay nightclub in orlando , florida .
trump seized on the attack to sharpen his security proposals , saying he would block immigration to the united states from any country with a “ proven history of terrorism ” against america and its allies if elected .
the pledge fine-tuned an earlier vow , made after the attacks last year in paris and california , to ban the entry of all muslims into the united states .
he also called for measures to make it more difficult for suspected terrorists to obtain firearms , veering from the republican party ’ s general opposition to gun control .
while trump ’ s comments on both muslims and guns dismayed some republican elites , they may have cheered some voters .
some 45 percent of americans said they supported trump ’ s idea to suspend muslim immigration , up from 41.9 percent at the start of the month , according to the poll .
meanwhile , about 70 percent of americans , including a majority of democrats and republicans , said they wanted to see at least moderate regulations and restrictions on guns , up from 60 percent in similar polls in 2013 and 2014 .
clinton focused her response to the orlando attack on the need to boost intelligence gathering and defeat islamic state and what she called “ radical jihadist terrorism , ” while warning against demonizing muslim-americans .
she also repeated her calls for tougher gun control measures , including a ban on assault weapons .
as usual after a major attack , “ terrorism ” jumped to the top concern among all adults in the poll - rising above the economy , health care and other major issues .
the poll ’ s five-day average showed that 45.5 percent of likely american voters supported clinton , while 34.8 percent supported trump , and another 19.7 percent did not support either candidate .
on sunday , clinton ’ s support was at 46.6 percent , versus trump ’ s 32.3 percent .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english with adults living in the continental united states , alaska and hawaii .
the political horserace poll included 1,133 likely voters and has a credibility interval , a measure of the poll ’ s accuracy , of 3.4 percentage points .