nairobi ( reuters ) - several dozen women in kenya said police officers attacked them during this year s election season and some said they were raped by men in uniform , human rights watch ( hrw ) said on thursday .
more than 70 people were killed in an election in august , later nullified by the supreme court , and a repeat presidential poll in october won by president uhuru kenyatta .
the opposition boycotted the repeat poll and said it would not be fair .
the sexual attacks , mostly on women , occurred over this period in some of nairobi s slums and in two opposition strongholds , kisumu and bungoma , in western kenya , hrw said in a report .
kenyan police dispute rights groups allegations that officers used excessive force to quell election-related unrest .
they did not respond to a request from reuters for comment on the report .
one 28-year-old woman in the nairobi slum of mathare told reuters : four men in police uniforms burst into my home and my children were sleeping , they pulled my husband out .
one grabbed my neck , the other pulled off my clothes , another beat me with a stick , and the other forced sex on me .
the woman who declined to be identified said she was four months pregnant and miscarried shortly after the rape .
i was bleeding and confused afterwards , she said .
another woman , aged 26 , said : two men dragged me away from my friend , stripped off my clothes and one raped me as another one held me down .
kenyan women who have been raped - they are lonely and abandoned and ashamed , said hrw researcher agnes odhiambo .
it s the kenyan government who should feel shame for failing to protect them and help them get medical treatment .
kenyan rights groups accuse police of brutality and extrajudicial killings .
a government civilian watchdog tasked to oversee the police exists , but few officers are charged and convictions are extremely rare .
the sexual violence mirrored widespread violations against women after a disputed 2007 vote , when 1,200 people were killed , hrw said .
at the time , the group documented at least 900 cases of sexual violence but said this was likely an underestimate .
the new cases related to the august and october 2017 elections demonstrate a disturbing continuum , tina alai , a lawyer with new york-based physicians for human rights .
police have continued to perpetrate sexual violence against civilians they are obligated to protect , she said .