after they were crushed in the 2012 election , republicans wrote a post-mortem document that advised the party to reach out to latino voters more than any other group if they wanted to be a viable political entity .
romney lost latinos by 44 % , an increase from the 2008 margin of 36 % , which was a huge jump from john kerry s advantage with those voters of only 9 % in 2004 .
it was a disaster .
and in that same time latinos have gone from 8 % of voters to 10 % of voters in 2012 , and that is expected to continue rising.and now along comes trump .
thanks to his blatantly racist rhetoric and attacks on latinos , it now appears that latino immigrants are signing up to become american citizens just to stick it to the current republican front runner.over all , naturalization applications increased by 11 percent in the 2015 fiscal year over the year before , and jumped 14 percent during the six months ending in january , according to federal figures .
the pace is picking up by the week , advocates say , and they estimate applications could approach 1 million in 2016 , about 200,000 more than the average in recent years.while naturalizations generally rise during presidential election years , mr. trump provided an extra boost this year.trump started his campaign by calling mexicans drug traffickers and rapists , and it has only gotten worse as the national spotlight has shone on his campaign .
he s gone after blacks , muslims , women , and asians among others .
but his campaign of hate against latinos has been non-stop , even targeting the current and former presidents of mexico.and his target audience has responded .
trump fans have beaten up latinos , while citing their hero for their motivation , as children have begun using trump s rhetoric about building a wall on the southern border in order to insult latino kids.the republicans have turned a blind eye to racial intolerance for a long time , choosing to court the support of racists in close elections while pretending not to hear their hate speech .
trump s rise shows that it s too late , and that this strategy could now spell complete doom for the republican party .
featured image via flickr