please please please let it be a 3-way race between joe biden , elizabeth warren and eric holder ! former attorney general eric holder spoke in los angeles on monday to promote a bill that some observers say would make california a sanctuary state , an appearance that he says is the start of a new phase of his career in which he plans to reenter the world of politics .
up to now , i have been more behind-the-scenes , holder told yahoo news in a new interview published tuesday , describing his plans .
but that s about to change .
holder , who served as former president barack obama s first attorney general , indicated that his goal is to head the legal resistance to president donald trump s agenda .
but that may just be the tip of the iceberg.three sources who have spoken to holder and are familiar with his thinking told yahoo that he may consider challenging trump in 2020 for the white house .
now is the time to be more visible , holder said .
now is the time to be heard .
i have a certain status as the former attorney general .
a certain familiarity as the first african-american attorney general .
there s a justified perception that i m close to president obama , holder added .
so i want to use whatever skills i have , whatever notoriety i have , to be effective in opposing things that are , at the end of the day , just bad for the country .
holder was getting paid $ 25,000 per month to serve as outside counsel to the heavily-democratic california state legislature to counter the trump administration .
the legislation he supported monday would prevent state police from helping to enforce immigration law , and holder traveled across the country to promote it .
wfberic holder was one of the most controversial ag s in the history of the united states .
he spent most of his first term under investigation while serving as obama s attorney general .
he was the key figure in the fast and furious gun-running scandal with mexico , and in 2012 congress voted to hold him in contempt for not turning over documents on the fast and furious gun-walking scandal .
he was also involved in the irs scandal that targeted conservatives and conservative leaning organizations.holder also was instrumental in fanning the flames of the trayvon martin case in sanford , florida .
while he was acting as our nation s attorney general , he was caught by judicial watch spending our taxpayer dollars to deploy a little-known unit of the department of justice ( doj ) , the community relations service ( crs ) to sanford , fl , following the trayvon martin shooting to help organize and manage rallies and protests against george zimmerman .
holder was also present in ferguson where he did absolutely nothing to stop the rioting and chaos.watch fox news sean hannity expose obama s lying ag when asked about fast n furious while under oath : here s proof that eric holder was lying :