here s what some ignorant race baiting twitter users had to say about the recent tragedy that involved the killing of a silverback gorilla , after a 4 year old boy fell into the exhibit in the cincinnati zoo .
one of the users claimed the white boy who was only saved because he was white .
meanwhile , one of these fools actually said if the boy was black the endangered gorilla would have only been tranquilized .
lol ! tweets are courtesy of breitbart news : there are so many things we could point out that are wrong with these ignorant tweets , but clearly the most stinging mistake was the accusations being made about the skin color of the boy.here s a picture the mother of the 4-year-old boy who fell into the gorilla world exhibit at the cincinnati zoo , which lead to the fatal shooting of harambe the gorilla .
she has been identified as michelle gregg .
she is clearly not suffering from white privilege lol ! the 32-year-old mom of four and cincinnati resident posted a now-deleted facebook post thanking the zoo for making the difficult decision to shoot the gorilla to save her son.here is her facebook post explaining the incident : harambe , a 17-year-old western lowland silverback gorilla , was killed after dragging the boy through a moat inside the exhibit.watch video here : the zoo security team s quick response saved the child s life .
we are all devastated that this tragic accident resulted in the death of a critically-endangered gorilla , zoo director thane maynard said in a statement .
this is a huge loss for the zoo family and the gorilla population worldwide .
videos of the incident were recorded by a bystander and posted on social media .
the videos show the 400-pound gorilla grabbing the 4-year-old boy and dragging him through a moat area .
he then stops and stands over the boy , before dragging him further into the enclosure.during one part of the video , which you can watch below , michelle gregg can be heard talking to her crying son and saying oh god , please protect him , while panicked zoo visitors call for help .
isaiah , be calm , gregg calls out .
be calm , be calm .
in another part of the video , she can be heard saying , mommy s right here , and mommy loves you .
kim o connor , who recorded video of the incident , said it appeared the gorilla was trying to protect the child .
i don t know if the screaming did it or too many people hanging on the edge , if he thought we were coming in , but then he pulled the boy down away further from the big group , kim o connor told wlwt-tv.cincinnati fire chief marc monahan said in a statement to nbc news that the gorilla was seen violently dragging and throwing the child .
he said the gorilla was neutralized by a cincinnati zoo employee with one shot from a long rifle.the family issued this statement through a pr firm : we are so thankful to the lord that our child is safe .
he is home and doing just fine .
we extend our heartfelt thanks for the quick action by the cincinnati zoo staff , the statement from gail myers public relations said .
we know that this was a very difficult decision for them , and that they are grieving the loss of their gorilla .
we hope that you will respect our privacy at this time .
the 4-year-old boy was released from a local children s hospital on sunday .
he suffered serious , but not life-threatening , injuries , authorities said .
via : heavy