career criminals professional grifters the ultimate democrat politicians voters in illinois and michigan witnessed the nastiest moments thus far of the democratic presidential campaign sunday night when former california gov .
jerry brown accused arkansas gov .
bill clinton and his wife , hillary , of unethical behavior and funneling state business to her little rock law firm.with former massachusetts sen. paul tsongas standing by during a one-hour tv debate in chicago , brown launched a harsh , personal attack on the democratic front-runner , citing a washington post story published sunday that raised questions about the relationship between the state of arkansas and the law firm of which hillary clinton is a partner.watch the exchange between governor jerry brown and bill clinton here : clinton ardently defended his wife ` s integrity , and he charged that brown ` s attack was driven by electoral desperation and poll results.the confrontation came as the three democrats met for the last time before tuesday ` s presidential primaries in illinois and michigan.against that backdrop , brown unleashed his barrage after he and tsongas were asked by a debate panelist about clinton ` s electability in a possible fall campaign against president bush .
i think he ` s got a big electability problem , brown said , citing the post story as well as other newspaper articles that addressed the governor ` s environmental record in arkansas.calling it a scandal of major proportions , brown said , he is funneling money to his wife ` s law firm for state business .
.
.
.
it ` s the kind of conflict of interest that ` s incompatible with the kind of public servant we expect .
the post story did not say that either clinton or his wife had channeled money or state business to the law firm .
it did note that the rose law firm has several state agencies and large corporations on its client list.stabbing a finger at his rival , clinton said : let me tell you something , jerry .
i don ` t care what you say about me , but you ought to be ashamed of yourself for jumping on my wife .
you ` re not worthy to be on the same platform with ( her ) .
clinton mocked brown ` s populist campaign approach and his bulldog tactics .
i don ` t think you can take much of what he says seriously , clinton said .
jerry comes here with his family wealth and his $ 1,500 suit , making lying accusations about my wife .
i never funneled any money to my wife ` s law firm .
never .
never .
clinton insisted that his wife had turned down her partnership share in any income the firm receives from state business.the candidates then began shouting over one another , clinton alluding to brown aide patrick caddell , a longtime washington political consultant , and suggesting the former california governor was somebody else ` s mouthpiece .
i feel sorry for jerry brown , clinton barked .
he reinvents himself every year or two .
clinton , whose campaign has thus far survived supermarket tabloid allegations of infidelity and questions about his draft history , has been forced to respond to suggestions from all of his democratic rivals that he can not defeat bush.last week , clinton had to address a new york times report that documented the clintons ` investment in a real estate deal with a man who later became head of a savings and loan that eventually failed.brown ` s attack was the most pointed of the campaign , and may have marked a transition point in american politics , a point at which the career and conduct of a male politician ` s spouse becomes fair game for attack.from her role on cbs ` 60 minutes defending her husband against charges of philandering to a less celebrated role as a campaign adviser , hillary clinton has played an exceedingly public role in the campaign.via : chicago tribune