( reuters ) - if republican presidential hopeful ted cruz lands a win in the nominating contest in his home state of texas on tuesday , part of the credit will go to support from a small and often overlooked interest group : homeschoolers .
the senator ’ s campaign has invested months of effort courting the well-organized network of families who educate their children at home - often to avoid constraints on religion in public school - in the hopes they can keep a big chunk of conservative voters away from his rivals , billionaire donald trump and senator marco rubio of florida .
“ they were crucial to our win in iowa and will be in texas ( as well ) , ” said cruz campaign spokeswoman catherine frazier , referring to cruz ’ s only victory in a string of four contests for the party ’ s presidential nomination so far that have otherwise been swept by trump .
the cruz campaign has used its message of religious liberty and small government to draw some 6,670 members to its “ homeschoolers for cruz ” coalition in recent months - many of whom campaign on his behalf .
“ one thing to understand about homeschoolers is we are all networked , ” said ken cuccinelli , a member of homeschoolers for cruz and an occasional campaign surrogate .
he said the group has used email pleas , door-knocking , and old-fashioned word-of-mouth to win votes .
“ the real rock stars are the teenagers .
they have so much energy ... and work ethic .
they just churn through work like us old people don ’ t. ” cruz ’ s campaign is betting that support like that will help him secure a win in texas - the biggest prize among the 12 states holding republican nominating contests on super tuesday .
texas has 155 delegates and a big win for cruz could potentially shift the balance of the race to decide who will be the republican nominee at the nov. 8 presidential election .
trump currently has 82 delegates to cruz ’ s 17 .
only around 3.5 percent of schoolchildren in the united states are homeschooled .
but the families that endorse homeschooling can have outsized political influence in some states and are often conservative .
many proponents of homeschooling share two important traits : a bent toward religion and a tendency to carefully guard against education policy changes that could affect them personally .
“ ( cruz ) is going to make sure that the federal government will not infringe on what we believe is our god-given right , ” said will estrada , a virginia-based co-chair of homeschoolers for cruz and a lawyer at the home school legal defense association - which does not typically endorse candidates before the general election .
homeschoolers help candidates tap into the evangelical vote , long thought to be cruz ’ s firewall in southern states , even though he has struggled to win the conservative christian vote amid the challenge by trump .
cruz leads trump in texas , 36.2 to 26.6 percent , according to a realclearpolitics poll average , one of few leads predicted for the texas senator for march 1 contests .
the stakes are high for cruz on tuesday .
at a recent presidential forum at regent university in virginia , also a super tuesday state , cruz warned that a runaway victory for trump could make the billionaire businessman “ unstoppable. ” marlin bontrager , a homeschooler parent whose family gospel band tours the country by bus , said he ’ s supporting cruz in part because he worries that secular education has contributed to a drop in the american intellect and the rise of trump , as well .
“ our educational system has ( ... ) dumbed down our society .
and we ’ re seeing the effect of that this election , ” he said , referring to the broad support for trump .
in 2008 , homeschoolers in iowa mobilized around then-republican presidential hopeful mike huckabee , helping him win the state .
( additional reporting by luciana lopez ; editing by richard valdmanis and alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .