erbil/baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi authorities have moved hundreds of foreign wives and children of suspected islamic state militants from a detention center in northern iraq to baghdad , citing security concerns and the difficulties of keeping them in a remote location .
local officials , security and aid agency sources said more than 800 women and children mostly from turkey , europe and former soviet states had been moved to a secure detention facility in baghdad .
around 700 more are still being held at the facility in the northern town of tal keif , said mohammed al-bayati , the head of mosul s provincial council security and defense committee .
most of the women and children have been in detention since aug. 30 , when more than 1,300 surrendered to kurdish peshmerga after government forces expelled the jihadist group from tal afar , one of its last remaining strongholds in iraq .
their numbers have swelled as more foreign nationals have surrendered or been captured , said sara al-zawqari , the spokesperson for the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) in iraq .
security forces have continued operations to rout the militants from their last remaining pockets of control in western anbar .
iraqi authorities began moving the families several days ago , bayati said , adding that the government intends to move all the foreign detainees to baghdad within the next few days .
the move to the capital coincides with a push by iraqi officials to begin legal proceedings to determine the fate of these women and children and end their prolonged detention , local officials and aid agency sources said .
the government should find a way of deciding their future and what to do with them , said abdul rahman al-wagga , a local councillor in mosul where many of the women and children lived under the islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate .
these foreign women and children have the right to a fair trial , said zawqari , whose icrc was the only aid group granted consistent access to the families in tal keif and has provided them with humanitarian services .
if they need to be repatriated , all parties involved should also ensure they have these rights and are treated with respect and dignity .
in september , aid agencies said they were gravely concerned about the fate of the families , after the initial 1,300 were relocated without warning to tal keif from the transit site south of mosul where they had initially been kept .