by now , it s pretty clear that bernie doesn t respect other people s possessions .
his whole campaign is built on the concept of stealing what belongs to other people .
this story should really come as no surprise to anyone officials with the democratic national committee have accused the presidential campaign of sen. bernie sanders of improperly accessing confidential voter information gathered by the rival campaign of hillary clinton , according to several party officials.jeff weaver , the vermont senator s campaign manager , acknowledged that a staffer had viewed the information but blamed a software vendor hired by the dnc for a glitch that allowed access .
weaver said one sanders staffer was fired over the incident.the discovery sparked alarm at the dnc , which promptly shut off the sanders campaign s access to the strategically crucial list of likely democratic voters.the dnc maintains the master list and rents it to national and state campaigns , which then add their own , proprietary information gathered by field workers and volunteers .
firewalls are supposed to prevent campaigns from viewing data gathered by their rivals.ngp van , the vendor that handles the master file , said the incident occurred wednesday while a patch was being applied to the software .
the process briefly opened a window into proprietary information from other campaigns , said the company s chief , stu trevelyan .
he said a full audit will be conducted.the dnc has told the sanders campaign that it will not be allowed access to the data again until it provides an explanation as well as assurances that all clinton data has been destroyed.having his campaign cut off from the national party s voter data is a strategic setback for sanders and could be a devastating blow if it lasts .
the episode also raises questions about the dnc s ability to provide strategic resources to campaigns and state parties.sanders spokesman michael briggs said four sanders campaign staffers accessed clinton data , and that three of them did so at the direction of their boss , josh uretsky , who was the operative fired.uretsky told cnn friday morning that he and others on the campaign discovered the software glitch wednesday morning and probed the system to discover the extent of their own data s exposure .
he said there was no attempt to take clinton information but said he took responsibility for the situation .
we investigated it for a short period of time to see the scope of the sanders campaign s exposure and then the breach was shut down presumably by the vendor , he told cnn .
we did not gain any material benefit .
weaver said the sanders campaign never downloaded or printed any of the data , meaning it is no longer in possession of any proprietary information .
he squarely blamed ngp van for the glitch and blamed the dnc for hiring the company.he said the campaign has flagged similar problems with the software for the dnc in the past.for entire story : washington post