sydney ( reuters ) - australia faces a series of by-elections that could topple the government , which trails in opinion polls and has lost its slender majority , in a bizarre citizenship crisis that has engulfed both sides of parliament .
senator katy gallagher and lower-house member david feeney , both from the opposition labor party , were referred to the high court on wednesday to determine whether they hold british , as well as australian , citizenship .
neither is a member of the government , but the outcome of gallagher s case in particular , which rests on whether she made reasonable steps to renounce her british citizenship , will set a precedent that could later unseat government members .
dual citizens are ineligible for elected office under australia s 116-year-old constitution .
in a nation in which half the population were either born overseas or have parents who were , the rule has disqualified nine lawmakers , and left prime minister malcolm turnbull s liberal-national coalition clinging to a minority government .
deputy prime minister barnaby joyce briefly lost his seat when it was found he also held new zealand citizenship .
but he won it back in a by-election last weekend .
a by-election in former tennis star john alexander s theoretically safe sydney seat on dec. 19 will determine whether the government regains its one-seat majority .
however , a victory may not be lasting , since the citizenship status of another four lower-house government lawmakers was called into question after a deadline for politicians to disclose the birthplace of their parents and grandparents passed on tuesday .
there are many inadequate disclosures that ask more questions than provide answers , labor leader bill shorten told reporters in canberra .
the government , behind in opinion polls and keen to avoid any more by-elections , voted down a labor proposal to refer those lawmakers cases to the high court and said it would not revisit the matter until after the gallagher case was heard .
gallagher filed paperwork , and paid processing fees , to renounce her british citizenship more than two months before being elected in july 2016 .
but she did not get confirmation from the british home office that her renunciation had been processed until after she was voted in , her disclosure documents show .
several other lawmakers are in a similar bind .
it will be a test case , constitutional law expert george williams , dean of law at the university of new south wales , told reuters by telephone .
but it leaves open the possibility that now this will go on for quite some time .
there s large question marks over quite a number of people .
turnbull s government would have to rely on the support of a handful of independent mps to retain power if alexander loses his dec. 19 by-election , or if the high court ousts another coalition lawmaker from the lower house .
it s uncertain territory , we still don t know for sure who is eligible and who s not , university of queensland politics lecturer chris salisbury told reuters .
( refiles to add dropped word loses in paragraph 17 )