will the new 3-story islamic museum include pictures of americans jumping out of their flame engulfed offices in the twin towers to their death ?
will it include pictures of the thousands of americans who lost their lives on 9-11 for the crime of living in a western culture that is far from the stone age mentality of the hateful muslims who killed them ? perhaps the 3-story islamic museum that will be built on the hallowed ground of the twin towers in nyc will include photos from home , like pictures of a young woman being stoned to death for the crime of being raped .
how about some pictures of women who graduated from school in afghanistan ?
oops !
we almost forgot , most muslim girls are forbidden from attending school in afghanistan .
how about a special section designated for the tolerant treatment of gays ?
they could feature photos of all the tall buildings where muslim men have been thrown off after being accused of being gay .
how about a disfigurement and mutilation section of the museum with explanations of why muslim men throw acid in the faces of muslim women or why they cut the clitoris out of young women.there could be a blasphemy section of the museum , displaying pictures of entire christian villages that have been burnt to the ground over accusations that allah was slandered .
and for good measure , this muslim museum on ground zero should have a special section dedicated to the thousands of brave men and women in the us military who have lost their lives overseas in the fight against terrorism by muslims.but we don t need to remind anyone why that fight began do we ?
like a hard slap across the face , this 3-story islamic museum and prayer space will stand on the very ground where a group of cowards , inspired by islam , crashed into the twin towers , murdering thousands of innocent men and women .
or then again maybe we do creeping sharia according to bloomberg , while the original plans for a mega mosque at ground zero have been squashed ( by capitalism ) , a mini-mosque and islamic museum are still planned.it s been four years since manhattan developer sharif el-gamal shelved plans for a 15-story islamic cultural center , near ground zero , that drew international debate .
he s looking to attract a different kind of attention for his current project on the site .
el-gamal s soho properties has proposed a 667-foot ( 203-meter ) condominium tower at lower manhattan s 45 park place.adjacent to the tower , soho properties will build a public plaza connected to a three-story islamic museum and prayer space to be designed by architect jean nouvel , el-gamal said.that would be a muslim prayer space , aka a mosque.he estimates that by the time the condo tower opens , the offices at the world trade center buildings will be filled with tenants , and retailers such as saks fifth avenue will have opened lower manhattan locations .
the center of gravity is shifting toward downtown , and we are literally in the heart of this new downtown , el-gamal said .
once all the scaffolding is down , and once all the office space is leased , this will be the most significant residential neighborhood in new york city .
watch this great video about plans to build a mega-mosque on ground zero : el gamal states , indirectly , that the islamic museum and mosque will be at the heart of the new downtown after islam destroyed the old downtown.it s unclear why developers and others continue to do business with el gamal considering his legal and financial troubles .