thanks to ben shapiro of breitbart news , we now know the answer to that question : tuesday night s debate featured a master class on lying from the lying liar who lies about her lies , former secretary of state hillary clinton.she spoke for approximately 24 minutes , and aside from her opening statement i m hillary clinton virtually every word that exited her mouth was untrue .
but because hillary appeared to be lady with mild socialist depression in a full-blown socialist insane asylum , nobody laid a glove on her.thus it is left to us to debunk her various obfuscations and untruths .
here we go .
i have spent a very long time my entire adult life looking for ways to find the ways for each child to live up to his or her god-given potential .
well , unless you re an unborn child .
then , get ready for a trip down the sink .
yes , finally , fathers will be able to say to their daughters , you , too , can grow up to be president .
technically , you ll have to marry a president first , however .
actually , i have been very consistent .
anderson cooper asked hillary about her shifting positions on issues ranging from the iraq war to same-sex marriage to the trans-pacific partnership .
she then dropped that whopper .
hillary has been one of the least consistent major party candidates in american history .
she then dropped a series of lies about her own positional changes .
and then she finally concluded that she had a range of views , but they are rooted in my values and my experience .
those values are becoming president and her experience is reading the polls .
i did say , when i was secretary of state , three years ago , that i hoped it would be the gold standard .
it was just finally negotiated last week , and in looking at it , it didn t meet my standards .
this is plainly untrue .
here s what she said in 2012 about the tpp : this tpp sets the gold standard in trade agreements to open free , transparent , fair trade , the kind of environment that has the rule of law and a level playing field .
she didn t hope it would be the gold standard .
it was the gold standard .
naturally , politifact labeled this statement half-true .
that means it s a huge , glaring lie .
i m a progressive .
but i m a progressive who likes to get things done how to find common ground , and i have proved that in every position that i ve had , even dealing with republicans who never had a good word to say about me , honestly .
nope .
as senator from new york , hillary accomplished virtually nothing .
her name was attached to exactly zero legislation .
her only major impact on policy came in the form of hillarycare , which drove republicans to massive electoral victory in 1994 .
when i think about capitalism , i think about all the small businesses that were started the media drooled over the exchange between hillary and bernie over capitalism .
but there is no distinction between the economic philosophy of sen. bernie sanders and that of hillary clinton .
she said she wanted to use government to force companies to share profits with the workers a line straight from the marxist playbook .
she said she wanted the wealthy to pay their fair share which meant everything .
she said she wanted paid family leave , universal college tuition availability , and a bevy of other free goodies .
it was pretty straightforward to me that [ sanders ] was going to give immunity to the only industry in america .
everybody else has to be accountable , but not the gun manufacturers .
there is no special immunity for gun manufacturers .
the protection of lawful commerce in arms act of 2005 was designed to prevent ultra-leftist jurisdictions from twisting tort law to make gun manufacturers liable for public nuisance in the way that manufacturers are liable for their pollution .
the law does not stop lawsuits against manufacturers or dealers from being sued if they knowingly sell a product to a criminal .
they can still be sued for design flaws , or negligence .
well first of all , we got a lot of business done with the russians when medvedev was the president , and not putin .there s no doubt that when putin came back in and said he was going to be president , that did change the relationship .
nonsense .
putin was always the leader of russia , even when medvedev was his puppet .
hillary knew putin ran the country when medvedev was president ; medvedev , for example , was president when russia invaded georgia in 2008 .
hillary handed the russians a reset button anyway .
hillary also advocated for taking on bashar assad the same man she once called a reformer .
i think while you re talking about the tough decision that president obama had to make about osama bin laden , where i was one of his few advisers , or putting together that coalition to impose sanctions on iran glomming onto the kill of osama bin laden in order to explain her vote for the iraq war was simply nonsensical .
but the idea that she put together the coalition to impose sanctions on iran is simply untrue .
international sanctions against iran have been on the books for decades .
and hillary was integrally involved in negotiating the end of those sanctions , as well as letting iran enrich uranium .
we had a murderous dictator , gadhafi , who had american blood on his hands , as i m sure you remember , threatening to massacre large numbers of the libyan people our response , which i think was smart power at its best , is that the united states will not lead this .
hillary reportedly manufactured the libyan genocide story out of wholecloth , and overrode us intelligence in order to push that narrative .
if libya was smart power at its best , it would be incredible to find out what smart power at its worst would be ( well , other than syria , ukraine , iran ) .
libya became a haven for terrorists because we deposed a dictator who posed no threat to us .
the notion that iraq was a disaster area of american foreign policy but libya is a great success story is patently insane .
hillary s lies about libya didn t end there .
i ll get to that .
hillary said this with regard to benghazi .
she never did , of course .
her response mirrored her response in benghazi , by the way : i ll get back to that , she said to our libyan staff , then proceeded to do nothing .
i think it has to be continued threat from the spread of nuclear weapons , nuclear material that can fall into the wrong hands .
i know the terrorists are constantly seeking it , and that s why we have to stay vigilant , but also united around the world to prevent that .
hillary said the spread of nuclear weapons represented the chief threat to the united states .
she also negotiated the iran nuclear deal .
the statement that people around the world are united to prevent the spread of nuclear weapons is a plain lie , given the acceptance of the iran deal , which makes iranian nuclear development inevitable .
well , i ve taken responsibility for it .
i did say it was a mistake .
what i did was allowed by the state department , but it wasn t the best choice .
and i have been as transparent as i know to be , turning over 55,000 pages of my e-mails , asking that they be made public .
and you re right .
i am going to be testifying .
i ve been asking to testify for some time and to do it in public , which was not originally agreed to .
lies , lies , and more lies .
she did not take responsibility for her email scandal any more than she took responsibility for benghazi : she said she took responsibility but never admitted to having done anything wrong .
her email scheme was not allowed by federal law , but she was the head of the state department and thus waived rules for herself .
she may have been as transparent as she knows how to be , but that transparency involved setting up a private server , loading it with classified information , and then deleting some 30,000 emails .
she only asked to testify after congress demanded she testify .
fortunately , none of this mattered , since bernie sanders intervened to hand her his testicles in a jar by saying nobody cared about her emails .
this inequality challenge we face , we have faced it at other points .
it s absolutely right .
it hasn t been this bad since the 1920s .
but if you look at the republicans versus the democrats when it comes to economic policy , there is no comparison .
the economy does better when you have a democrat in the white house and that s why we need to have a democrat in the white house in january 2017 .
if democrats are so great at economics , why is inequality as bad as it has been in a century ?
and saying that democratic presidents preside over good economies seems to neglect the fact that bill clinton , for example , presided over a republican congress .
we have to deal with the problem that the banks are still too big to fail .
we can never let the american taxpayer and middle class families ever have to bail out the kind of speculative behavior that we saw .
in this debate , hillary clinton also backed dodd-frank , which legally enshrines too big to fail .
bailouts are now mandated by federal law , thanks to hillary clinton and democrats .
and democratic policy loves bailouts they are huge fans of crony capitalism , endless bailouts through stimulus packages and taxpayer giveaways .
i think that it was necessary to make sure that we were able after 9/11 to put in place the security that we needed .
and it is true that it did require that there be a process .
what happened , however , is that the bush administration began to chip away at that process .
and i began to speak out about their use of warrantless surveillance and the other behavior that they engaged in .
hillary clinton voted to reauthorize the patriot act in 2006 .
and hillary s supposed leadership against bush-era abuses of the patriot act didn t stop president obama from expanding the use of surveillance far beyond what bush ever did .
well , i can t think of anything more of an outsider than electing the first woman president , but i m not just running because i would be the first woman president .well , i would not ask anyone to vote for me based on my last name .
false and false .
california has had a paid leave program for a number of years .and it has not had the ill effects that the republicans are always saying it will have .
california uses employee payroll taxes to finance paid family leave .
that means all the costs of the program are hidden , rather than explicit .
businesses leave california and employment declines because of its high tax rates .
businesses hire fewer women if forced to pay higher taxes in order to do so .
they don t mind having big government to interfere with a woman s right to choose and to try to take down planned parenthood .
they re fine with big government when it comes to that .
i m sick of it .
republicans want to defund planned parenthood .
that s not big government .
that s small government .
further , it s not big government to protect human life through force of law any more than it is big government to have murder laws on the books .
i know we can afford it , because we re going to make the wealthy pay for it .
that is the way to get it done .
this myth , repeated ad nauseum by democrats , is truly reprehensible .
rich people can not pay for all the utopian programs proposed by the left .
as john stossel points out , if the irs grabbed 100 percent of income over $ 1 million , the take would be just $ 616 billion .
both bernie sanders and hillary clinton worshipped at the altar of denmark last night , but denmark has lower corporate tax rates than the united states , and far higher taxes on the middle class .
you pay a 200 percent tax on cars in denmark everyone .
socialism isn t built on the backs of the rich .
it s built on the backs of everyone who earns , and that includes the middle class .
well , in addition to the nra , the health insurance companies , the drug companies , the iranians .
the iranians are not hillary s enemies .
they love her.for entire list of lies , go to breitbart newshillary s a liar .
but democrats don t care , because liars prosper in a world where hard work and honesty are punished in the name of equality and the great socialist utopia .