video from inside evergreen state college continues to leak , showing that protesters had at one point held administrators hostage until they agreed to comply with their demands.the incident took place during the second day of demonstrations demanding the resignation of professor bret weinstein , who angered many students when he challenged the school s decision to ask white people to leave campus for a day of diversity programming in an all-staff email.the protest began tuesday morning when an angry mob of sjw s confronted professor bret weinstein after he had sent an email to faculty and staff explaining his reasoning for opposing the demonstration .
campus reformwatch the hostage situation here : now , weinstein s reportedly been told to avoid campus because his safety is at risk .
police told me protesters stopped cars yesterday , demanding information about occupants , mr. weinstein told the washington times .
they believe i was being sought .
it appears that the campus has been under the effective control of protesters since 9:30 a.m. tuesday .
police are on lockdown , hamstrung by the college administration .
students , staff and faculty are not safe.having already accosted weinstein with such vitriol that campus police suggested he leave campus because officers could not guarantee his safety , the students set their sights on the administration , confining school officials in an office until they capitulated to an ultimatum demanding various diversity-related initiatives .
the priority is that they stay in that room .
if they aren t in that room , then we did something wrong , so you all need to watch that door , watch all the doors , the windows , you need to keep eyes on them , one protester commands , referencing all of the potential exit points that administrators could use to make an escape .
somebody needs to go in that room real quick to make sure there s no way for them to leave .
the video pans to a closed conference room leading to college president george bridges office , which is surrounded on the outside by dozens of student protesters who made it their stated mission to establish a physical presence outside the office to ensure that bridges and his staff aren t leaving .
shortly thereafter , one demonstrator emerges from bridges office and triumphantly informs her companions that bridges talked to the chief of police and he said police will not show up .
the unidentified protester who was apparently leading the brigade then enters bridges office , where the president and several other administrators are seated around a table that is encircled by still more student protesters .
the only priority is that y all stay in this space until those demands can happen so that s the only thing that we re concerned about , the protest leader reiterates , though he assures the administrators that everyone s safety and health is concerned , and that food and water would be provided to them.at one point , bridges explains that he needs to pee , to which one protester initially responds by sharply instructing him to hold it , though he was eventually escorted to a nearby bathroom by a team of protesters.meanwhile , the crowd gathered outside continued to chant hey , hey/ho , ho/these racist faculty have got to go .
the student who said they talked to the police chief and that they would not be coming was lying .
the police did show up to the hostage situation .
the only problem is , the president of evergreen college has already made a public statement saying that he has no interest in pressing charges against any of the hostage takers.when police arrived , presumably drawn by the uproar , the students fled to the library , where they barricaded themselves inside the trans & queer unity lounge and asked white students to patrol the halls for any police intruders .
at a meeting between the administration and students later that day , university president george s. bridges quickly assured the crowd that no students would be punished for their involvement in the demonstrations and promised a major reiew of what happened and why.my brother .
biology professor @ bretweinstein .
in the crosshairs of a lying mob .
you sjws just targeted the wrong guy .
the left eats its own .
https : //t.co/qqbcoztavw eric weinstein ( @ ericrweinstein ) may 24 , 2017here 's the ( incredibly thoughtful and well-written ) email .
pic.twitter.com/3necw0tnfw william treseder ( @ williamtreseder ) may 24 , 2017