extreme positions on abortionhillary clinton positioned herself as a moderate on abortion for much of her career , but now holds the most extreme positions on abortion of any presidential candidate ever.here are three reasons why:1 .
she wants taxpayers to pay for abortion.clinton supports government funding for abortion .
on june 10 , clinton delivered a speech at a planned parenthood event in which she called for repealing the hyde amendment , a policy that prevents taxpayer funding for abortion .
let s repeal laws like the hyde amendment that make it nearly impossible for low-income women , disproportionately women of color , to exercise their full reproductive rights , she said.the democratic national committee added this goal to its platform after clinton became the nominee.an august yougov poll found that 55 percent of americans support the hyde amendment .
this includes a large number of democrats , who are about evenly divided .
forty-one percent of democrats support the ban on abortion funding while 44 percent oppose it , which is within the poll s margin of error ( 4.8 percentage points for the full sample ) .2 .
she supports abortion until birth.clinton supports abortion up until the moment of birth.she doesn t say it exactly like that , of course , because it sounds awful when you say a baby can be legally killed right before she s born .
instead , clinton uses some shifty clintonian lingo.clinton has said she supports restrictions only in the third trimester and only if there are exceptions for the life and health of the mother .
( in one interview she said there should only be restrictions at the very end of the third trimester . )
but as clinton understands , and most voters don t , the health exception is just a huge loophole that allows for abortion for any reason.the u.s. supreme court ruled in doe v. bolton , the companion case to roe v. wade , that the health exception can be whatever the abortionist decides it is.an abortionist s medical judgment may be exercised in the light of all factors physical , emotional , psychological , familial , and the woman s age relevant to the well-being of the patient .
all these factors may relate to health , the court decided.so , when clinton says she ll only support abortion restrictions in the third trimester if there is a health exception , she is effectually saying there should be no restrictions on abortion through the entire pregnancy .
she admits this when pressed on the issue.in an april appearance on abc s the view , clinton was asked if she supports legal abortion just hours before delivery , and she agreed .
that same week , on nbc s meet the press , she was asked , when or if does an unborn child have constitutional rights ?
she answered , the unborn person doesn t have constitutional rights .
a july 16 marist poll found that only 13 percent of americans think abortion should be legal through the entire pregnancy .
similarly , a 2012 gallup poll found only 14 percent of americans believe abortion should be legal in the last three months of pregnancy , and a july 2014 huffpost/yougov poll found that 59 percent of americans support a ban on abortions after 20-weeks of gestation , which is during the second trimester .
3 .
she thinks abortion should be common , not rare.clinton no longer argues that abortion should be rare.during his 1992 presidential campaign , clinton s husband , bill , said that abortion should be safe , legal and rare .
it was controversial at the time within the pro-choice community because saying that abortion should be rare implies that there is something wrong with getting an abortion .
( what could that be ? )
but the phrase helped establish bill clinton s public image as a moderate on abortion.read more : christian post