riyadh ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital will stoke violence in the region , former saudi intelligence chief prince turki al-faisal said , dismissing reports of prior consultations made with riyadh over the move .
it is a very bad decision .
the consequences will be more bloodshed , more conflict rather than peaceful resolution , prince turki , a senior royal family member and a former ambassador to washington , told reuters in an interview on tuesday in riyadh .
trump reversed decades of u.s. policy and veered from international consensus this month by recognizing jerusalem as the capital of israel .
most countries say the city s status must be left to negotiations between israel and the palestinians .
saudi arabia condemned the decision .
saudi king salman told president trump that any decision to move the u.s. embassy in israel to jerusalem before a permanent peace settlement is reached will inflame the feelings of muslims , official media reported .
but saudi arabia stopped short of calling for any arab action against the decision .
palestinian officials say riyadh has been working for weeks behind the scenes to press them to support a nascent u.s. peace plan .
the reaction here was total surprise , said prince turki , who now holds no government office but remains influential .
...
if there has been prior consultation or anything like that , why would the king go through the process of telling him ( trump ) this is a bad idea and make that known publicly ?
i don t think there ever was any discussion of this before the decision was taken , he added .
as regards possible saudi and arab action in response to trump s decision , prince turki said : i am sure lots of people would prefer to have something just for the sake of appearance but i don t think that s how the saudi government operates .
if it is going to take action , it is going to be a serious action .
four palestinian officials , who spoke on condition they not be named , said saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman and palestinian president mahmoud abbas have discussed in detail a grand bargain that trump and jared kushner , the president s son-in-law and adviser , are expected to unveil in the first half of 2018 .
arab officials say the plan is still in its early phases of development .
prince turki said he was unaware of details of any such plan .
prince turki is a son of king faisal , who was assassinated in 1975 .
his brother , saud al-faisal , served as foreign minister for 40 years until 2015 , and their branch of the family is seen as influential over saudi foreign policy , even as crown prince mohammed bin salman has solidified his authority .
prince saud championed a 2002 arab peace initiative which called for normalizing relations between arab countries and israel in return for israel s withdrawal from lands occupied in the 1967 middle east war .
in a letter to trump published in a saudi newspaper on dec. 11 , prince turki said that trump s opportunistic jerusalem move would threaten security in the region .
the now much diminished terrorist international gets a rejuvenation boost from you and re-energizes its recruitment of volunteers to broaden their murderous attacks on innocent civilians , worldwide , he wrote in his letter .
saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman has said he would encourage a more moderate and tolerant version of islam in the ultra-conservative kingdom .
the ambitious young prince has already taken some steps to loosen saudi arabia s ultra-strict social restrictions , scaling back the role of religious morality police , permitting public concerts and announcing plans to allow women to drive next year .
prince turki said that saudis share in the blame for the spread of extremist ideology through funding of mosques abroad that may have fallen into the wrong hands , but that such funding stopped since the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks in the united states .
the kingdom has been the victim of such people and such activity ...
since sept. 11 the kingdom has had a sustained and continuous program opposing extremist ideology , not just in the kingdom but abroad , he told reuters .
for a period of time , yes it is true there were some saudis who promoted issues of extremism and so on .
now we are getting rid of all of those .
i would say we have gotten rid of most of them , if not all of them .