here s yet another example of the leadership in the republican party putting themselves and their political careers before the american people .
rep. john fleming of louisiana is a good man and did the right thing in releasing the truth about the effort to to have a recorded vote .
this is why the american people are 100 % fed up !
with washington ! in yet another display of misplaced priorities , house leadership plans to fast-track the new debt restructuring bill for puerto rico in light of their $ 70 billion debt crisis .
but what happened last night at a meeting held in the natural resources committee , demonstrates a new degree of desperation.earlier this afternoon , rep. john fleming ( r-la ) released a statement divulging the details of that meeting .
he said that members of the committee were asked by house leaders , which presumably includes the committee chairman , rob bishop ( r-ut ) , to not ask for a recorded vote on the bill when it comes before the committee this evening .
according to fleming , they were told not to show up to the markup if they plan to request a recorded vote.the benefit of a voice vote is to push the quasi-bailout package to the floor by acclamation and protect vulnerable members from a divisive committee vote .
rob bishop , for example , faces a primary challenge in his northern utah district later in the spring.here is the full statement from rep. fleming : in all my time in congress , no one has ever asked me to do something quite like this , until last night .
i was angry .
to be asked to walk away to be told to miss a vote is a request that flies in the face of every member s conscience .
leadership had no business making such a request .
i thought perhaps i was mistaken about what was really being asked of me .
but when it was clear they were seriously asking members of the committee to stand aside so the bill could pass without amendment or vote , i strongly objected along with some other members .
this is the kind of go along politics americans and i are tired of .
anytime we don t have full transparency we have a bad outcome .
if the bill comes before the committee as planned , i will insist on a recorded vote and i will do my best to defeat any bailout this committee puts before us .
members weren t even given the discussion draft of the bill ( h.r .
4900 ) until last night .
now they are voting on it less than 24 hours later and were told not to voice concerns about the legislation.read more : cr