quito ( reuters ) - ecuador s ruling country alliance party , founded by former president rafael correa over a decade ago , has removed president lenin moreno as its head , citing repeated failures in leadership , as a schism between the former allies deepens .
the country alliance party , which has been divided by the two politicians , late on tuesday announced that correa ally ricardo patino , a former foreign minister , would replace moreno as party leader .
the head of the national country alliance party has unanimously decided , it said in a statement announcing the immediate removal of lenin moreno as president of the country alliance party .
ecuador s government , however , said it did not recognize the decision and stressed moreno remained the head of the party .
country alliance is a political party , not an estate ...
these actions are wrong and do not reflect the feeling of our political base , acting vice president alejandra vicuna told journalists on tuesday .
moreno , a correa prot g who previously served as his vice president , was elected earlier this year to succeed the fiery leftist .
at the time , opposition critics warned moreno would be a puppet of political heavyweight correa , whom they accused of seeking to stage a presidential comeback in 2021 .
but moreno , a paraplegic former united nations special envoy on disability , has stunned the andean country of around 17 million by quickly breaking with correa , who is now living abroad , in his wife s home country of belgium .
moreno , who is seeking presidential term limits via a referendum to revise the constitution , has sidelined another top correa ally from the vice presidency , and is overseeing a corruption probe that has ensnared former high-level officials .
vicuna replaced jorge glas , who was also correa s vice president , after glas came under investigation in a corruption scandal centered on brazilian construction company odebrecht .
he is currently in jail .
polls indicate moreno has widespread popular support in ecuador .
his approval levels have jumped from around 66 percent in may , when he was sworn in , to about 77 percent in september , a recent survey by local pollster cedatos showed .
many ecuadoreans report being satisfied with his attempts to investigate corruption and boost social welfare .
his conciliatory temperament is also welcomed by some who were tired of correa s confrontational style .