berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel warned german voters on wednesday not to risk allowing an untested left-wing alliance to take power after this month s national election , urging them to stick with her in turbulent times .
less than three weeks before the sept. 24 vote , politicians and media in germany are turning their attention to the possible coalitions that could form after the election , from which no single party is expected to emerge with a clear majority .
merkel , 63 , leads a grand coalition of her conservatives and the left-leaning social democrats ( spd ) - a tie-up neither wants to repeat after the vote .
seeking a fourth term , merkel is stressing her credentials as a global stateswoman .
our country can t afford experiments - especially in these turbulent times , she told a rally in torgau , some 70 miles ( 120 km ) south of berlin in the state of saxony .
merkel spoke above a cacophony of jeers and whistles from some protesters - a feature at many of her rallies as resentment persists at her decision in 2015 to open germany s borders to hundreds of thousands of refugees fleeing war in syria and iraq .
that decision helped the rise of the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which punished her conservatives in regional votes last year .
she has since bounced back , but the national election is likely to return a more fractured parliament due to the rise of the afd - set to enter the bundestag for the first time - and the expected return of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) .
this could make coalitions harder to form .
merkel wants to avoid being outflanked by a coalition of the spd , the far-left linke and the environmentalist greens , who have held exploratory talks about the possibility of joining forces in a so-called red-red-green , or r2g , coalition .
i say red-red-green would be bad for our country , she told the rally .
in the future too , we will need stability and security .
in a televised debate with spd leader martin schulz on sunday , merkel challenged him to rule out a coalition with the linke party , which he refused to do .
a red-red-green combination is untested at federal level , though the three parties have teamed up to take control of berlin s city government .
an opinion poll released on wednesday put support for merkel s conservatives at 38.5 percent , ahead of the spd on 24 percent .
the greens were on 7.5 percent , the free democrats on 10 percent and the linke and the afd each on 8 percent .
resentment at merkel s open-door policy runs particularly high in eastern germany , but she has also been booed at rallies in the west - such as in ludwigshafen , 45 miles ( 70 km ) south of frankfurt , last week .
we are germans .
she needs to be taking care of us , vincent raap , an 18-year-old starting an apprenticeship as a machine operator , said at the ludwigshafen rally .
three times , an apprenticeship for which i had applied was given to foreigners instead , he said , holding a sign saying merkel must go .