this congresswoman has a potty mouth and a bitter attitude towards whites .
she s a hateful racist who is paranoid that everyone is out to get her .
she just tossed baseless accusations at the trump administration in an appearance on the washington post podcast cape up with jonathan capehart .
( see our previous report on the interview below .
) here are the lowlights : waters accused president trump of colluding with russia during the 2016 election , without offering evidence .
i believe this president has colluded with the russians , with the kremlin , with the oligarchs , perhaps , of russia to undermine our election systems , waters told capehart .
( 4:00 ) the california congresswoman also criticized the senate investigation into trump-russia ties as not credible .
they re not moving fast enough !
she exclaimed .
however , she praised the media for their investigations into trump-russia ties .
( 4:35 ) waters described attorney general jeff sessions as a throwback to the days of jim crow , equating sessions with the era of segregation .
i think [ sessions ] is a racist and i think he absolutely believes it s his job to keep minorities in their place .
she added that sessions would like to go back to the days of segregation .
( 9:30 12:00 ) as evidence of sessions racism , waters cited an instance where girls in traditional southern dresses greeted trump and sessions during the transition period .
waters implication was that sessions and trump enjoyed the clothing because it reminded them of slavery .
the group , the azalea trail maids , wears colorful traditional dresses to events .
( 13:50 ) capehart finally pushed her to find out if the u.s. government has seen evidence of collusion between russia and the trump campaign .
no , we have not , waters said .
that means waters has repeatedly called for trump s impeachment without yet seeing any evidence of wrongdoing .
( 20:00 ) our previous report on maxine waters said the russia investigation has nothing on trump : there is probably no one in congress more openly opposed to president donald trump than maxine waters .
we have already seen that she has called for trump s impeachment .
therefore when even waters states there is not yet any evidence at this time of trump-russia collusion , that is certainly significant .
that is why it is astonishing that washington post opinion writer jonathan capehart left that significant admission made during his own podcast off his may 9 column about it.first let us listen to the segment of capehart s podcast in which waters made her surprising admission : how convenient for the left-leaning publication to leave out a direct statement by maxine waters .
by the way , the title of the article is a rip roaring race baiting title : maxine waters : jeff sessions believes it s his job to keep minorities in their place who does this in 2017 ?
jeff sessions is such a good man who does not deserve such a nasty comment from congresswoman waters .
shame on her and shame on capehart for making this comment the title ! jonathan capehart : i ve got to ask you , because you leveled a whole lot of accusations out there about collusions and hacking and all of that .
have you seen anything , either through the intelligence briefings , anything to back up any of the accusations that you ve made ? maxine waters : first of all , don t forget that all of our intelligence agencies say , yes , they have the documentation that they did the hacking on the dnc and on some of us.capehart : but the collusion , though ? waters : no , we have not .
that s why investigations are so important , to drill down and to connect those dots and to get the facts .
what we have is a lot of smoke that causes us to want to know more about what has happened .
why is it there are so many people around him are connected to oil ?
why is it that michael flynn , who evidently has a great relationship with putin , who has received payments for so-called speeches and who s spent a lot of time in russia and was accused of talking about sanctions , he lied about it and he got caught ? in his column writeup about his podcast interview with maxine waters , capehart tossed that admission of no evidence of trump-russia collusion down the memory hole.via : ntk