beijing ( reuters ) - china is shedding few tears over the ousting of its old friend robert mugabe as president of zimbabwe , fed up with the ruinous state of its economy and confident a new government will not antagonize china or change course on policies towards it .
china pointedly failed to offer any open support for mugabe after the army took power last week , instead calling vaguely for a peaceful resolution under a legal framework and for talks to bridge differences .
on wednesday , the foreign ministry said it respected mugabe s decision to resign as president , and that he remained a good friend of china s who made historic contributions to zimbabwe s independence and liberation .
china s friendship with mugabe dates back to zimbabwe s independence struggle , which china supported .
mugabe has visited china numerous times , most recently in january when president xi jinping told him : china will never forget its old friends .
but trade has sagged amid zimbabwe s economic turmoil of recent years , and china does not rely on it for any crucial raw materials , unlike zambia for its copper or angola and oil .
china s total trade with zimbabwe in 2016 was worth $ 1.11 billion , down 15 percent on-year , a fraction of the $ 35.3 billion in trade china and south africa did .
last year , china did more trade with tunisia and senegal than zimbabwe .
it has been clear to china what has caused the problems , and china showed no desire to prop up mugabe in his hour of need .
china will not interfere and is happy to let zimbabwe s people make their own choices , said shen xiaolei , an africa expert at the chinese academy of social sciences government think-tank .
the ruling party is fighting amongst itself , and his economic policies and national governance have had many problems , shen said .
zimbabwe s regime was certainly going to get into trouble ; i just didn t expect it would happen so fast .
in contrast to his elevated status on the continent , mugabe is reviled in the west as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of africa s most promising states .
in 2015 , mugabe won the confucius peace prize , supposed to be china s answer to the nobel peace prize , but he turned it down according to zimbabwe media after he learned it had no connection with the chinese government .
china had been an important ally on the world stage too for mugabe .
in 2008 , china vetoed a proposed western-backed u.n. resolution that would have imposed an arms embargo on zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on mugabe and 13 other officials , saying it would complicate conflict .
china has denied that it knew anything about the army take over , despite a visit to beijing by zimbabwe s military chief , general constantino chiwenga , shortly before he moved against mugabe .
on monday , the chinese embassy in south africa said it was complete nonsense to suggest chiwenga had tipped off china about his plan , saying this was an attempt to smear china and that mugabe had in any case approved chiwenga s visit .
however , the embassy also did not offer any support to mugabe , reiterating that china believed zimbabwe s crisis was an internal affair and that african people should resolve african problems .
china s frustrations with mugabe had begun to play out in its state media .
over the past week , chinese media has run unfavorable articles about his wife , grace , with online news portal sina calling her a wanton squanderer .
on sunday , the wechat account of the overseas edition of the ruling communist party s official people s daily carried a largely negative account of a 1985 visit by mugabe to beijing when he met former paramount leader deng xiaoping , the architect of china s reforms .
showing pictures of zimbabweans carrying bundles of cash during its hyperinflation crisis , the paper said zimbabwe s chaos could in large part be traced to mugabe s extreme leftist , populist policies .
zhang weiwei , a professor at shanghai s fudan university , described a conversation he interpreted between deng and mugabe in which deng warned him of china s mistakes and urged him to embark on the same reforms as china .
mugabe did not seem to get the message , zhang wrote .
this person didn t take anything in , and that will be his loss , zhang cited an exasperated deng as saying after the meeting .
there is confidence too for china that mugabe s former vice president and likely successor , emmerson mnangagwa , whose sacking prompted the military to take power , will not upset china .
state media has pointed out he is a known quantity , with frequent visits of his own to china .
whereas beijing has worried about anti-chinese feeling in zambia , where some workers have accused chinese firms of abuses and underpaying , there have been no such problems in zimbabwe .
china and africa are all-weather friends , and china and zimbabwe are no exception , said wang wei , an associate research fellow at the foreign ministry s china institute of international studies .
it does not matter what changes there are in government officials , the broader trend is still to develop friendly relations between china and zimbabwe and china and africa to promote joint prosperity and development .