nicosia ( reuters ) - talks on the reunification of cyprus should resume only if the political status of turkish cypriots is addressed should the new talks fail , a senior turkish cypriot official said .
outlining positions likely to be rejected outright by greek cypriots , ozdil nami , the chief turkish cypriot negotiator , said the turkish cypriots needed assurance that their political status would be spelled out if the talks failed .
cyprus was split by a turkish invasion in 1974 that followed a greek-inspired coup .
northern cyprus is now a turkish cypriot state of about 300,000 people that is recognised only by turkey .
for greek cypriots , who run the island s internationally recognised government which represents the whole island in the european union , any recognition of the north without reunification is out of the question .
we as the turkish cypriot side would insist that the new process , whatever it is going to be , would have to bring clarity to the status of the turkish cypriots in international fora , nami told reuters in an interview .
asked to clarify , nami said : it would have to spell out what our political status be , should the greek cypriot side once again say no .
either no to taking a deal to referendum , or going to a referendum and saying no .
pressed further on whether that meant turkish cypriots should be accorded some form of recognition if a new initiative sank because of greek cypriot recalcitrance , he said : exactly .
talks to unite cyprus collapsed in july , ending one of the most promising negotiations to resolve the long-running conflict , which is a source of tension between greece and turkey and hampers ankara s hopes of joining the eu .
each side blamed the other for scuppering a deal that would have seen the island united under a two-zone federal system .
with a slight shift of present boundaries , northern cyprus would have become a constituent state of the new federal system .
this political ambiguity hovering about our heads for almost 50 years must end , said nami , whose office lies a short distance from the green line controlled by the united nations that splits the cypriot capital , nicosia .
since 2003 , several crossing points have opened along a 180-km ( 116 mile ) ceasefire line patrolled by the un .
thousands of people cross daily from one side to the other .
largely peaceful - apart from serious incidents in 1996 in which several people died - both sides say the status quo is not acceptable .
we need to change the status quo , it is mutually agreed , nami said .
we either change it by finalizing a federal settlement , or we change it some other way .
in both scenarios , in a mutually agreed way .
a year after the checkpoints opened , greek cypriots rejected a un reunification blueprint that critics said ran roughshod over the rights of thousands of people uprooted in the 1974 conflict .
proponents called it a realistic , workable alternative reflecting realities on the ground .
turkish cypriots had voted in favor of the blueprint .
no one can convince the turkish cypriots to once again engage in negotiations that will be hostage of a greek cypriot no , nami said .
nami , a former turkish cypriot foreign minister , said he sensed huge fatigue in his community and that he believed the same applied on the greek cypriot side .
i think in order for us to have a credible process we must be able to tell our people this process will have a specific end period , at the end of which , a decision will be taken , he said .
otherwise it will be extremely difficult to have the public support necessary behind the process .