barcelona ( reuters ) - with the spanish government ready to take over the running of catalonia on friday , the loyalty of the local police to madrid or to the catalan cause will be tested if they are ordered to drag their former political masters from office .
spanish police provoked international outcry by using batons and rubber bullets when they stepped in to try to stop an illegal independence referendum on oct. 1 after the local catalan force refused to prevent voting in what has become the worst constitutional crisis in modern spanish history .
catalonia s secessionist government is intent on resisting spain s plan to remove it from power , and there are doubts over how a divided and demoralized mossos d esquadra , as the catalan police are called , would respond if ordered to evict president carles puigdemont and his autonomous government by force .
national police could once again be on the front line .
the local police force is riven by distrust between those for and against catalan independence and is estranged from spain s national police forces , according to interviews with mossos officers and national police .
the civil guard gave evidence against the mossos chief in a sedition inquiry after his force stood back and allowed voting to take place , court documents show .
five mossos officers , speaking on condition of anonymity , said they believed the 17,000-strong force was split among those who wanted independence and those who opposed it , with three of those saying they would not use force to remove ministers and lawmakers from power .
i m not going to use force and beat people with my baton if they are passive , said a 15-year mossos veteran and secessionist , who declined to be named .
he said many others felt the same , but added : i would have to obey it .
my family has to eat .
a mossos spokeswoman said the force was neutral and not subject to any political or ideological criteria .
prime minister mariano rajoy is intent on thwarting the latest bid for independence by catalonia , which has 16 percent of the spanish population but generates 19 percent of the country s economic output , to avoid what he believes will bring economic and social turmoil to the heart of the eurozone .
officers told reuters there was also an anti-independence faction in the mossos d esquadra , lads squad in catalan , which uses an encrypted chat app to share views on independence versus allegiance to madrid .
in a bid to impose its authority the madrid government will replace the mossos senior leadership , but the question is whether this will be enough to ensure the force s loyalty .
the mossos stance will have a powerful influence on the 7.5 million catalans as the force has deep roots in catalan society , having emerged from citizen militias in the 18th century .
the mossos s reputation was enhanced by its handling of an august van attack in barcelona which killed 14 people .
rajoy will seek senate approval on friday to take the unprecedented step of assuming central control of catalonia , including its government and the running of mossos .
the strategy will replace the mossos leadership , including its two senior officers and 23 commissioners , and route the chain of command to a national police commander , yet to be appointed , who will report to the interior ministry , officials in madrid and a catalan police union said .
spain s foreign minister , alfonso dastis , said at the weekend , before calls for civil disobedience by the catalan government , that we are not going to arrest anyone .
but a senior government source said force may be necessary depending on the reaction in catalonia .
if the parliament has to be emptied out and closed , if the councillors offices have to be cleared out - if they obey there s no problem , but if they don t obey it will have to be enforced , the source said .
the months-long standoff between madrid and pro-independence leaders progressively damaged morale inside mossos , with hundreds of officers opposed to independence looking to quit the force , officers and union officials say .
some complain they are sidelined by their pro-independence colleagues .
luis miguel lorente , head of the national arp police union , said about 200 mossos officers had contacted his union for information on how to join national police forces .
spain has sent about 4,000 police reinforcements to catalonia , where protests on both sides of the independence debate have drawn hundreds of thousands of people onto the streets .
extra police have been billeted in two cruise ships in barcelona harbor .
one of the ships is painted with cartoon characters of tweety pie and sylvester the cat , leading to tweety pie being adopted as the mascot of the independence movement by some campaigners .
participants in the referendum opted overwhelmingly for independence , but turnout was only about 43 percent as catalans who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot .
secessionists said the result gave them a mandate for statehood .
spain was only restored to democracy following the death in 1975 of dictator francisco franco , under whom the catalan language and traditions were suppressed .
protests have been peaceful , but the referendum showed how tensions can swiftly escalate when madrid uses national police , despised by many secessionists , to enforce anti-independence measures .
if mossos stands back again , the senior government source said , national police would step in once more .
a defiant catalan government , which remains in power until the senate approves rajoy s plan , said this week its civil servants , including the mossos , would continue to obey its instructions and those of its legislature .
that raises fears that puigdemont and regional lawmakers , will refuse to leave their offices , or that their supporters may try to help by occupying the offices .
as well as replacing mossos leaders , madrid may also redeploy mossos officers away from key government buildings and use national police instead , an interior ministry official said .
relations between the regional and the national forces are at rock bottom and no new joint investigations are being launched , say officers from each force .