beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon could face economic sanctions from arab countries or worse if hezbollah does not stop meddling in regional conflicts , a lebanese sunni politician said on friday .
former justice minister ashraf rifi , who rose to prominence with vocal opposition to shi ite hezbollah , is closely aligned to the saudi position in lebanon and more hawkish than long-established sunni leaders .
we can expect economic repercussions .
at the political level too , at the level of our lebanese-arab relations .
and it s open to all the possibilities , unfortunately , he said .
his comments to reuters echo recent statements by saad al-hariri , who quit abruptly as lebanese prime minister in a broadcast from saudi arabia two weeks ago .
the shock resignation thrust lebanon into a regional rivalry between riyadh and its allies against an iranian bloc , which includes the hezbollah militant group and political party .
rifi said he has been in touch with saudi officials recently over lebanon s crisis and is familiar with riyadh s thinking .
a political rival of hariri , rifi defeated a hariri-backed list in local elections in the mostly sunni city of tripoli last year , though he lacks the premier s country-wide standing .
today , lebanese officials have a big responsibility .
all the lebanese officials have to be careful about good relations with the arab world , rifi told reuters .
there is no more leniency towards hezbollah ... using its illegitimate arsenal in middle east conflicts .
lebanon s heavily armed hezbollah , a part of the political fabric , wields great influence in the country .
it also has sent thousands of fighters into syria to battle alongside the damascus government against mostly sunni rebels and militants .
lebanese politicians and bankers have said they fear saudi arabia corralling arab allies to economically blockade lebanon as they did with qatar .
lebanon can not live without the arab countries , rifi said .
we know how many lebanese work in saudi arabia or in the gulf and how much revenue they bring ... to the lebanese economy .
up to 400,000 lebanese work in the gulf , and remittances flowing into the country are a vital source of cash to keep its economy afloat and the heavily-indebted government functioning .
political sources have said that potential sanctions include a ban on flights , visas , exports and transfer of remittances .
saudi arabia and its arab allies have now drawn a line in the sand , rifi said .
that there is no place for ( hezbollah ) in ( lebanon s ) future government , if it keeps choosing to be a security and military arm for iran .
the lebanese state will have to distance itself in a real and practical way from regional wars so that we don t bear the repercussions of hezbollah s acts , he added .
in his resignation speech , hariri said he feared assassination , railing against iran and hezbollah .
a sunni muslim leader and long-time saudi ally , hariri has yet to return to beirut .
in his public comments after quitting , hariri warned of possible arab sanctions and a danger to the livelihoods of lebanese in the gulf .
hezbollah must stop intervening in regional conflicts , particularly yemen , he said .
lebanon s president michel aoun has called hariri a saudi hostage , refusing to accept his resignation unless he returns to beirut , and stressing that the government still stands .
saudi arabia and hariri say he is a free man .
hariri became prime minister last year in a power-sharing deal that made aoun , a hezbollah political ally , president and his coalition government includes hezbollah .
rifi criticized aoun s stance , as well as other lebanese accusations that riyadh forced hariri to quit , as surprising and unprecedented .
he considered hariri s resignation constitutional and said lebanon would have to form a new , more balanced government in the near future .
rifi , a former police chief , resigned as justice minister in 2016 in protest at what he described as hezbollah s dominant role .
he had also heaped criticism on hariri for nominating another hezbollah ally to fill the vacant presidency .
from the moment the prime minister uttered his desire to quit , the government became a resigned one , he said .