aden/dubai ( reuters ) - a saudi-led coalition stepped up air strikes on yemen s houthis on wednesday as the iran-allied armed movement tightened its grip on sanaa a day after the son of slain former president ali abdullah saleh vowed revenge for his father s death .
former president saleh plunged the country deeper into turmoil last week by switching allegiances after years helping the houthis win control of much of the country s north including the capital .
he was killed in an attack on his convoy on monday .
the pro-houthi al masirah television station said on wednesday saudi arabia and its allies had bombed saleh s residence and other houses of his family members now controlled by the houthis .
air strikes also hit northern provinces including taiz , hajjah , midi and saada , it said .
there was no immediate word on casualties .
the intervention by saleh s son ahmed ali , a former commander of the elite republican guard who lives in exile in the united arab emirates and was once seen as a successor to his father , has provided the anti-houthi movement with a potential figurehead .
abu dhabi crown prince mohammed bin zayed al-nahayan , the de facto leader of the uae , visited ahmed ali at his residence to offer his condolences , according to sheikh mohammed s twitter account .
he posted a picture of himself sitting near ahmed ali .
ahmed ali had been widely expected to leave the uae , a key member of the saudi-led coalition fighting the houthis , for yemen to help in the war amid media reports that some saleh loyalists have been switching sides .
many sanaa residents were staying indoors on wednesday out of fear of a houthi crackdown .
on tuesday , saleh supporters said his nephew tareq , another top commander , and the head of his party , aref zouka , had both been killed .
there s a scary calm in the city , said ali , a 47-year-old businessman who declined to use his full name .
people are reporting that there are many arrests and they are trying to shoot military men and ( saleh party ) members .
yemen s conflict , pitting the houthis against the saudi-led military alliance which backs a government based in the south , has unleashed what the united nations calls the world s worst humanitarian crisis .
the proxy war between regional arch-rivals iran and saudi arabia - armed and given intelligence by the west has killed more than 10,000 people , with more than two million displaced .
saleh s decision to abandon the houthis was the most dramatic development in three years of stalemate .
top houthi officials called it high treason backed by their saudi enemies .
tens of thousands of houthi supporters staged a rally in sanaa on tuesday to celebrate what the houthis had said was the defeat of a major conspiracy by saleh , chanting slogans against saudi arabia and its allies .
political sources said the houthis had arrested dozens of saleh s allies and army officers affiliated with his party in and around the city .
several had been killed in the raids .
on wednesday , several dozen women gathered in a main sanaa square holding saleh s portrait and demanding his body be handed over for burial , but they were forcibly dispersed by houthi security forces , eyewitnesses said .
the houthi-controlled interior ministry distributed a video of dozens of seated barefoot men it said were pro-saleh fighters detained in one of its party headquarters .
media rights group reporters without borders appealed for the release of 41 journalists it said have been held hostage by the group since it overran the headquarters of the saleh-owned al-yemen al-youm tv station on saturday .
nearly a million people in yemen have been hit by a cholera outbreak , and famine caused by warring parties blocking food supplies threatens much of the country .
the un secretary-general s special envoy for yemen , ismail ould cheikh ahmed , called on all parties to show restraint .
increased hostilities will further threaten civilian lives and exacerbate their suffering , he said in a briefing to the security council on tuesday .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on tuesday that the killing of saleh would likely worsen an already dire humanitarian situation in the country in the short term .
speaking with reporters on a military aircraft en route to washington , mattis said his death could either push the conflict towards u.n. peace negotiations or make it an even more vicious war .
the commander of iran s islamic revolution guards corps , major general mohammad ali jafari , praised what he called the houthis swift quashing of the coup against the holy warriors , the semi-official fars news agency reported .
much is likely to depend on the future allegiances of saleh loyalists who previously helped the houthi group , which hails from the zaidi branch of shi ite islam that ruled a thousand-year kingdom in northern yemen until 1962 .