it s a wonder we have any sane children coming out of our leftist indoctrination think tanks that are being passed off as schools .
the vote bernie is an especially nice touch the vice principal of camden hills regional high school has america s enemy all figured out : domestic white christian men with easy access to guns .
after a lone gunman killed two civilians and a police officer in colorado springs , colorado , the vice principal , piet lammert , took to facebook to post his thoughts the next day : it s small business saturday .
buy localthere s a show in the strom tonight .
buy ticketsthe only terrorists we need to fear are domestic white christian men with easy access to guns .
vote berniethat is all .
enjoy your dayfive town csd superintendent maria libby criticized the post , but defended the administrator .
i know piet and he s someone who genuinely accepts all people , libby tells wgme .
the post does not reflect who he is as a person .
she didn t stop there .
it was a mistake , libby says .
it was a poor choice in words and it should never have been posted .
the superintendent didn t specific what words would have been better to say.after it was posted , libby said the situation has been handled , without giving any specifics .
i have investigated it and i have taken appropriate action , libby would only say.lammert took to facebook to apologize to those i offended , but also to attempt to explain his comments.i am writing to take responsibility and apologize for a post that i made on my private facebook account yesterday .
i mistakenly left my setting open to public and in doing so made a post that offended some members of our community and beyond .
i deeply regret doing so , take full responsibility , and hope that those i offended will accept my apology.apparently still feeling the public blow back from his remarks , the school administrator posted another apology , saying it was an exaggeration .
with true humility , i write to apologize for the offensive statement that i recently posted on facebook .
i did not intend this statement literally when i wrote it it was an exaggeration but soon after realized that it was unintentionally hurtful , offensive , and divisive at a time when more than ever we need compassion and understanding.in short , i did not mean what i said and wish with all my heart that i could take it back .
but i need to take responsibility for it nonetheless , because i wrote it .
it does not represent who i am or what i believe , but i wrote it .
this post is an effort to at least begin to make amends.had i simply written what i meant , the post would have reflected my urgent distress at the epidemic of mass violence in our country , which more recent events have proven to span all social groups .
ironically , in my effort to point out that we run the risk of simplifying the problem by singling out a particular ethnic group , i did exactly that to the group to which i belong .
it was careless and rash.lambert appears to have removed the offensive post from his facebook page .
he did however , leave this post up on his page , just in case anyone wonders where he stands on the evil nra .
note the cute little nickname he appears to have given them : // < !
[ cdata [ ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = `` //connect.facebook.net/en_us/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & # 038 ; version=v2.3 '' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; // ] ] > nra : not really applicableposted by piet lammert on monday , december 17 , 2012wgme attempted to contact the public employee , but lammert reportedly ignored their requests .
via : eag news