of course , putting america first is a totally foreign concept to the man who occupies the highest office in the nation .
obama appears to have even ( temporarily ) given up the game of golf in order to spend every last second of his final term forming alliances with communist leaders , shutting down american companies ( like the coal industry he promised to bankrupt ) and destroying our most basic rights afforded to us by the us constitution ( that he has absolutely no regard for ) .
why would anyone expect obama to protect an american business without something being in it for him ? the boston globe is reporting that u.s.-based shoe manufacturer new balance has come out hard against the trans pacific partnership trade deal .
the odd thing , though , is that the boston company had gone quiet [ on tpp ] last year .
now , apparently , we know why : new balance officials say one big reason is that they were told the department of defense would give them serious consideration for a contract to outfit recruits with athletic shoes.but no order has been placed , and new balance officials say the pentagon is intentionally delaying any purchase.new balance is reviving its fight against the trade deal , which would , in part , gradually phase out tariffs on shoes made in vietnam .
a loss of those tariffs , the company says , would make imports cheaper and jeopardize its factory jobs in new england.tariffs on shoes are steep , and new balance is one of a handful of shoe companies that still manufactures shoes in the united states .
( though , 75 percent of their shoes are made abroad .
) the company s leaders appear to disagree that the now-broken deal was underhanded .
there was no quid pro quo deal , rob demartini , ceo of new balance told wmtw .
we wanted to compete for a big piece of business that we are very confident we can win in .
matt lebretton , vp of public affairs for the company , tells the globe that : we swallowed the poison pill that is tpp so we could have a chance to bid on these contracts , we were assured this would be a top-down approach at the department of defense if we agreed to either support or remain neutral on tpp .
[ but ] the chances of the department of defense buying shoes that are made in the usa are slim to none while obama is president .
the fight comes as a result of a statutory requirement known as the berry amendment , which places restrictions on where the items used by members of the armed forces are manufactured .
new balance had hoped their u.s.-made shoes could put an end to the exemption for imported athletic shoes , which the dod has allowed in recent years .
via : weekly standard