dubai ( reuters ) - qatar s arab critics are targeting a new pressure point in their feud with doha - the tiny country s ruling family - permitting state-linked media outlets to portray two little-known qatari princes living abroad as distinguished statesmen .
the publicity , in which the two men are lauded by media in saudi arabia and the united arab emirates as talented decision-makers capable of solving the rift , is widely seen as a dig at the prestige of doha s current leadership .
despite saudi arabia and the uae insisting they do not seek regime change , the publicity appears aimed at upping pressure on doha , which they accuse of long meddling in their own domestic affairs .
saudi arabia , the uae , bahrain and egypt cut political and trade ties with qatar on june 5 , accusing it of supporting terrorism and their arch-foe iran - charges doha denies .
the two men hailing from a branch of the ruling al-thani family , silver-haired sheikh abdullah bin ali based in london but now living in riyadh , and his younger nephew sheikh sultan bin suhaim , now feature regularly on saudi and uae channels .
praising saudi king salman and his powerful son crown prince mohammed bin salman , they both called this week to convene a meeting of the qatari ruling family to discuss the crisis .
because of the government s current policy that allowed hateful and bitter people to infiltrate qatar and to spread their poison everywhere , we have now reached the abyss , sheikh sultan , based in paris , said in a statement carried by uae-based sky news arabia tv .
while the princes do not expressly present themselves as replacements to emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani , analysts believe their sudden prominence is designed to undermine him - an uphill task for men few qataris had heard of until recently .
for such a strategy to work , you need to find an alternative that already has a popular base , said jean-marc rickli , head of global risk and resilience at the geneva centre for security policy .
the move is eye-catching because it appears to test a gulf taboo : while many gulf ruling families , including the al-thani of qatar , have a record of palace intrigue , fellow dynasties in neighboring states rarely interfere in each other s internal family politics for fear of attracting intrusion in return .
the crisis has pressured qatar s economy , squeezing company revenues and forcing costly rerouting of trade and air transport that once ran easily through their neighbors skies and waters .
doha has responded by stepping up trade with turkey and iran , handing diplomatic gains to two countries with whom riyadh and its allies vie for regional influence .
qatar s refusal to accede to 13 demands , including that it shutter popular news channel al jazeera , downgrade ties with tehran and expel islamist leaders from doha , may have driven its adversaries to train their sights on the ruling family .
an environment where qatar becomes a permanent partner for iran and turkey would be viewed as highly problematic for the leadership in riyadh and abu dhabi , said ayham kamel of the eurasia group consultancy .
the arab quartet is still focused on pressuring qatar to concede on parts of the 13 demands , but qatari intransigence is encouraging these states to consider other options .