in our iconoclastic efforts to erase the past , we rob ourselves of knowing the men who forged our national identity , and the events that made us who we are .
jarrett stepmancrane is here at # tubman ( wyman ) dell park to remove the # jacksonandlee monument pic.twitter.com/ru8hqvyacb baltimore bloc ( @ bmorebloc ) august 16 , 2017one more city caves to the alt left update from baltimore : all 4 confederate statues were removed last night !
the big question coming out of all of this cleansing of our history is how can a city council just vote to remove our history ?
how is it that they get to decide this ? mob rule has taken over now they come for the police ?
now that we ve got rid of these white supremacist symbols , it s time to get rid of these white supremacist systems now that we ve got rid of these white supremacist symbols , it s time to get rid of these white supremacist systems pic.twitter.com/z8x247xwqg baltimore bloc ( @ bmorebloc ) august 16 , 2017the lost city of baltimore has already removed at least four confederate statues !
they voted to remove 4 and quietly removed them all early wednesday .
after the charlottesville riot , cities can t get these monuments down fast enough .
wouldn t want to take a stand , would they ? hurry !
remove our history before we re a target of the alt-left and blmthe baltimore city council voted unanimously ( cowards ! )
monday to remove four confederate monuments immediately .
the council recommended the maryland historical trust give permission for the removals.kentucky and boston momentum growsstatues in lexington , kentucky , are expected to be removed , while in durham , north carolina , a woman was arrested in the toppling of a confederate statue during a protest monday .
in new orleans , the final confederate statue in the city came down in may .
the memorials removed in baltimore were the roger b. taney monument and the robert e. lee and thomas .
j. jackson monument.mayor catherine pugh told the station that some of the monuments will be sent to confederate cemeteries.shame on this mayor !