london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may s attempts to keep her brexit plans secret provoked a new row on tuesday when lawmakers criticized her for failing to hand over complete studies on the economic impact of britain leaving the european union .
the government had promised to share more than 50 studies on how brexit would affect different economic sectors , but on monday it gave lawmakers a hard copy of a report running to around 850 pages with parts redacted because of what ministers called commercial and confidential information .
lawmakers hit back , saying the government was riding roughshod over a democratically elected parliament - the latest tug of war over who should have influence over talks that will shape britain s future standing in the world by unraveling more than 40 years of union with the bloc .
this is not a game .
this is the most important set of decisions that this country has taken for decades , keir starmer , brexit policy chief for the opposition labour party , told parliament .
in my experience the biggest mistakes are made when decisions are not scrutinized .
with much redacted , scotland s brexit minister michael russell said the report did not contain any actual impact analysis which could offer an insight into what may s government had concluded over the likely impact of leaving the eu s single market and customs union .
it is essential that people across the uk fully understand the consequences of decisions being taken about their future , he said in a letter sent to damian green , may s deputy , that was made public by the scottish government .
arguments that the economy would suffer if britain left the eu were rejected by many voters at last year s referendum when the country backed brexit .
but with the economy struggling with lower growth since the vote , some of those who argue that britain should reverse its decision or at least strive for a softer brexit that maintains close ties say knowledge of the impact could change minds .
the government has been reluctant to share its impact assessments , with may saying she has to play her cards close to her chest to win the best available deal with the eu .
earlier this month , parliament used an archaic rule to force the government to hand over 58 impact studies , which earlier brexit minister david davis had referred to as 57 studies ( that ) cover 85 percent of the economy - everything except sectors that are not affected by international trade .
late on monday , davis wrote to a parliamentary committee on brexit that the papers had been redacted because he had not been given guarantees that lawmakers would keep the details secret , possibly undermining britain s negotiating hand .
a junior minister for brexit , robin walker , told parliament the government had been as open as possible and had met the terms of parliament s demand despite lawmakers misunderstanding over what the analysis was .
it is not a series of 58 impact assessments , he said .
but the move to limit the information , labour and the scottish national party say , could place the government in contempt of parliament , which could lead to the suspension or expulsion of davis from the house of commons .
asked whether a charge of contempt could move forward , the parliamentary speaker , john bercow , said any attempt should take place after a meeting between davis and the head of parliament s brexit committee .