tokyo ( reuters ) - a fast-growing challenge by tokyo s governor , often floated as japan s first possible female premier , to shinzo abe s ruling bloc has highlighted the risk of his gamble on a snap poll as she tries to replicate a historic defeat of his party .
abe called the oct. 22 election in the hope his improved ratings and a struggling opposition would help his liberal democratic party-led coalition keep its majority in the lower house , where it now holds a two-thirds super majority .
but abe s bet now looks increasingly shaky , given growing support for yuriko koike s fledgling party of hope - launched this week - and the opposition democratic party s move to have its candidates leave the party and run on her ticket .
no general election needed to be held until late 2018 .
abe s decision has evoked comparison s to british prime minister theresa may s move to call a snap election in june , only to see her conservative party lose its overall majority , although analysts noted koike might have become an even bigger threat had abe waited .
abe thought the risk worth taking .
maybe he didn t anticipate what koike would do , said daniel sneider , a stanford university scholar currently doing research in japan .
the growing momentum of koike s party has also revived memories of a 1993 political drama when a coalition led by another reformist governor , morihiro hosokawa , ousted the ldp for the first time since its founding four decades earlier .
clearly , the historical parallels are weighing on abe s mind .
abe , koike and democratic party leader seiji maehara were elected to the lower house for the first time that year , koike and maehara from hosokawa s japan new party and abe from the ldp .
there was a new party boom in the 1990s and the result was political confusion and a long period of economic stagnation , abe said in a campaign speech on thursday .
hosokawa s fractious alliance fractured after less than one year .
abe also cited the 2009-12 rule of the democratic party , whose policy flip-flops and infighting many voters recall .
what would be born of a ( new party ) boom is confusion , not hope , abe said .
another key player in 1993 , ichiro ozawa , who bolted the ldp and helped engineer hosokawa s coalition as well as the democratic party s 2009 surge to power , is also playing a role now .
his tiny liberal party may also merge with koike s party .
like anti-ldp forces in 1993 and the democrats in 2009 , koike is promising to shed the shackles of vested interests - a slogan appealing to voters seeking an alternative to the ldp .
former prime minister junichiro koizumi - who mentored koike after she later joined the ldp - also skilfully painted the old guard in his own party as obstacles to reform in a 2005 election , winning a massive victory .
to succeed , however , koike may have to take a big gamble of her own by running in the election herself , risking a backlash for quitting as governor and ending up an opposition leader.koike , who compares herself to french president emmanuel macron and his meteoric rise , has repeatedly said she ll stay on as governor , but her carefully parsed comments have failed to dampen speculation .
ms. koike is saying she won t run , but ...
i think she will run , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters on friday , one day after abe called the lower house poll .
it would be great if she announced that boldly and debated policies head on , he added , in an apparent challenge .
despite koike s efforts to broaden her party base by absorbing many democratic party candidates , fielding a big enough slate to take a majority in the 465-member lower house could be tough .
candidates must register on oct. 10 .
she said on friday she won t accept all democrats who want to run on her ticket , and liberals will probably be left out .
even if koike , who defied the ldp to run for governor last year and whose local party trounced it in a july tokyo assembly election , decides not to run herself , her party s challenge can still weaken abe if the ldp fares badly .
if the ldp loses 40 seats or more , she looks good , said columbia university professor emeritus gerry curtis .