san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - hurricane maria , the second major storm to ravage the caribbean in a month , skirted past the turks and caicos islands on friday , leaving devastation in its wake that included fresh flooding on puerto rico two days after pummeling the u.s. island territory .
maria , which ranked as the most powerful hurricane to strike puerto rico in nearly a century , has killed at least six people there and claimed 19 lives on several other caribbean islands , according to government officials and local news media accounts .
but even as puerto ricans struggled without electricity to clean up and dig out from tangles of rubble , uprooted trees and fallen power lines , another potential disaster was unfolding in northwestern corner of the island , where a dam was on the verge of collapse .
the u.s. national weather service warned in a series of bulletins that the dam on the rain-engorged guajataca river , was failing , causing flash flooding in the area and prompting an evacuation of communities below the reservoir by way of buses .
roughly 70,000 people live in the area downstream from the earthen dam that was under evacuation , the island s governor , ricardo rossello , said in a late-afternoon news conference .
christina villalba , an official for the island s emergency management agency , said there was little doubt the dam would give way .
it could be tonight , it could be tomorrow , it could be in the next few days , but it s very likely it will be soon , she said , adding that authorities were aiming to complete evacuations friday night .
maria struck puerto rico as a category 4 storm on the five-step saffir-simpson scale and cut a path of destruction through the center of the island on wednesday , ripping roofs from buildings and triggering widespread flooding .
torrential downpours from the storm sent several rivers to record levels .
officials in puerto rico , an island of 3.4 million inhabitants , confirmed six storm-related fatalities : three from landslides in utuado , in the island s mountainous center ; two from drowning in toa baja , west of san juan , and a person near san juan who was struck by a piece of wind-blown lumber .
earlier news media reports had put the island s death toll as high as 15 .
we know of other potential fatalities through unofficial channels that we haven t been able to confirm , said hector pesquera , the government s secretary of public safety .
in and around san juan , the capital , people worked to clear debris from the streets on friday , some working with machetes , while others began to reopen businesses , though they wondered how long they could operate without power and limited inventory .
there s no water , no power , nothing , said rogelio jimenez , a 34-year-old pizzeria worker .
motorists lined up for hours outside the few gasoline stations that were open .
i ve been here for three and a bit hours , said angel serra , sitting in a blocks-long line hoping to fill up his tank .
long lines also formed at the handful of automated teller machines that appeared to be working in the region .
puerto rico was already facing the largest municipal debt crisis in u.s. history .
a team of judges overseeing its bankruptcy has advised involved parties to put legal proceedings on hold indefinitely as the island recovers , said a source familiar with the proceedings .
the storm was expected to tally $ 45 billion in damage and lost economic activity across the caribbean , with at least $ 30 billion of that in puerto rico , said chuck watson , a disaster modeler at enki research in savannah , georgia .
elsewhere in the caribbean , 14 deaths were reported on dominica , an island nation of 71,000 inhabitants .
two people were killed in the french territory of guadeloupe and one in the u.s. virgin islands .
two people died when the storm roared past the dominican republic on thursday , according to local media outlet el jaya .
maria churned past turks and caicos and was 295 miles ( 480 km ) east of the bahamas by 8 p.m. edt ( midnight gmt ) on friday , the nhc said .
it was packing sustained winds of up to 125 miles per hour ( 205 km per hour ) , making it a category 3 hurricane , but was expected to gradually weaken over the next two days as it turned more sharply to the north .
officials on turks and caicos , a british overseas territory , had ordered residents to remain indoors and businesses to close on friday as the hurricane neared , bringing a storm surge of as much as 12 feet ( 3.7 meters ) above normal tide levels .
but hurricane warnings were later canceled as maria passed .
storm swells driven by maria were expected to reach the southeastern coast of the u.s mainland on friday , the nhc said , adding that it was too soon to determine what , if any , other direct effects it would have .
in the dominican republic , maria damaged nearly 3,000 homes and sent more than 9,300 to shelters , local emergency response agencies reported .
maria passed close by the u.s. virgin island of st. croix , home to about 55,000 people , early wednesday , knocking out electricity and most mobile phone service .
maria hit about two weeks after hurricane irma pounded two other u.s. virgin islands : st. thomas and st. john .
the islands governor , kenneth mapp , said it was possible that st. thomas and st. croix might reopen to some cruise liner traffic in a month .
irma , one of the most powerful atlantic storms on record , killed more than 80 people in the caribbean and the united states .
it followed harvey , which also killed more than 80 people when it struck texas in late august and caused flooding in houston .
more than two months remain in the atlantic hurricane season , which runs from june 1 to nov. 30 , although the busiest period is generally from mid-august to mid-october .