colombo ( reuters ) - the united nations on wednesday raised concern for the safety of rohingya muslim asylum seekers in sri lanka after buddhist monks and hardline nationalists forced them to flee a u.n. shelter in the capital colombo .
the refugees , who were detained in april along with two suspected indian human traffickers in a boat off sri lanka s coast , are now in a camp in southern sri lanka to ensure their security after the incident in the capital .
in tuesday s incident , the sri lankan monks and nationalists stoned the shelter , prompting its 31 rohingya occupants - mainly women and children - to flee for their own safety , witnesses said .
no injuries were reported .
in a statement , the u.n. high commissioner for refugees said the incident was alarming , saying the refugees had been victims of violence and persecution in myanmar , from which some 422,000 rohingya have fled to nearby bangladesh over the past month .
unhcr emphasizes that ( the ) refugees ... need international protection and assistance .
unhcr urges the public and all those concerned with refugees to continue extending protection and to show empathy for civilians fleeing persecution and violence .
it said the rohingya had been staying in buddhist-majority sri lanka with the colombo government s approval and unhcr was providing assistance until longer-term solutions can be found .
president maithripala sirisena s government condemned the attack on the refugees as shameful and urged police to hunt down the perpetrators .
witnesses said the monks stormed into the safe house chanting , rohingyas are terrorists and accusing them of having killed buddhist monks in myanmar .
the rohingya group fled myanmar in 2012 and lived in india as refugees for nearly five years before trying to migrate illegally to sri lanka , a lawyer representing them told reuters .
tension between myanmar s majority buddhists and the rohingya , most of whom are denied citizenship , has exploded several times over the past few years as old enmities , and buddhist nationalism , surfaced with the end of decades of harsh military rule .
there has been an exodus of rohingya from myanmar s rakhine state since aug. 25 , when attacks by rohingya militants triggered a military crackdown that the united nations has branded ethnic cleansing .
the authorities in myanmar and bangladesh each see the stateless muslim minority as the other nation s problem .