senator jess sessions tough love talk may be exactly what the dyed-in-the-wool establishment republicans need to hear right now .
the support for trump is not going to go away , it s only going to get stronger as we watch the violent antics of the left who are desperate to take him down .
americans have been witnessing un-checked corruption and outright lawlessness that has taken place at the hands of mostly democrats in d.c. for decades .
the unwillingness of the republican leadership in washington to stop the march of socialism over the past eight years however , has hit us like a two-by-four between the eyes .
americans may or may not agree with everything trump says , but one thing is for certain , we are looking for someone who has the will to fight , and that person is donald j. trump .
whether paul ryan , mitt romney or john mccain jump on board is of little or no consequence to the republican voter who is 100 % fed up with the lot of them sen. jefferson beauregard sessions iii , donald trump s friendly but fierce alabama ally , has a message for republicans still queasy about their party s nominee : tide s about to roll over you .
sessions , a 69-year-old former state attorney general who famously donned the make america great again trucker s cap at a massive rally in mobile last august , thinks trump is more a movement than a man .
and this sprightly son of country preachers and teachers is on a mission to evangelize maybe-trumpers like house speaker paul ryan on the gospel according to donald with a sermon on self-preservation .
i think [ ryan ] needs to recognize , on some of these issues , trump is where the republicans are and if you re going to be a republican leader you should be supportive of that , sessions told me during a taping of politico s off message podcast in his senate office last week .
my advice is to listen and accept the will of the american people , the republican voters the republican party is the republican voters , he added a pointed reference to ryan s suggestion that he , and not the presumptive party nominee , represents authentic conservative values .
give me a break !
a lot of our drift within our party has gotten away from [ the will of the voters ] .
i think the leaders in all parties tend to adjust to reality .
they just have to or they won t remain in office .
already many are sensing it .
via : politico