yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s military on friday dropped charges against six journalists facing trial on offences ranging from defamation to unlawful association , saying it wanted to work with the media in the interests of the country and its people .
the legal action had sparked fears over curbs on free speech during myanmar s transition from decades of military rule , under a government led by nobel peace prize winner suu kyi , following a landmark 2015 election win .
the military decided to forgive and drop charges against the media in an effort to work together for the interest of the citizens and the country , it said in a statement .
the army had to take legal action because the coverage had disgraced the image , the dignity and the activity of the tatmadaw , it added , referring to the armed forces by their myanmar name .
charges were dropped against three reporters arrested in late june for covering an event organized by the ta ang national liberation army , an ethnic militia engaged in a stand-off with government troops .
they were charged under a colonial-era law against unlawful association , which rights watchers said has long been used by myanmar authorities to arbitrarily arrest and detain people .
it s injustice from the very beginning , pyae phone aung , one of the reporters arrested on june 26 in northeastern shan state , told reuters by telephone from the court where his trial was being held .
we journalists were just doing our work , but we were charged and spent more than 60 days in jail .
it was not immediately clear when the three journalists would be released .
charges were also dropped against three more reporters , whose articles critical of the military had attracted defamation charges on the basis of several laws , including a telecoms law that rights monitors say restricts free speech .
twenty journalists have been charged or arrested under the controversial law since suu kyi s government took power , the advocacy group research team for telecommunications law said.despite pressure from human rights groups and western diplomats , her government has retained the broadly worded law , and has not spoken out against the increasingly frequent arrests of reporters and activists .
the military retains control of the police , key ministries and a quarter of lawmakers seats .
the courts also still lack independence , some analysts say .