national harbor , md .
( reuters ) - a plan to block republican presidential candidate donald trump struggled to gain traction on friday as rival candidates rejected it , while democrats reveled in the chaos they hoped would boost their chances of keeping the white house .
the country ’ s top elected republican , house of representatives speaker paul ryan , said he was not interested in an effort to draft him into the white house race .
and u.s .
senator ted cruz , a conservative presidential hopeful , ruled out a deal to pick a compromise republican candidate at the party ’ s july convention , which senior party figures see as their best chance to stop the unpredictable billionaire .
“ the d.c. power brokers will drop someone in who is exactly to the liking of the establishment .
if that will happen we will have a manifold revolt in this country , ” cruz said at the conservative political action conference outside washington .
“ you want to beat donald trump , you beat donald trump with the voters , ” he said .
party leaders worry trump would not be able to beat democratic front-runner hillary clinton in the election , but time is running out after he won most of the states that voted in this week ’ s super tuesday .
senior republicans also fear trump ’ s plans to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border and ban muslims from entering the united states will turn off voters in november and upset u.s. allies .
others note his past support for liberal policies and question whether he has any agenda other than advancing himself .
“ i don ’ t think he actually carries the conservative mantle .
he ’ s a little too crass for me , ” said michele minter , a san diego executive assistant who was attending cpac .
trump , a former reality tv star , often plays by his own set of rules .
he canceled plans to speak at cpac , normally an essential stop for ambitious republicans , and will instead attend a rally in kansas .
the real estate magnate , who is drawing support from many blue-collar republicans concerned about illegal immigration and stagnant wages , has won most republican nominating contests and leads in many polls for the primary contests still to come .
“ i ’ m not a normal republican , ” he said to huge cheers at a rally in warren , michigan .
retired neurosurgeon ben carson , the only candidate to ever challenge trump ’ s months-long lead in opinion polls , officially ended his white house bid .
“ there are a lot of people who love me , they just won ’ t vote for me , ” carson said in a speech at cpac , held in national harbor , maryland .
a new group called the committee to draft speaker ryan filed papers with the federal election commission on thursday , seeking to raise money to push ryan as a republican alternative .
ryan , a budget wonk who was the republican vice presidential candidate in 2012 , is seen by many in the party as a unifier after he took the speaker ’ s job last year to unite establishment republican lawmakers and conservative upstarts in the house .
“ he is flattered , but not interested , ” ryan spokeswoman ashlee strong said in an email on friday .
as trump cements his front-runner status , senior party figures hope to deny him enough delegates to clinch the nomination , which would give them the chance to choose a compromise candidate at their convention in cleveland .
the last time that happened at a republican convention was in 1948 when thomas dewey was nominated .
republican national committee chairman reince priebus said there was an 85 to 90 percent chance that the party will not face that scenario this year .
mitt romney and john mccain , the party ’ s last two presidential nominees , called on republicans to halt trump ’ s rise by backing whichever candidate was strongest in their state , a form of tactical voting .
few elected officials are rallying behind the “ dump trump ” banner .
the party ’ s 31 state governors , for example , are not lining up behind an alternative .
only five have endorsed florida senator marco rubio and one has backed cruz , in a sharp contrast to previous years when governors overwhelmingly endorsed the party ’ s eventual nominee .
rubio has only one state so far and is gearing up for what could be a make-or-break contest in his home state on march 15 .
cruz said saturday he planned to open 10 campaign offices there , in what could be an effort to force the rival senator out of the race .
trump is expected to extend his lead on saturday , when a total of 155 delegates are at stake in kansas , louisiana , maine and kentucky .
democrats were happy to let republicans fight amongst themselves .
“ we can sit back and let them light their own dumpster fire and wait until they ’ re finished , ” said eddie vale , spokesman for american bridge , a clinton-allied group which collects negative research on republican candidates .
“ they ’ re giving us so much great video footage that we could run ads between now and november of nothing but republicans attacking trump , ” vale told reuters .
nationally , trump has the support of 41 percent of republican voters , compared to 19 percent who back cruz and 16 percent who back rubio , according to reuters/ipsos polling data .
( additional reporting by doina chiacu , emily stephenson , eric beech , and ginger gibson ; writing by andy sullivan ; editing by bill trott and alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .