laura loomer of rebel media and citizen journalist jack posobiac disrupted the central park performance of julius caesar or more accurately the trump assassination play last night .
at the point where julius caesar , ( who is intentionally made to look like president trump ) is about to be stabbed by a gang of minorities , loomer rushed the stage and admonished the cast and audience for promoting violence against our current president and against republicans in general.see video of rebel media s loomer rushing the stage here : only 3 days ago , an unhinged democrat opened fire on republican house members at a baseball practice for a charity game against democrats congressmen .
representative steve scalise ( r-la ) remains in critical condition .
doctors who were in attendance when the married father of 2 arrived at the hospital have now revealed that scalise was very near to death when he arrived .
democrats like george soros continue to fund violence against opposing voices , barack obama , former ag loretta lynch , hillary clinton and her running mate tim kaine have all advocated for action and/or violence against trump supporters .
liberal professors promote hate and disrespect for anyone with opposing political views and have made their classrooms a hostile environment for students who dare to speak up or speak out against their radical views .
hollywood has come unhinged , and there doesn t appear to a line they won t cross when it comes to promoting violence against americans who openly support president trump .
the left has shown themselves to be the largest collection of bullies and domestic terrorists this nation has ever seen.at about the 4:30 mark in the video , laura loomer , who is a fan of theater recites a shakespeare line , violent delights have violent ends .
she then looks into the camera and calls out hollywood and the left for the violence against trump supporters and republicans , just like shakespeare said ; if you re delighting in this violence , this normalized political violence against the right , it s going to have a violent end .
loomer goes on to point out how liberals like kathy griffin and the cnn network who glorify those who commit or threaten violence are responsible for this violent atmosphere , and that they re no better than isis .
loomer points out the comparisons between the actors on the central park stage who are gang stabbing president trump : i just couldn t help but think to myself : wow !
when you re holding a knife to someone s throat in the play , and joking about chopping someone s throats off , what makes you any better than isis ?
jack posobiac makes a very interesting point at about the gang stabbing of president trump : it was like a gang stabbing .
all the people stabbing him were minorities .
loomer agrees and goes a step further by suggesting the producers were racists because they chose all black actors to stab president trump.watch : citizen journalist and author of gorilla mindset , mike chernovich called on americans to join him in disrupting the trump assassination play 2 days ago : new york ! who wants to go watch the trump assassination play maybe use some `` free speech '' during the play ? https : //t.co/64wapvqjbt pic.twitter.com/7zdqcjnx7y mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) june 15 , 2017twitter followers of chernovich responded by suggesting they skip the ticket process and instead use the same techniques as leftist agitators , like whistles and drums or bongos and cowbells to disrupt the production .
chernovich is all about using the tactics of the left against them .
there has never been a better time to shut down the violent left in a non-violent way .
to stand back and allow a performance of our president being gang stabbed is about as horrible as it gets : if it 's in a park ca n't we just go to the park and bring our whistles and drums ralph butler ( @ secure1man ) june 15 , 2017bongos and cowbells for everyone deplorable snuzzlez ( @ snuzzlebabiez ) june 15 , 2017