lany , czech republic ( reuters ) - czech billionaire andrej babis , the runaway winner of last weekend s parliamentary election , said on monday he wanted to form a governing coalition with a stable partner , and a minority government was an unrealistic plan .
babis s search for government partners is running into trouble .
he faces fraud charges - which he denies - that have led other parties to rule out working with him , even though his ano party got 29.6 percent of the vote , nearly triple its closest competitor .
the anti-establishment party scored at polls with pledges to clean up corruption and bring a businessman s touch to governance , winning over voters who shunned mainstream parties .
babis s popularity has grown during his time in the current center-left government , which has been marked by fast economic growth , a balanced budget , falling unemployment and rising wages .
babis said after talks with president milos zeman at a presidential chateau on monday that the president would ask him next week to begin leading talks on forming a new cabinet .
traditionally , the president asks the leader of the winning party to lead talks before formally appointing a prime minister .
european commission president jean-claude juncker sent a congratulatory letter to babis , saying that the new government should keep in mind the european union s common values .
i wish you all the best for the challenge ahead in terms of forming a stable government that will be able to position the czech republic as an important participant in the efforts to make the european union more united , stronger and more democratic on the basis of our common values , he said .
babis told reporters he preferred having as few parties as possible in the next government .
a single-color government is not realistic ... we want to negotiate a coalition government , babis told reporters .
we of course prefer a stable partner in government for the whole term .
ano will control 78 seats in the 200-member lower house .
babis said a link with the election runner-up , the center-right civic democrat party , made sense based on seats in the lower house - together , the two would have a majority .
the party , though , has so far refused to cooperate .
in other options , more partners would be needed .
babis s current partners , the leftist social democrats of prime minister bohuslav sobotka and the centrist christian democrats , have rejected a government with ano unless it pledges babis will not be part of it .
babis said he did not want a government that would include communists and the anti-eu , anti-immigration spd party , which made surprisingly a strong showing in the election .
his position against a minority government also seemed to rule out seeking their support in a less formal arrangement .
police are looking at whether babis , the country s second richest person , hid ownership of a convention center to receive a 2 million-euro eu subsidy in 2008 .
he has said the investigation was part of efforts to kick him out of politics .
opponents see babis , worth an estimated $ 4 billion , as a danger to democracy , fearing his business and media power could pose conflicts of interest .