madrid ( reuters ) - finding a fix for spain s youth unemployment crisis was never going to happen overnight .
but spain took so long to jump on some of the help sent its way - namely a jobs scheme bankrolled by europe - it risks not fully using a golden opportunity to help youngsters scarred by a deep recession , politicians , unions and jobseekers say .
with nearly 40 percent of under-25s still out of work , youth unemployment remains the biggest blot on four years of economic recovery that have earned spain a spot as one of the euro zone s star performers .
yet a slow start to a european union youth jobs and training program has left spain racing to spend 1.9 billion euros ( $ 2.24 billion ) of eu funds as deadlines to use them up near , three years after the financing was first allocated .
the sudden splurge has sparked accusations that the money is being wasted on ill-considered training courses and on job-seeker grants that may not induce firms to hire extra staff .
madrid even wants to use the funds as a form of salary top-up for poorly paid youths , though brussels has questioned whether it complied with program guidelines and requested tweaks .
spain now appears on track to spend its allocation , but there remains a risk that brussels will not reimburse all of it .
to claim back funds from the eu , it is not enough for madrid to just disburse cash ; it must also show that courses and job placements have been completed by year-end deadlines .
madrid is confident that risk can be avoided , but some job-seekers and opposition politicians say the pace of spending in the meantime is becoming reckless and wasteful .
spain s labour ministry declined to comment for this story .
this has turned into something where the ( eu ) funds have to be spent come what may , without really looking at whether ... the measures are effective , said rocio de frutos , a former labor inspector and lawmaker for the socialists , the main opposition to prime minister mariano rajoy s people s party .
environmental studies graduate ricardo , 25 , said the only courses available under the eu-backed program in his town of segovia , in central spain , were those he didn t need , like learning english , or were too basic , he said .
but he did several anyway to keep himself occupied .
it was completely useless .
after going through this i just think this whole thing is a band-aid for a system that is completely sick , said ricardo , who declined to give his full name .
spain s approach to the eu scheme has also exposed broader structural flaws , critics say : a labor framework that is complicated to navigate , hampered by red tape and which offers little by way of tailored training or advice for job-seekers .
the stakes for spain are high .
amid fears that a lost generation will remain locked out of the labor market even as a financial and property crisis fade , anger has turned against politicians , in an echo of other countries stricken by high employment such as greece .
spain was the biggest beneficiary of the eu s youth guarantee scheme , which eu leaders agreed on in 2013 and which was initially backed by 6.4 billion euros in funds to get young people into work .
a reuters review of spending data found spain only distributed a tenth of its 1.9 billion euros allocation for the first 18 months , partly because it struggled to attract suitable recipients and to publicize the scheme through layers of national and regional government .
the big spending push began in mid-2016 , putting spain on course to meet terms set by the eu to use up just over 1 billion euros of that allocation by end-2017 .
but it must spend and account for the remaining 900 million euros by end-2018 .
stumbling blocks at a european level are partly to blame for delays to the scheme .
states were supposed to give out their money first and then bill the eu - a tall order when spain was under huge european pressure to slash its public deficit .
spain did not present a single youth guarantee bill to the eu between 2014 and 2015 , while france , portugal and italy had already begun doing so .
a source at the ministry said that almost a year of political paralysis in 2016 , following two inconclusive elections , had hindered any attempt to amend the youth guarantee scheme earlier because the government did not have full powers .
a european commission official said spain had made a slow start but the program was now going well there .
we see that joint efforts delivering the youth guarantee are now bearing fruit , the official said .
some of the scheme s users also praise its benefits .
but early hiccups mean some potential jobs never materialized at a critical time , just as spain was emerging from recession .
for a graphic on spanish youth unemployment , click : here