geneva ( reuters ) - a european and african deal to stem the flow of migrants coming through libya to europe fails to tackle the abuses they face , the top u.n. human rights official wrote on friday .
the 28-nation european union has long struggled to reach a coherent answer to the influx of migrants fleeing war , poverty and political upheaval in the middle east and africa , and the crisis is testing cooperation between member states .
on aug. 28 , the leaders of france , germany , italy , spain , chad , niger and libya agreed a plan to tackle illegal human trafficking and support nations struggling to contain the flow of people across the desert and mediterranean sea .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein said it was significant that the agreement they struck in paris recognized that a comprehensive response was needed .
but it is very thin on the protection of the human rights of migrants inside libya and on the boats , and silent on the urgent need for alternatives to the arbitrary detention of vulnerable people , he wrote in an article published by the united nations .
zeid s office published a report last december on abuses faced by migrants in detention centres in libya , but memories are short when facts are inconvenient , he wrote .
since then the situation had worsened , with far too many allegations to verify and reports of bodies in the desert , in the forest , on the beaches .
libya s morgues were overflowing , he said .
apart from the families awaiting word from missing relatives , hardly anybody seemed to care , zeid wrote .
the eu faces a moral and legal dilemma because it relies on cooperation with libyan coastguards and plays down their abuses , which include shooting at aid workers trying to rescue migrants , zeid said .
a coastguard that sometimes rescues migrants in distress but sometimes chooses not to .
like the militias onshore , coastguards also sometimes beat , rob and even shoot the migrants they intercept , he said .
zeid said he agreed with a letter to european leaders from joanne liu , the head of medecins sans frontieres , a charity that has sent aid workers to rescue migrants .
the letter , entitled european governments are feeding the business of suffering , asked : is allowing people to be pushed into rape , torture and slavery via criminal pay-offs a price european governments are willing to pay ?
i fully support her analysis , and share her disgust at this situation , zeid wrote .