washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump said he would impose taxes on carrier air conditioning units manufactured in mexico in light of the company ’ s decision to move production from indiana , a position in line with his strong opposition to international trade deals .
video of the company ’ s announcement last week to employees went viral on the internet , showing emotional reactions to the loss of jobs while a representative of the company explained the move was “ strictly a business decision. ” carrier , a manufacturer of air conditioning units , is owned by united technologies corp and announced it would be moving 1,400 jobs to monterrey , mexico .
during saturday night ’ s republican debate , trump said if he were president , he would approach carrier officials and give them two choices .
“ i ’ m going to tell them , ‘ now i ’ m going to get consensus from congress and we ’ re going to tax you , ’ ” trump said .
“ ‘ so stay where you are [ in mexico ] or build in the united states. ’ because we are killing ourselves with trade pacts that are no good for us and no good for our workers. ” a central part of trump ’ s campaign message has been his opposition to international trade pacts that allow products manufactured overseas to be imported with limited or no tariffs .
it ’ s a policy position that reverberates with middle- and low- income americans , who have watched manufacturing jobs leave the country in the last several decades .
trump cited the video of the workers , which has more than 2.8 million views on youtube , at the debate .
“ if you saw the people , because they have a video of the announcement that carrier is moving to mexico , they were laid off , ” he said .
“ they were crying .
it was a very sad situation. ” ( reporting by ginger gibson ; editing by bill trott ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .