paris ( reuters ) - french counter-terrorism investigators questioned five people on tuesday after police over the weekend found what appeared to be a ready-to-detonate bomb at an apartment building in one of paris s poshest neighborhoods .
interior minister gerard collomb said one of those arrested was on an intelligence services list of radicalized persons - a list that includes the names of potential islamist militants .
we are still in a state of war , collomb , speaking after a sunday attack in which a man stabbed and killed two women outside the train station in marseille , told france inter radio .
judicial sources said the explosive device included two gas canisters inside the building in the affluent 16th district of western paris and two outside , some of them doused with petrol and wired to connect to a mobile phone .
more than 230 people have been killed in attacks by islamist militants in france over the past three years .
the islamic state militant group , whose bases in syria and iraq are being bombed by french war planes , has urged followers to attack france .
most of those killed died when islamist gunmen and suicide bombers targeted paris in 2015 , and when a man drove a large truck into crowds in the riviera resort of nice in 2016 .
since then , there has been a string of attacks perpetrated by lone assailants , often targeting police or soldiers .
the threat is changing form , said collomb .
a counter-terrorism investigation is also under way after the attack on sunday , when a man slit the throat of one of his victims and killed her cousin before being shot dead by soldiers in the southern port city .
tunisian authorities have identified the attacker as ahmed hanachi , collomb told parliament .
he lived in france from 2005 to 2006 and was known to police under several alias for petty crimes , but had not previously caught the attention of french intelligence agencies .
hanachi was arrested in the city of lyon on friday on suspicion of theft .
he was carrying a tunisian passport and released 24 hours later , a day before committing the attack .
all these years , he used multiple identities in france as well as in italy , declaring himself to be moroccan , algerian , tunisian , collomb said .
france declared a state of emergency in late 2015 after the paris attack , giving police special search and arrest powers to combat would-be terrorists .
lawmakers will vote later on tuesday on a bill to convert many of those emergency measures into common law .