nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s opposition leader raila odinga decided not to stand in next week s presidential election to avoid defeat rather than for reasons of principle , the deputy president said on tuesday .
odinga was due to face president uhuru kenyatta on oct. 26 in a repeat of a presidential vote held in august but he withdrew his candidacy , saying the electoral commission had failed to institute reforms to guarantee fairness .
kenyatta won the aug. 8 election by 1.4 million votes .
the supreme court annulled the election citing procedural irregularities and ordered that it be held again .
odinga is running away from a humiliating defeat , deputy president william ruto told journalists .
he has to find this excuse and that excuse and the other excuse to try and justify his exit .
he said the government wants odinga to run but could not force him .
legitimacy is a matter that concerns us and it concerns us because we believe in a democracy , he said .
the ruling party is confident kenyatta can win and secure a second and final four-year term in office , ruto said , citing their majority in parliament and regional governorships .
political turmoil connected to the elections has hurt kenya s economy .
the country has east africa s richest economy and is a stable western ally in a tumultuous region .
odinga says the election board has failed to meet conditions to guarantee fairness , including firing key personnel he blamed for mistakes during the last poll .
ruto said the board could agree to odinga s demands as long as the election went ahead .
on sunday , the board ran adverts in national newspapers showing which demands it had agreed to and why others were rejected .
it has agreed to more than half of opposition demands and says it can not agree to others due to time constraints .
odinga has called for daily protests to force the reforms .
his supporters have defied a ban by authorities on protests in the center of nairobi , as well as in the port city of mombasa and the western city of kisumu , which is odinga s stronghold .
on tuesday odinga blamed police and ruling party supporters for disrupting a planned rally in central kenya and told reporters that he was planning to travel around the country to direct protests in the coming days .
we as nasa are very clear about what we want .
we said we don t want to go for an election without proper reforms .
we don t want to escort jubilee to the altar , he said .
if jubilee wants , to have a proper contest , they will have it .
ruto said the protests were an attempt to create crisis and encourage international mediation that might lead to a power-sharing government , as happened in the wake of civil disturbances after an election in 2007 in which hundreds died .
amnesty international and human rights watch said on monday at least 33 people were killed in nairobi during a police crackdown on opposition supporters after the august vote .
the police said the report was based on falsehoods .
[ l8n1mr39l ] the opposition said in a statement it was disturbed by the death on monday of a high school student in the western city of kisumu , odinga s stronghold .
the security forces were trying to subdue people seeking a fair election , it said .
local police said a young man was killed by a bullet in unclear circumstances .
also in kisumu , a two-year-old girl was hospitalized on monday and had a bullet removed from her neck , doctors at the city s main hospital said .
the girl was playing outside her home when she was struck with a stray bullet , her mother lydia kageha told reuters .
she said she could hear teargas canisters and gunshots in a nearby neighborhood where police and protesters had clashed .
police said they were investigating .
a police spokesman said election board officials were attacked by hooligans in several towns in western kenya on tuesday and warned against interference with the board s work .