remember the report that came out after hillary left her position as secretary of state ?
there was missing money $ 6 billion couldn t be accounted for .
how does $ 6 billion just vanish ?
it seems like this is the usual thing with the clintons .
the clinton global foundation also was missing money .
yes , a whopping $ 17 million went missing !
i think we have a couple of arkansas grifters on our hands since bill and hillary clinton left the white house in 2001 , they have earned more than $ 230 million .
but in federal filings the clintons claim they are worth somewhere between $ 11 million and $ 53 million .
after layering years of disclosures on top of annual tax returns , forbes estimates their combined net worth at $ 45 million .
where did all of the money go ?
no one seems to know , and the clintons aren t offering any answers.from 2001 to 2014 the power couple spent $ 95 million on taxes .
hillary s 2008 presidential run cost her $ 13 million .
their two homes cost a combined $ 5 million , and the clintons have given away $ 22 million to charity .
all of this is according to fec filings , property records and years of tax returns .
add it up and you get $ 135 million .
if the clintons made $ 230 million , spent $ 135 million and have just $ 45 million left over , what happened to the other $ 50 million ?
that s kind of strange , says joe biden s accountant , walter deyhle .
you have to report all of your assets .
you have to report assets that are owned by your spouse .
it seems unlikely that the clintons could have spent all of it .
over 14 years $ 50 million averages out to $ 3.6 million in extra expenses per year , or $ 9,800 per day .
read the rest : forbes explores some possible explanations for the missing money but dares not touch on one likely possibility that when you re running a criminal enterprise the size and scope of the clinton foundation , there are many , many people whose silence must be bought , and such folks don t come cheap.it s also possible that bill s sexual shenanigans have resulted in out-of-court settlements in exchange for confidentiality agreements.and of course , political influence can be a two way street .
while we assume that foreign entities have paid vast sums to the clintons in exchange for favors , the clintons themselves may have had to shell out money in exchange for access .
read more : blur brain