this cop killer was a hateful , racist sub-human .
he not only hated white people and cops , he bragged about it .
the scary thing is , much like isis , who has no trouble recruiting people with hate in their hearts , there are no shortage of people to carry out obama s war on cops in america .
these are terrorists and our very own president has inspired these people to act on their hate for whites , for cops and for america .
this , is obama s real legacy the 29 year old ex-marine , gavin eugene long , who ambushed and killed three unsuspecting baton rouge police officers on sunday morning , hated those who did not share his skin-tone and harbored a particular hatred for the police .
as revealed in the hours after the shootings , a youtube account operated by long under the handle i am cosmo where the alleged killer posted dozens of clips , provides insight into what motivated the young man to kill three police officers and wound three more on his 29th birthday.in the youtube videos , long rants against crackers , and makes multiple references to the july 5th killing of alton sterling at the hands of police officers only five miles away from sunday s attack .
the videos also detail that long is a member of the nation of islam , labelled a hate group by the southern poverty law center for its black supremacist and racist views towards jews , asians , and whites which the group s leaders argue have sucked the blood from and exploited the black community.as daily caller details , the 29-year-old was a native of kansas city , missouri and was honorably discharged from the marines in 2010 after reaching the rank of e-5 .
he preferred to go by the name cosmo ausar setepenra rather than gavin eugene long.in a video published on thursday , the racist shooter says that if i would have been there with alton clap before promoting a book that he wrote that discusses black liberation ideology .
i wrote it for my dark-skinned brothers , said long .
if you look at all the rebels like black panthers , huey p. newton , malcolm x , and elijah muhammad , they was light-skinned .
but we know how hard y all got it .
https : //youtu.be/kguuq6euofwthe assailant also suggested that the black community should buy only from black-owned businesses rather than working for the white people .
in one video long is heard lamented working for the white people .
he encouraged one man riding in his vehicle as he filmed using a body camera to shop only at black-owned businesses .
he brought up a hypothetical scenario in which a family member who wanted to buy carpet was forced to buy from non-black business owners saying who s she going to f with ?
the cracker , the arab , the chinese ?
these arabs , these indians , they don t give two fucks about us , said the shooter.come to think of it , he may have a point .
via : zero hedgethis loser has his own youtube channel .
if you care to stomach has cancer-like rhetoric , you can find his channel here .