washington ( reuters ) - a senior u.s. lawmaker expressed a new willingness to support legislation establishing ground rules for when technology firms should grant authorities access to their products , after apple inc ( aapl.o ) said it would fight a court order to unlock an iphone linked to the san bernardino shooting rampage .
representative adam schiff , the top democrat on the u.s. house of representatives ’ intelligence committee , said in a statement on wednesday that the “ complex issues ” raised by the apple case , as well as the prevalence of strongly encrypted devices and communications , “ will ultimately need to be resolved by congress , the administration and industry , rather than the courts alone. ” two weeks ago , schiff told reporters he considered a legislative approach to the issue neither “ feasible or even desirable. ” on tuesday , a federal judge in los angeles said that apple must provide “ reasonable technical assistance ” to investigators seeking to unlock the data on an iphone that had been used by san bernardino shooter rizwan farook , who , with his wife , killed 14 people on dec. 2 .
apple said it would fight the court order , which it said would set a dangerous precedent that could ultimately undermine the security of its iphones .
while lawmakers are far from a consensus on the issue , schiff said , “ the court ’ s decision will likely accelerate our consideration of how to weigh the competing privacy , security and competitiveness issues. ” schiff ’ s pivot could signal renewed interest from lawmakers in an encryption debate that so far has found little traction in congress .
the house judiciary committee is planning to hold a hearing on encryption on march 1 and has invited apple to attend , according to a congressional source .
senators richard burr and dianne feinstein , the republican and democratic leaders of the senate intelligence panel respectively , have said they want to pursue encryption legislation , though neither has introduced a bill yet .
the wall street journal , citing anonymous sources , reported on thursday that burr was working on a proposal that would levy “ criminal penalties ” on companies that did not comply with court orders to decrypt communications , though it said negotiations were still fluid .
however , burr ’ s spokeswoman becca watkins told reuters he “ is not considering criminal penalties in his draft encryption proposals. ” momentum for a law that would require companies to provide government access to the contents of encrypted devices relevant to a criminal investigation faltered last summer when the white house stopped pushing for a bill amid intense opposition from technology companies and privacy advocates .
it is difficult to gauge the apple case ’ s impact on congress , as both the senate and house of representatives are on recess this week .
but congressional aides say any encryption legislation likely still faces a steep climb .
that is especially true in the house , which in 2014 passed an amendment to a defense funding bill that would have barred the government from forcing an organization to build a technical “ backdoor ” into its products .
the measure was later removed during negotiations .
federal officials have privately dismissed a theory that the apple case was choreographed to stir up support for encryption legislation .
but cindy cohn , executive director of the electronic frontier foundation , a digital rights group , said she believed the u.s. justice department is pursuing the case in california with one eye on congress .
“ it ’ s a win-win for them , ” she said .
“ if they prevail in court , they don ’ t need a law .
and if they lose , they have it set up to go to lawmakers and say : this is what we need , the courts didn ’ t give it to us , so we need a new law . ”