tampa , fla. ( reuters ) - the freeing of a kidnapped u.s.-canadian couple and their three children in pakistan is a positive sign and a recognition of how seriously islamabad takes the protection of american citizens , a senior u.s. military official said on thursday .
we are very appreciative for the efforts of the pakistani military in helping effect the securing of our american hostages that have been held there , and a canadian citizen , for quite some time , said general joseph votel .
as head of u.s. central command , votel oversees u.s. forces in the middle east and south asia , including afghanistan .
it is a positive sign that they ( recognized ) the importance , they ( recognized ) the opportunity , they acted quickly and very responsibly to get control of these persons and begin to effect their return , votel told reporters .
he added that he had spoken with pakistan s chief of army staff on wednesday .
american caitlan coleman and her canadian husband , joshua boyle , along with their children born in captivity , were freed nearly five years after the couple was abducted in neighboring afghanistan by the taliban-allied haqqani network , which the united states has long accused pakistan of failing to fight .
in recent days , senior u.s. officials have been more pointed about islamabad s alleged ties to militant groups , who are battling against u.s. and u.s.-backed forces in the 16-year-old war in neighboring afghanistan .
when asked what more pakistan should do to fight militancy , votel said he would keep conversations with his pakistani counterparts private , but added that the freeing of the hostages was an example of the pakistanis paying attention to something important to the united states .
votel said peace talks with the taliban in afghanistan were possible to bring an end to the war .
our focus is to put military pressure on the taliban to make that a viable option for them , that they need to come to the table , he said .
representatives of afghanistan , china , pakistan and the united states will meet in oman next week to discuss reviving peace talks with afghan taliban militants .
it was not clear if afghan taliban representatives would join the talks .
taliban sources said they had not yet received an invitation and planned to skip monday s discussions in muscat , casting doubt on efforts to revive long-stalled negotiations .
the taliban , ousted in a u.s.-led military intervention in 2001 , has been gaining territory in recent years as it wages an insurgency to try to topple afghanistan s western-backed government and re-establish a fundamentalist islamic regime .
votel also said he was optimistic about the progress being made in afghanistan and u.s. forces were already able to embed with their afghan counterparts at a lower level than before , bringing them closer to the front lines .
officials have told reuters that the united states will send 3,500 additional troops to afghanistan , a boost that would the total number of u.s. troops in afghanistan to about 14,500 .