beijing ( reuters ) - a chinese corruption suspect who was on the country s list of 100 most wanted overseas fugitives has returned to china from the united states after giving himself up , the anti-graft watchdog said on monday .
xu xuewei , who ran a technology company in the eastern chinese province of jiangsu , fled to the united states in late 2012 after being suspected of contract fraud , according to the central commission for discipline inspection .
xu returned to china to give himself up under the influence of policy and legal deterrence , the commission said , without elaborating .
it was not immediately possible to reach xu , his family , or a legal representative for comment .
separately , the commission played a short interview with another corruption suspect , former beijing driving school headmaster liu changkai , who turned himself in last month and had been on the run in the united states since 1999 having been wanted for fraud .
against a background of downbeat music , liu described his loneliness at having had to live on the lam .
living overseas wasn t too difficult , but it was very lonely .
it was like being in jail , liu said .
it was also not possible to reach liu or a representative for comment .
as part of president xi jinping s vigorous anti-corruption campaign , china has pursued an overseas search dubbed operation fox hunt for corrupt officials and business executives who have fled abroad with their assets .
in april 2015 , chinese authorities published a list of 100 most-wanted suspects it believes to be hiding overseas , many living in the united states , canada and australia .
xu is the 46th person on the list to have returned to china since the operation was launched , the commission said in a statement on its website .
liu was the 19th person on the list .
many western countries , however , have been reluctant to help , or to sign extradition treaties , unwilling to send people back to a country where rights groups say mistreatment of criminal suspects remains a problem .
they also complain china is often unwilling to provide proof of the crimes that would be acceptable to a western court .