des moines , iowa/washington ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidates gave a cool reception on sunday to former new york mayor michael bloomberg ’ s potential independent white house run , with bernie sanders saying it would add another billionaire like republican donald trump to the race .
with eight days to go until iowa holds the first nominating contest on the road to the nov. 8 presidential election , republican senator marco rubio basked in the glow of an endorsement from the des moines register , the state ’ s biggest newspaper .
the weekend disclosure from a source close to the situation that bloomberg is laying the groundwork for a run that he could launch should democratic front-runner hillary clinton falter , sent shock waves rippling through the entire presidential field .
sanders , a democratic socialist and vermont senator who is threatening clinton in iowa and new hampshire , told abc ’ s “ this week ” program that bloomberg ’ s entry would add a second billionaire to the field .
trump , a real estate mogul , is leading the crowded republican field .
sanders has railed against “ millionaires and billionaires ” and the political power they wield throughout his insurgent campaign for the democratic nomination .
“ that is not what , to my view , american democracy is supposed to be about , a contest between billionaires .
if that takes place , i am confident that we will win it , ” sanders said .
many analysts believe a bloomberg entry into the race could siphon democratic votes and be another blow to clinton , a former secretary of state and the wife of former president bill clinton .
an independent bid would be a heavy lift for bloomberg .
the last major third-party candidate , ross perot , won 18.9 percent of the vote in 1992 , which some observers believe enabled bill clinton to defeat president george h.w .
bush .
hillary clinton , who won the register ’ s endorsement on the democratic side on saturday , said she expected to negate bloomberg ’ s rationale for running .
“ he ’ s a good friend of mine and i am going to do the best i can that i get the nomination and we ’ ll go from there , ” she told nbc ’ s “ meet the press. ” “ the way i read what he said is that if i didn ’ t get the nomination , he would do it .
...
i will relieve him of that , ” she said .
bloomberg , 73 , a media magnate who has long privately flirted with the idea of a presidential run , served as mayor of new york from 2002 to 2013 .
he switched his party affiliation from republican to independent in 2007 and has spent millions in recent years on national campaigns to tighten u.s. gun laws and reform immigration .
trump noted that he and bloomberg had differences on the issues of gun control and abortion and that he would love to run against him .
bloomberg favors preserving a woman ’ s right to an abortion .
“ i know michael very well and would love to compete with him .
he is very opposite from me on guns and pro-life .
...
i would love to have michael get in the race , ” trump told cnn .
former florida governor jeb bush told the abc program that bloomberg had been a “ great mayor , ” who was unlikely to get into the race unless trump and sanders were the parties ’ nominees .
“ but that ’ s way off into the future , ” bush said .
rubio , at a town hall meeting in marion , iowa , brought up bloomberg ’ s attempts for more gun control .
he said he had been asked in a television interview to comment on bloomberg ’ s potential candidacy .
“ i said he ’ s not a candidate .
if he gets in , we ’ ll talk about his record and his hatred for the second amendment , ” rubio said , referring to the constitutional amendment granting americans the right to bear arms .
bloomberg ’ s news service competes with reuters .
( additional reporting by julia edwards in washington ; editing by paul simao and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .