paris ( reuters ) - french prime minister edouard philippe has shrugged off nationwide protests against planned reforms to france s strict labor regulations , saying on wednesday he was listening but would nonetheless press ahead with the bill .
in a sign that popular protest could gain momentum , truck drivers belonging to france s second and third largest unions said they would launch a rolling strike on sept 25 to force the government into a reversal .
trucker strikes previously brought large parts of france to a halt , hurting the economy .
more than 200,000 trade unionists turned out on tuesday for the first mass protests against the labor market reforms on tuesday , part of a series of measures on macron s agenda for change .
others , including reform to the unemployment benefits and pension systems , are likely to be even more contested .
the government plans to adopt the decrees on sept. 22 .
i am listening and i am paying attention .
but let me state that the french , when they vote , also have a right to be treated with respect , philippe told france 2 television .
and the reform that we are putting in place was announced by the president at the time of his election .
labor unions have thwarted previous attempts by governments on the political right and left to weaken france s strict labor code .
in a change of tack , macron s administration spent weeks negotiating its proposals with union bosses over the summer .
last month , the government set out measures including a cap on payouts for dismissals judged unfair and greater freedom for companies to hire and fire .
the reform makes no direct reference to the 35-hour week , a totem of the labor code , though it hands firms more flexibility to set pay and working conditions .
macron , a 39-year-old former banker , inadvertently fueled worker anger when he declared on a trip to athens that he would cede no ground to slackers , cynics and hardliners .
the elysee palace said his comments were aimed at political leaders who had shirked ambitious reform in the past , but union leaders and political opponents on the left accused him of treating workers with contempt .
protesters in cities across france hit back too .
in paris some carried placards reading slacker on strike while in bordeaux demonstrators chanted : macron you re screwed , the slackers are in the streets .
jerome verite , secretary general of the cgt union s transport federation on wednesday told reuters the truckers strike would last as long as necessary .
we re headed for a social disaster .
we want the government to reverse course on its decrees , he said .