this is not supposed to be a danger to the general population but raises lots of questions about security when dealing with anthrax .
the pentagon revealed wednesday that live anthrax was shipped , apparently by accident , from a lab in utah to as many as nine states.pentagon spokesman col. steve warren assured there is no known risk to the general public and said an investigation is under way .
but precautions are being taken for potentially exposed workers in labs where the samples were sent .
a u.s. official told fox news that four people in three companies are being treated for post-exposure and being prescribed prophylaxis.all samples are in the process of being collected by the centers for disease control and prevention.the material in question was prepared at dugway proving ground , utah , as part of what was described as a routine research process .
it was then sent out to defense department and commercial labs in nine states the shipments were supposed to include only inactive , or dead , anthrax when they were transferred .
these were supposed to be dead spores anthrax , called ag-1 , a defense official said.but a private lab in maryland , on may 22 , informed the cdc that they thought the samples contained live anthrax .
the cdc then informed the defense department .
according to the associated press , the government has confirmed the maryland lab got live spores , and it is suspected the others did as well , though not yet confirmed.fox news also was told that one sample was sent to a south korean base .
the department of defense is collaborating with the centers for disease control and prevention in their investigation of the inadvertent transfer of samples containing live bacillus anthracis , also known as anthrax , from a dod lab in dugway utah , to labs in nine states , warren said in a statement .
there is no known risk to the general public , and there are no suspected or confirmed cases of anthrax infection in potentially exposed lab workers , he added .
the dod lab was working as part of a dod effort to develop a field-based test to identify biological threats in the environment .