( reuters ) - qatar s foreign minister suggested on tuesday that measures taken by saudi arabia and three other arab states in their dispute with qatar had hurt the u.s.-led fight against islamic state , according to the text of an interview with cnbc .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar in june , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is also home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the four countries have said that qatar supports regional foe iran and islamists , charges doha s leaders have denied .
all countries involved in the dispute are u.s. allies asked if the fight against islamic state had suffered because of the crisis , qatari foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al-thani said , definitely yes , according to the cnbc international transcript .
he said most of qatar s food and medicine supplies , some of which would go to the u.s. al udeid air base , normally came via its land border that is now blocked by its bigger neighbor .
the airspace blockade meant that qatari aircraft providing logistical support for the base could only fly north from qatar toward iran , the minister said , and qatari officers participating in u.s.-led activities against islamic state or working with bahrain-based u.s. fifth fleet were expelled .
so there are a lot of things which undermine ... the global efforts in countering ... daesh , sheikh mohammed said , referring to islamic state by an arabic acronym .
the minister said his country sought to resolve the crisis through dialogue , but saudi arabia wanted to destabilize qatar .
they are into escalation , they are into thinking about regime change and other things , sheikh mohammed said .
saudi arabia and the uae have denied seeking to depose qatar s government .
kuwait has been trying to resolve the dispute among its fellow arab countries and u.s. president donald trump has also said he would be willing to mediate .