moscow ( reuters ) - opposition leader alexei navalny announced on wednesday a series of rallies across russia in january to press home his call for a boycott of next year s presidential election , a move likely to draw a sharp response from the kremlin and police .
navalny unveiled his plan hours after president vladimir putin , who polls suggest is a shoo-in for re-election , registered his candidacy at the central election commission ahead of the march 18 vote .
the commission ruled on monday that navalny was not eligible to run against putin due to a suspended prison sentence .
a furious navalny , who says the sentence was part of a fabricated case designed to thwart his political ambitions , responded by calling for an election boycott .
that prompted the kremlin to demand an investigation to determine whether his statement broke the law .
on wednesday , navalny upped the ante , saying he and his supporters would organize nationwide rallies on jan. 28 in 85 towns and cities , including moscow and st petersburg , to support his call for an election boycott .
we refuse to call the reappointment of putin an election , navalny said in a statement on his website .
we are not going to vote and will convince everyone around us not to vote .
we are going to campaign ( for a boycott ) with all our might .
a boycott could pose a problem for the kremlin which is keen to ensure a high turnout in the election to help confer legitimacy on putin s expected victory amid some signs of apathy among voters .
under russian law , the time and place of rallies must be agreed with the authorities who have often declined to authorize them in the past , citing conflicting events or security concerns .
when the opposition has gone ahead anyway , the police have broken up rallies by force and detained attendees .
polls show that putin , who has led russia for 18 years as either president or prime minister , is on course to comfortably win another six-year term , allowing him to rule until 2024 , when he ll turn 72 .
the former kgb officer is running as an independent , a move seen as a way of strengthening his image as a father of the nation rather than as a party political figure .
the ruling united russia party , which he once led and which controls three quarters of seats in the lower house of parliament , has said it will support him , as will just russia , a pro-government center-left group .
allies laud putin for restoring national pride and expanding moscow s global clout with interventions in syria and ukraine .
but navalny says putin has been in power too long and that his support is artificially maintained by a biased state media and an unfair system which excludes genuine opponents .
navalny has made a name for himself by successfully leveraging social media and conducting high profile corruption investigations into senior officials .
he has also organized some of the biggest anti-government protests in years .
opinion polls , whose accuracy navalny dismisses , put his support in single digits while giving putin an approval rating of around 80 percent .