mexico city ( reuters ) - the bodies of six men were found hanging from three different bridges near the mexican tourist resort of los cabos on the baja california peninsula on wednesday , local authorities said .
the authorities did not give details on what happened to the men , but drug gangs often hang the bodies of their murdered victims in public to intimidate rivals .
drug gang violence is set to make 2017 mexico s deadliest year in modern history .
two bodies were found on a bridge in las veredas , near los cabos international airport , and two on a different bridge on the highway between cabo san lucas and san jose del cabo , local prosecutors said in a statement .
in a separate statement , the prosecutors said two further bodies were found on a third bridge near the airport .
an official from the prosecutor s office , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said the bodies of the men had been hung from the bridges .
violent crime has spiked in baja california , particularly around the once peaceful resort of los cabos visited by million of foreign tourists every year .
los cabos police chief juan manuel mayorga was shot dead last week .
mexico is on track for its most violent year since records began , with the rise of the jalisco new generation cartel , now one of the country s most powerful , and disputes between other criminal groups fueling murder rates .
on tuesday , authorities in the northern state of chihuahua said 12 people were killed in clashes between armed groups .
the governor of the state of baja california sur , carlos mendoza davis , said that authorities were investigating the incidents near los cabos .
i condemn these acts and any expression of violence .
today more than ever in # bcs we should be united , he said via twitter , using the hashtag for the state s initials .
homicides have more than doubled in baja california sur this year , with 409 people killed through october , from 192 in all of 2016 .
in june authorities said they had found a mass grave with the bodies of 11 men and three women near los cabos .
more than 4.4 million passengers , mostly international , have passed through los cabos airport so far this year , according to operator grupo aeroportuario del pacifico .