harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president emmerson mnangagwa on wednesday promised zero tolerance in his government s push to punish corruption that stifled political freedom and economic growth under robert mugabe s 37-year rule .
mnangagwa , giving his first state of the nation address since he assumed power last month following a de facto coup that ousted his 93-year-old predecessor , has sought to draw a line under years of endemic corruption and impunity .
under pressure to deliver results , especially on an economy crippled by severe currency shortages , mnangagwa said reforms of a bloated state sector would be launched in early 2018 .
with opposition parties calling for widespread political reforms before an election next year , he repeated a promise that his government would do everything in its power to ensure a credible , free and fair ballot .
corruption remains the major source of some of the problems we face as a country and its retarding impact on national development can not be overemphasized , mnangagwa told a joint sitting of the country s two houses of parliament .
on individual cases of corruption , every case must be investigated and punished in accordance with the dictates of our laws .
there should be no sacred cows .
my government will have zero tolerance towards corruption and this has already begun .
the latter was an apparent reference to comments last week he would name and shame those who failed to return stolen public funds after a three-month amnesty ends in february .
his government is also pursuing corruption charges dating back over two decades against former finance minister ignatius chombo , a close ally of mugabe and his wife , grace .
chombo , whose lawyer has said he will deny the charges , faces trial early next year .
in the latter half of mugabe s rule the economy fell apart amid the violent and chaotic seizure of thousands of white-owned commercial farms .
billions of dollars of domestic debt issued to pay for a bloated civil service triggered a collapse in the value of zimbabwe s de facto currency and hyperinflation .
mnangagwa said the government would in the first quarter of next year announce a program to reform , commercialize or shut down some state-owned firms he said had been for a long time an albatross around the government s neck .
zimbabwe s efforts to re-engage international lenders and lure investors will rest on the credibility of next year s election , and the president again pledged a commitment to a free and fair vote .
to level a playing field they say is skewed in favor of mnangagwa s zanu-pf party , opposition parties have however challenged his army-backed government to first enact a long list of electoral reforms .
they include a new voters roll , opposition access to public media , allowing an estimated three million zimbabweans living abroad to vote and international observers including the united nations .
we would like to see genuine , credible electoral reforms that will lead to free and fair elections and they must be underwritten and guaranteed by the international community , tendai biti , leader of the opposition mdc alliance , told reporters ahead of mnangagwa s address .
biti and other members of the alliance also criticized what they called the militarization of the government following the appointment of two former senior military officials to the new cabinet .
mnangagwa gave his clearest signal yet on tuesday that he would appoint as vice president constantino chiwenga , the military leader who led the coup that ousted mugabe .
chris mutsvangwa , adviser to the president and the influential leader of the war veterans association , has rejected the criticism of the appointments , saying they were not unique to zimbabwe .