it s been a great july 4th !
president trump is attending the national mall concert and fireworks : the beach boys and other traditional acts were on hand to help celebrate the 4th of july in d.c. : ivanka trump tweeted out : a little ice cream before the fireworks !
# fourthofjuly pic.twitter.com/gf0suodxqf ivanka trump ( @ ivankatrump ) july 5 , 2017in case you missed it : president trump and first lady melania trump attended the military families picnic today in support of our us military families and the brave men and women who serve .
pres trump welcomed a very special guest : 1st lt michael pence , usmc the son of vp and mrs pence .
the video below is of the ceremony and speech during the picnic.https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ja6kqefepngpresident trump tweeted out before his arrival today : getting ready to celebrate the 4th of july with a big crowd at the white house .
happy 4th to everyone .
our country will grow and prosper !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 4 , 2017the first lady tweeted out a message to america : # happyindependenceday we are the land of the free because of the brave .
thank you to the heroes who serve !
melania trump ( @ flotus ) july 4 , 2017flotus looked beautiful ! # flotus in lovely blue # estebancort zar dress for # fourthofjuly !
: getty nicholas kamm pic.twitter.com/0g11rwbeq6 white house wardrobe ( @ whitehousedress ) july 4 , 2017hands over hearts as us marine sings national anthem at start of wh picnic for military families : hands over hearts as us marine sings national anthem at start of wh picnic for military families .
pic.twitter.com/4szbwmnb2c mark knoller ( @ markknoller ) july 4 , 2017a shot of the guests on the lawn : trump , 1st lady , pence , 2nd lady emerge together on balcony for fourth of july picnic .
pic.twitter.com/zcm7w8qg8b jennifer jacobs ( @ jenniferjjacobs ) july 4 , 2017pres trump welcomes vp and mrs pence and their son 1st lt michael pence , usmc : pres trump welcomes vp and mrs pence and their son 1st lt michael pence , usmc .
pic.twitter.com/a6qffcwjp6 mark knoller ( @ markknoller ) july 4 , 2017for president donald trump s first independence day in office , he and first lady melania trump were hosting a picnic for military families at the white house , followed by a fireworks viewing for military families and staffers .
the capital city s fireworks festivities , aired on pbs , are to include performances by the beach boys , the four tops , country musicians kellie pickler and trace adkins , and two characters who fought for independence in a galaxy far , far away star wars droids r2-d2 and c-3po .
this year marks the movie s 40th anniversary.but before the picnic , trump kicked off his holiday at his golf club in virginia .
the president arrived at the club in sterling just before 10 a.m. and spent nearly four hours there before returning to the white house .
aides did not answer questions about whether he was golfing .