vienna ( reuters ) - the number 2 figure in austria s ruling social democratic party has said he is resigning over a smear campaign against the main conservative party s leader , adding to a sense of disarray on the centre-left of politics weeks before a parliamentary election .
the social democrats had denied having any connection with two websites making unsubstantiated allegations against 31-year-old foreign minister sebastian kurz , who took over the conservative people s party ( ovp ) in may .
since kurz took up his post , his party has topped the opinion polls .
but austrian newspaper die presse and weekly magazine profil reported on saturday that a former adviser to the social democrats who was dismissed this summer was originally behind the sites and that they had been kept in operation .
at a hastily convened news conference on saturday , georg niedermuehlbichler , the social democrats chairman and campaign manager , said that until recently he had been unaware of any connection with the websites .
although the party never paid for or commissioned the websites , he said , he had discovered that one member of his staff had been aware of work on them .
it is my duty as election campaign manager to ensure that such things do not happen .
they happened .
i will therefore assume the consequences as campaign manager and as party chairman , he said .
niedermuehlbichler s resignation adds to the troubles of a party that is now competing with the far-right freedom party for second place in the polls , well behind kurz s ovp , ahead of a parliamentary election on oct. 15 .
the social democrats remain deeply divided over whether to consider forming coalitions with the freedom party , having recently lifted a self-imposed ban on working with them .
the social democrats are also at loggerheads with the ovp , in a country where parties rarely have enough votes to govern alone .
the freedom party said niedermuehlbichler s resignation was not enough and that the party leader , christian kern , should also step down .
niedermuehlbichler appeared to blame tal silberstein , an israeli political adviser who worked for the party until recently , for the websites .
profil and die presse also reported that he was originally behind them .
the social democrats dismissed silberstein in august after he was detained and questioned in israel along with billionaire businessman benny steinmetz in a fraud investigation .
the events after that showed that this decision was right in every aspect , if too late .
evidently there were then activities that i could not imagine happening to that extent , niedermuehlbichler said .
it was certainly a big mistake to hire tal silberstein , he added .
shortly before niedermuehlbichler s announcement , tabloid daily oesterreich published an interview with silberstein in which it said he had declined to comment on the allegations about a smear campaign but said the party was right to sack him .
on saturday , israel was observing yom kippur , when the country effectively shuts down for a day .