here are a few facts : sexual violence in germany has reached epidemic proportions since chancellor angela merkel allowed into the country more than one million mostly male migrants from africa , asia and the middle east.gatestone institute first reported germany s migrant rape crisis in september 2015 , when merkel opened up the german border to tens of thousands of migrants stranded in hungary .
a follow-up report was published in march 2016 , in the aftermath of mass attacks against german women by mobs of migrants in cologne , hamburg and other german cities.germany s migrant rape crisis has now spread to cities and towns in all 16 of germany s federal states .
germany is effectively under siege ; public spaces are becoming increasingly perilous .
police have warned about a potential breakdown of public order this summer , when young male migrants are likely to see women lightly dressed.during the month of july 2016 , hundreds of german women and children were sexually assaulted by migrants ( see appendix below ) .
the youngest victim was nine ; the oldest , 79 .
attacks occurred at beaches , bike trails , cemeteries , discotheques , grocery stores , music festivals , parking garages , playgrounds , schools , shopping malls , taxis , public transportation ( buses , trams , intercity express trains and subways ) , public parks , public squares , public swimming pools and public restrooms .
predators are lurking everywhere ; safety nowhere.dozens of women and children have been assaulted by migrants at summer festivals and public swimming pools staples of ordinary german life.germany officially unveiled a landmark social-media bill wednesday that could quickly turn this nation into a test case in the effort to combat the spread of fake news and hate speech in the west.the highly anticipated draft bill is also highly contentious , with critics denouncing it as a curb on free speech .
if passed , as now appears likely , the measure would compel large outlets such as facebook and twitter to rapidly remove fake news that incites hate , as well as other criminal content , or face fines as high as 50 million euros ( $ 53 million ) .chancellor angela merkel s cabinet agreed on the draft bill wednesday , giving it a high chance of approval in the german parliament before national elections in september .
in effect , the move is germany s response to a barrage of fake news during last year s elections in the united states , with officials seeking to prevent a similar onslaught here.already , a few fake news reports have emerged in germany .
one falsely alleged that a german girl of russian descent was raped last year by asylum seekers .
repeated by high-level russian officials , the reports seemed aimed at merkel s open-door policy for refugees.merkel is now involved in a strenuous campaign for a fourth term in office .
the providers of social networks are responsible when their platforms are misused to spread hate crime or illegal false news , german justice minister heiko maas said in a statement.the proposed law would apply only within german borders .
but maas said wednesday he would press for similar measures across the european union .
washington post