berlin ( reuters ) - the german defence ministry said on monday that the european fighter jet was the leading candidate to replace its tornado jets , which it wants to start phasing out in 2025 .
the ministry s position appears to contradict that of the german air force , whose chief indicated last month that he preferred lockheed martin s f-35 , which meets the military s requirements of stealth and long-distance operational capabilities .
in a letter to a greens lawmaker who had inquired about the deliberations , the ministry said the f-35 and boeing s f-15 and f-18 fighters were secondary options .
the indicated view of the inspector of the air force that the f-35 lightning ii is an especially suitable successor to the tornado system is not the position of the federal government , deputy defence minister ralf brauksiepe wrote in the letter .
the eurofighter typhoon is a joint project between british defense group bae , france s airbus and italy s finmeccanica .
the ministry s preference for the typhoon is no surprise ; france and germany said earlier this year they would work together to develop a new european fighter , as they expand cooperation on defense and security [ nl8n1k43js ] .
many german allies in europe , including norway , the netherlands , britain , italy , turkey and denmark have selected the f-35 and some have received initial deliveries .
belgium is expected to make a decision next year .
the contract to replace germany s 85 tornado jets , which go out of service around 2030 , could be worth billions of euros .
a new fighter purchase would have to be approved by parliament in the next two years and a contract signed by 2020 or 2021 to ensure deliveries by 2025 .
no final decision is likely before a new government is formed , following elections this past september .
chancellor angela merkel will open talks on wednesday with the social democrats ( spd ) on renewing their alliance , which has ruled germany since 2013 .
she turned to the spd after efforts to form a coalition with the environmentalist greens and the pro-business free democrats failed .