seoul/beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping replied to north korean leader kim jong un s congratulatory message on china s communist party congress , saying he hopes to promote ties between the two countries , north korea s state news agency said on thursday .
the friendly exchange is relatively routine , but it comes as china has come under intense pressure from the united states to do more to rein in the north s missile and nuclear tests , which have raised tensions globally .
china has been increasingly frustrated over ally north korea s weapons tests in defiance of u.n. resolutions , repeatedly calling for restraint and urging all sides to speak and act carefully .
xi s message comes days before u.s. president donald trump makes his first official visit to asia , with north korea high on the agenda .
it follows tuesday s unexpected agreement between seoul and beijing to move beyond a year-long dispute over the deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system in south korea .
i wish that under the new situation , the chinese side would make efforts with the dprk side to promote relations between the two parties and the two countries to sustainable soundness and stable development and thus make a positive contribution to ... defending regional peace and stability and common prosperity , xi wrote in the message dated nov. 1 , according to the north s official news agency kcna .
dprk stands for the democratic people s republic of korea , north korea s official name .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying did not give details of the message from xi to kim but confirmed it had been sent to express thanks for kim s congratulatory messages .
many countries had sent messages to china over the congress and , to be polite , china had written back to say thank you to them , she added .
i believe this is in the interests of both sides and has important meaning for resolving the present problem we are facing and maintaining regional peace and stability , hua told a daily news briefing in beijing .
the message had yet to be carried by chinese state media as of thursday afternoon .
china and north korea often exchange diplomatic correspondence and ceremonial letters , although personal messages between the leaders tend to be few .
zhao tong , a north korea expert at the carnegie-tsinghua center in beijing , said the exchange of messages appeared totally routine , while noting that kim s congratulatory message was shorter than one sent after the previous communist party congress five years ago , when xi first came to power .
after a flurry of activity including a sixth nuclear test on sept. 3 , pyongyang did not disrupt last month s party congress with another test as some analysts had expected .
it has not tested a missile since launching one over japan on sept. 15 , the longest such lull this year .
but zhao said this was likely due to technical reasons rather than political reasons .
there are no signs that they are going to give up on additional missile or nuclear tests , he said .
nam seong-wook , a professor of north korea studies at korea university in seoul , said xi s reply to kim could be interpreted as china s strategic ambition to embrace both north korea and south korea ahead of trump s visits to south korea and china .
xi has previously sent messages to kim , most recently last year when xi expressed his congratulations for a party congress in north korea .
neither leader has visited the other s country since assuming power .
kim sent a congratulatory message to xi last week at the end of china s communist party congress , wishing him great success as head of the nation .