tokyo ( reuters ) - japan will delay a decision to develop a new advanced fighter jet , four sources said , as military planners struggle to settle on a design and officials splash out on new u.s. equipment such as ballistic missile interceptors and f-35 stealth planes .
faced with a growing military threat from north korea and increased activity by chinese air force jets over the east china sea , japan is under pressure to improve its defenses on two fronts .
any delay to the new fighter , known as the f-3 , will raise a question mark over the future of what could be one of the world s most lucrative upcoming military contracts , estimated at more than $ 40 billion to develop and deploy .
a decision after the first half of 2018 would be too late for it to be included as a core program in a new five-year defense equipment plan beginning april 2019 that japan will reveal at the end of next year .
the direction is for the f-3 decision to be put back , said one the sources who have knowledge of the discussion .
the people who spoke to reuters asked not to be identified because they are not authorized to talk to the media .
they said the decision , on whether to forge ahead as a domestic program or seek international collaboration , would now likely come after 2018 .
regarding the f-3 decision , including whether we will delay a choice , we have haven t come to any conclusion , a spokeswoman for the ministry of defence acquisition technology & logistics agency said .
analysts estimate developing the f-3 could cost $ 40 billion , a figure described another source as an initial cost .
with a defense budget of around $ 50 billion that has increased in the past few years at just under an annual 1 percent , that outlay , even spread out over years of development , represents a major undertaking .
it would come at a time when japan is spending a record amounts on u.s. equipment , including lockheed martin corp s f-35 jet , raytheon defense missiles and boeing co and textron inc s tilt-rotor osprey troop aircraft .
in 2013 , japan procured 118 billion yen ( $ 1 billion ) of equipment through the u.s. government s foreign military sales ( fms ) system .
by last year , that outlay had quadrupled to 486 billion yen .
president donald trump in tokyo last week called on prime minister shinzo abe to purchase additional u.s.-made weapons as his administration pushes washington s allies to contribute more to their joint defense .
for now , that defense is focused on countering the threat posed by north korean ballistic missiles and nuclear weapons .
japan s defense forces , however , want the f-3 to counter growing chinese air power in the skies over the western pacific and east china sea where tokyo and beijing are locked in a territorial dispute .
japanese fighters scrambled a record 806 times to intercept chinese planes in the year that ended march 31 .
a second role for the yet-to-be-built fighter is to reinforce japan s defense industry by giving mitsubishi heavy industries ( mhi ) and its suppliers their first fighter jet program since japan built its f-2 fighter two decades ago .
mitsubishi heavy , the maker of the world war two-era zero fighter , in january 2016 tested a prototype jet , the atd-x .
developed for around $ 350 million , it was seen as the first step toward a new homegrown frontline stealth fighter .
while support for a domestic-only program is strong among some government officials , other bureaucrats are worried about the potentially enormous expense of developing components from scratch .
they support international collaboration to share costs with overseas partners and tap their technology .
what we have now is a flying box without all the systems that constitute a fighter such as weapons and sensors , said another of the sources .
possible overseas partners include bae systems , a leading designer of the high-altitude eurofighter interceptor backed by the british government , f-35 builder lockheed martin and boeing , maker of the f-18 strike fighter .
all have responded to initial requests for information from ministry of defence overseeing f-3 plans .