rome ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s foreign minister said on friday that lebanon had been hijacked by hezbollah and could only flourish if the iranian-backed group disarmed .
the shi ite muslim militia was set up by the powerful iranian revolutionary guards ( irgc ) in the 1980s and has grown steadily in influence , sharing power in the beirut government and giving crucial support to president bashar al-assad in syria s civil war .
its growing strength has alarmed saudi arabia , a sunni muslim monarchy that is shi ite iran s arch-rival for regional influence .
lebanon will only survive or prosper if you disarm hezbollah , foreign minister adel al-jubeir told a conference in italy .
as long as you have an armed militia , you will not have peace in lebanon .
jubeir said the situation in lebanon was tragic and accused iran of fomenting unrest across the middle east .
since 1979 , the iranians have literally got away with murder in our region , and this has to stop , he said .
a month ago , saad al-hariri resigned as lebanese prime minister while he was in saudi arabia , triggering a political crisis in beirut and thrusting lebanon onto the front line of the regional rivalry .
saudi arabia denied coercing its long-time ally to quit , and hariri has now returned to beirut and indicated that he might withdraw his resignation .
elsewhere in the region , saudi arabia fears that hezbollah and iran are trying to take control of its neighbor yemen , by supporting houthi forces against a riyadh-led military coalition .
hezbollah denies fighting in yemen , sending weapons to the houthis , or firing rockets at saudi arabia from yemeni territory .
jubeir rejected this and said his country would not back down in the conflict .
the houthis can not be allowed to take over a country , he said .
jubeir said his country only had bad relations with two nations iran and north korea .
he said riyadh did not have relations with israel , which shares saudi worries over iran , because it was waiting for a palestinian peace deal .
he said everyone knew what a solution would look like to the decades-old conflict .
it is not rocket science , he said , adding that he was waiting for the united states to put forward a new proposal .
one of the most intractable problems facing negotiators is the spread of jewish settlements across occupied territory that the palestinians want for a future state .
jubeir said he expected an eventual deal would set the borders of a palestinian state on the lines prevailing before the 1967 war , when israel captured the west bank and gaza strip .
however , he said adjustments could be made for settlers : seventy percent of the settlers who are on the ( 1967 ) green line remain in israel , and the other 30 percent - you offer them compensation and work out housing , and they can move to israel .