chicago/san francisco ( reuters ) - u.s. voters on tuesday will decide the fate of $ 70.3 billion of municipal bond issuance , the largest amount of borrowing requests in a decade , with much of it earmarked to help pay for fixing the nation ’ s crumbling infrastructure .
the biggest concentration of bonds hanging in the balance is in california , which accounts for nearly 60 percent of the total .
nationwide , the state , school and local government bond measures , 682 in total , would fund building and repairing schools , mass transit and roads , and even biomedical research in one state , according to data company ipreo .
to view the historical amount of bond ballot measures , click on tmsnrt.rs/2e9z5bb .
the governments will be able to take advantage of still-low borrowing costs and a stable economy , even when considering the possibility of an increase in historically low benchmark interest rates by the federal reserve in december .
“ this year , the finances at the state level look better .
we ’ ve had more stability in revenues and more stability in the economy as a whole , so we would expect a substantial amount of these proposals to be accepted , ” said philip fischer , municipal research strategist at bank of america merrill lynch .
yields on top-rated 10 and 30-year bonds hit all-time lows in july on the u.s. municipal market ’ s benchmark scale .
while yields have risen since then they remain attractive for state and local government borrowers .
california ballots are bursting with 195 bond measures totaling $ 41.7 billion , including the biggest nationwide — $ 9 billion of state general obligation debt to finance new construction and modernization for k-12 and charter schools and community colleges .
another california ballot measure is aimed at reining in debt by requiring statewide voter approval for revenue bonds exceeding $ 2 billion for projects financed , owned , or managed by the state .
opponents of the initiative , called proposition 53 , say mandating voter approval would delay critical infrastructure projects .
“ the drought over the past four years has highlighted the need for infrastructure in california , ” said david guy , northern california water association president , at a september panel on california propositions .
“ we don ’ t need another hurdle to progress in california. ” while school and infrastructure financing are dominant themes this election , a measure on montana ’ s statewide ballot would create a biomedical research authority funded by $ 200 million of bonds over 10 years .
voters will also be weighing 154 state-wide measures , including bonds , taxes , gun control and the minimum wage , in 35 states , according to the national conference of state legislatures .
in several states , voters will be deciding whether to increase various sales , income , property , cigarette and other taxes .
for example , in colorado there is a proposed constitutional amendment calling for a public option universal healthcare payment system , funded by a new 10 percent state payroll tax .
employers would cover two-thirds and employees one-third of the cost , according to the citizen-led initiative known as amendment 69 .
washington state voters will weigh the nation ’ s first tax on carbon emissions , while five states , including california , seek to legalize and tax recreational marijuana .
oregon voters will consider changing the corporate tax code to collect revenue equivalent to one-third of the state ’ s general fund expenditures .
the legislature would decide how to use the proceeds .
eno center for transportation , a nonprofit think tank , reported that voters will decide tax and bond measures for roads , seaports , railroads , airports and mass transit that would raise an estimated $ 250 billion for specified projects over a period of years during which specific taxes would be collected .
these include $ 3.5 billion of bonds to repair and improve the san francisco area ’ s bart transit system , a regional property tax hike to raise $ 3.1 billion over 20 years for mass transit in the detroit area and $ 70 million of bonds to improve rhode island ’ s seaport .
kerry o ’ hare , vice president of building america ’ s future , a bipartisan coalition on infrastructure investment , said the dearth of reliable long-term federal transportation funding has left a void that state and local governments are trying to address via ballot measures .
“ at the state and local level , it ’ s ‘ listen , we need to step up and raise money for transportation needs , ’ ” she said .