manila ( reuters ) - the war in the philippine city of marawi saw islamist insurgents execute civilians or use them as human shields , while military air strikes killed non-combatants and may have been used in excess , an amnesty international report said on friday .
the investigation by the rights group on the bloody five-month battle was based on interviews with 48 witnesses from september until early november and called for an independent inquiry .
the conflict in marawi , the only predominantly muslim city in the mainly catholic philippines , was the country s biggest and longest battle since world war two .
more than 1,100 people , mostly insurgents , were killed , including 166 soldiers and 47 civilians , according to the authorities .
at least 350,000 people were displaced and large parts of marawi have been decimated by air strikes .
witnesses described at least 10 separate incidents where at least 25 people were executed by the muslim extremists because they were christians .
amnesty described those as war crimes .
it also said 10 hostages may have been killed in a single bombing run by the armed forces , and said an independent inquiry should include an assessment as to whether the air strikes were proportionate to the threat .
they must initiate a prompt , effective and impartial investigation into whether its bombings of civilian neighborhoods was proportional under international humanitarian law , tirana hassan , amnesty international s crisis response director , said in a statement .
the philippine authorities must bring those responsible for torture and other violations to justice and ensure that the victims receive adequate reparations .
major-general restituto padilla , armed forces spokesman , said the military was aware of the report and would respond in full later .
he said troops were given strict instructions to observe and respect international humanitarian law and human rights .
we will not tolerate and condone these abuses and will act on them , he told a regular news briefing on friday .
the 34-page report , the battle of marawi : death and destruction in the philippines , quotes a survivor who said he was spared by rebels because he could recite the shahada , a statement of islamic faith , but a christian ambulance driver was shot dead because he could not do the same .
other survivors said hostages were executed or physically abused , forced into labor and used as human shields .
some hostages who escaped alleged they were detained and tortured by security forces who suspected them to be militants .
amnesty said it talked to eight men , including seven christians , who said they were badly treated by the authorities .
i was punched and kicked .
they tied our hands and feet with electrical wire , the report quoted one survivor as saying .
the military was angry because 13 of their men were killed .
last month , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis praised the philippine military for ending the war without a single credible human rights abuse allegation .
amnesty noted that the military was responding to concerns about looting by soldiers but must follow through on promises of compensation .