chicago ( reuters ) - illinois ’ overall financial condition deteriorated in fiscal 2015 as tax collections fell , with the state recording its fourteenth straight budget deficit , according to an annual audit released on tuesday .
the nation ’ s fifth-largest state ended fiscal 2015 on june 30 with a general fund deficit that grew to $ 6.9 billion from $ 6.7 billion in fiscal 2014 , the comprehensive annual financial report by illinois auditor general frank mautino showed .
a temporary income tax hike enacted in 2011 partially expired midway through fiscal 2015 , decreasing collections by $ 1.8 billion .
“ the state continues to show an inability to generate sufficient cash from its current revenue structure to pay operating expenditures on a timely basis , ” the audit said .
it also warned that budget deficits , along with growing unfunded liabilities for pensions and retiree healthcare , and credit rating downgrades “ may impact the state ’ s ability to access credit markets to pay operational expenditures more timely and may increase interest costs of those borrowings. ” illinois , which already pays a big penalty in the u.s. municipal bond market , has the worst-funded pensions and the lowest credit ratings among the 50 states .
the state is in its 10th month without a full fiscal 2016 budget due to an impasse between its republican governor and democrats who control the legislature .
lawmakers returned to session this week after their spring break without any deal in sight for a fiscal 2016 or 2017 budget .
the state ’ s liabilities , led by a $ 108.6 billion unfunded pension liability and $ 32.5 billion in payments due on bonds , dwarfed nearly $ 22 billion in assets , including buildings , infrastructure and equipment , resulting in a net deficit of $ 125.3 billion compared with $ 121.2 billion in fiscal 2014 , the audit said .
this left illinois in the worst shape of the 42 u.s. states that have filed fiscal 2015 audits .
of the seven states that ended the fiscal year with a net position in the red - a list that also includes new jersey , california and kentucky - illinois had the largest overall net deficit .
illinois ’ budget stabilization fund was unchanged at $ 275.7 million , an insufficient amount to address cash management needs , according to state comptroller leslie munger .
her office reported a $ 6.58 billion unpaid bill backlog on tuesday .