they had to know they had it coming donald trump scolded media big shots during an off-the-record trump tower sitdown on monday , sources told the post .
it was like a f ing firing squad , one source said of the encounter .
trump started with [ cnn chief ] jeff zucker and said i hate your network , everyone at cnn is a liar and you should be ashamed , the source said .
the meeting was a total disaster .
the tv execs and anchors went in there thinking they would be discussing the access they would get to the trump administration , but instead they got a trump-style dressing down , the source added.a second source confirmed the fireworks .
the meeting took place in a big board room and there were about 30 or 40 people , including the big news anchors from all the networks , the other source said .
trump kept saying , we re in a room of liars , the deceitful dishonest media who got it all wrong .
he addressed everyone in the room calling the media dishonest , deceitful liars .
he called out jeff zucker by name and said everyone at cnn was a liar , and cnn was [ a ] network of liars , the source said .
trump didn t say [ nbc reporter ] katy tur by name , but talked about an nbc female correspondent who got it wrong , then he referred to a horrible network correspondent who cried when hillary lost who hosted a debate which was martha raddatz who was also in the room .
the stunned reporters tried to get a word in edgewise to discuss access to a trump administration .
[ cbs good morning co-host gayle ] king did not stand up , but asked some question , how do you propose we the media work with you ?
chuck todd asked some pretty pointed questions .
david muir asked how are you going to cope living in dc while your family is in nyc ?
it was a horrible meeting .
here s a sampling of trump hitting back at the dishonest media while he was on the campaign trail .
trump did something no other presidential candidate has ever done before , he won the election in a landslide , in spite of the entire fake news empire working together to take him down : trump spokeswoman kellyanne conway told reporters the gathering went well .
excellent meetings with the top executives of the major networks , she said during a gaggle in the lobby of trump tower .
pretty unprecedented meeting we put together in two days .
the meeting was off the record , meaning the participants agreed not to talk about the substance of the conversations.the hour-long session included top execs from network and cable news channels .
among the attendees were nbc s deborah turness , lester holt and chuck todd , abc s james goldston , george stephanopoulos , david muir and martha raddatz , also , cbs norah o donnell john dickerson , charlie rose , christopher isham and king , fox news bill shine , jack abernethy , jay wallace , suzanne scott , msnbc s phil griffin and cnn s jeff zucker and erin burnett .
-via : nyp