jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel was upbeat about u.s. president donald trump s anticipated announcement on friday of major steps against the international nuclear deal with iran , but voiced doubt that the tougher tack by washington could turn around tehran .
while the white house s distaste for the 2015 pact may be sweet to the ears of israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , his government is mindful of the limits of any unilateral u.s. action in the face of dissent from other big power signatories .
some israeli officials quietly question whether washington has the will to follow through , noting what they deem insufficient u.s. efforts to stem the entrenchment in next-door syria of iran-allied forces helping damascus in the civil war .
trump was expected to say in a 1645 gmt speech that he will not re-certify the nuclear agreement in light of iran s ballistic missile projects and involvement in regional trouble-spots .
that would give the u.s. congress 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions on tehran that were suspended in return for it rolling back technologies with nuclear bomb-making potential .
netanyahu spokesmen declined to comment on the pending speech .
a veteran israeli cabinet minister from netanyahu s likud party sounded cheered by trump s resolve , but appeared to note the depth of partisan rifts around the u.s. administration .
the outcome that could happen , and this is the only positive outcome we can see at this stage , is that congress manages to come together around new , significant sanctions , the minister , tzachi hanegbi , told tel aviv radio station 102 fm .
( that ) will confront a lot of gigantic international companies which are today streaming to the iranians ... with a dilemma of having to choose between the iranians and trading with the world s biggest economy , which is the united states .
netanyahu has lobbied hard against the iran deal , delivering a speech in congress shortly before it was signed that angered then-u.s. president barack obama .
addressing the u.n. general assembly last month , netanyahu urged world powers that negotiated the deal to fix it or nix it .
he called specifically for cancelling a core sunset clause that removes caps on iran s nuclear projects after a number of years .
asked about the sunset clause in the radio interview , hanegbi gave no indication israel believed it would be reviewed .
he noted the resistance that trump s new measures faced from european powers , russia and iran , which has threatened to quit the nuclear deal if the u.s. imposes new sanctions against it .
iran , hanegbi assessed , will not yield at all - period - in other words , not just not within 60 days , but neither within 60 months or 60 years , because they really do not believe that the world will reverse course .
they look rather mockingly at the united states .
but he added , if the united states reverses course and begins a process of building delegitimation for the agreement , it could be that the world , part of the west , will join it in a process that could take time ...
there is still a long way to go until the dangers of this deal pass .
israel is believed to have the middle east s only nuclear arsenal with about 200 warheads and sees iran s nuclear activity as a threat to its existence .
it refuses to confirm or deny that it has nuclear weapons .
there has been dissent within israel over the nuclear deal , with several netanyahu ex-advisers grudgingly coming out in its favor .
his former defense minister , ehud barak , told the new york times on wednesday : like many israelis , i think the iran deal is a bad deal .
but it is a done deal .
barak warned that any u.s. withdrawal from the agreement would not be followed by other world powers and could prompt iran - which denies seeking nuclear weapons - to work on a bomb .
hanegbi dismissed such predictions as nonsense .
iran has no interest in withdrawing from the agreement ( because that ) would immediately unite russia and china to the united states against it , he told the radio station .
he noted - as have u.n. nuclear inspectors - that the iranians have not budged a hair s breadth from their commitments under the deal .