way to go granny !
perfect timing for your announcement with the discovery of the planned parenthood s aborted baby parts business in the headlines yesterday , hilary clinton defending late-term abortion on twitter and called wisconsin s abortion ban dangerous and unacceptable.as lifenews previously reported , on july 19th , pro-life governor scott walker signed the pain capable unborn protection act , making wisconsin the 15th state to ban abortions after 20-weeks of pregnancy .
prior to signing the bill , he said , at five months an unborn child can feel pain .
as a society we should be protecting that child .
but hillary clinton has a vastly different view : gov .
walker signed dangerous abortion restrictions into law in wi without exceptions for rape or incest .
extreme and unacceptable .
-h hillary clinton ( @ hillaryclinton ) july 21 , 2015 governor walker responded with his own rejoinder calling clinton out of touch : hillary shows she s out of touch with the majority of americans who believe babies at 5 months deserve life .
-sw https : //t.co/5ng0llqrbd scott walker ( @ scottwalker ) july 21 , 2015 unfortunately , if hillary clinton becomes our next president she will further abortion-on-demand in america even though she once said she believes abortion should be rare .
bill donohue from the catholic league responded to her remarks and highlighted her radical abortion agenda.he said , we know that hillary lied when she said she wants abortions to be rare .
to be exact , she opposed the ban on partial-birth abortions : if she is okay with killing a baby who is 80 percent born , there are no instances left for her to register an objection .
now we know that hillary lied when she said she wants to keep abortions safe .
as soon as walker signed the law protecting unborn babies from feeling pain , hillary labeled his decision dangerous .
he added that hillary should explain what she means when she says that this ban is dangerous , considering the fact that some of these babies feel immense pain while being dismembered .
donohue concluded , hillary needs to elaborate on this .
why is it not uncomfortable forget about dangerous for a sensate human being to be pierced with a surgical knife ?
why , for example , do these babies put their fingers up to the knife in an attempt to shield them from more pain ?
the public has a right to know what s going on in her mind .
in may , clinton joined president obama in opposing the federal 20-week ban and said the following through a spokesperson : politicians should not interfere with personal medical decisions , which should be left to a woman , her family and her faith , in consultation with her doctor or health care provider .
she added , this bill is a direct challenge to roe v. wade , which has protected a woman s constitutional right to privacy for over forty years .
the bill puts women s health and rights at risk , undermines the role doctors play in health care decisions , burdens survivors of sexual assault , and is not based on sound science .
however , the science behind fetal pain is solid , which is why so many states in the u.s. have worked to end late abortion .
unborn children have the biological equipment necessary to feel pain no later than 20 weeks after fertilization , and nerves link receptors to the brain s thalamus and sub-cortical plate around that same time .
researchers also found that unborn children react to pain by recoiling , which is the same way adult humans react to pain .
in fact , during surgery on these little humans , fetal surgeons found that anesthesia was necessary to decrease their reaction to stress hormones.via : lifenews