tokyo ( reuters ) - japan is considering refitting the izumo helicopter carrier so that it can land u.s. marines f-35b stealth fighters , government sources said on tuesday , as tokyo faces china s maritime expansion and north korea s missile and nuclear development .
japan has not had fully fledged aircraft carriers since its world war two defeat in 1945 .
any refit of the izumo would be aimed at preparing for a scenario in which runways in japan had been destroyed by missile attacks , and at bolstering defense around japan s southwestern islands , where china s maritime activity has increased .
three government sources close to the matter said the japanese government was keeping in sight the possible future procurement of f-35b fighter jets , which can take off and land vertically , as it looks into the remodeling of the izumo .
the 248-metre ( 814-feet ) izumo , japan s largest warship equipped with a flat flight deck , was designed with an eye to hosting f-35b fighters .
its elevator connecting the deck with the hangar can carry the aircraft , the sources said .
possible refitting measures included adding a curved ramp at the end of the flight deck , improving the deck s heat resistance against jet burners , and reinforcing the ship s air traffic control capability , they said .
however , japanese defence minister itsunori onodera said the government was not taking any concrete steps towards refitting the izumo .
regarding our defense posture , we are constantly conducting various examinations .
but no concrete examination is under way on the introduction of f-35b or remodeling of izumo-class destroyers , onodera told reporters on tuesday .
the izumo has a sister ship called the kaga .
japan has frequently conducted joint drills with u.s. aircraft carriers in recent months to boost deterrence against north korea .
one of the three government sources called such exercises a great opportunity to see with our own eyes how the u.s. military operates their aircraft carriers as japan looks into the possible conversion of the izumo into an aircraft carrier .
regional tension has soared since north korea conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test in september .
pyongyang said a month later it had successfully tested a new intercontinental ballistic missile that could reach all of the u.s. mainland .
japan is also wary of china s long-range missiles , and would like to secure measures to launch fighters from aircraft carriers in case runways operated by u.s. forces in japan or by japan s air self-defence force were destroyed by missiles .
article 9 of japan s pacifist constitution , if taken literally , bans the maintenance of armed forces .
however , japanese governments have interpreted it to allow a military exclusively for self-defense .
owning an aircraft carrier could raise a question of constitutionality , the sources said , so the government is set to address the issue in its new national defence programme guidelines to be compiled by the end of 2018 .