but parent activists are suggesting trump is getting the wrong advice from his transition team.writing at townhall , indiana activist and researcher erin tuttle and american principles project education fellow jane robbins assert trump s transition team may be ignoring the concerns of the most populist movement american politics has seen since reagan : the parents and teachers fighting common core .
citing many of the reported potential candidates associations with ardent common core supporter jeb bush , tuttle and robbins note : west michigan politics reported that , like donald trump himself , the devos family has donated to the clinton foundation : bloomberg also reported in july of 2015 that former president bill clinton often earned higher speech fees , especially abroad .
amway paid him $ 700,000 for a february 2013 speech in japan .
a report at the detroit news in july states that devos , a former michigan republican party chair , was an at-large delegate for pro-common core ohio gov .
john kasich .
kasich received a grade of f at the pulse 2016 for his support of the controversial standards .
the former presidential candidate referred to parent activists in his state fighting against the core as a runaway internet campaign .
let s just say that i will be a more than interested bystander at the convention , devos said.karen braun who heads up stop common core in michigan wrote : devos involvement with glep which supports common core and with the foundation for excellence in education should make any denunciation of common core from devos lips suspect , vander hart concludes.braun also tells breitbart news because devos refused to support trump at the republican national convention , she is skeptical of whether she would commit to trump s stated goal of removing the federal government from education .
disloyalty should not be rewarded with a cabinet post , braun asserts .
her lobby group , glep , supports common core and p-20 competency based education or so called school choice .
i hope president-elect trump and the rest of the transition team think long and hard about this appointment .
many of you are asking about common core .
to clarify , i am not a supporter period .
read my full stance , here : https : //t.co/qb2naxvx0b betsy devos ( @ betsydevos ) november 23 , 2016frank cannon , president of american principles project , also released the following statement : for entire story : breitbart news