tokyo ( reuters ) - the japanese government defended toyota motor corp ( 7203.t ) on friday as an “ important corporate citizen ” of the united states , after president-elect donald trump singled out the automaker and threatened to slap punitive tariffs on its mexico-built cars .
trump has repeatedly hit out at u.s. companies for using lower-cost factories abroad at the expense of jobs at home .
he has slammed u.s. automakers , including ford ( f.n ) which this week scrapped a planned $ 1.6 billion mexico plant .
but the attack overnight on toyota is his first against a foreign automaker .
“ toyota motor said will build a new plant in baja , mexico , to build corolla cars for u.s. no way !
build plant in u.s. or pay big border tax , ” trump tweeted .
toyota shares fell more than 3 percent before recovering , and honda motor co ( 7267.t ) and nissan motor co ( 7201.t ) slid around 2 percent - even as the government and analysts sought to brush off the impact of the attack .
chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters on friday that toyota was an “ important corporate citizen ” , while trade minister hiroshige seko stressed the contribution of japanese companies to u.s. employment .
“ we think the impact on business performance is limited , ” akira kishimoto , a senior analyst at jp morgan , said in a note .
“ a cool judgement is needed. ” toyota ’ s exposure to mexico is limited , kishimoto said , adding that even an “ extreme case ” tariff of 20 percent would hit its operating profit by around 6 percent .
trump has threatened a 35 percent tariff on cars imported from mexico .
toyota is just one of a host of companies operating in mexico .
it has an assembly plant in baja california , where it produces the tacoma pick-up truck , and where it could increase production .
trump ’ s tweet , however , confused toyota ’ s existing baja plant with the planned $ 1 billion plant in guanajuato , where construction got under way in november , days after the election .
the guanajuato plant will build corollas and have an annual capacity of 200,000 when it comes online in 2019 , shifting production of the small car from canada .
baja produces around 100,000 pick-up trucks and truck beds annually .
toyota said in september it would increase output of pick-up trucks by more than 60,000 units annually .
other japanese automakers and suppliers in mexico include nissan , which has been in mexico for decades after choosing it as the site for its first assembly plant outside asia .
nissan has two facilities there , producing 830,000 units in the year to march 2016 .
honda operates two assembly and engine plants with a total annual capacity of 263,000 vehicles , and a transmission plant with an annual capacity of 350,000 units .
aisin seiki co ( 7259.t ) and denso corp ( 6902.t ) , both suppliers to toyota and other carmakers , have two and three plants , respectively , in mexico .
parts makers tend to cluster near assembly plants under the industry ’ s “ just-in-time ” production philosophy .