chicago ( reuters ) - illinois governor bruce rauner vowed to pursue a legal challenge against union dues the state collects from non-unionized , rank-and-file government workers despite a u.s. supreme court ruling on tuesday that upheld the practice .
in a victory for labor , a 4-4 deadlock by the nation ’ s high court allowed a federal appeals court opinion to stand against 10 non-unionized california public school teachers who contended so-called fair-share dues should not be withheld from their paychecks if they chose against union membership .
but the court move likely does not settle the issue , because nearly identical federal litigation in illinois that rauner helped launch last year remains viable .
“ our case is winding its way through the courts , and it will get to the supreme court probably at some point in the future , ” rauner said during a stop in rural illinois on tuesday .
“ and we will just continue the fight for the freedom of political expression and the right of free speech for government employees .
it ’ s a fundamental issue. ” since taking office in 2015 , the first-term republican governor has waged war with public-sector unions in a bid to weaken their longstanding influence over state politics .
during his first month in office , the governor signed an executive order to bar state agencies from withholding fair-share dues , which non-unionized employees must pay under illinois law and collective-bargaining agreements to support non-political union activities that benefit all workers .
public-sector unions sued in illinois state court to block rauner ’ s executive order from being implemented and persuaded a judge to allow the fees to continue to be collected while the case , which is still pending , was litigated .
simultaneously , rauner sued in federal court to challenge the fees , but last may he was dismissed from the case by a judge , who ruled the governor lacked legal standing .
three non-unionized illinois workers forced to pay between $ 19.75 and $ 60.86 in union dues per paycheck were allowed to proceed with their own complaint .
a spokesman for the union representing the largest bloc of state workers called tuesday ’ s supreme court ruling a “ win ” but acknowledged the illinois case may become the next fair-share battlefront .
“ these attacks are political , and they ’ re ideological .
they ’ re brought by people who want to rig the economy and our democracy in their favor .
they ’ re not going to stop because they lost this particular challenge .
they ’ ll bring another one , ” said anders lindall , a spokesman for afscme council 31 .