london ( reuters ) - northern ireland s main political parties pointed on tuesday to fresh obstacles to restoring a devolved power-sharing government in the british region after meeting prime minister theresa may , who urged them to resume talks next week .
the province has been without a regional government for almost a year , destabilizing the delicate balance between irish nationalists and pro-british unionists that has already been shaken by britain s vote to leave the european union .
the latest efforts at breaking the stalemate in belfast collapsed this month , prompting britain to begin setting a budget for the province , a major step toward imposing direct rule from london for the first time in a decade .
the head of the pro-british democratic unionist party ( dup ) arlene foster accused irish nationalist rival sinn fein - the former political wing of the irish republican army - of the glorification of terrorism in a party conference last weekend .
sinn fein leader gerry adams in turn accused may of acting in bad faith by including a potential statute of limitations covering crimes by british forces in a planned consultation on new laws to deal with the legacy of northern ireland s 30 years of sectarian violence .
may struck a more positive tone , saying the issues dividing the parties were relatively few and that she believed an agreement could be reached .
in dublin , irish prime minister leo varadkar said that if an administration could not be formed , he would seek a meeting in the new year of the british irish intergovernmental conference , a joint decision making body recognizing the irish government s special interest in northern ireland that last met a decade ago .
analysts have said a fresh round of talks is unlikely to be even contemplated until after both parties annual conferences , culminating with the dup s meeting on saturday .
the dup has said it was upset by prolonged cheering at sinn fein s annual conference at the weekend after mp elisha mccallion spoke of former northern ireland deputy first minister martin mcguinness pride in his role in the ira .
the ira killed hundreds in its campaign against british rule before a ceasefire in 1994 .
around 3,600 died on all sides in the conflict , fought over whether northern ireland should be part of the united kingdom or ireland , before it ended with a 1998 peace agreement .
it was quite disgraceful to look at the glorification that happened at the weekend of the ira and terrorism and of course that makes it more difficult for us , foster , whose father narrowly escaped alive from an ira shooting , told reporters .
foster , who warned ahead of the talks that further steps toward direct rule looked inevitable unless there is a change of direction , said her party remained committed to devolution .