shanghai ( reuters ) - china s big four state-owned banks have stopped providing financial services to new north korean clients , according to branch staff , amid u.s. concerns that beijing has not been tough enough over pyongyang s repeated nuclear tests .
tensions between the united states and north korea have ratcheted up after the sixth and most powerful nuclear test conducted by pyongyang on sept. 3 prompted the united nations security council to impose further sanctions on tuesday .
chinese banks have come under scrutiny for their role as a conduit for funds flowing to and from china s increasingly isolated neighbor .
china construction bank ( ccb ) ( 601939.ss ) has completely prohibited business with north korea , said a bank teller at a branch in the northeastern province of liaoning .
the ban started on aug. 28 , the teller said .
frustrated that china had not done more to rein in north korea , the trump administration was mulling new sanctions in july on small chinese banks and other firms doing business with pyongyang , two senior u.s. officials told reuters .
a person answering the customer hotline at the world s largest lender , industrial and commercial bank of china ltd ( icbc ) ( 601398.ss ) , said the bank had stopped opening accounts for north koreans and iranians since july 16 .
the person did not explain why or answer further questions .
the measures taken by the largest chinese banks began as early as the end of last year , when the dandong city branch of china s most international lender , bank of china ltd ( boc ) ( 601988.ss ) , stopped allowing north koreans to open individual or business accounts , said a boc bank teller who declined to be identified .
existing north korean account holders could not deposit or remove money from their accounts , the boc bank teller said .
at agricultural bank of china ltd ( agbank ) ( 601288.ss ) , a teller at a branch in dandong , a northeastern chinese city that borders north korea , said north koreans could not open accounts .
the teller did not provide further details .
official representatives for boc , icbc , ccb and agbank could not be reached for comment .
banks in dandong have been under the microscope as tensions have risen , given their proximity to north korea .
in june , the united states accused the bank of dandong , a small lender , of laundering money for pyongyang .
attempts to slowly choke off the flow of funds to and from north korea come after the united states sanctioned a chinese industrial machinery wholesaler that it said was acting on behalf of a pyongyang bank already sanctioned by the united nations for supporting the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction .
the chinese wholesaler was found to be operating through 25 accounts at banks in china .
although measures are in place , some bankers questioned how well the rules would be enforced .
chinese lenders have experienced high-profile failures to police money-laundering in recent years , with some facing allegations that bankers were complicit in the movement of illicit funds .
asking whether we will be able to enforce the new rules is the same question as asking how tight our know-your-client checks are , said a senior corporate banker at the bank of china who declined to be identified because of the sensitivity of the matter .
there will always be holes , she said .