johannesburg ( reuters ) - nkosazana dlamini-zuma is a fierce campaigner against racial inequality whose hostility to big business has rattled investors in south africa .
she is also one of two front runners to be the country s next president .
the 68-year-old is vying to succeed her ex-husband , president jacob zuma , as leader of the ruling african national congress at a party vote this weekend , an outcome that would make her favorite for the presidency after a parliamentary election due in 2019 .
a medical doctor and former chair of the commission of the african union , a pan-continental grouping , dlamini-zuma has pledged during her campaign to radically tackle the racial inequality that persists in south africa 23 years after the end of white minority rule .
backers of her main rival , deputy president cyril ramaphosa , say she is peddling populist rhetoric and would rule in the mould of her former husband , whose decade in power has been plagued by corruption scandals .
dlamini-zuma declined to be interviewed for this story .
the choice between dlamini-zuma and ramaphosa will influence south africa s economic policy trajectory , as well the country s role in africa and beyond .
graphic : anc election in south africa - here graphic : south african economy - here investors are worried by dlamini-zuma s hostility toward international companies , which she says form part of a white monopoly capital cabal dominating south africa s wealth .
a dlamini-zuma victory would signal a sharp rhetorical shift toward more leftist economic policy , said john ashbourne , an africa-focused economist at capital economics .
a further credit ratings downgrade would be almost inevitable .
yet dlamini-zuma s supporters point to a commitment to changing the lives of south africa s black majority .
lynne jones , a psychiatrist and author who lived with dlamini-zuma when they were students together in the english city of bristol in the 1970s , says her determination to fight injustice is rooted in her own personal story .
jones remembers a day four decades ago when dlamini-zuma lay on her bed and wept after being forced to miss her brother s funeral because the apartheid-era security services had hounded her out of south africa .
she was fiercely intelligent and determined , said jones .
here was someone who had put their whole life on the line and given up home and family for what they believed .
it was eye-opening .
the race between ramaphosa , a unionist-turned-millionaire businessman , and dlamini-zuma is too close to call , political analysts say .
her campaign team told reuters in written comments it was confident she would be elected anc leader .
ramaphosa , who is popular among swathes of the anc disillusioned with zuma , is promising to end corruption , boost a flatlining economy and deliver jobs to the poor in a country where more than a quarter of the population is unemployed .
dlamini-zuma , by contrast , is an african nationalist and has the support of the influential anc youth and women s leagues , which both tend to support socialist policies .
known for her fierce temper and hostility toward the west , she was described in one 2001 u.s. diplomatic cable on wikileaks as a truculent and petulant foreign minister .
another cable to washington suggested she could be charming .
belying her reputation as fierce and formidable , the minister was soft spoken and smiling in this meeting - articulate but gentle , candid but warm , donald gips , then u.s. ambassador to south africa , wrote in 2010 .
the most common criticism of dlamini-zuma is that she is beholden to zuma and his powerful patronage network .
zuma has publicly endorsed her .
she is bold and you can t fool her .
she is someone you can trust , zuma told a rally recently .
the couple met in swaziland in the 1980s , when they were both in the anc underground .
they were married for more than a decade and have four children together .
in a rare interview last month , dlamini-zuma challenged her opponents to find any evidence of corruption in her long political career .
i don t loot government coffers .
i ve never done so , and i will not do so , she told ann7 television .
but for some senior figures in the anc , she has not done enough to distance herself from the corruption scandals that have dogged president zuma .
she has not said anything on state capture , anc chief whip jackson mthembu told reuters , using a south african term to describe private interests unduly controlling government funds .
dlamini-zuma says accusations that she is piggy-backing off zuma are insulting given her career , first as a doctor to anc leaders fighting apartheid and then as a cabinet minister under every south african president since 1994 .
as health minister in nelson mandela s cabinet , she laid the foundations for free public healthcare for the poor , took a hard line on smoking and made medicines more accessible .
as foreign minister she fostered friendships with african countries and emerging economies like china , even when this angered the west .
but she also made errors of judgment .
in 1996 , dlamini-zuma awarded a contract for more than $ 3 million to a friend for a play , sarafina ii , to raise awareness about aids and was later found to have ignored tender rules .
political analyst ralph mathekga said that paled in comparison to recent government malpractice .
he said : 14 million rand in the sarafina scandal now seems like peanuts when compared with the looting under zuma .