bar elias , lebanon ( reuters ) - a new girls school for syrian refugees in lebanon s poor bekaa region is aiming to give girls from conservative backgrounds the chance at a formal education .
gaining access to education in general is difficult for syrian refugees in lebanon , but for girls from socially conservative families who disapprove of mixed schools , it is even harder .
zahra al-ayed , 14 , and her sister batoul , 17 , were from a village in syria s northern idlib province where women were expected to marry young .
but the experience of fleeing war and living in harsh poverty woke her parents to the life-changing importance of education , the girls mother mirdiyeh al-ayed said .
my eldest daughter tells me that she will not marry until after she finishes her education .
she even wants to travel abroad and learn , she said .
human rights watch organisation said in its latest report in april that more than half a million refugee children are out of school in jordan , lebanon and turkey .
in lebanon , international donors paid for 200,000 public school spaces for syrian children in 2015-2016 , according to the hrw report , but only 149,000 children actually enrolled .
lebanese and international non-governmental organizations have been striving to fill the gap , and to eliminate the legal , financial and language barriers preventing refugee children from getting their education .
for the al-ayed family , used to syria s system of gender segregation after the age of 12 , one big barrier to enrolling the girls was the lack of single-sex schools in lebanon that accept refugees .
the new school that zahra will attend is in bar elias in the bekaa valley and was opened on thursday by the kayany foundation , a lebanese charity .
it educates 160 syrian girls aged from 14-18 who have missed school for several years .
those who manage to pass the lebanese system s eighth grade exams - usually taken at the age of 14 or 15 - can join the local lebanese public school in bar elias , which batoul al-ayed has done .
the kayany foundation school teaches the official lebanese curriculum , which includes science , mathematics , arabic and english , in addition to vocational skills .
the school , built from colorful pre-fabricated classrooms , is its seventh in the bekaa valley , where the majority of the syrian refugee communities are located in lebanon .
it was meant to address the syrian parents concerns about sending their teenage daughters to schools for both girls and boys .
all its teachers are women and it provides transportation for students between home and school .
education is salvation for the refugee girls , said nora jumblatt , head of the kayany foundation , at the opening ceremony .
funding for the school was secured for this year from international charity save the children and the united nations women for peace association , according to kayany officials .
i have a dream to become a pharmacist , rama , 19 , who is preparing to apply for the eight grade exams at kayany school said .
in normal times , rama would already have been applying for university at that age .
i still want to go back to syria and fulfill my dream there , in damascus university , she added .