they took out saddam in two weeks , but they can t finish is in two years ?
asked falih , another iraqi who asked that his last name not be used out of security concerns .
it just doesn t make sense .
21st century wire says this latest report serves as a reminder of just how thin the us-led international game of supporting extremist militants has become.the most comical part of this story is how us military court scribes at the associated press are still in denial that iraqis are harboring ill will against the us for suffocating ( via crippling sanctions ) , bombing and destroying , looting and occupying their country over the last 25 years.aside from numerous reports showing us weapons and equipment being dropped by accident and then used by isis , it s undeniable by now that the us have been the primary driver in fueling the rise and growth of this militant fighting group over the last 7 years.associated press writers are very careful to frame this narrative and advance the establishment s favorite meme that the debacle of iraq was down to us government incompetence , rather than inherent malice even though history clearly demonstrates that malice has been omnipresent in us foreign policy for at least the last 70 years.see also : 50 years of targeted kill lists by us government why can t they ( the iraqis ) appreciate what we ve done for them ?
seriously sinan salaheddin and susannah george ap/military.combaghdad for nearly two years , u.s. airstrikes , military advisers and weapons shipments have helped iraqi forces roll back the islamic state group.the u.s.-led coalition has carried out more than 5,000 airstrikes against isis targets in iraq at a total cost of $ 7 billion since august 2014 , including operations in syria .
on tuesday a u.s. navy seal was the third serviceman to die fighting isis in iraq.but many iraqis still aren t convinced the americans are on their side.government-allied shiite militiamen on the front-lines post videos of u.s. supplies purportedly seized from isis militants or found in areas liberated from the extremist group .
newspapers and tv networks repeat conspiracy theories that the u.s. created the jihadi group to sow chaos in the region in order to seize its oil.skepticism about u.s. motives is deeply rooted in iraq , where many still blame the chaos after the 2003 invasion that toppled saddam hussein on american malice rather than incompetence read more at military.comread more isis news at : 21st century wire isis files