cleveland ( reuters ) - the mayor of youngstown , ohio , on friday accepted a plea agreement on multiple political corruption charges involving a property deal made while he was a county commissioner in the area , the state ’ s attorney general ’ s office said .
mayor john mcnally , a democrat , pleaded guilty to four misdemeanor counts including unlawful influence of a public official , said daniel tierney , spokesman for ohio attorney general mike dewine .
youngstown is a city of 67,000 people about 65 miles southeast of cleveland .
the plea allows mcnally , who was elected mayor in 2014 , to stay in office .
the conspiracy , bribery and perjury charges stem from his nine years as mahoning county commissioner starting in 2005 until he was elected mayor .
under ohio law , a felony conviction bars anyone from holding most public offices for seven years .
prosecutors said mcnally was part of a scheme to inflate the cost of moving the mahoning county jobs and family services office from a rental property to benefit a local business owner .
mcnally had previously been indicted on similar charges in 2010 .
the charges were dismissed , but the judge ruled they could be filed again at a later date .
former mahoning county auditor michael sciortino and youngstown attorney martin yavorcik along with mcnally were part of an 83-count indictment brought in 2014 by the ohio attorney general ’ s office alleging a pattern of corruption .
sciortino , also a democrat , pleaded guilty to one felony count and two misdemeanor charges including receiving or soliciting improper compensation .
sentencing for mcnally and sciortino is scheduled for march 28 in cuyahoga county courthouse , in downtown cleveland .
mcnally faces a maximum 18 months in prison , sciortino faces a maximum of 2-1/2 years , tierney said .
in addition to the plea in a cuyahoga county court , sciortino agreed to plead guilty to one felony and one misdemeanor in mahoning county court at a later date , tierney said .
prosecutors said sciortino is accused of tampering with records to inflate the cost of moving the county jobs office .
yavorcik accepted political contributions as a candidate for prosecutor in exchange for a promise to stop investigations into wrongdoing by county officials , according to the indictment .
his trial is scheduled for march 14 in cuyahoga county .