wow these sound exactly like the type of people we want living next door to us .
it s not so hard to see why so many americans are enthusiastic about trump s promise to build the wall build the wall ! the huffington post has published a photograph ( above ) of former mexican president vicente fox giving donald trump the finger , taken a day before fox apologized to trump in an interview with breitbart news.the photograph was originally shared on social media by ben mathis , host of the kickass politics podcast , which interviewed fox last tuesday .
breitbart news interviewed fox the following day in santa monica , california.mathis posted the photograph with the message : vicente fox & i have a message for donald trump .
listen to a preview of his most controversial interview yet , recorded just one day before his apology to trump aired on breitbart .
on twitter , kickass politics teased the interview as fox responding to trump though the two had already responded to each other , with fox apologizing via breitbart and trump accepting the apology the following day.kickass politics also added the nevertrump hashtag.in most controversial interview yet @ vicentefoxque responds to @ realdonaldtrump https : //t.co/9ayiuvmjoo # nevertrump pic.twitter.com/jfrkw5o8i7 kickass news ( @ kickassnewspod ) may 9 , 2016according to huffington post overnight editor ed mazza , fox told mathis that trump is an ugly american and hated gringo , and reiterated that he would not pay for the fucking wall on the border , adding : and please don t take out the fucking full word .
mazza adds : in the kickass politics conversation , fox was anything but apologetic .
he called the presumptive republican presidential nominee crazy and a false prophet , and compared him to latin american demagogues who destroy economies .
he also said some of trump s proposals could lead to war .
don t play around with us , fox said .
we can jump walls .
we can swim rivers .
and we can defend ourselves .
the following day , fox told breitbart : i apologize .
forgiveness is one of the greatest qualities that human beings have , is the quality of a compassionate leader .
you have to be humble .
you have to be compassionate .
you have to love thy neighbor .
update : the huffington post has attached its mandatory disclaimer on all trump stories : editor s note : donald trump regularly incites political violence and is a serial liar , rampant xenophobe , racist , misogynist and birther who has repeatedly pledged to ban all muslims 1.6 billion members of an entire religion from entering the u.s.for entire story : breitbart news