washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate marco rubio voiced regret on wednesday about making personal attacks against front-runner donald trump , a strategy that has failed to slow the new york billionaire ’ s momentum.rubio , trump , ohio governor john kasich and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , the four remaining republican presidential candidates , participated in a round of fox news-sponsored town hall events a day before they meet for another debate on thursday in miami .
rubio , whose campaign is fighting for survival after a series of disappointing performances in nominating contests for the nov. 8 election , has drawn fire for a line of attack in recent weeks in which he got personal with trump .
he called him a con artist and said among other things that he had small hands , a charge that trump took to mean as questioning the size of his manhood .
until rubio got personal , the u.s. senator from florida had largely stayed above the fray and had focused his assault on trump from a policy standpoint .
he told fox news ’ “ the kelly file ” that if he had to do it over again , he would handle the issue differently .
“ my kids were embarrassed by it .
my wife didn ’ t like it .
i don ’ t think it reflects good .
that ’ s not who i am .
that ’ s not what my campaign is going to be about or will ever be about again , ” rubio said .
“ i ’ d do it differently – on the personal stuff .
i ’ m not telling you he didn ’ t deserve it , but that ’ s not who i am and that ’ s not what i want to be , ” he added .
rubio , 44 , fared poorly when michigan , mississippi , idaho and hawaii voted on tuesday .
he needs to win his home state of florida next tuesday or face calls for him to exit the race .
he said opinion polls showing him lagging far behind trump in florida were not accurate .
“ the fact of the matter is the only poll that counts is the one they ’ ll take on tuesday when they count the votes that these people are going to cast and we ’ re going to win in florida , ” he said .
cruz , 45 , looking to emerge as the main trump alternative should rubio and kasich falter , said he would keep the focus of the campaign on substantive issues .
“ i don ’ t have any views on donald trump ’ s anatomy , ” cruz said at his fox news town hall .
kasich , at his fox news town hall , said he believed he had a path forward if he wins his home state of ohio on tuesday , but that it involved a convention fight when republicans gather to officially pick their nominee in cleveland in july .
a contested convention would result if trump , 69 , does not win the required 1,237 delegates , forcing delegates to decide whether to back him at the convention or find a consensus candidate such as kasich , 63 .
president gerald ford and challenger ronald reagan staged a spirited nomination fight at the 1976 republican national convention , but no republican convention has gone beyond a single ballot since thomas dewey ’ s third-ballot win in 1948 .
trump , who has come under withering attack by mainstream republicans for his statements on muslims , illegal immigrants and trade policy , said at his fox news town hall he had attracted many new voters to the republican party with his crossover appeal .
he said establishment republicans would be risking the energy he had brought to the race by trying to prevent him from winning .
“ they would be so foolish to throw it away , ” he told host sean hannity .
( reporting by steve holland ; editing by peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .