mubashra uddin , a 20-year-old muslim college student and daughter of pakistani immigrants dropped her newborn infant out of an eight-story apartment window in chicago on november 11 , 2015 , and was just sentenced to only four years of probation.in the strict muslim home where uddin was raised , even speaking to boys particularly african-american ones was forbidden , relatives said.when her pakistan-born parents found out about her boyfriend , they pulled her out of the high school and home-schooled her for her last two years , according to her family and friends.uddin found out she was pregnant when she was 19 and only told her boyfriend and her closest friend .
but in the strict muslim home where uddin was raised , even speaking to boys particularly african-american ones was forbidden , relatives said .
when her pakistan-born parents found out about her boyfriend , they pulled her out of the high school and home-schooled her for her last two years , according to her family and friends.she gave birth in her room in a three-bedroom apartment shared with her family in chicago s uptown neighborhood.shortly after giving birth , she heard her mother coming down the hall and dropped her newborn out of her eight-story window.the newborn suffered broken ribs , a fractured skull , and spine , and a lacerated aorta and liver .
a neighbor found the infant , still alive , on the ground , wrapped her up , and brought her to the hospital where she later died .
the act of dropping a newborn out of an eighth-story window to its eventual death is exceedingly evil , exceedingly cruel , judge james brown said thursday as he ordered uddin held without bail .
with all her family has put her through , i m surprised she didn t jump out of the window herself , said the mother of uddin s former boyfriend , who asked not to be identified in order to keep her son s identity secret .
sometimes she felt under pressure to be this perfect daughter even pressure to be this perfect muslim woman that prayed , fasted , was humble and also didn t make mistakes , a longtime friend , identified only as nina o. , wrote to the judge.uddin loved babies , according to family and friends.prosecutors said that after she admitted guilt , police searched her home and found bloody sheets , bloody scissors and blood on the floor next to her bed , as well as near and on the window .
chicago tribunein contrast : earlier this year a connecticut dad was sentenced to 70 years in prison without parole for dropping his infant son off of a bridge .
see story here .