new delhi ( reuters ) - stopping rohingya refugees from crossing india s porous eastern border with bangladesh is straining the resources of guards battling to halt a flow of smuggled cattle in the opposite direction , security officials say .
more than half a million muslim rohingya , a stateless ethnic minority , have fled myanmar for bangladesh since violence erupted on aug. 25 , but it is not clear how many then sought to travel on to india .
last month india ordered its border guards to use rude and crude methods , such as chilli and stun grenades , to block their entry .
but that directive clashes with another task india s hindu nationalist government has set its border guards - to keep cows , seen by many hindus as sacred , from being smuggled into bangladesh for slaughter , in a trade worth $ 600 million a year .
it s hard to stop cows and human beings at the same time , a senior official of india s border security force ( bsf ) , which has about 30,000 troops patrolling the frontier with bangladesh , said in new delhi , the capital .
the collective duty to seize cattle and push rohingyas is having a negative impact on the morale of our troops , added the official , who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the media .
we have conveyed this message to the top government officials .
he was one of four senior officials who told reuters that prime minister narendra modi s government must decide which task should get priority .
an official of the indian home ministry told reuters the authorities were working to tackle the concerns of the border guards , who have been successful in blocking entry of the rohingya .
india wants to deport about 40,000 rohingya refugees who arrived in previous years , calling them a threat to national security , despite an outcry from rights groups .
since the violence in myanmar , there has been a sudden rise in the number of cattle coming from india , said traders in bangladesh , which considers the border trade legal .
there are fewer obstacles to getting cattle from india right now , said rabiul alam , secretary of the bangladesh meat traders association , which has about 1,000 members .
in july , india s top court suspended a government ban on the trade of cattle for slaughter , giving a boost to its meat and leather industries , worth more than $ 16 billion in annual sales , and run mostly by members of the muslim minority .
the slaughter of cows was already banned in most parts of india , but hindu hardliners and cow vigilante groups have been increasingly asserting themselves since modi s government came to power in 2014 .
stopping the cattle smugglers is not easy .
at least 400 border guards have been injured and six killed in such operations since 2015 , bsf figures show .
the guards often have to wade through fields and ponds , wielding bamboo sticks and ropes to deter smugglers and round up the cattle .
injuries to guards is almost a routine affair now , said r. p. singh , a bsf official in west bengal state , which shares a 2,216-km ( 1,375-mile ) border with bangladesh .