washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama on monday said china recognized it could not sustain an export-driven growth model indefinitely but that it would take time to change .
speaking to state governors at the white house , obama urged them to press the u.s. congress to approve the trans-pacific partnership trade pact to boost u.s. exports in a region where china is “ the 800-pound gorilla. ” obama said it was tempting for china to try to solve its short-term problems by dumping state-subsidized goods into the u.s. market but said his administration had made clear to china that would not work , obama said .
“ they recognize that they can ’ t forever sustain an export-driven growth model , but it ’ s going to take some time and it ’ s tempting for them to solve short-term problems by just dumping a bunch of state-subsidized goods into the u.s. market , ” obama said in response to a question raising concerns about china ’ s exports of iron ore. “ we ’ ve been very clear with them about the fact that that ’ s not going to work , and we ’ re going to put in place tools to make sure it doesn ’ t work , ” he said .
obama also said the united states had made clear china needed to have an orderly market-based currency system that did not advantage its companies over their u.s. counterparts .
“ right now , frankly , their intervention is to prop up their currency rather than to devalue it , because a lot of people have been nervous about the chinese economy , ” he said .
obama told the governors he was “ cautiously optimistic ” that congress ultimately will back the 12-nation tpp trade pact , which labor unions oppose because of what obama called “ emotions ” about job losses from past trade deals .
“ our concern there was that china was the 800-pound gorilla .
and if we allowed them to set trade rules out there , american businesses and american workers were going to be cut out , ” he said .
obama said he would have to rely on votes from “ a set of strong pro-trade democrats ” in congress as well as republicans .
but obama acknowledged that republicans have also “ some concerns along the margins ” of the tpp , such as provisions affecting tobacco , and said the campaign for the nov. 8 presidential election has “ roiled ” the debate in both parties .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , a republican , has said he has “ some problems ” with the tpp and does not think it should be pursued before the election .