the one world trade center twitter account announced they would be lighting the tower green in solidarity with the # parisagreement # onewtc will be lit green tonight in solidarity with the # parisagreement @ onewtc one world trade ( @ onewtc ) june 1 , 2017hundreds of people protested in lower manhattan and buildings were lit green in solidarity after president trump declared thursday that the u.s. is withdrawing from the landmark paris climate agreement.about 400 protesters gathered at foley square after trump s announcement .
they held signs and chanted , what do we want ?
climate justice !
when do we want it ?
now !
the crowd marched through the streets to nearby city hall , where they pounded drums and chanted , you can t drink oil , leave it in the soil !
in a show of solidarity , gov .
cuomo said one world trade center and the kosciuszko bridge would be lit green on thursday night .
mayor de blasio said city hall would also light up green .
nbcnywatch : one world trade center lights up green after president trump ditches global climate agreement https : //t.co/schsiqp25r pic.twitter.com/m8r66yygnm nbc new york ( @ nbcnewyork ) june 2 , 2017twitter users responded to liberals and the liberal media who heralded the decision to use the wtc site to trash trump .
kelly called the decision to use the wtc for international political purposes , disgusting that is disgusting using the world trade center for international political purposes !
that is american sacred ground .
kelly t ( @ ktellmemore ) june 3 , 2017kelly t wasn t the only twitter user who found the politicizing of the wtc site to be disgusting : world trade center people better get their act together blowout the green candle it 's disgusting and if it was blasio it makes worse . !
pic.twitter.com/m7ze3puh5c joseph e pintinalli ( @ 1handputter ) june 3 , 2017others were offended that one world trade center was being used as a political pawn disgusting the wtc is sacred ground of the usa not a political pawn michael ( @ mweis1964 ) june 3 , 2017https : //twitter.com/entreamis1000/status/870996745215295494others mocked their hypocrisy , as they used large amounts of electricity to light the massive tower : so they lit the building up using electricity and expanding their carbon footprint ? that will show us ! !
meier ben avraham ( @ hebrewservative ) june 2 , 2017that makes sense show green and waste electricity william burrows ( @ wabr101 ) june 3 , 2017