( reuters ) - senate republican leaders released an updated version of their healthcare bill on thursday that would dismantle obamacare after an attempt to bring an earlier version of the legislation to a vote fell apart amid an intraparty revolt .
the new version of the bill did little to assuage concerns of moderate republicans , who worried that its deep cuts to medicaid would harm their most vulnerable residents .
two republican senators said they would not even vote to open debate on the bill .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell can only afford to lose two of his party ’ s 52 republicans , with vice president mike pence ready to cast a tie-breaking vote .
the senate added a number of changes to the bill in an attempt to win more support .
here are the main provisions of the new version of the bill : the bill contains an amendment from conservative republican senator ted cruz that would allow insurers to sell stripped-down , low-cost insurance plans that do not comply with obamacare ’ s requirement that insurers cover a set of 10 essential health benefits .
those benefits include maternity and newborn care , mental health services and addiction treatment , outpatient care , hospitalization , emergency room visits and prescription drugs .
insurers are strongly opposed to the amendment , which they say would raise insurance premiums for sick people , destabilize the individual insurance market and undermine protections for those with pre-existing medical conditions .
senior republican senate aides said the nonpartisan congressional budget office ( cbo ) would assess a version of the legislation with the amendment , and one without it .
the bill retains two key taxes on the wealthy created by obamacare to help pay for other provisions in the legislation .
it keeps a 3.8 percent net investment income surtax for individuals earning more than $ 200,000 and couples earning more than $ 250,000 , and a 0.9 percent surtax for the medicare insurance program for the elderly on people with those incomes .
it also keeps obamacare ’ s limits on corporate tax deductions for executive pay in the health insurance industry .
those earning between zero and 350 percent of the federal poverty level are eligible for tax credits under the proposal , but the credits are generally less generous than those provided under obamacare .
under obamacare , those earning between 100 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level are eligible for tax credits .
as with the earlier version , the bill repeals several obamacare taxes , including on the pharmaceutical , medical device and health insurance industries .
it also repeals a fine on individuals who do not purchase health insurance , as well as a penalty on employers who do not provide health insurance .
the bill leaves in place an overhaul of the medicaid government health insurance program for the poor .
moderate republicans had been hoping the updated version would soften the cuts , which they said would devastate their most vulnerable residents .
the bill unwinds obamacare ’ s medicaid expansion over three years , from 2021 to 2024 .
but it goes beyond repealing obamacare by imposing drastic cuts to medicaid that deepen in 2025 .
the cbo estimated the bill would cut medicaid by nearly $ 800 billion by 2026 , and would cut medicaid 35 percent come 2036 .
the bill contains an additional $ 45 billion for the opioid epidemic that has devastated parts of the united states , including west virginia , ohio and pennsylvania .
that is on top of the $ 2 billion included in the previous version of the bill .
the legislation also contains an additional $ 70 billion beyond the $ 112 billion in the earlier version for states to help insurers keep down rising insurance premiums and help lower-income insurance holders cover out-of-pocket medical expenses .