mogadishu ( reuters ) - somali security forces have arrested a former minister and outspoken government critic after clashing with his bodyguards during an overnight raid on his home , the security ministry said on monday .
abdirahman abdishakur was a candidate in a february election won by president mohamed abdullahi mohamed whose united nations-backed government faces growing pressure over its failure to put an end to an islamist militant insurgency .
abdishakur was arrested for treason , a spokesman for the internal security ministry abdiasis ali told reporters at a news conference , without giving more details .
he also declined to comment on reports that five bodyguards were killed and that abdishakur had been lightly injured during the raid .
the former minister was legally arrested by decree from the attorney general and internal security minister .
he was accused of treason .
his guards fought the security forces , he said .
a policeman and a local elder told reuters earlier that five bodyguards were killed during the raid .
the elder , abdullahi ali , also said abdishakur had been injured on the arm by a stray bullet .
at the same news conference on monday , attorney general ahmed ali dahir described abdishakur s house as a hub for the opposition and a gathering point for people who want to collapse the government .
we also warn those who meet at hotels , he added .
many somali officials including lawmakers live in fortified hotels for the security they offer .
before sunday s raid dahir had accused two other lawmakers of treason , prompting abdishakur to post an angry response on facebook .
let lawmakers be strangled , let their immunity be removed : this is a hopeless attack which portrays despair .
the raid drew condemnation from other politicians .
what the government is doing is against islam and healthy politics , lawmaker mahad salad told reuters .
we condemn the government s immoral act .
we also order for the release of the ex-minister .
the presidential election in february was praised by western aid donors as a modest step forward from the previous election but the insurgency is striking with ever larger and more deadly attacks in the capital and major towns .
more than 500 people were killed in twin bomb blasts in mogadishu in october .
last week a suicide bomber killed at least 18 people at a mogadishu police academy .
the government is also struggling under political infighting and a very weak central state .
reuters reported last week that the united states is suspending food and fuel aid for most of somalia s armed forces over corruption concerns , a blow to the military as african peacekeepers start to withdraw this month .
[ l3n1o64mi ]