berlin ( reuters ) - same-sex couples married in germany for the first time on sunday , with several dozen couples tying the knot at civil registry offices that opened specially to mark the coming into force of a law passed by parliament in june .
among them were karl kreile , 59 , and bodo mende , 60 , who became germany s first married gay couple , exchanging vows at the town hall in the berlin borough of schoeneberg on sunday after 38 years together .
yes , i do , said kreile , to applause from guests , before kissing his new husband .
they then signed the marriage certificate .
later , guests feasted on a rainbow-colored wedding cake decorated with the slogan marriage for all .
speaking after the ceremony , mende called for germany and the european union to do more to promote gay rights across europe .
especially in more conservative regions of eastern europe , acceptance of gay rights is still minimal .
we don t need to look far , just to the neighbor countries where the situation is more disturbing , he said , an apparent reference to poland and others where same-sex marriage is still not allowed .
earlier , he had described the campaign to achieve equal marriage in germany as 25 years of hard struggle .
germany s parliament approved marriage equality in june after chancellor angela merkel chose to make the vote a matter of conscience , freeing her social democrat coalition partners and many of her conservative lawmakers to vote for it .
rights organizations say more needs to be done to achieve full equality .
it is still impossible for children born into a lesbian couple to have both parents as a legal mother .
kreile and mende , who registered their civil partnership 15 years ago , shortly after it became legal to do so in germany , first tried to marry a quarter of a century ago .
i remember how it felt when we went to the registry office in berlin charlottenburg to request marriage , said kreile , describing a publicity-raising campaign he and his partner had participated in .
the official was nice , and so were the couples before and after us in the line , telling us : we understand what you want .
but afterwards i still had to feel a sense of shame .
i felt discriminated against , being sent out again , he added .
some technical problems remain .
the government s registry software recognizes only opposite-sex marriages and will only be updated next year .
until then , even same-sex couples will be recorded as husband and wife .