is it possible the french have lost their appetite for our pro-open borders hollywood liberals misrepresenting the truth about the inundation of muslim men into their towns and communities ?
cannes another day , another dud .
in its early days , the 69th cannes film festival was one of pleasant surprises , including a three-hour german-language art-house comedy , toni erdmann , that had critics applauding during as well as after the film .
then there was paterson , a jim jarmusch creation starring adam driver as a bus driver who writes poetry .
the well-received film plays out like something of a poem itself .
and even if it doesn t win any official prizes , it has already captured the palme dog for best canine performance , by a bulldog named nellie.but many of cinema s big names have proven less reliable .
woody allen s caf society and stephen spielberg s the bfg , both opening out of competition , were solid but hardly the directors best work .
a thursday night screening of the neon demon , written and directed by nicolas winding refn and starring elle fanning , drew jeers for its lurid , over-the-top stew of vampirism , cannibalism and a touch of necrophilia.that was followed the next morning by the last face , sean penn s fifth film as a director and his first since 2007 s into the wild .
it s a story of refugee crises and humanitarian aid ( subjects with which the activist penn is intimately familiar ) but also , as an opening text explains with a thud : about the love ( pause ) between a man ( pause ) and a woman .
you could hear the groans from the crowd.charlize theron and javier bardem lead an international cast that includes britain s jared harris and french star jean reno .
they are aid workers whose tumultuous love affair plays out over a decade and many explosions and , lest we doubt their passion , through a variety of slow-motion scenes , soft-focus lenses and choral music.penn had little to say about the negative reaction to the last face .
i ve finished the film so it s not a discussion that i feel i can be of any value to , he said .
i stand behind the film as it is , and everybody is going to be well entitled to their response .
via : national post