tunis ( reuters ) - a tunisian police officer who was stabbed by a suspected islamist died of his wounds on thursday , and security unions threatened to stage protests if parliament fails to legislate tougher protections for security force personnel .
the suspect , named as zied gharbi , was arrested on wednesday after two policemen suffered knife wounds near the parliament .
he shouted allahu akbar - god is greatest - as he stabbed the policeman in the neck , witness and officials said .
the attack was close to the bardo museum where 21 people , mostly european tourists , were killed in an attack by gunmen in march 2015 .
tunisia suffered two other major attacks that year , one against tourists at the beach resort of sousse and the other against presidential guards in the capital .
our colleague riadh barrouta died thursday after the terrorist attack in bardo yesterday , walid hkima , a national security spokesman , said .
the attacker was 25 and from ettadamen , one of the largest , poorest suburbs of tunis .
the interior ministry said wednesday s attacker had confessed that he had adopted takfiri thought three years ago and believes that killing security forces is a form of jihad .
takfiri is a term for a hardline sunni muslim who labels followers of other schools of islam unbelievers , often as a justification for fighting them .
zied gharbi has no ties with islamist groups , but he had been influenced by hardline ideology on the internet , officials said .
initial investigations showed that this terrorist does not belong to any terrorist organization , he had not received orders from any group , hkima said .
security unions said in a joint statement on thursday they would give the parliament two weeks to approve a new law strengthening punishments for assaults on security forces .
the bill , sent to the parliament two years ago , also aims to give policemen more powers in the face of any possible threat .
if the parliament will not pass the bill in two weeks , we will stop providing personal protection to political party leaders and will hold protests .
we will escalate , the statement added .
parliament speaker mohamed naceur said on wednesday that the bill should be expedited , but added that a dialogue with civil society should be held to respect human rights and the constitution .
local and international organizations including human rights watch have rejected the bill , asked to withdraw it from parliament and said it promotes a culture of impunity .
the 2015 attacks severely damaged the economy of the north african country , where tourists visiting its mediterranean coast are a significant source of revenue .
since then , security has been boosted and authorities have cracked down on militants , dismantling dozens of cells .