brussels ( reuters ) - cheers from angela merkel s conservative allies in brussels at her re-election on sunday belie wider unease at how the german chancellor will deal with an awkward new coalition and a surge in support for the far-right .
with angela merkel , germany remains the strong and reliable partner in europe , tweeted manfred weber , a merkel ally who leads the biggest party bloc in the european parliament .
but one source in the european people s party saw trouble ahead in her need to replace her battered social democrat grand coalition partners with an alliance of both the left-leaning greens and the resurgent , economically hawkish liberals of the fdp .
things worked very smoothly with the socialists , the epp source said .
now , you don t know what s going to happen .
the broad expectation is for a jamaica coalition the country s flag comprises the three parties colors .
martin selmayr , german chief-of-staff to european commission president jean-claude juncker , sent a tweet consisting only of three flags : jamaica s green , yellow and black flanked by two blue eu banners a reflection of hope in brussels of continued eu commitment from berlin that some fear may now be problematic .
one casualty of merkel s weakness may be a rapid move to deepen integration of the euro zone along lines that new french president emmanuel macron is expected to outline on tuesday .
those plans , as with reform proposals floated this month by european commission president jean-claude juncker , may run into increased scepticism in berlin , where many are wary of what they see as more demands for german bailouts of states like greece .
resistance may come both from merkel s christian democrats , spooked by the surge on their right flank , where alternative for germany ( afd ) entered parliament as the third biggest party , and from the free democrats ( fdp ) , whose leader christian lindner ruled out germany contributing to a shared euro zone budget .
the liberal leader in the european parliament , committed federalist and former belgian premier guy verhofstadt , said he hoped for a pro-european coalition to push eu integration .
the fdp leader in the eu legislature , alexander graf lambsdorff , said it was an open-minded , pro-european party .
the european greens german co-chair reinhard butikofer said his party wanted to strengthen the european union , making use of the window of opportunity that exists ... between paris , brussels and berlin .
he was referring to a keynote speech by juncker 10 days ago in which the eu chief executive said anti-eu populists were in retreat and called for deeper eu integration .
but guntram wolff , the german director of the brussels think-tank bruegel , questioned juncker s thinking .
he forecast a rightward shift in germany due to the afd and resistance from the fdp that would stymie macron and juncker s grand visions .
populism definitely not dead , wolff tweeted .
juncker speech completely miscalculated the situation .