washington ( reuters ) - a quarter of republicans think white house hopeful ted cruz is disqualified to serve as u.s. president because he was born in canada to an american mother , a new reuters/ipsos poll found .
republican voters nearly mirror independents and the broader electorate in their belief that cruz can not hold the white house , with 27 percent of all voters and 28 percent of independents responding he should be disqualified .
cruz , a u.s .
senator from texas who was born to a u.s. citizen mother and cuban father in calgary , alberta , has brushed aside the attacks about his eligibility as pure politics .
but the questions could hamper his ability to rally the broad republican support he would need to win the party ’ s nomination to run for the presidency in november ’ s election .
only 47 percent of all voters surveyed responded that they thought cruz is qualified to be president with regard to his citizenship , with 26 percent saying they were not sure .
the poll was taken from jan. 7 to jan. 14 , before questions about cruz ’ s eligibility became one of the most heated moments of thursday night ’ s republican primary debate .
new york businessman and reality tv star donald trump has made questions about cruz ’ s eligibility a regular attack line on the campaign trail and the debate stage .
“ i already know the democrats are going to be bringing a suit .
you have a big lawsuit over your head while you ’ re running , and if you become the nominee , who the hell knows if you can even serve in office ? ” trump said during thursday night ’ s debate .
“ so you should go out , get a declaratory judgment , let the courts decide. ” but cruz tried to use trump ’ s own previous words against him in response .
“ back in september , my friend donald said that he had his lawyers look at this from every which way and there was nothing to do this , ” cruz said .
“ since september , the constitution hasn ’ t changed , but the poll numbers have. ” trump became a conservative darling in 2011 when he repeatedly questioned president barack obama ’ s eligibility to be president , insisting that the president may have been born in another country and demanding to see his birth certificate .
obama was born in hawaii .
it made trump one of the most well-known “ birthers , ” a term used to describe those who insisted obama had been born elsewhere .
the constitutional issue at question is the requirement that a president be a “ natural born ” citizen .
cruz , 45 , has argued that because he became a citizen at the time he was born , that makes him qualify as natural born .
but his opponents argue that at the time of the writing of the constitution , natural born would have required being born on american soil .
u.s .
senator john mccain , who ran as the republican nominee in 2008 , was born in panama , but argued he met the requirement because his birth took place on a u.s. military installation , which is the same as american soil .
the poll , which has a confidence interval of 5 percentage points , posed two questions to two separate polls of voters .
one group was asked about cruz ’ s eligibility .
the other half was asked a generic question about the eligibility of anyone born in canada with an american parent .
( reporting by ginger gibson and chris kahn ; editing by grant mccool ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .