tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - honduras faced a growing election crisis on wednesday , with its u.s.-friendly president edging ahead in troubled vote count that his centrist rival , a television game show host allied with leftists , has rejected , saying he is being robbed .
three days after polling stations closed in honduras presidential election , there was growing international concern with no clear winner and both men claiming victory , despite nearly a fifth of ballots remaining uncounted .
stricken with poverty , drug gangs and one of the world s highest murder rates , honduras is one of the united states closest military and ideological allies in central america .
on wednesday , the u.s. state department urged a quick conclusion to the vote count , which has been widely criticized .
resolution to the festering crisis had appeared possible on wednesday when both candidates vowed to respect the final result once disputed votes had been scrutinized , issuing identical signed statements brokered by the organization of american states ( oas ) .
but the accord did not last long .
centrist opposition candidate salvador nasralla - who had watched with disbelief as his original 5-point lead evaporated , allowing center-right president juan orlando hernandez to edge ahead by 3,000 votes - told reporters that he rejected the document he had signed just a few hours before .
nasralla cited an hours-long technical glitch at the election tribunal , and fears that hernandez was planning to unilaterally declare himself victorious , as his reasons for dismissing the results of the electoral body .
they take us for idiots and want to steal our victory , said nasralla , who heads a coalition of leftist and centrist parties .
the document i signed today with the oas has no validity , he added , calling it a trap and pledging to take to the streets to defend his votes .
the oas said in a tweet that it regretted nasralla had withdrawn from the pact , and that it would continue working for justice in the elections .
later on wednesday , police fired tear gas to disperse nasralla supporters gathered outside the election tribunal where the vote was being counted .
the fumes entered the building , prompting its staff to be evacuated , television images showed .
with around 82.89 percent of ballots counted , the center-right hernandez had 42.2 percent of the vote , while nasralla was on 42.1 percent , the tribunal said .
hernandez s national party appears set to retain control of congress .
as he caught his rival , hernandez s blue-clad supporters celebrated , chanting the president s name at a party base in capital tegucigalpa , tv images showed , while thousands of nasralla supporters took to the streets .
i m here so that justice and the will of the people is carried out , because we elected salvador nasralla , and juan orlando hernandez wants to steal his victory , said 22-year-old david ramirez , a red political flag draped over his shoulder .
the election body published more than half of the results of sunday s election early on monday , but faced international criticism for an ensuing 36-hour delay in releasing further data .
the count halted again late on wednesday afternoon .
tribunal chief david matamoros apologized to the nation for a fresh computer glitch that derailed operations .
we ve had a problem that we regret and that we didn t expect to have , and that we re resolving as quickly as possible , he said .
sometimes in an election , you can have a system failure , but never in a moment as critical as this .
international observers said the delays were damaging the credibility of authorities and threatened to undermine the legitimacy of the next president .
on wednesday , u.s. state department spokeswoman heather nauert urged honduran authorities to review the election results without delay .
we urge all candidates to respect the results , she said .
behind closed doors , the parties of hernandez , the pre-vote favorite , and nasralla were discussing immunity from prosecution for current officials and carving up positions in government , two diplomats told reuters on tuesday .
with a booming voice and finely coiffed hair , nasralla is one of honduras best known faces , hosting a sports programme and a television game show that features scantily clad women .
in one interview , he boasted of his penis size and his sexual performance .
he is backed by leftist former president manuel zelaya , who was ousted in a coup in 2009 after he proposed a referendum on his re-election .
the possible return of zelaya risks fueling concern in washington .
hernandez has won u.s. praise for helping tackle a flow of migrants to the north and extraditing drug cartel leaders to the united states .
he was credited with lowering the murder rate and boosting the economy , but was also hurt by accusations of ties to illicit , drug-related financing that he denies .