rome ( reuters ) - the italian parliament approved the government s latest economic forecasts on wednesday , but the senate vote exposed deep divisions on the political left that could complicate the drafting of the 2018 budget .
prime minister paolo gentiloni s coalition won two votes in the upper house on the treasury s economic and financial document ( def ) , even though parliamentarians with the leftist mdp party walked out of one of the ballots .
the mdp was formed earlier this year following a schism in the democratic party ( pd ) , with a small group of left-wingers accusing pd leader matteo renzi of shifting the ruling party too far to the right and shunning its socialist roots .
national elections are due in early 2018 , and political jockeying is on the increase as italy s myriad parties seek to establish clearly defined identities ahead of the vote .
the mdp , backed by former prime minister massimo d alema , is particularly anxious to put clear water between itself and renzi s pd , seizing on the def to push its demands for more money to be spent on health care and job creation .
we have sent a political signal , said mdp senator federico fornaro .
gentiloni , who does not have a clearly defined majority in the upper house , was saved any embarrassment thanks to the backing of 12 senators from the center-right ala group , which is headed by denis verdini , previously close to former prime minister silvio berlusconi .
centre-left politicians said the mdp was trying to smear renzi by portraying him as a rightwinger .
the question of relations between the mdp and the government is tied to its competition with the pd ahead of the elections , said senior centrist politician mario catania .
the point is that the mdp is following d alema s line and pushing for the downfall of renzi .
the government has to present its budget by oct. 20 , giving parliament until the end of the year to approve the package in what could be the last major act of the legislature .
gentiloni hopes to get the backing of the mdp to guarantee smooth passage through both houses .
the def hiked the 2018 growth forecast to 1.5 percent from a previous target of 1.0 percent , giving the treasury room to present a more expansive budget than originally expected .
the health system is an area where we will weigh up measures to improve it and make it more efficient , economy minister pier carlo padoan told the senate on wednesday in an apparent nod to mdp demands .