brussels ( reuters ) - european governments are complicit in grave human rights violations in libya through their support for authorities there who often work with people smugglers and torture refugees and migrants , amnesty international said on tuesday .
amnesty said up to 20,000 people are now held in libyan detention centers for migrants and are subject to torture , forced labor , extortion , and unlawful killings .
other human rights organizations have said similar things in recent months .
the european support for libyan authorities is part of a plan to cut african immigration across the mediterranean .
it aims to lower the number of people who drown during the crossing and curb the scale of a political problem high arrivals cause to eu governments .
italy has spearheaded the plan , in particular by training and equipping the coastguard and by spending millions to back u.n. agencies working on relief efforts in libya .
european governments have not just been fully aware of these abuses ; by actively supporting the libyan authorities in stopping sea crossings and containing people in libya , they are complicit in these crimes , said john dalhuisen , amnesty international s head for europe .
on tuesday , italian prime minister paolo gentiloni defended the eu s policy in a speech to parliament ahead of this week s meeting of the bloc s leaders in brussels and said sea arrivals had dropped by two-thirds since last july .
it s thanks to us that a light is being shone on human rights in libya , he said , referring to million of euros italy and the eu spent on improving conditions for people stuck there .
a spokesperson for the bloc s executive european commission said : we are aware of the inhumane and terrible conditions some face .
we share the same objective as amnesty : saving lives .
it said the bloc s funding helped the u.n. agency for migration , the iom , send more than 15,000 people in libya to their home countries in africa .
at the same time , it said the bloc has also been slowly taking in genuine refugees .
libya is the main gateway for migrants trying to cross to europe by sea , though numbers have dropped sharply since july as libyan factions and authorities have begun to block departures under pressure from italy , the main landing point .
more than 600,000 have made the journey over the past four years .
the eu backs libya s coastguards in its efforts to intercept people heading to europe but they work closely with people smugglers who torture people for money , amnesty said .
by supporting libyan authorities in trapping people in libya ... european governments have shown where their true priorities lie : namely the closure of the central mediterranean route , with scant regard to the suffering caused , said dalhuisen .
some eu officials and diplomats chafe at the bloc s reliance on militias that have emerged since the fall of libya s leader muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
but eu leaders will recommit at their meeting in brussels on dec. 14-15 to a strategy they say is bearing fruit in the form of fewer sea crossings .
the presidency of libya s u.n.-backed government said last month it was a victim of illegal migration , not a source of it , and appealed to foreign powers to help stop flows from migrants countries of origin .