trump and his minions act like they re dead certain his inaugural numbers broke records , and that the press is lying about it via deceptively edited photos and numbers that can t possibly exist .
sean spicer claimed that trump s inaugural audience was the biggest in history , period , while trump himself said he could see maybe 1.5 million people out there .
then spicer tried to spin it to sound like he was talking about all viewers the live crowds , television audience , and people who streamed it online.oh , well , when you put it that way , we suppose it s possible trump s inauguration was the most-watched in history.or is it ? it s not.the actual numbers don t support any version of their insistence that trump s numbers broke records .
the washington post did an analysis of inaugural numbers , past and present , and found that trump doesn t even rank in the top three.in fact , he s in fifth place in modern history when you count the television audience .
he s behind obama in 2009 , nixon in 1973 , carter in 1977 and reagan in 1981 .
in fact , reagan s 81 inauguration at 41.8 million is where the record is , and where it will remain .
trump s 33.5 million total misses that by a hefty factor : chart via the washington postamazingly enough , spicer does have one fairly accurate number the 16.9 million people who he says streamed the inauguration .
he s using it in a very deceptive way , though .
that number is how many started streaming , but then switched to something else or turned it off entirely .
the number of people who started streaming and stayed put was just 2.3 million at the time trump took his oath of office.he s still behind reagan and obama , and also behind carter s 34.1 million.and he misses obama s numbers by a whopping 6 million .
obama had over 30 million presumable streaming starts for his inauguration that year .
even if all 30 million turned it off ( they didn t ) , obama still comes out ahead.the post report also mentions that trump s audience is older than obama s audience was , so it s not nearly as likely that more of his remote viewers streamed it online rather than watched it on tv.it doesn t matter how you slice it ; trump s numbers were nothing special.featured image by kevin dietsch via getty images