a trump presidency won t only wipe out political correctness in america ; it ll wipe it off the face of the earth .
political correctness is destroying america , and western civilization.this year america celebrates her 240th birthday .
if she is to make her tri-centennial in 2076 , a feat few great nations in history have achieved , it will need to crush this totalitarian ideology that is currently strangling it.every problem in america today is linked to political correctness .
declining educational standards , increasing secularism , the police not being allowed to do their job , an inability to secure her borders , a diminished america in the world theatre and reluctance to smash the evil of currently rampaging islamism all of it is rooted in politically-correct ideology .
nothing is more antithetical to america s foundational principles.political correctness seeks to eliminate individualism , identity and confidence ; three characteristics indispensable to american greatness .
if you want to see the end result , look no further than europe .
the intellectual tyranny , self-loathing and choking conformity of this ideology has feminized and weakened a once great continent which now aspires to mediocrity .
the same is true of america s english-speaking cousins.i write this not as an american.but as somebody that wants western civilization to prosper .
everyone has an investment in keeping the united states as culturally robust and powerful as imaginable , because the world s fortunes travel with it .
what is good for america is good for the world.i am here to tell you i ve lived your future , if you keep going , you re not going to like it .
it s why i ve written retaking america : crushing political correctness .the entire world looks on as americans make their choice for president .
the president of the united states is also the president of the free world .
all of us have a stake .
for example , people in australia aren t sleeping well right now because president obama is not keeping the world safe .
change can t come quickly enough for many around the world.the world needs an american president that is clear-minded and right-thinking .
that encourages a climate of straight talking and decisive action .
that has the moral clarity to defend christians and the west .
an alpha male prepared to win for his people.people are losing their jobs , missing out on opportunities and being targeted .
what was born on college campuses has been armed through social media by electronic cockroaches that should never have been given a voice .
the parameters of public debate have shrunk , and civil society s ability to conduct rational , cool-headed conversations is being usurped by a crude marketplace of outrage and a new victimhood movement .
freedom is an obvious casualty of political correctness , but following close behind is truth and reality.many people around the world despair .
but every now and again , a public figure emerges who transcends politics and has an undisputed ability to change the culture.this is why the world needs to use its trump card .
he is uniquely positioned to change the culture of the world , and restore american greatness and western confidence through attitude alone.a president trump would be the best thing , not only for america , but for the entire world.proud , confident , bold , patriotic , outspoken , self-reliant , mega-successful , charitable , a force of nature ; donald trump is american exceptionalism on steroids.for too long , america s educational and media elites have relentlessly and recklessly portrayed america as a hateful place .
it s not .
it s the greatest country in this history of the world .
but political correctness is giving it an identity crisis .
some may well call donald trump an egomaniac and his election to the highest office , risky but right now , america needs an ego-boost .
it needs to believe in itself again .
only then can there be an american renaissance.via : nick adams , for townhallnick adams is the brilliant author of retaking america : crushing political correctness available on amazon here