washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump , who scored a major victory in a series of super tuesday nominating contests , has been criticized by some in his party for being vague on policy specifics and heavy on rhetoric .
here is a closer look at what trump has said he would do on trade , taxes , the economy , immigration , healthcare and defense should he become the nominee and win the nov. 8 election .
the policies are drawn from a review of his website , stump speeches , debates and town halls , and televised interviews .
trump has complained that china , japan , mexico , vietnam and india are “ ripping us off ” by devaluing their currencies and keeping out some u.s. exports .
he would not sign the 12-nation trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade pact and would renegotiate the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) with mexico and canada .
he would designate china a currency manipulator and impose countervailing duties on its exports .
he also wants to pursue a world trade organization case on chinese government programs that subsidize exporters .
trump has said he would put activist investor carl icahn in charge of negotiating a better trade relationship with china .
icahn has said he is happy to advise trump , but would not seek a formal position if trump were elected .
trump has said he would slap 35 percent tariffs on air conditioners made by united technologies corp ’ s carrier in mexico after the company decided to move production there from indiana , and on ford motor corp vehicles made in mexico that are sold in the united states .
trump has pledged to cut and simplify taxes .
individuals making less than $ 25,000 per year and married filers earning less than $ 50,000 would not pay income tax .
there would be three other brackets , down from seven currently , with a top marginal income tax rate of 25 percent , and a top rate for long-term capital gains and dividends of 20 percent .
charitable giving and mortgage interest deductions would remain unchanged .
other deductions would be trimmed in the highest tax brackets .
he would eliminate the alternative minimum tax , the estate tax , and the carried interest tax break that allows investment fund managers to treat income as capital gains .
the corporate tax rate would be cut to 15 percent , down from the current level of 35 percent .
he would phase in a “ reasonable cap ” on deductions for business interest expenses and would cut other corporate loopholes .
trump would impose a one-time 10 percent “ deemed repatriation ” tax on deferred corporate overseas profits and would end deferral of income from foreign subsidiaries .
the tax foundation , an independent policy research group , has said trump ’ s plan would cost more than $ 10 trillion over the next decade .
his campaign has said the plan is fully paid for .
trump has pledged to get rid of the $ 19 trillion deficit by boosting jobs , and cutting government waste , but he has not released a formal policy paper on how he would do this .
he has said he would not cut the medicare and medicaid health care programs for senior citizens and low income americans , nor social security retirement benefits .
he would cut the education department and the environmental protection agency .
trump has promised to build a high wall at the southern border to keep out illegal immigrants that he has said would cost $ 10 billion to $ 12 billion .
mexico would pay for the wall or face consequences , his campaign said .
trump would “ impound ” remittance payments to mexico from undocumented workers , and increase visa and border crossing fees for mexican workers .
applying tariffs on mexican goods and cutting foreign aid are also “ options , ” his campaign has said on his website .
he would deport the 11 million undocumented people living in america and end “ birthright citizenship ” for children born in the united states to illegal immigrants .
he has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and would not allow refugees from syria .
trump would triple the number of border agents and require all businesses to use the e-verify database to ensure employees are in the country legally .
he would withhold federal funding from “ sanctuary cities ” that decline to help the federal government deport illegal immigrants .
trump ’ s campaign has also said he would “ pause ” new green cards and require employers to hire american workers first .
trump has said he would repeal the affordable care act , better known as obamacare , and replace it with a system of health savings accounts .
he would still require insurers to provide coverage to people with preexisting medical conditions , a key feature of obamacare .
he would move to allow insurance companies to sell plans across state lines to spur competition .
trump has said he could save the government $ 300 billion by negotiating better prices with drug companies .
trump has promised to “ knock out ” islamic state quickly and said he is open to working with russia to do so .
he has said he would “ bomb the oil ” that helps finance the insurgent group and stop the “ back channels of banking ” used by the group .
he has vowed to bring back the use of waterboarding , an interrogation technique that simulates drowning and has been banned as torture under u.s. law .
he said he also supports other , unspecified techniques “ a hell of a lot worse ” than waterboarding .
he would “ take out ” the family members of islamic state militants and would like to shut down “ areas ” of the internet to try to stop the group from recruiting members .
he wants to build a “ safe zone ” for syrian refugees in syria .
but gulf states would have to pay for it .
he has said the united states should first deal with islamic state before addressing president bashar al-assad ’ s future , saying “ we have to do one thing at a time. ” he has questioned whether the united states should back opposition groups in syria , saying “ we have no idea who they are. ” trump has said he would increase the size and power of the u.s. military to make it “ so strong , so powerful that nobody ’ s going to mess with us. ” he says too much money is wasted buying equipment the military does not want .
he wants japan , germany , south korea and saudi arabia to bear more of the cost of military aid provided by the united states .
“ we can no longer defend all of these countries , ” he said , citing the deficit .
trump would boost the u.s. military presence in the east and south china seas to “ discourage chinese adventurism , ” according to his website .