why is this criminal allowed to just skate by with such a short amount of jail time ? we know that this woman is working on a plea bargain but five years ? ? ?
the two things that are so outrageous about this entire case are that there was no oversight and that this went on for 8 years ! !
! using the feds as your own personal piggy bank : lorena loren s job was to help poor people find housing instead , prosecutors say , she was stealing from the poor to buy booze , makeup , clothes and homes for her relatives.but after years of scheming , authorities say , the government caught on .
it took 8 years ! in a public corruption case that surfaced in federal court today , loren , the former executive director of the st. clair housing commission , was charged with embezzling more than $ 300,000 in low-income housing funds and spending the money on herself and family.according to a charging document filed in u.s. district court , loren s scheme ran between 2008-2016 and benefited many family members , including her husband , son and son-in-law.prosecutors say loren s criminal activity started in 2008 five years after she was appointed executive director of the st. clair housing commission , which administers federally funded low-income housing programs in st. clair county.according to court records , loren used her job in many nefarious ways , including : she fraudulently used the housing commission s two credit cards to buy personal items for herself and relatives , including nearly $ 135,000 in online purchases from amazon.com ; $ 14,364 in purchases from sam s club in port huron , and $ 16,460 in purchases from various walmart stores .
the purchases included , among other things , adult and infant clothing , furniture , food , beauty supplies , medications and alcoholic beverages .
her unauthorized amazon.com purchases included $ 60,000 worth of bedroom furniture , mattresses , appliances and other household items for family members .
the items were shipped to loren s relatives in georgia and florida .
she embezzled $ 24,600 in commission funds to pay for her son s rental unit .
she lied on four government housing contracts by claiming that her son-in-law was the landlord of a rental property for low-income residents in michigan , when it was really her home in port austin .
she falsified lease agreements and stole public housing money that was supposed to help poor people to rent a home for her son .
she directed members of her family to establish bank accounts so that federal rental subsidy payments could be deposited into those accounts .
the relatives then used the money for their own personal use , including rent for their florida residences.loren is charged in what is known as an information , which typically means she is working on a deal with the government .
she is charged with conspiracy to commit federal program fraud .
if convicted , she faces up to five years in prison.loren home lorena loren bought this $ 325,000 home in georgia after federal prosecutors say she embezzled more than $ 336,000 from the st. clair housing commission.judicial watch : hud s inspector general has testified before congress about the severe mismanagement at offshoots functioning independently yet federally funded in states across the country that have fleeced taxpayers out of hundreds of millions of dollars .
he testified that his office discovered more than $ 200 million in questionable spending at local public housing agencies ( phas ) since 2012 .
phas are created by states , operate at the city or county level and administer the federal program known as section 8 to provide low-income people with affordable housing .
many of these local public housing agencies are run by people with troubled backgrounds that somehow manage to remain in high-ranking positions at the agencies , the watchdog told lawmakers back in 2014.dr ben carson needs to clean this up stat ! read more : dfp