donald trump is right again !
he said her e-mail was easily hacked by foreign governments .
the question has recently arisen of whether there s a blackmail file on hillary .
washington ( ap ) state department staffers wrestled for weeks in december 2010 over a serious technical problem with then-secretary hillary clinton s home email server , causing them to temporarily disable security features that left the server more vulnerable to hackers , according to emails released wednesday.just weeks later , according to previously disclosed emails , hackers attacked the server , forcing clinton s staff to shut it down .
the next day , one of clinton s closest aides , huma abedin , wrote to other high ranking staff : don t email hrc ( clinton ) anything sensitive .
i can explain more in person .
the emails were released under court order wednesday to the conservative legal advocacy group judicial watch , which has sued the state department over access to public records related to the presumptive democratic presidential nominee s service as the nation s top diplomat between 2009 and 2013.the emails , reviewed by the associated press , show that state department technical staff disabled software intended to block phishing emails that could deliver dangerous viruses .
they were trying urgently to resolve an apparent conflict between the server s built-in email delivery features with a version of scanmail for exchange security software from trend micro inc. that had been installed on her server .
clinton has not previously described any security protections on her server.another senior state department official , thomas w. lawrence , wrote days later in an email that abedin personally was asking for an update about the server repairs .
abedin and clinton , who both used the private server , had complained that emails each sent to state department employees were not being reliably received.after technical staffers turned off some security features , lawrence cautioned in an email , we view this as a band-aid and fear it s not 100 percent fully effective .
clinton s campaign has repeatedly denied there is any evidence her private email server ever was breached.on jan. 9 , 2011 , a state department it staffer was forced to shut down clinton s server because he believed someone was trying to hack us .
later that day , he wrote , we were attacked again so i shut ( the server ) down for a few min .
the ap reported last year that in the early morning hours of aug. 3 , 2011 , clinton received infected emails , disguised as speeding tickets from new york .
the emails instructed recipients to print the attached tickets .
opening an attachment would have allowed hackers to take over control of a victim s computer.in a blistering audit released last month , the state department s inspector general concluded that clinton and her team ignored clear internal guidance that her email setup broke federal standards and could leave sensitive material vulnerable to hackers .
her aides twice brushed aside concerns , in one case telling technical staff the matter was not to be discussed further , the report said.the state department has released more than 52,000 pages of clinton s work-related emails , including some that have since been classified .
clinton has withheld thousands of additional emails , saying they were personal .
the emails released wednesday were not made available until after the inspector general s office published its report , and judicial watch asked a federal judge to force the state department to turn them over.the fbi is also investigating whether clinton s use of the private email server imperiled government secrets .
it has recently interviewed clinton s top aides , including former chief of staff cheryl mills and deputy chief of staff abedin.read more : ap