seoul ( reuters ) - south korea expects more provocative acts by north korea next month , to coincide with the anniversary of the founding of the north korean communist party and china s all-important communist party congress .
during a meeting with president moon jae-in on thursday , national security adviser chung eui-yong said he expected pyongyang to act around oct. 10 and 18 , but gave no details .
the south korean security adviser s report also pointed to the risk that a military conflict could by sparked by accidental incidents , said park wan-ju , a lawmaker and head spokesman of the ruling democratic party .
the president said the united states speaks of military and diplomatic options , but south korea can t go through war again , said park .
tension on the korean peninsula has risen in recent weeks as north korea s leader kim jong un and u.s. president donald trump exchanged war-like threats and insults over the north s nuclear and missile development program .
the north has accused trump of declaring war after he warned kim s regime would not last if he persisted in threatening the united states and its allies , having earlier warned north korea would be totally destroyed in such an event .
asked if china had a plan to respond to an emergency in north korea , such as securing nuclear and missile sites , chinese defense ministry spokesman wu qian said , military means can not become an option , and urged talks to resolve the issue .
the chinese military will make all necessary preparations to protect the country s sovereignty and security and regional peace and stability , he added , without elaborating .
china has vowed to uphold u.n. sanctions against north korea , besides seeking to get stalled talks restarted with pyongyang .
on thursday , china s commerce ministry said north korean firms or joint ventures in china would be shut within 120 days of the latest united nations security council sanctions passed on sept. 12 .
overseas chinese joint ventures with north korean entities or individuals will also be closed , the ministry said in a statement on its website , without providing a timeframe .
the ministry had issued similar rules after a previous set of u.n. sanctions in august .
pyongyang conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test on sept. 3 and has launched dozens of missiles this year as it accelerates a program aimed at eventually targeting the united states with a nuclear-tipped missile .
the united states and south korea are technically still at war with north korea because the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce and not a peace treaty .
china , the north s main ally , would probably be extremely unhappy if pyongyang tested a missile or carried out some other act during its communist party congress , held every five years .
park said president moon told the meeting that washington and seoul agreed that pressure needed to be applied to north korea , with the door to talks still open .
in a separate speech on thursday , moon said cooperation with the international community to curb the north s nuclear ambitions was at its highest ever and called for the strengthening of south korea-u.s. defenses to rein in the north .
expulsion of north korean diplomats has been among the measures countries have taken against the reclusive state since its latest nuclear test .
malaysia banned citizens from traveling to north korea , citing the escalating tension on the korean peninsula .
south korean lawmakers said chung had told them the united states and south korea had agreed on the rotational deployment of u.s. strategic assets to south korea , possibly as soon as year-end .
the nature of the assets was not specified .
president moon added it was inappropriate to discuss the deployment of nuclear weapons in south korea , the lawmakers said .
moon said he had opposed the deployment of u.s. terminal high altitude area defence ( thaad ) system in south korea , but rapid improvement in north korea s missile capabilities prompted the decision .
china opposes the deployment of thaad because it believes its powerful radar could be used to look inside its territory .
south korea and the united states have said it is only to curb north korea s missile threats .