mexico city ( reuters ) - former mexican first lady margarita zavala , a leading contender to become president herself , said on friday she was breaking with her party , deepening divisions in the opposition ahead of the 2018 presidential election .
zavala , wife of former president felipe calderon , announced her decision to leave the center-right national action party ( pan ) in a recorded video broadcast in which she attacked the party leadership for blocking her aspirations .
since launching her bid for the presidency in june 2015 , zavala has spent months as one of the top contenders in opinion polls , generally just behind former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador , a veteran leftist with nationalist leanings .
the election will be held in july 2018 , and president enrique pena nieto s institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) faces an uphill struggle to stay in power .
polls show a tight race , though most candidates have yet to be chosen .
zavala , 50 , said she quit the pan because the party base had been subordinated to the interests of its leadership , which has forged a cross-party alliance for the election with the center-left opposition party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) .
anti-democratic conditions took hold in the pan just like we had criticized in the pri and other parties , she said .
zavala told mexican radio that the broad front formed by the pan , the prd and the center-left citizens movement party meant there would be no internal pan selection process for the presidential ticket , denying her a chance to be candidate .
the pan has the most seats of any opposition group in congress .
party chairman ricardo anaya responded with his own video message , noting the selection process was still open .
saying he respected zavala s decision , anaya nevertheless argued her departure would only benefit the pri .
a survey in august by polling firm mitofsky showed the cross-party alliance coming first in a presidential vote with nearly 22 percent support , a few points ahead of the pri or lopez obrador s national regeneration movement ( morena ) .
however , over 37 percent of voters were still undecided .
running as an independent , zavala enters an increasingly crowded field of hopefuls that is due to include a maverick northern governor who broke with the pri in 2015 .
fernando belaunzaran , a leading prd advocate of the cross-party alliance , said he regretted zavala s decision and that it would have been better to keep her inside the broad front .
if polls later show zavala has little chance of winning , the front must be ready to welcome her back , he added .
we ve got to the keep the door open , he said .