on thursday , new hampshire s federal elections commission ( fec ) called on president trump to give proof of voter fraud , after he reportedly made further claims in a meeting with senators.trump reportedly blamed voter fraud for why both he and former sen. kelly ayotte ( n.h. ) lost in new hampshire last november during a recent meeting with a bipartisan group of senators .
the scheme the president of the united states alleges would constitute thousands of felony criminal offenses under new hampshire law , commissioner ellen weintraub said in a statement friday .
the president has issued an extraordinarily serious and specific charge , added weintraub , who is a democrat but was appointed by former president george w. bush in 2002 .
allegations of this magnitude can not be ignored .
i therefore call upon president trump to immediately share his evidence with the public and with the appropriate law-enforcement authorities so that his allegations may be investigated promptly and thoroughly .
the hilldemocrat sycophant george stephanopoulos went after trump s senior policy advisor steven miller on abc s this week show , demanding he show evidence of voter fraud in new hampshire as trump claimed only days earlier .
this is the media s newest trump witch hunt .
given the willingness of both parties and the media to ignore massive voter fraud issues across america , one has to wonder if trump continues to poke this fire on purpose , forcing the serious issue of voter to be addressed and eventually fixed .
careful what you ask for georgie you just may get it , and it s not likely going to benefit your party this is awesome !
stephen miller does not back down from the widely known fact that there 's massive voter fraud ! pic.twitter.com/qtcvsqir67 boston bobblehead ( @ dbloom451 ) february 12 , 2017proof that dead people receive ballots in nh : pay up , dude .
nh elections officials welcome out-of-staters with open arms @ jamesokeefeiii @ ferguscullen pic.twitter.com/aj9rt1aycs project veritas ( @ project_veritas ) february 11 , 2017