buenos aires ( reuters ) - no sign of the argentine submarine lost in the south atlantic since nov. 15 has been found despite a massive international search effort , while families of the 44 crew members face the increasing likelihood that their loved ones will never return .
saturday marked the 10th day since the ara san juan submarine reported its last position off argentina s southern coast .
reports of a sound detected underwater near the last known position of the vessel suggest it might have imploded after reporting an electrical problem .
but citing respect for the families , navy spokesman enrique balbi declined to say anything to confirm the now-common belief that the crew had perished .
we are at a stage of hope and hopelessness at the same time , balbi told reporters .
we will not speculate beyond the facts as we know them .
he said seven ships were braving 3-meter ( 3.28-yard ) waves to map the ocean floor where the san juan was most likely to be found .
the u.s. navy said it had deployed unmanned underwater vehicles , or mini-subs equipped with sonar , to join the search .
a russian plane arrived in argentina on friday carrying search equipment capable of reaching 6,000 meters ( 20,000 feet ) below the sea surface , balbi said .
the search effort also includes ships and planes from brazil , chile , great britain and other countries .
families of the crew were meanwhile stuck in an emotional purgatory .
the problem with being the loved one of someone who is missing is that the mourning process can not start , because they are still out there somewhere , local psychologist guillermo bruchstein said in a saturday television interview .
they are gone but are not dead .
the families have said they suspect the more than 30-year-old vessel was not properly maintained , a charge the government denies , and that the navy has been slow in sharing information with them .
relatives expressed anger at the level of funding of the armed forces , whose budget has declined since the fall of a military dictatorship in the 1980s .
the loss of the san juan is a consequence of the fact that the abandonment and degradation of our defense forces has been an official policy , argentine senator pino solanas of the independent project south party told local radio on saturday .
concerns about the crew s fate have set off a fierce political debate in a society sharply divided between supporters of president mauricio macri and opposition peronists , who have been quick to find fault with the government s response .
until we find the submarine and have all the information , macri said on friday , we are not going to speculate on who is at fault .