this case has been on our radar for some time now but will come to a head tomorrow .
the government is offering its last best offer for the land and they want an answer by thursday .
this family doesn t want to give up their land no matter what the price so we ll see what happens for more than 70 years , since the u.s. government moved to that part of southern nevada , they have completely disregarded our constitutional rights barbara manningthe u.s. air force is giving an ultimatum to owners of a remote nevada property now surrounded by a vast bombing range including the super-secret area 51 : take a $ 5.2 million last best offer by thursday for their property , or the government will seize it.the answer : no , at least for now.the owners , who trace their mining and mineral claims to the 1870s , include descendants of a couple who lost their hardscrabble mining enterprise after the air force moved in in the 1940s .
nuclear tests then began in 1951 , their mine mill mysteriously exploded in 1954 and they ran out of money to seek reparations from the government in 1959 .
what they really want to buy is our property , our access rights and our view , said joseph sheahan , 54 , who has led the fight with his cousin , barbara sheahan manning , on behalf of about 20 property co-owners .
both live in henderson , nev. we prefer to keep our property , but it s for sale under the right price at the right conditions , sheahan said .
why don t they ask themselves what it cost my family over the years in blood , sweat , tears and money ?
the two sides are far apart .
and they know condemnation proceedings would lead to a fair market value determination that could end up in court for a long time.the federal government gradually encircled the mine property totaling fewer than 400 acres northwest of las vegas , making it a private island reachable today only by passing armed guards at security gateposts .
the surrounding secure 4,500-square-mile reservation for nuclear testing , military training and other research is almost twice the area of the state of delaware .
the land has become an increasingly greater safety and security risk as demand for test and training opportunities have increased , the government said in an aug. 28 news release describing the final offer.today , groom mine overlooks groom lake , a site so secret that col. thomas dempsey , a nellis air force base commander , would only refer to it on friday as one of many remote locations within the nevada test and training range .
nothing you can look up in any air force naming convention refers to area 51 , added jennifer miller , deputy assistant air force secretary for installations.but check the internet or watch tv s x-files and area 51 and groom lake evoke tales of top-secret aircraft research and testing , cia programs and maybe extraterrestrials .
the triple-a baseball las vegas 51s even poke fun at the legend , with the team name and a mascot character named cosmo.sheahan family members consider themselves good neighbors and patriotic americans , with generations of decorated military members , manning and joe sheahan said .
they don t tell what they ve seen.but manning , 59 , remembers the tales handed down during decades on the porch of a rustic home overlooking groom lake .
we didn t have much more than a transistor radio and a deck of cards , and no indoor toilet , she said .
our grandparents told us the stories .
for more than 70 years , since the u.s. government moved to that part of southern nevada , they have completely disregarded our constitutional rights , manning said.read more : conservative focus