warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s ruling law and justice ( pis ) party said on friday it planned legal changes to enhance democracy ahead of local elections next year but analysts said the measures aimed to boost the party s electoral prospects .
the party came third at the last local election in 2014 and its proposals , to be debated in parliament this month , would smooth a path for candidates supported by parties such as itself and make it harder for independent candidates backed by citizens committees .
opinion polls show the nationalist party is supported by 37 percent of the electorate and many voters say its policies fight inequality .
the european union , however , says that its policies undermine democracy and the rule of law .
we will introduce two terms for mayors and presidents starting from 2018 .
( we also plan ) to replace majority electoral law with a proportional system , pis deputy lukasz schreiber told a news briefing .
critics say many voters appreciate the pis welfare program and so turn a blind eye to changes it has made to the judiciary and media aimed at cementing its rule .
the party wants changes including scrapping single-member constituencies in which the candidate with the most votes wins , party representatives told reporters in parliament on friday .
pis leader jaroslaw kaczynski says the present system is undemocratic and creates scope for abuses .
kaczynski has no formal post in the government but is seen as the ruler of the former communist country of 38 million people .
on friday , state television showed a quote from kaczynski from last month in which he said the system of single-member constituencies was undemocratic because it led to entrenched local leaders all-but certain to win re-election .
there are some places in poland where we ( pis ) received 40 percent of votes ( in local elections ) but we have nothing or almost nothing .
it is undemocratic .
it creates a danger of abuses ... and one needs to eliminate this , he said .
local elections are expected in late 2018 .
many town leaders elected in 2014 had the support of local committees rather than established parties .
the leaders are called presidents in cities and mayors in towns .
the biggest opposition party civic platform , which is centrist , came second in that election while the pis was third .
initial information suggests that the pis project favors big parties as it scraps single-member constituencies .
this looks like politicizing the local election , said anna materska-sosnowska , a political analyst at warsaw university .
critics say the party has taken control over state companies , institutions , media , and the judiciary in order to strengthen its power and improve party s chances in future elections .