lee young , owner of hitman firearms posted this incredible story to his facebook page .
his story is a perfect example of a country who has gone so far left with their political correctness , that many of us barely recognize it anymore .
kudos to lee for not only standing up for this veteran , but for taking the time to document this insane double standard .
people everywhere need to do what lee has done .
if you see something , say something .
and don t be afraid to tell your fellow americans what you are witnessing .
we must all come together to stop this madness.from lee young s facebook page : share if this bothers you as much as it did me .. okemos , michiganit s long but i promise it s worth the read.no better way to make my blood boil ! so for the past however long i can remember there has been a older gentleman by the name of val who is a greeter at walmart .
this man is a veteran and very proud to be .
you don t need to know him or even speak to him , although i thank him for his service every time i see him , because he illustrates his pride through the highly decorated veteran baseball cap he wears or .used to wear.one day i as i walked in i noticed a bright blue walmart hat on his head with all the military pins that once adorned his wore out faded military cap and i asked him about it .
we both had tears in our eyes as i wished him a blessed day and shook his hand before i left .
his reply was simple and full of hurt , corporate will not allow me to wear that hat anymore while on the clock , because it goes against the dress code .i was so furious that i demanded to talk to a manager that day and i m sure she will never forget my face or the angry words that i shared with her .
since then i try not to ever shop at walmart unless there is no other choice.today was one of them days that i needed something and stopped into the okemos walmart .
as i m standing in line to pay this woman in her walmart vest steps into line behind me and immediately i was outraged !
so one of our own who signed his life away to protect our freedoms and homeland can not wear his simple old hat but this woman can wear a headscarf proclaiming her love of the muslim culture and her dedication to allah ! ?
kiss my ass walmart ! ! !
! here is the link to his facebook page