new york ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s presidential campaign is built on his business acumen .
but some of the wall street funds that he has invested in have proven less successful , underperforming industry benchmarks in the last 15 months , according to a reuters examination .
eighteen out of 21 hedge funds and mutual funds in trump ’ s portfolio lost money in 2015 , and 17 of them are down so far this year , according to public disclosures and private performance data seen by reuters .
the funds managed by paulson & co , blackrock inc , baron capital and others lost an average of 8.5 percent last year , according to reuters calculations , whereas stock market and hedge fund industry benchmarks broke even or came close to it .
trump ’ s funds are down another 2.9 percent so far this year , underperforming many benchmarks again .
the performances in part reflect broader weaknesses in the investing climate .
the last 15 months have been difficult for many portfolio managers amid volatile stock markets , tumbling oil and commodity prices , and an economic slowdown in china .
trump defended his holdings in an interview with reuters , saying he invested in the funds three or four years ago and they have done well over time .
“ i put some money with people that are friends , ” the new york businessman said by phone on monday , without naming names .
“ i have no idea if they are up or down .
i just know that they have been very good over a period of time , ” added trump , the front-runner for the republican nomination for the november presidential election .
representatives for baron , blackrock and paulson declined to comment .
to be sure , some of trump ’ s funds have performed well this year .
for instance , gabelli funds ’ gamco global gold , natural resources & income fund , a closed-end vehicle , has gained 16.27 percent through march 22 , beating a benchmark return of 15.89 percent for natural resource funds , according to net asset value data from morningstar .
another fund that trump has invested in , the invesco european growth fund , gained 4.82 percent last year versus a benchmark loss of 5.66 percent , according to morningstar .
gabelli and invesco declined to comment .
both funds are listed as small holdings within trump ’ s broader brokerage accounts .
the 21 funds examined by reuters were among 23 funds that trump disclosed last year in a july 15 filing with the federal election commission .
the performance of two of the funds could not be discerned .
the reuters review included performance data publicly disclosed by 14 mutual funds , as well as performance data on seven hedge funds seen in confidential fund reports or shared by people familiar with those firms .
trump told reuters the funds are a tiny part of his investment portfolio .
“ i do very little hedge funds business .
i for the most part don ’ t believe in it , ” he said .
the 23 funds were worth as much as $ 120.75 million , according to the fec filing , a fraction of trump ’ s self-proclaimed net worth of more than $ 10 billion .
while trump selected the funds , their managers are responsible for choosing securities to invest in and the funds ’ subsequent performance .
some investing experts who looked at trump ’ s portfolio and reuters ’ compilation of their performance were not impressed , saying he could have earned better returns by investing in other hedge funds .
for instance , reuters previously reported that millennium management ’ s main millennium international fund gained 12.65 percent in 2015 , while citadel gained 14.3 percent in its main multi-strategy hedge funds .
“ by the looks of it , mr. trump ’ s investing prowess is very pedestrian , ” said brian shapiro , chief executive of simplify llc , which tracks and analyses alternative investments like hedge funds .
“ for someone who prides himself on being surrounded by the best talent , ” added brad alford , an investment advisor and ceo of alpha capital management , “ i ’ m surprised to see so few winners. ” to be sure , some of trump ’ s funds that fell in 2015 have fared better in previous years .
for instance , blackrock ’ s obsidian fund has averaged annual returns of 3.39 percent over the last five years , according to a person familiar with the performance .
obsidian fell 6.17 percent in 2016 through march 11 , while other comparable funds rose 0.69 percent , according to a private client report by hsbc ’ s alternative investment group seen by reuters .
blackrock declined to comment .
“ you can ’ t measure it in a short time .
i ’ m way up with blackrock .
i ’ m way up with obsidian , ” trump told reuters , without elaborating further .
trump disclosed a $ 27.6 million stake in obsidian in may 2015 , his largest fund holding .
it is unclear when trump first invested in obsidian , which bets on corporate and government bonds , along with interest rates and other securities .
obsidian was burned by a slide in oil and other commodities , according to a february blackrock client note seen by reuters .
trump ’ s stable of funds include two angelo , gordon & co hedge funds , three paulson & co hedge funds , and 11 baron capital mutual funds .
the mutual funds are open to virtually anyone , but hedge funds are only accessible to those that meet minimum wealth requirements , which typically include a net worth of more than $ 1 million .
a representative for angelo , gordon & co did not respond to a request for comment .
baron ’ s billionaire founder , ron baron , is known for long-term bets on companies and an optimistic world view .
trump uses 11 baron vehicles with different investment strategies , including small-cap stocks , real estate and emerging markets .
nine of the funds lost money in 2015 , with one energy and resources vehicle falling nearly 32 percent , according to data compiled by morningstar .
nine are down this year through march 22 with single-digit losses .
baron ’ s long-term track record is better .
the firm ’ s best-known baron growth fund has gained an average of about 8.6 percent annually over the last five years .
paulson ’ s funds have produced a mixed performance in recent years .
led by new york billionaire john paulson , the firm became famous for its prescient bet on the collapse of the subprime mortgage market leading up to the financial crisis .
but in 2015 , the three paulson funds used by trump all fell , according to data provided by an investor to reuters .
one of the funds , the paulson advantage plus fund , had declined an average of about 22 percent every year over the last five years , according to a confidential fund report seen by reuters .
trump 's filing to the fec lists myriad business ventures , including holdings in hotels and golf properties , as well as individual stocks such as apple inc , goldman sachs and altria group .
( click here ) trump told reuters his stock picks have done well recently .
“ i bought them low and i sold them high , ” he said , referring to a series of sales in january 2014 that netted more than $ 27 million .
“ it was very good timing , ” he added .
“ i hit the market exactly perfectly . ”