sydney ( reuters ) - australia s main labor opposition party said on monday it was considering a legal challenge to more than 100 decisions made by prime minister malcolm turnbull s conservative government , after two of his cabinet ministers were expelled from parliament .
among the parliamentary votes in question was the government s defeat of a proposed wide-ranging inquiry into australia s scandal-hit banking sector .
a powerful inquiry into australia s banks , which are under fire after scams involving money-laundering , misleading financial advice , insurance fraud and interest-rate rigging , was approved by the upper house senate this year , but fell one vote short of passing the lower house .
the government lost its one-seat lower house majority on friday when a court ruled deputy prime minister barnaby joyce was ineligible to sit in parliament as he had held dual citizenship when elected , in contradiction to the constitution .
former cabinet colleague fiona nash , along with three other politicians , were also expelled .
the ruling has cast doubt over the validity of parliamentary votes joyce and nash have cast , said tanya plibersek , acting leader of the australian labor party we re going to look at all of our options , plibersek said on monday in an interview with australian broadcasting corporation radio .
we are very concerned about the fact that barnaby joyce has been voting at a time when he shouldn t have been in the federal parliament and we narrowly lost votes because of that .
joyce has said many of those decisions were made by cabinet collectively rather than himself personally and so ought to remain valid .
plibersek said legal challenges could be mounted by anyone aggrieved by the government s decisions .
she flagged challenging a narrowly-won vote that cut sunday pay rates for some workers , as well as decisions taken by joyce and nash in their capacity as ministers .
that includes a decision to relocate a government department headquarters to joyce s electorate and decisions on water-rights allocation and the rollout of a national fast-internet scheme .
constitutional law academic george williams said the issue was not so clear cut .
it s certainly uncharted waters , said williams , dean of law at the university of new south wales .
the court would look very carefully in particular at decisions taken since august , when joyce and nash realized they may be dual nationals .
it s not clear what the result would be , he said .
the australian constitution bars politicians with dual citizenship from being elected to the national parliament .
both joyce and nash said they were not aware they held dual citizenship and have since renounced their new zealand and british citizenships , respectively .
turnbull s minority government now relies on three independent lawmakers to remain in office .
joyce is expected to win a by-election for his seat on dec. 2 , which would restore the government s one-seat majority .