moscow ( reuters ) - a russian court ordered the detention of a man on saturday on suspicion of trying to intimidate cinemas into not showing a new film about the country s last tsar , russia s news agencies said .
police said earlier they had opened a criminal case following a series of arson attacks in protest over the film matilda by award-winning director alexei uchitel .
the film tells the story of a love affair between the tsar , nicholas ii , and half-polish ballerina matilda kshesinskaya , who described the relationship in her memoirs .
interfax cited the court s spokeswoman as saying the man detained was alexander kalinin , leader of a radical religious group called christian state - holy rus , on suspicion of pressuring the cinemas not to screen the movie .
the court ordered that he be held in custody until nov. 22 , without charge .
christian state vowed to set cinemas on fire if they screened matilda and a series of arson attacks connected with the film have been reported across the country .
matilda is to be released internationally in late october despite protests from religious conservatives who are offended by what they regard as a disrespectful depiction of a man the russian orthodox church regards as a martyr .
some cinemas have said they will not be showing the film because of threats that they had received .
a criminal case has been opened in connection with the fact ( the cinemas ) were forced not to show the film under the threat of violence against the spectators and causing harm and damage to the cinemas owners , the police said in statement , not naming the film or those detained or charged .
the police opened the case in connection with the arson attacks related to matilda , tass news agency reported , citing a police source .
on thursday police said they had detained four men , including kalinin , in connection with an arson attack related to the film .
three of the men had been charged with arson , including their alleged role in setting fire to two cars parked outside the office of uchitel s lawyer .
other violent acts of protest against the film have included an arson attack on uchitel s studio and a man driving a car into the facade of a cinema .