goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - a rebel spokesman in eastern congo said on friday that his movement intended to march across the country to the capital kinshasa to depose president joseph kabila , who refused to quit power at the end of his mandate last year .
led by self-proclaimed general william yakutumba , the rebel force , calling itself the national people s coalition for the sovereignty of congo ( cnpsc ) , has emerged as one of the strongest groups in democratic republic of congo s lawless eastern borderlands since its formation in june .
analysts doubt that the cnpsc has the capacity to make a move on the capital .
however it briefly captured some strategic towns in june and advanced this week to within a few kilometers of the city of uvira along lake tanganyika , forcing u.n. helicopters to intervene to help congolese troops drive them back .
congo has been beset by a wave of prison breaks , rebellions and lawlessness since kabila s refusal to step down in december .
we are even going to reach kinshasa , dalton waubwela mwila , secretary-general of the cnpsc , told reuters in a telephone interview .
our ultimate objective is to be in kinshasa .
kabila s father , laurent , came to power in 1997 on the back of a rebellion that started in eastern congo , marching the more than 2,000 kilometers ( 1,200 miles ) to the capital , but he crucially received backing from the armies of neighbouring rwanda and uganda .
waubwela said that the cnpsc includes a number of armed groups in eastern congo , including in its home province of south kivu and the neighbouring provinces of north kivu , tanganyika and maniema , where heavy fighting was also reported this week .
yakutumba formed a militia bearing his name in 2007 and established himself as a warlord , gold smuggler and arms trafficker in south kivu s fizi territory , but looks to be trying to raise an insurrection with nationwide support .
regional wars in eastern congo , which holds vast reserves of gold , tin , coltan and other minerals , between 1996-2003 killed millions and spawned dozens of armed groups that continue to exploit natural resources and prey on local populations .
waubwela claimed that the coalition includes more than 10,000 men , but analysts estimate the size of the militia at closer to 300-450 , and say it would require significant foreign backing or fresh alliances to be able to occupy much territory , let alone threaten kabila in kinshasa .
waubwela said the rebels have armed themselves with weapons captured from congolese forces .
speaking to reporters in the eastern city of goma on thursday , the army s top general , didier etumba , dismissed the cnpsc as a flash in the pan that the army would put out .
but the rebellion is yet another security headache for kabila , who is also trying to tame a brutal insurgency in central congo s kasai region , which has killed up to 5,000 people and displaced 1.4 million more in the past year .