kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - the battlefield deaths of two leaders of an islamic state alliance in the southern philippines could thrust a malaysian who trained at an al-qaeda camp in afghanistan as the militant group s new regional emir , experts and officials say .
intelligence officials describe malaysian mahmud ahmad as a financier and recruiter , who helped put together the coalition of pro-islamic state ( is ) fighters that stormed marawi city in may .
isnilon hapilon , islamic state s anointed emir in southeast asia , and omarkhayam maute , one of two middle east-educated brothers at the helm of the militant alliance , were killed in a raid on a building in marawi and their bodies recovered on monday , philippine defence secretary delfin lorenzana said .
philippine authorities said they were still searching for mahmud .
based on our information , there is still one personality , dr. mahmud of malaysia , and he is still in the main battle area with some indonesians and malaysians , military chief , gen. eduardo ano , said on monday .
but their attitude is now different , they are no longer as aggressive as before .
he did not elaborate .
ano urged the 30 militants remaining in a shrinking combat zone to surrender and free hostages as troops stepped up their fight .
abdullah maute , the alliance s military commander , was reported killed in august , though no body was found .
intelligence officials in malaysia believe mahmud left marawi months ago .
malaysia s police counter-terrorism chief ayob khan mydin pitchay told reuters in july that mahmud managed to sneak out from marawi city to another safe place with his followers .
the 39-year-old mahmud , who holds a doctorate in religious studies and was a university lecturer in kuala lumpur , was hapilon s second-in-command in the is s southeast asia caliphate , according to a july report by indonesia-based institute of policy analysis and conflict ( ipac ) .
sitting in the inner circle of the marawi command center , mahmud controlled recruitment and financing , the ipac report said .
he was the contact for foreigners wanting to join the fight in the philippines or with is in the middle east , it said .
it wasn t just indonesians and malaysians contacting dr. mahmud ... he was also the contact for bangladeshis in malaysia who wanted to join the fighting in mindanao , ipac s director sidney jones told reuters .
rohan gunaratna , an analyst at the s. rajaratnam school of international studies in singapore , described mahmud as the most important is leader in southeast asia .
ahmad el-muhammady , a lecturer at the international islamic university of malaysia ( iium ) and a counter-terrorism advisor to the police , said mahmud often solicited funds for is operations .
he s always the one asking people does anyone have any money they d like to donate ?
, and he will usually reply when followers in the region ask him about the situation in the philippines , ahmad said .
mahmud grew up in batu caves , a crowded kuala lumpur suburb , famous for a hindu temple housed in a large complex of caverns .
mahmud s wife and three children were last known to be living there , although reuters could not locate them .
before leaving malaysia in 2014 , mahmud taught young muslim students at a tahfiz , a school to memorise the koran , in nakhoda , a village near batu caves , residents said .
when he ( mahmud ) started the school , he did stay there for the first one or two years , but then he just disappeared , said 50-year-old zainon mat arshad , a nakhoda resident who went to the mosque where mahmud prayed .
when he was at the tahfiz school , he kept mostly to himself and if he had come over to pray on friday , i don t think anyone would have recognized him , said zainon .
he didn t mingle with the local community .
security experts say mahmud studied at pakistan s islamabad islamic university in the late 1990s before going to afghanistan where he learned to make improvised explosive devices at an al qaeda camp .
in 2000 , he returned to malaysia to get a doctorate , which earned him a post as a lecturer in the islamic studies faculty at the university of malaysia in kuala lumpur .
former students described mahmud as a quiet person who kept to himself .
he wasn t the kind of lecturer who hung out at cafes with his students as some others did , said one former student , who declined to be identified .
the few signs of his militant beliefs were discovered later , including a book he wrote on jihad under his nom de guerre , abu handzalah , said ahmad , the iium lecturer .
he was put on malaysia s most-wanted list in april 2014 after leaving the country with several others , including his aide , a malaysian bomb maker named mohammad najib husen , to work with the abu sayyaf group , notorious for violent kidnappings and beheadings in the southern philippines , ahmad said .
mahmud received funding for the marawi operation directly from is headquarters , through the group s southeast asian unit led by syrian-based indonesian militant bahrumsyah , the ipac report said .
in a video released by the philippines army in june , mahmud is seen alongside hapilon as well as omarkhayam and abdullah maute - the pair of brothers who orchestrated the marawi siege .
( for a graphic on 'pro islamic state groups in the philippine south ' click tmsnrt.rs/2qvpzh5 ) ( for a graphic on 'battle for marawi interactive ' click tmsnrt.rs/2rhrpea )