changing the name of something doesn t change the truth of what it is female genital mutilation is the name used for the secretive practice in the muslim world of making sure young girls never have a chance to feel sexual pleasure .
it is a horrific practice of destroying the genitals of a girl to make sure she isn t promiscuous .
a doctor in michigan was doing this under the radar on as many as 100 girls .
we can not accept this as a religious and cultural right as the lawyers for this doctor are trying to do .
freedom of religion doesn t include the criminal act of mutilating a woman s genitals .
this is what the lawyer said to defend this horrible practice : the defense has argued that the attars did not engage in any criminal act and that the procedure at issue is a protected religious rite-of-passage that involves no cutting , but rather a * * * scraping of genital membrane .
they also argued the attars are not a danger to the society and have no reason or desire to flee , convincing u.s. district judge bernard friedman to release them on bond .
* * * the scraping comment is a lie .
the girls were looked over by a doctor who said the injuries were far worse that first thought.here s the latest : a federal prosecutor dropped a bombshell in court wednesday , telling a federal judge that the government estimates that as many as 100 girls may have had their genitals cut at the hands of a local doctor and her cohorts.assistant u.s. attorney sara woodward disclosed the information while trying to convince a judge to keep a doctor and his wife locked up in the historic case .
it involves allegations that two minnesota girls had their genitals cut at a livonia clinic in february as part of a religious rite of passage and were told to keep what happened a secret .
due to the secretive nature of this procedure , we are unlikely to ever know how many children were cut by dr. ( jumana ) nagarwala , woodward said , referring to the lead defendant in the case , later adding , the minnesota victims were not the first victims .
read more : dfp