( in march 16 item , corrects timing of legislative session in final paragraph ) by rich mckay atlanta ( reuters ) - a religious freedom bill described by opponents as being discriminatory against same-sex couples passed the georgia state legislature on wednesday night in an 11th-hour vote ahead of the session ’ s close .
the legislation , dubbed the religious liberty bill , still has to be signed by georgia ’ s republican governor nathan deal to become law .
deal has made clear that he will not sign a bill that allows discrimination , but his office did not immediately respond to request for comment on wednesday night .
similar bills in states like indiana and arkansas sparked storms of criticism last year , forcing many lawmakers to retreat from the provisions .
the georgia bill , reworked several times by lawmakers amid criticism that earlier versions went too far , declares that no pastor can be forced to perform a same-sex wedding .
the bill also grants faith-based organizations – churches , religious schools or associations - the right to reject holding events for people or groups of whom they object .
faith-based groups also could not be forced to hire or retain an employee whose beliefs run counter to the organization ’ s .
opponents say the bill could be used to deny services and discriminate against same-sex couples .
“ the decision by the legislature today was to make an egregious and discriminatory bill even worse , ” the human rights campaign , which represents the lesbian , gay , bisexual , and transgender community , said in a statement .
“ it ’ s appalling that anti-equality extremists in the legislature are trying to ignore the will of the people of georgia , ” it said .
mike griffin , a lobbyist and spokesman for the georgia baptist convention , applauded the bill ’ s passage .
he said that while the bill did not give them everything they wanted , he added : “ we feel we ’ ve advanced our protection of our first amendment right to religious freedom. ” “ our rights of religious liberty don ’ t end inside the four walls of a church , ” he said .
in a late added amendment , the proposed law says that it can not allow discrimination already prohibited by federal law , which opponents said could nullify some of its provisions .
more than 300 large corporations and small businesses , including delta airlines and coca cola , have signed a pledge decrying the georgia legislation and urging the state lawmakers to drop it .
the state legislature is set to wrap up its current legislative session next week .