nairobi ( reuters ) - opposition leader raila odinga urged kenyans to boycott thursday s repeat presidential election , saying he would lead a campaign of civil disobedience .
odinga spoke shortly after the supreme court said it was unable to consider a last-minute appeal to delay the vote after five out of seven judges failed to turn up .
the repeat election was ordered by the supreme court on sept. 1 after judges nullified the results of the aug. 8 presidential contest on procedural grounds .
the election commission had said odinga lost to president uhuru kenyatta by 1.4 million votes .
odinga is refusing to participate in thursday s contest because he says the election commission has failed to implement reforms to prevent it being , once again , marred by irregularities .
we advise kenyans who value democracy and justice to hold vigil and prayers away from polling stations , or just stay at home , he told a cheering crowd in nairobi s uhuru park , backing away from previous promise to call large-scale protests .
convince your friends , neighbors and everyone else not to participate , he said in english .
if they support the president , he cautioned : do not insult or assault them .
instead , seek to open their eyes .
but several speakers who preceded him gave speeches in kiswahili calling on opposition supporters not to allow people to vote .
with the supreme court unable to hear petitions to delay the vote , election officials said it would go ahead , regardless of odinga s decision .
the head of the national election board , wafula chebukati , said the vote would proceed even if some polling stations were unable to open .
in cases where there will be problems ( delivering materials ) ... the polling officer will have the right to inform us and polling can be suspended to another day .
seeking to explain the supreme court s absences , chief justice david maraga said one judge was unwell , another was abroad and another was unable to attend after her bodyguard was shot and wounded on tuesday night .
it was unclear why the others did not show up .
turmoil ahead of the election prompted the u.s. state department to issue a statement saying it was deeply concerned by efforts by both parties to undermine the independence of the electoral commission .
it condemned the attack on the deputy chief justice s bodyguard and urged kenyans to reject violence .
minutes after maraga s remarks on live television , hundreds of supporters took to the streets of kisumu , odinga s main stronghold .
riot police used teargas to disperse them .
two protesters received gunshot wounds , a reuters witness said .
if the government subverts the sovereign will of the people ... then people are entitled to rebel against this government , kisumu governor anyang nyong o , a hardline odinga supporter , told reporters .
such comments seem certain to fuel fears of a major confrontation with security forces , already blamed for killing nearly 50 people in kisumu and nairobi slums after the canceled august vote .
months of political uncertainty have blunted growth in kenya , east africa s biggest economy and a key western ally valued for its relative freedom and stability in a tumultuous region .
kenyatta is keen for the poll to proceed to cement his rule .
many wonder when or if ever all this politicking will end , he said in a televised speech on wednesday evening .
i call to each and every one of us to turn out once again and vote .
for some citizens , the instability has rekindled memories of large-scale ethnic violence that killed 1,200 people following a disputed election in 2007 .
meanwhile , in anticipation of possible violence ahead of the elections on thursday , shoppers crammed into nairobi s upmarket carrefour supermarket to stock up on food , said jason straziuso , who had to wait nearly two hours to pay for his groceries .
there was about 40 carts per register , everyone was jockeying for position trying to find the shortest line , he said .
every single cart was as full as it could be .
single mother marian elema said she had paid double the usual bus fare for to take her five children to her home town isiolo , in central kenya , because she feared violence would break out in the port city of mombasa where they live .
i decided to travel home to escape possible clashes between opposition supporters and police , she told reuters .
i am not here to vote but for the safety of my children .
in kisumu s tallying center , election officer john ngutai sat huddled with a handful of other officials , waiting for missing election material and hundreds of absent colleagues .
he said attacks by opposition supporters last week meant the election board had only managed to train 250 out of 1,300 staff needed to hold the election in his constituency .
our trainings were disrupted and officials attacked , so some people withdrew , he said .
even if the election goes ahead , the opposition might still challenge the result in the supreme court .
judges said they were prepared to annul the re-run , and send the country of 45 million back to square one , if the election does not meet the required standards .
in a ruling early on wednesday , high court judge george odunga said some local election officials had been appointed in an irregular manner , but to withdraw them at the last minute would only make an already dire situation worse .
for the elections to proceed in the absence of the said officers would in my view be a constitutional crisis of unimaginable magnitude .
simply put , it would be a recipe for chaos .
however , he admitted that not dismissing them could form the grounds for legal challenges afterwards .
opposition lawyers seeking to challenge thursday s vote might also cite the failure of the election board to hold elections in all parts of the country , if enough polling stations are unable to open .
the constitution does not stipulate a minimum turnout , but says the election should be held at the same time in all parts of the country .