too bad for the gay pastor that whole foods had him dead center on their surveillance cameras .
is it just my imagination or do gays seem to have it out for bakeries ?
on tuesday , the austin statesman reported that whole foods filed a lawsuit against jordan brown , an openly gay pastor who claimed that an anti-gay slur was placed on a cake he ordered .
the cake was supposed to read love wins , but jordan claimed a slur was added to the cake s decoration.https : //youtu.be/p972qntg1qmwhole foods , however , said that surveillance video shows otherwise .
brown filed a lawsuit against whole foods , but the company fired back , accusing brown of making a fraudulent claim.look at labels .
it 's at bottom in hoax video .
but look at how checker scans .
it 's on top .
https : //t.co/aie0wvbokv pic.twitter.com/mblu6jjssj mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) april 19 , 2016here s the surveillance video from whole foods .
the gay pastor can be seen in the right corner in an orange ( salmon ) shirt : according to whole foods , brown intentionally , knowingly and falsely accused whole foods and its employees of writing the homophobic slur on a custom made cake that he ordered from wfm s lamar store in austin the company also said brown acted with malice , and he has damaged the reputation and business of wfm .
if you look closely , it appears the piping does not match : @ cernovich @ mirriam71 @ jennil_kvue clearly not same icing tip used to create f-a-g as rest of letters .
much finer .
had to do double pass .
hillary for prison ( @ hrc4prison ) april 18 , 2016the company further said that a bakery team member wrote only love wins at the top of the cake according to brown s request .
this , whole foods added , was visible through the clear portion of the packaging .
that s exactly how the cake was packaged and sold at the store , the company added .
whole foods market has a strict policy that prohibits team members from accepting or designing bakery orders that include language or images that are offensive .
worse yet , whole foods said the employee involved is a member of the local lgbtq community .
we stand behind our bakery team member , who is part of the lgbtq community , and we appreciate the team members and shoppers who recognize that this claim is completely false and directly contradicts whole foods market s inclusive culture , which celebrates diversity , the company said.the video also indicates that brown removed and replaced the upc label on the packaging .
according to whole foods , the label was originally on top of the box .
brown s video , however , showed it on the bottom and the side of the box.brown s lawsuit seeks a jury trial , damages and monetary relief for mental anguish he allegedly suffered , but it seems his anguish is just beginning .
the company is seeking at least $ 100,000 in damages from brown .
via : examiner