charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders released details on sunday evening about his “ medicare-for-all ” universal healthcare funding plan and how he would pay for it .
the plan was released hours before sanders was to square off in a democratic presidential debate in charleston , south carolina , against hillary clinton , the former secretary of state and front-runner for the democratic nomination , and former maryland governor martin o ’ malley .
clinton ’ s campaign had taken aim at sanders in recent days , saying the u.s. senator from vermont had not said how he plans to pay for his healthcare plan and that he needed to before the first party-nominating contest in iowa on feb. 1 .
sanders said that expanding medicare , a government-run program that insures the elderly , would save $ 6 trillion over the next 10 years when compared with the current system , which was established by president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law , the 2010 affordable care act .
individuals would pay a 2.2 percent “ premium ” and employers would pay a 6.2 percent payroll tax to fund the healthcare plan .
individuals making $ 250,000 to $ 500,000 a year would pay a tax rate of 37 percent and those making more than $ 10 million would pay a 52 percent tax rate , according to details provided about the plan .
the average annual healthcare costs for a working u.s. family are nearly $ 5,000 in insurance premiums and another $ 1,300 on deductibles for care that is not covered , sanders ’ campaign said .
under sanders ’ plan , a family of four earning $ 50,000 would pay $ 466 to the medicare program , saving roughly $ 6,000 per year , the campaign said .
clinton favors building on the affordable care act , popularly known as obamacare , and has said sanders ’ state-administered plan would jeopardize the healthcare of those with republican governors .
sanders has said the federal government would intervene in such a scenario .
“ it would be a mistake to really thrust our country into another contentious national debate about how we ’ re going to provide quality , affordable healthcare to everybody , ” clinton told cnn ’ s “ state of the union ” program on sunday .
sanders defended his forthcoming proposal on the same cnn program .
“ i believe healthcare is a right for all people ; it will be politically difficult to achieve , but i will maintain that vision and fight for it , ” sanders said .
sanders last week tweeted a 1993 photo of himself and clinton signed by the then-first lady , who was waging her own fight for universal healthcare , which thanked him for his commitment to “ real access to healthcare for all americans. ” ( reporting by amanda becker ; editing by jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .