bogota ( reuters ) - negotiating peace with colombia s largest active rebel group , the eln , will be tougher than the recent successful talks with farc guerrillas due to the eln s diffuse chain of command and radical ideology , the chief government negotiator said .
president juan manuel santos administration and the national liberation army ( eln ) in february began negotiations in neighboring ecuador that seek to end the role the group has played in a five-decade conflict that has left over 220,000 dead and millions displaced .
even though both sides have agreed to begin a three-month bilateral ceasefire from october , the road to a definitive peace accord will be long and complex , santos negotiator , juan camilo restrepo , told reuters late on tuesday .
it s a highly radical , ideological group that totally lacks the pragmatism to negotiate that the farc had , restrepo , a 70-year-old former minister , said in the study of his bogota apartment .
the santos government signed a peace deal with the larger revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) in 2016 after negotiations in havana , cuba that lasted four years .
restrepo , a former finance minister , said the eln s fractured chains of command , plus its greater urban support , were further complications .
all those reasons indicate the negotiation with the eln is more difficult , he said .
inspired by the cuban revolution and the liberation theology of the catholic priests that founded it in the 1960s , the 2,000-strong eln has sought peace before , holding talks in cuba and venezuela between 2002 and 2007 .
both collapsed with little progress .
the eln is considered a terrorist group by the united states and european union for engaging in kidnapping , assassinations , drug trafficking , attacks on economic infrastructure and extortion of oil and mining multinationals .
pablo beltran , the eln s chief negotiator in ecuador , has denied there is a weak chain of command and told reuters last month that the group is united .
during the ceasefire planned from oct. 1 , the eln has pledged to suspend hostage taking , attacks on roads and oil installations , the use of landmines and the recruitment of minors .
in turn , the government agreed to improve protection for community leaders and conditions for about 450 jailed rebels .
there s optimism but not overflowing optimism , said restrepo , who returns to the negotiating table in ecuadorean capital quito in the next few weeks .
the official warned that although colombia s military will avoid confrontations with the eln during the ceasefire , it will go after the group if it engages in criminal activities like illegal mining and drug trafficking .
such behavior will be repressed with all the strength of the armed forces , he said .