brasilia ( reuters ) - a brazilian supreme court judge on tuesday authorized an investigation of president michel temer for suspected corruption involving a decree regulating ports , adding to graft allegations the president has so far parried with backing from congress .
the new investigation is based on a wiretapped conversation of a former temer aide , rodrigo rocha loures , who , according to court documents , discussed shaping the decree in return for bribes channeled from a port operator to the president .
in his ruling , justice luis roberto barroso said the new probe was warranted because brazil s top prosecutor , rodrigo janot , had found strong indications of crimes , given that the decree signed by temer answered part of the demands made by logistics firm rodrimar sa .
temer s lawyer said in a statement sent to the supreme court that the allegations against the president are contaminated by untruths and malicious distortions .
the decree was publicly debated and benefited all port operators and not just rodrimar , it said .
rodrimar also denied that it had received any special treatment from the government .
the company said the decree in question partially addressed widespread demands from brazil s port operators .
temer has denied any role in the corruption scandals that have come to light during a sprawling three-year investigation of political bribery in brazil .
his lawyers have also challenge the plea bargain deal that yielded the wiretap of rocha loures , arguing that the billionaire beef tycoon who arranged the recordings was unfairly favored by a close aide to janot .
last month , temer s allies in congress easily blocked a corruption charge leveled by janot .
he is also expected to beat additional charges that janot could level this week before leaving office .
the latest investigation approved by the court adds more allegations to the mix .
brazil s currency , the real , posted its biggest daily drop in nearly a month , slipping 0.8 percent against the u.s. dollar as the investigation and a separate police probe into temer s allies kept pressure on the president .
temer s success in beating back accusations had bolstered bets that he would be able to return focus to his market-friendly proposals to overhaul brazil s tax and social security policies , tackling a record deficit .