niamey/washington ( reuters ) - a month after an islamist ambush in niger killed eight u.s. and nigerien troops , the two sides officials still can not agree on the sequence of events leading to the incident or even , possibly more importantly , on the nature of the mission itself .
four soldiers from each nation were killed when a joint patrol was attacked on oct. 4 by dozens of militants with machine guns and rocket-propelled grenades .
the incident drew attention to the little-known u.s. military presence in niger at a time when many americans are weary of u.s. involvement in conflicts abroad and nigeriens are chafing at the growing presence of foreign troops on their soil .
the united states has 800 soldiers operating in the largely desert west african nation , more than france , which has 4,000 in the wider sahel trying to tackle islamist militancy .
the main u.s. base in africa is in djibouti , which supports about 4,000 personnel .
a pentagon investigation into the incident , led by a two-star general from u.s. africa command , may take weeks .
the pentagon says it has not settled on any final version of events .
through interviews in niger s capital niamey and washington , reuters has tried to piece together the events of oct. 3 to oct. 6 , when the last u.s. soldier s body was recovered .
accounts by nigerien and american officials differ over the mission s objectives , and whether and how they may have changed .
the one consistent thread is that they appear to have been woefully unprepared for their enemy .
u.s. and niger officials agree that on oct. 3 , 12 u.s. special forces and 30 nigeriens left niamey and headed north to the mali border .
twenty six similar patrols had taken place in the area in the past six months without enemy contact , the pentagon said .
after that , the stories of the two sides diverge .
it was an intelligence mission but also a mission of an operational nature , niger interior minister mohamed bazoum told reuters in an interview .
it was in a zone that was considered safe , not enemy territory .
specifically , the mission aimed to detain and question a suspected recruiter for islamic state in the greater sahara , an islamic state affiliate , according to a senior nigerien security source with knowledge of the operation and two mid-level government sources , all of whom declined to be named .
the senior source said the mission was thought low enough risk that they had no armored vehicles or body armor .
u.s. officials vehemently contradict this account .
the service members involved in this unfortunate incident were unequivocally not directed to do a kill or capture mission .
they were on a reconnaissance mission , the pentagon said in statement sent to reuters on thursday .
it said it would provide more details once the investigation is complete .
all three nigerien sources said the target was a mid-ranking commander called doundou chefou who was recruiting disgruntled youths from the fulani ethnic group along niger-mali border .
chefou commanded islamic state fighters affiliated to the movement led by an arabic-speaking north african called adnan abu walid al-sahrawi , the nigerien sources said .
according to the senior nigerien security official , the team initially sought chefou out near a remote border village on oct. 3 .
they found a militant camp there but no fighters , he said .
after that , nigerien intelligence officials on the team received fresh orders from their headquarters to pursue him in the village of tongo tongo , so they stayed the night nearby , the official said .
three u.s. officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , said that while it is true the team was given an additional task mid-mission , it was never in pursuit of a militant .
the u.s. officials said their soldiers were asked to work with the nigerien troops to be on standby to help a second u.s. military team whose mission was indeed to pursue a militant .
that mission was called off , however .
it is unclear when or why .
did the mission change ?
that s one of the questions being asked .
i can t tell you definitively the answer to that question , general joseph dunford , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , said last month .
the u.s. officials said the first team was asked to gather intelligence on the militant .
the americans could do this under u.s. military rules of engagement that allow american forces to accompany partner forces only when the chances of enemy contact are unlikely .
asked about the existence of a second mission , none of the nigerien sources were aware of it .
u.s. and nigerien officials agree the team was ambushed after they met local leaders in tongo tongo on oct. 4 .
one of the nigerien government sources said the militants first came with just a few gunmen with ak47s on motorbikes to slow them down , and later brought out heavier 12.7mm machine guns , sniper rifles and rocket-propelled grenades .
that might explain why the team took an hour to call for help - one of the issues that has most disturbed senior pentagon officials - because the initial attack may have only involved light arms .
a few minutes after the team called for air support , a surveillance drone appeared , providing a live feed , but it took another hour before french military aircraft arrived .
they were unable to drop bombs because of how close the fighting was , diplomatic sources have said .
one u.s. official said at least some of the four u.s. soldiers killed were then separated from the convoy .
they included sergeant la david t. johnson , whose body was not recovered for two days .
it is unclear why .
it is unlikely the united states will back away from niger because of its central location in the sahel and because of the proliferation of militant groups around it , including nigeria s islamic state-linked boko haram and al-qaeda affiliates .
several current and former u.s. officials with africa experience said they expected u.s. military focus on the sahel to grow , not decrease .
retired general donald bolduc , who led u.s. special operations in africa until june , said the military should retain a small footprint in africa but needed more intelligence and surveillance resources and medical and air support .
while the most assets have gone to the middle east and afghanistan , there needs to be ... a different perspective on how we allocate the resources between theaters , he said .
he expressed surprise at the idea that the unit which was ambushed had been redirected to focus on a militant leader .
senior militant leaders are normally well protected , bolduc said , with rings of security guards and layers of militants who communicate with one another via radio .
i m as confused about it as you are , he said .
that s not how it s done .
...
the resources and planning didn t seem to be there for that kind of operation .