stephen moore has been a regular contributor to fox news and is now a trump campaign economic adviser .
he recently debated the most liberal hack economist on the planet and kicked his a $ $ : watch lying liberal economist get hammered by trump s economic advisor [ video ] he questions the republican turncoats on what they re doing to the conservative movement by not supporting trump : i asked a successful businessman the other day what he thought about donald trump .
he turned his thumb down .
wow .
are you going to vote for hillary ?
i asked with trepidation .
of course not , he replied almost insulted by the question .
i understand the concept of a binary decision .
i got a similar response when i asked oil magnate t. boone pickens whether he would vote for mr. trump .
he looked at me with a quizzical look on his face and replied : well , who else is there to vote for ?
right .
who else is there ?
yet amazingly a caucus of lifelong republican politicos in washington are announcing to the world with defiance and self-righteousness that they will vote for hillary clinton .
they are mostly former romney and bush operatives .
they lost and now they want people to believe that their anti-trumpism is an act of heroism and principle .
they ingratiate themselves to the new york times , the washington post and team clinton the sworn enemies of free markets and conservative values .
somehow this doesn t offend their moral compass .
i certainly don t mean to disparage conservatives who say they won t vote for mr. trump .
one s vote is a matter of personal conscience .
but to actively support hillary is to put the other team s jersey on and then run a lap around the stadium .
it s worth , because none of the arguments make much sense .
first , many say that trump can t win it s hopeless .
these are the same political geniuses who a year ago assured us that mr. trump could never win a primary ( he won most of them ) , then that he couldn t win 50 percent of the vote ( he did ) , then that he couldn t win 50 percent outside of new york ( he did ) , then they said he couldn t win a majority of the delegates ( he did ) on every occasion the trump haters were wrong .
how about a little humility since they are batting 0.00 .
the trump can t win mantra isn t just wrong , it s subversive .
of course , he can win .
he is running against hillary clinton for goodness sakes .
so why do they say this ?
because the never trumpers want trump to lose because he is to the political class ( republicans and democrats ) the disruptor that uber is to taxicab drivers .
second is the complaint by some economists that mr. trump can t be supported because he is not for free trade .
longtime washington insider vin weber reportedly recently said : the world economic order and the republican party would be all in shambles if mr. trump wins .
i think markets would collapse .
really ?
hillary clinton flip flops every day on free trade , so why is it that only mr. trump would cause a recession ?
he doesn t get that the trump movement is a revolt against the world order .
mr. trump is calling for the biggest tax cut since ronald reagan .
he is for regulatory relief and school choice .
mr. trump wants to kill obamacare .
mr. trump wants a pro-america drilling policy on energy .
hillary wants to soak the rich , increase the debt , stop energy development , expand entitlements and double down on obamacare .
how is this a difficult choice for a free marketeer ?
third , the trump haters say we must throw mr. trump over the bus in order to save the senate and house majorities .
this is a foolhardy strategy because one can t win without the other .
as economist donald luskin puts it in his historical analysis of presidential races and senate gains : it is clear from history that the house and the senate always move in the same party direction as the white house , and with the same magnitude .
that means the presidential candidate is like a boat that congressional candidates are riding on .
it s really stupid to torpedo that boat .
finally , there is the view expressed by bret stephens , my former colleague at the wall street journal , who wants to make sure trump is the biggest loser in presidential history so that we can rebuild the conservative movement .
bret , if obama/hillary win a third straight presidential race , there won t be a conservative movement left to rebuild .
the republicans will move to the left .
worse , for president obama to win effectively a third term will be a voter validation of all of the destructive policies of the last eight years .
do the never trumpers want to facilitate that ?
do they want to hand the left its greatest victory for liberal governance of all time ?
if they do , they , not trump , are the unforgivable betrayers of conservative principles .
stephen moore is an economic consultant with freedom works and a senior economic adviser to the trump campaign .