nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police fired teargas and shots in the air to scatter a small number of demonstrators in nairobi two days before elections , as the main opposition leader appeared to pull back from a call for protests during the vote .
in the western city of kisumu , around 2,000 demonstrators marched on the election board offices , witnesses said , heeding raila odinga s appeal for protests against thursday s repeat presidential ballot , before dispersing peacefully .
odinga is boycotting the contest against incumbent uhuru kenyatta .
he says it will not be free and fair as the election board had made insufficient progress towards reforms he demanded after the original election held in august was annulled .
odinga had urged his supporters to ensure the new vote did not take place , repeatedly saying there would be no elections .
but on tuesday he told the bbc he was not calling for protests on election day itself .
we have not told people to protest on polling day .
we have not said that at all .
we have told people to stay away , he said in a radio interview .
when called for clarification , odinga s spokesman said he was saying peaceful protests would still take place and that the opposition would fully explain their plans on wednesday .
at least 49 people have died in political violence since the august ballot , evoking unwelcome memories of the aftermath of a disputed 2007 vote , when more than 1,200 people were killed .
on tuesday evening , the bodyguard of the deputy chief justice was shot and wounded as he bought flowers by the side of the road , police said .
the motive for the shooting was unclear , but it is likely to add to the tense atmosphere surrounding the vote .
judges have received threats since they nullified the august result .
the political stand-off has blunted growth in east africa s richest economy , a nation which values its stability and relative freedom in a region plagued by conflict .
kenya s supreme court is still hearing several cases challenging the legality of thursday s election .
one , brought by human rights activist khelef khalifa and two others , seeks to delay the vote on grounds that the election board is not sufficiently prepared .
the supreme court , the only body that can now legally postpone the poll beyond the end of the month , will hear the case on wednesday .
on tuesday , the election board canceled a planned briefing with journalists on preparations for the polls .
last week , the head of the election board said it was not clear a free and fair vote could take place due to intimidation and political interference .
he spoke after the resignation of an election commissioner , who then fled the country and released a statement saying she had been threatened , although she did not say by whom .
a day before the aug. 8 vote , another member of the election board was found tortured and murdered .
on monday , the international crisis group , a global think-tank , called for a delay in the election .
proceeding under current conditions would deepen kenya s ethnic cleavages and prolong a stalemate that has already claimed dozens of lives and come at a high economic cost , it said .
both the election board and the government have said the vote will go ahead , irrespective of whether odinga contests it , and only a court ruling could legally delay the re-run ballot beyond the end of october .
on tuesday , police fired teargas and bullets into the air to break up protesters in the capital nairobi .
in kisumu , an odinga stronghold , demonstrators said that the polls should not take place , but were unclear on how they should be stopped .
all we know is that there will be no elections .
as to how this will be done , we are waiting for the big announcement by baba ( odinga ) tomorrow , said one demonstrator , market trader james ouma .
around him , marchers waved branches and blew whistles .
last week odinga supporters disrupted at least three official pre-polling events .
police said some election board staff were seriously injured .
kenyatta won the first election on aug. 8 , by 1.4 million votes , but the supreme court annulled that outcome on sept. 1 over procedural irregularities .
odinga s team then presented a list of demands to the election board .
some have been met - opposition monitors will now have access to the board s computers as results come in , a key official has gone on an extended holiday , and numerical results vulnerable to typographical errors will not be transmitted , rather only scanned copies of paper forms from tallying centers .
the board said it was impossible to meet other demands - such as changing the technology provider - in the short time frame allotted for new elections .
under kenya s constitution , fresh elections must be held within 60 days of nullified ones .