new york ( reuters ) - democrat hillary clinton has pulled ahead of republican rival donald trump in the traditional battleground state of florida , strengthening her position in the race for the white house , the reuters/ipsos states of the nation project showed ahead of the pair ’ s first presidential debate on monday night .
if the election were held on monday , clinton would lead trump in the electoral college by 259 to 191 , with an 88 percent chance of reaching the 270 needed to win , according to the project ’ s results .
the project , based on a weekly online tracking poll of more than 15,000 americans , estimates state-by-state results that will drive the voting in the electoral college , the body that ultimately selects the president .
the results marked the first upward swing in the project for clinton in several weeks .
the last release of the poll , on sept. 16 , gave her a 61 percent chance of winning by a margin of about 14 electoral college votes .
the big difference now is that florida , with its 29 electoral college votes , favors clinton 49 percentage points to trump ’ s 45 points , the results showed .
trump has also lost ground in new mexico , where he trails 47 points to 38 points .
colorado and nevada , which had leaned toward trump , are now too close to call .
together , those states represent another 20 electoral college votes .
clinton lost ground in oregon and wisconsin , which are also too close to call .
they amount to 17 votes combined .
as many as 100 million viewers have been estimated for monday evening ’ s debate at hofstra university in new york state ’ s long island , which will begin at 9 p.m .
whether that high interest translates into a higher turnout on election day on nov. 8 remains to be seen .
a higher turnout would likely benefit clinton , while the opposite would benefit trump , according to reuters/ipsos polling , whose latest estimate is for a moderate turnout .
trump ’ s easiest path to victory would depend on a surge in turnout among white republicans and lower-than-expected turnout among minority democrats , according to the project .
in that scenario , several clinton-leaning states could flip .
florida , for example , would be a tossup , while michigan , wisconsin and north carolina would lean toward the republican .
the states of the nation results came as clinton ’ s standing in national opinion polls have seen a small bounce in recent days .
a separate reuters/ipsos national tracking poll released on friday , for example , had her ahead by four points , up from a near tie two weeks ago .