hong kong ( reuters ) - hundreds of hong kong soccer fans booed and jeered the chinese national anthem at an asia cup qualifier match on tuesday in defiance of communist party rulers in beijing .
the booing of the anthem , the march of the volunteers , has become a fixture at football matches in the chinese-ruled territory , with some parallels to protests in the united states where american football players have knelt during the national anthem , an act denounced by u.s. president donald trump .
now the former british colony is preparing to introduce a law that will penalize people who boo the anthem , a measure that critics say undermines the city s autonomy and freedoms guaranteed when it returned to china 20 years ago .
details of the law , including jail terms and the scope of enforcement , have yet to be set .
china extended the law to cover hong kong earlier this month .
chinese president xi jinping in recent years has ushered in new legislation aimed at securing the country from threats both within and outside its borders , besides presiding over a sweeping crackdown on dissent and free speech .
chinese officials have said the anthem law is necessary to safeguard the authority of the state .
several hundred fans greeted the anthem before the match against lebanon with jeers and boos , with some unfurling banners that said die for hong kong , while others yelled we are hong kong in english , rather than the local cantonese dialect .
some security guards signaled to the supporters to behave .
i m not scared even if it becomes law ...
i will go to the toilet instead of sitting when the national anthem is on , hong kong supporter bendter chong said when asked if he would continue to jeer the anthem when the law is enacted .
tensions between hong kong and mainland china have increased in recent years amid calls for greater democracy .
mass street protests in 2014 paralyzed parts of the city although they failed to secure concessions on electoral reform from beijing .
most of the jeering was from youths , underscoring how the younger generation has become increasingly disaffected by political tension and economic hardship .
security was tight at the hong kong stadium , the venue for the city s annual rugby sevens tournament , where about 10,000 gathered for the match .
the stadium has capacity for 40,000 .
the game ended lebanon 1 , hong kong 0 .
i m not sure about the law , but for sure people will be more behaved , said hong kong supporter fai chan .
but it is still a matter of whether it is worth our respect .
hong kong returned from british to chinese rule in 1997 under a one country , two systems arrangement that guarantees a high degree of autonomy , including an independent judiciary and freedom of expression .
in 2015 , hong kong football fans booed the chinese anthem during a world cup qualifier , prompting a fine for the hong kong football association from world body fifa .
the association was warned by the asian football confederation recently over the conduct of fans and said a repeat violation may result in more severe punishment .