mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico will search another three days beneath the rubble for possible survivors of the september 19 earthquake even though it is unlikely rescuers will find anyone alive , the country s chief of emergency services said on monday .
luis felipe puente , coordinator of mexico s civil protection department , also told reuters that the government has instructed prosecutors to investigate newly constructed buildings that collapsed in the quake for code violations , including a school where 19 children and seven adults died .
i can say that at this time it would be unlikely to find someone alive , puente said in an interview , referring to 43 missing people being sought at four disaster sites in mexico city .
the 7.1 magnitude quake struck one week ago , killing 326 people including 187 people in mexico city , damaging 11,000 homes , of which about 1,500 will need to be demolished , puente said .
about 10 percent of damaged buildings were constructed after strict building codes were enacted in the wake of the devastating 1985 earthquake that killed an estimated 10,000 people , puente said , leading officials on monday to instruct prosecutors to open investigations .
the mexico city mayor and the national government have already ordered judicial investigations to determine who was responsible for new construction that did not meet the requirements , puente said from civil protection headquarters , where a roomful of technicians monitored seismic activity and tropical storms on an array of screens .
a school that collapsed in southern mexico city , killing 19 children and seven adults , will be among the subjects of the investigations , puente said .
officials who approved the school building , the construction company and the owner of the property all could be held accountable if any violations are discovered , puente said .
the largest search and rescue effort was under way at an office building in the roma section of mexico city where 40 people may be buried , based on families who have reported their relatives missing , puente said .
a person was believed missing at each of three other buildings in the capital where search operations are in progress , puente said .
dogs trained to pick up the scent of survivors have yet to find any signs of life at the search sites , he said .
asked how mucher longer search and rescue operations would continue , punete said , as of today , we have agreed to another 72 hours .