the mayor of new orleans is being evasive on who funded the removal of 4 statues in the heart of the city .
he s also not responding to questions on when the remaining 3 statues will be taken down and what he plans on doing with them.who is funding the removal ?
shouldn t the citizens know ?
do the citizens of new orleans not have a say in any of this ? here s the latest : new orleans just hours after crews working for the city of new orleans removed the liberty place monument , mayor mitch landrieu was asked repeatedly where the money came from to pay for the removal and who s paying to take down the other three confederate-era monuments of robert e. lee , jefferson davis and general p.g.t .
beauregard.the mayor would only say , we have enough funding to take down all four monuments .
city spokesman tyronne walker offered this clarification .
due to the widely-known intimidation , threats and reported violence to contractors and employees , safety concerns have been great and donors will remain anonymous .
that is the safe and responsible thing to do .
some people want to know what s next for the city-owned monuments .
crews took the liberty place statue to a city warehouse , not far from the superdome .
kurt buchert from save our circle , a pro-monument group is asking for transparency from the mayor .
the mayor is saying they should be in a museum one day , buchert said .
that s a very vague statement .
they could go sit in a warehouse for 100 years and then be put in a museum when all of us are dead .
political analyst clancy dubos says the mayor should reveal his plans for the statues .
i think the burden is on the mayor to bring this to a close , dubos said .
he needs to come up with a plan and say he s what s going to happen with these statues .
the council should have some input .
the public should have some input .
one of the other things the mayor isn t revealing at this time is when the rest of the monuments will be removed.he would only say they would be taken down in a similar manner to the liberty place statue , sooner rather than later .
mayor mitch landrieu in a statement monday declared : the removal of these statues sends a clear and unequivocal message to the people of new orleans and the nation : new orleans celebrates our diversity , inclusion and tolerance .
this is not about politics , blame or retaliation .
this is not a na ve quest to solve all our problems at once .
this is about showing the whole world that we as a city and as a people are able to acknowledge , understand , reconcile .. and most importantly choose a better future .
diversity , inclusion and tolerance ? new orleans is one of the unique cities in america .
because of its location , its culture and its commerce , it became one of the important players in the making of early america .
the site of two great battles of american history .
had new orleans not fallen in the civil war , that conflict would have continued on for years .
that is a large part it s it s rich history