washington ( reuters ) - two u.s .
senators urged auto safety regulators to publicly name the makes and models of tens of millions of vehicles with potentially faulty takata air bag inflators , according to a letter made public late on thursday .
“ there may still be 50 million airbags installed in vehicles whose owners not only have no idea , but also no way to find out , that they are driving a car containing potentially lethal airbags , ” wrote senators ed markey , a massachusetts democrat and richard blumenthal , a connecticut democrat .
on wednesday , the u.s. national highway traffic safety administration ( nhtsa ) confirmed the japanese air bag manufacturer would declare between 35 million and 40 million additional inflators defective by 2019 , which will prompt automakers to recall vehicles with the inflators .
the 50 million inflators that could still be recalled include 27 million side air bags and 23 million frontal air bag inflators .
as part of a november agreement with nhtsa , those vehicles must also be recalled by 2019 unless takata can prove they are safe .
takata must issue five separate defect reports starting may 16 and ending in 2019 .
takata said the first report will cover 14 million of the 35 million to 40 million inflators being recalled .
the second report is not due until dec. 31 and subsequent reports are due in 2017 , 2018 and 2019 .
nhtsa spokesman bryan thomas said automakers “ will provide the information about the models and makes in the coming weeks. ” he did not directly respond to the senators demands on the inflators that have not yet been recalled .
takata spokesman jared levy declined to comment .
the senators want nhtsa to release regular updates regarding testing data on takata airbags and their failure rates .
to date , 14 automakers have recalled 28.8 million takata inflators in about 24 million vehicles .
three additional automakers are part of the expansion .
the latest recall means all takata ammonium nitrate-based driver and passenger frontal air bag inflators without a chemical drying agent , known as a desiccant , will be recalled .
but 23 million takata frontal air bags with a desiccant have not been recalled .
when exposed to moisture , ammonium nitrate , which is used to inflate the air bag , can cause the inflator to rupture with deadly force , spraying shrapnel into vehicle occupants .
the defect is linked to at least 11 deaths and more than 100 injuries worldwide since 2008 .
takata said it is not aware of any ruptures in the inflators in the vehicles that are part of recall announced wednesday .