istanbul ( reuters ) - turkish police have detained 17 people as part of an investigation related to gold trader reza zarrab , who is cooperating with prosecutors in a u.s. trial , state-run anadolu news agency said on tuesday .
police detained three of zarrab s employees on suspicion of delivering documents from the network of muslim cleric fethullah gulen to u.s. prosecutors , anadolu said .
ankara says u.s. prosecutors have based their case on documents fabricated by gulen s followers , who it also blames for orchestrating last year s failed coup in turkey .
zarrab , a turkish and iranian national , has pleaded guilty to charges that he schemed to help iran evade u.s. sanctions , and is testifying for u.s. prosecutors against an executive from a turkish state-owned bank for related charges .
the executive has pleaded innocent and the bank has said all of its transactions complied with international regulations .
the case has strained ties between the united states and turkey , both members of the nato military alliance .
it has infuriated president tayyip erdogan , who has cast the trial as an attempt to undermine turkey and its economy .
it is right that there is a plot allegation in the trial s indictment , but it is a plot against turkey , not against the united states , erdogan told members of his ruling ak party in parliament .
this trial is an international coup attempt , a process at the center of which is feto , he said , using the turkish government s term for gulen s network .
gulen , who has lived in the united states since 1999 , has denied charges he was behind the coup , and condemned the military intervention .
police searched the houses of the three employees and found electronic copies of documents , anadolu said .
it said fourteen more people had been detained as part of the investigation .
no one was immediately available for comment at istanbul police headquarters .
last week the istanbul prosecutor s office decided to seize the assets of zarrab and those of his acquaintances as part of the investigation , anadolu reported .