brussels ( reuters ) - the european union on monday urged saad al-hariri to return to lebanon , calling on all political forces inside the country to focus on the domestic agenda and warning saudi arabia against meddling .
hariri s resignation , announced from riyadh , and its aftermath have put lebanon at the forefront of regional rivalry between shi ite-led iran and sunni saudi arabia riyadh in recent days .
we appeal first of all to the political forces to focus on lebanon and what they can deliver to their citizens , prime minister hariri to return to his country and the unity government ... to focus on domestic achievements , the bloc s top diplomat , federica mogherini , told reporters .
we expect no external interference in this national agenda .
we believe it is essential to avoid importing into lebanon regional conflicts , she said after hosting a meeting of all 28 eu foreign ministers in brussels .
she praised the achievements of the lebanese government under hariri , who resigned saying he feared assassination .
he has criticized the iran-backed hezbollah , which is part of his coalition government , for sowing strife in the arab world and said he could take his resignation back if the group agreed to stay out of regional conflicts .
france s foreign minister , speaking on the sidelines of the ministerial gathering in brussels , also called on other countries not to interfere in lebanon .
we are preoccupied by the situation in lebanon ... we are worried about its stability , we are worried about its integrity , we are worried about non-interference , jean-yves le drian said .
to reach a political solution in lebanon , all political figures must have complete freedom of movement , he told reporters when asked about hariri .
germany s sigmar gabriel also said hariri should return as his departure has shaken lebanon .
their luxembourgish counterpart jean asselborn warned riyadh that a meltdown in lebanon would further destabilize the tumultuous middle east , adding that a hostage crisis , if that is what is happening with the lebanese prime minister in saudi arabia , is not very good news for the region .