paris ( reuters ) - iter , an international project to build a prototype nuclear fusion reactor in southern france , said it is facing delays if the trump administration does not reconsider budget cuts .
seven partners - europe , the united states , china , india , japan , russia and south korea - launched the international thermonuclear experimental reactor ( iter ) 10 years ago but the project has experienced years of delays and budget overruns .
iter hopes to generate power from a process similar to the nuclear fusion that powers the sun , unlike existing nuclear reactors that produce energy by splitting atoms .
iter director-general bernard bigot , in washington for talks with the u.s. administration , said the u.s. 2017 contribution had been cut from a planned $ 105 million to $ 50 million and its 2018 contribution from a planned $ 120 million to $ 63 million .
the united states has already spent about $ 1 billion on the prototype reactor and was scheduled to contribute up to another $ 1.5 billion through 2025 , when iter is scheduled to run a first operational test .
if we do not respect deadlines in the beginning , we can not respect them in the end , bigot told reuters by telephone .
bigot said that following a letter from french president emmanuel macron to president donald trump in august , trump had asked his administration to reconsider the issue .
we hope for a decision this weekend or this week , he said .
if the u.s. does not provide the necessary funds in 2018 , then there will be an impact on the entire project , he added .
earlier this year , iter s total budget was revised upwards from 18 to 22 billion euros ( $ 21-26 billion ) , with a u.s. share of nine percent .
the trump administration is conducting a review of civilian nuclear policy , including research and development , which will inform u.s. policy toward iter in the future , said shaylyn hynes , a spokeswoman for the u.s. department of energy .
u.s. energy secretary rick perry has told macron that we understand the history and the scale of the project , she said .
bigot said that after trump cut the u.s. energy department s budget , the department reduced funding for the u.s. companies making iter components .
iter member countries finance the manufacturing of iter components via their own national companies .
the parts are then shipped to france and assembled on iter s cadarache , southern france site .
iter s main u.s. supplier is california-based general atomics , which is building its central solenoid , an 18-metre tall pillar-like magnet that will be one of the first components to be installed by 2020 .
the project is now half way towards the first test of its super-heated plasma by 2025 and first full-power fusion by 2035 .
iter says nuclear fusion will not produce nuclear waste like traditional nuclear power plants and will be much safer to operate .
but the challenges of replicating the sun s fusion on earth are enormous and critics say that it remains unclear whether the technology will work and can eventually be commercially viable .