oslo ( reuters ) - norwegians vote on sept. 10 and 11 to pick a parliament for the next four years and determine whether the center-right minority government stays in power or is replaced by parties on the center-left .
opinion polls show the election remains too close to call .
exit polls and forecasts based on early votes will be made public on monday at 1900 gmt , and most ballots will be counted within three to four hours .
in the case of an exceptionally tight race however , the final result may not emerge until late on tuesday .
below is a summary of key policy differences and the dynamics of the race : all 169 seats in parliament are up for grabs , and as many as nine parties are expected to win seats under norway s system of proportional representation .
however , there are only two candidates for the job of prime minister - the incumbent erna solberg of the conservatives and labour s jonas gahr stoere .
a calculation by www.pollofpolls.no , measuring the average of september opinion polls , gave solberg s four-party block 85 seats , just enough for a majority , while the four on the center-left , plus the independent green party , would win 84 seats .
but whether it s the center-left or center-right that hits the crucial 85 seats , the winner faces tricky post-election negotiations and will meet tough demands from small parties to keep their support over the next four years .
the race could be decided by how many of the small parties clear the key four-percent hurdle that gives access to a pool of so-called seats at large , boosting their presence in parliament .
two parties on the right , two on the left and one in the center , the greens , are all close to this key threshold .
solberg seeks further cuts in personal income tax and a reduction of the wealth tax , but has declined to say by how much .
she requires backing from the centrist liberals and christian democrats , which would temper the size of any cuts .
labour has vowed to raise taxes for above-average earners and the wealthy by up to $ 2 billion to improve public services and reduce the reliance on cash from norway s sovereign wealth fund .
citing concerns over climate change and potential pollution , several small parties seek to limit the expansion of norway s oil and gas industry , which brings in almost half the country s export revenues .
the independent greens , which could hold the balance of power in post-election maneuvers , have made it a condition for anyone seeking their support to end all exploration a demand that neither labour nor the conservatives are willing to meet .
meanwhile , the liberal party hopes to slow down the awards of new exploration acreage to oil firms if the conservatives stay in power , while on the left the reds and the socialist left will make similar demands of a labour-led government .
the seas surrounding the arctic lofoten archipelago could thus remain off-limits to the oil industry , while the extent of drilling in the far-north barents sea may emerge as a flash-point in post-election negotiations .
with nearly $ 1 trillion saved up from norway s extensive oil and gas industry , the next parliament faces key questions over how to organize the fund and whether to allow investments beyond the foreign stocks , bonds and real estate it currently holds .
decisions are mostly made in consensus between the bigger parties , however , and neither labour nor the conservatives have said whether they agree with a recent report that suggested it should no longer be managed by the central bank .
if labour s gahr stoere emerges as the likely next prime minister , he will face pressure from center-left parties to review eu-outsider norway s extensive inclusion in the european union s single market .
at stake is norway s participation in the european economic area ( eea ) treaty , strongly favored by both labour and the conservatives but opposed by the euro-skeptic centre party ( cp ) and the socialist left ( sl ) .
however , both the cp and the sl , in government with labour from 2005 to 2013 , agreed at the time to govern on the basis of the eea .
an interactive reuters graphic of polling data can be found at tmsnrt.rs/2wykvio