washington ( reuters ) - mylan nl chief executive officer heather bresch will appear at a sept. 21 congressional hearing over price increases for its epipen emergency allergy treatment , the u.s. house of representatives oversight committee said in a statement on wednesday .
mylan has been widely criticized , including by u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton , for sharply raising the price of epipens , which are carried by people with life-threatening allergies .
mylan , which acquired the product in 2007 , recently raised the list price for a pair of epipen auto-injectors to $ 600 .
the price has been rising from a cost of about $ 100 in 2008 .
mylan spokeswoman nina devlin confirmed that bresch will attend the hearing .
“ heather is very good at being able to give an answer without offering much information , ” said evercore isi analyst umer raffat , adding that he will be watching for any other issues that might be raised by the committee .
a probe into epipen pricing by a u.s. senate subcommittee was announced on sept. 7 .
bresch is the daughter of u.s .
senator joe manchin , a democrat from west virginia .
the house panel co-chairmen , republican representative jason chaffetz and democratic representative elijah cummings , noted there is “ ... justified outrage from families and schools across the country struggling to afford the high cost of epipens. ” the committee planned to look at how to spur competition in the epipen market and speed approval by the food and drug administration ( fda ) of generic alternatives , according to the statement .
in response to the furor , mylan last month said it would sell its own generic version of epipen for $ 300 .
teva pharmaceutical industries , which for years has been working on developing a generic alternative to epipen , said last week that it hopes to gain u.s. approval by late 2017 or early 20018 .
epipen , which has annual sales of about $ 1 billion , delivers a potentially life-saving dose of epinephrine by injection into the thigh to counter dangerous allergic reactions , including to peanuts and bee stings .
mylan owns 94 percent of the market for such auto-injected devices .
the committee said it also planned to call as a witness dr doug throckmorton , the fda ’ s deputy director at the center for drug evaluation and research .