copenhagen ( reuters ) - danish inventor peter madsen has admitted to dismembering swedish journalist kim wall on board his submarine in august and dumping her body parts in the sea , but he still denies killing her , police said on monday .
the police said in a statement madsen had told them in an oct. 14 interrogation that wall , 30 , had died from carbon monoxide poisoning inside the submarine , while he was on the deck of the vessel .
the police would now gather additional information from coroners and submarine experts from the danish defense command .
in past court hearings , madsen said that wall had died accidentally after being hit by a heavy hatch cover on his uc3 nautilus submarine .
the police said they would now extend the charges against madsen - which already include murder and mutilating wall s body - to include sexual assault without intercourse , based on 14 interior and exterior stab wounds to the journalist s genitals .
kim wall had suffered 14 stabs in and around the genitals and it is due to these stabs that we have said that there must have been a sexual motive , police spokesman jens moller jensen told journalists in copenhagen .
madsen denies the murder and sexual assault charges .
the cause of death was still unknown , said jensen .
wall , a freelance journalist who was researching a story on madsen , went missing after he took her out to sea in the 17-metre ( 56-foot ) submarine in august .
on aug. 23 , police identified a headless female torso that washed ashore in copenhagen as wall s. wall s arms as well as her and madsen s mobile phones are still missing and the police are currently assessing if divers should continue the search for them .
earlier this month , police said they had also recovered wall s head and legs .
they said they found no skull fracture , despite madsen s earlier account that she had been hit on the head by the hatch cover .
the submarine is one of three that madsen built , and one of the largest of its kind privately produced in the world .
it could carry eight people and weighed 40 tonnes fully equipped .
the case has been scheduled to run for eight days at copenhagen s district court from march 8 2018 .