( reuters ) - wisconsin republican governor scott walker signed two bills into law on thursday that block federal funding from planned parenthood and could cost the local organization millions of dollars .
planned parenthood of wisconsin could lose about $ 7.5 million a year because of the measures , an organization spokeswoman said .
texas , louisiana other republican-controlled states tried to halt funding for the reproductive health organization after an anti-abortion group released videos last summer purported to show planned parenthood officials trying to negotiate prices for aborted fetal tissue .
under federal law , donated human fetal tissue may be used for research , but profiting from its sale is prohibited .
a grand jury in texas cleared planned parenthood of any wrongdoing and indicted two anti-abortion activists behind the filming of the videos for tampering with a government record and violating a prohibition on the purchase and sale of human organs .
one of the new wisconsin rules requires the state to apply for federal “ title x ” family planning grant money and to give those monies to “ less controversial public entities ” such as state , county and local health departments and clinics , a statement from walker ’ s office said .
planned parenthood is currently the only entity in wisconsin receiving this federal money and the funds will not be sent to the organization , the statement said .
state entities providing abortions will now bill medicaid only for acquisition costs and dispensing fees for prescription drugs .
planned parenthood of wisconsin could lose roughly $ 4 million a year as a result of this measure , depending on patient volume and the type of birth control patients choose , organization spokeswoman iris riis said .
the legislation singles out planned parenthood and is an attempt to stop the organization from providing essential healthcare , the group said .
“ the move was the latest in a long line of attacks by the governor and the republican controlled state legislature on the health of wisconsin women and families , ” the organization said in a statement .
planned parenthood of wisconsin has 22 health centers in the state , three of which offer abortion services , according to its website .
earlier this month , ohio legislators approved a bill blocking state and federal funds for groups that perform or promote abortions , which cut $ 1.3 million annually used by planned parenthood clinics for hiv testing , pre-natal care and other programs .
states including alabama , utah and arkansas have fought losing court battles over their plans to cut funding for local planned parenthood operations .