paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron offered an ambitious vision for european renewal on tuesday , calling for the eu to work more closely on defense and immigration and for the euro zone to have its own budget , ideas he may struggle to implement .
in a nearly two-hour speech delivered two days after the german election in which chancellor angela merkel s conservative cdu/csu bloc scored its worst result since 1949 , limiting her freedom to maneuver on europe , the 39-year-old french president held little back in terms of sweep , self-assurance and aspiration .
but at a time when europe is beset by tensions between east and west and battling to overcome nearly a decade of draining economic crisis , macron s earnest and at times high-brow discourse ran the risk of falling on deaf ears .
speaking at the sorbonne , he portrayed europe as needing to relaunch itself , saying that on issues as diverse as asylum , border protection , corporate tax , intelligence sharing , defense and financial stability it needed much deeper cooperation .
the only path that assures our future is the rebuilding of a europe that is sovereign , united and democratic , the former investment banker and philosophy student said , flanked by a french and a european union flag .
at the beginning of the next decade , europe must have a joint intervention force , a common defense budget and a joint doctrine for action .
in his run for the presidency , macron made european reform a central plank of his centrist campaign , and he and merkel have spoken frequently about their desire for france and germany , the european union s two largest economies and often its engines of change , to take the lead on integration .
but five months into his five-year term , macron faces the threat that merkel , 63 and looking to start her fourth term , has less capacity to move than either would have hoped .
her alliance is still the largest bloc in the bundestag , but to build a working majority she will likely have to form a coalition with the greens and the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) , who are opposed to many of macron s ideas .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel , a senior member of the social democrats ( spd ) , hailed macron s speech a passionate plea against nationalism and for europe .
he can count on us , said gabriel , whose party has ruled out being part of a new grand coalition .
rather than tailoring his speech to fit the contours of what the fdp , the greens or merkel may have wanted to hear , macron kept his vision broad and far-reaching , while also detailing some specific ideas for an improved euro zone .
a budget can only go hand-in-hand with strong political leadership led by a common ( finance ) minister and a strong parliamentary supervision at the european level , he said , emphasizing the need for democratic accountability .
the fiscally conservative fdp dislikes the idea of a euro zone budget or any facility that may lead to financial transfers from wealthier euro zone countries to poorer ones , as well as the possibility of national debt being pooled .
the party has also called for phasing out europe s esm bailout fund , which macron wants to turn into a european monetary fund , and wants to see changes to eu treaties that would allow countries to leave the euro zone .
you don t strengthen europe with new pots of money , alexander lambsdorff , an fdp member in the european parliament , said on twitter in reaction to macron s speech .
in a statement issued by the fdp in berlin , lambsdorff said : the problem in europe is not a lack of public funds , but the lack of reform .
a euro zone budget would set exactly the wrong incentives .
not shying away from addressing germany directly even as it tries to resolve the fallout from sunday s election , macron set an objective that the two countries completely integrate their markets and corporate rules by 2024 .
we share the same european ambitions and i know her commitment to europe , he said of merkel .
i m proposing to germany a new partnership .
we will not agree on everything , not immediately , but we will discuss everything .
in berlin on monday , merkel said it was important to move beyond catchphrases and provide detail on how europe could be improved .
it was not immediately clear whether macron had managed to go beyond slogans as far as merkel was concerned .
but martin selmayr , the chief of staff of european commission president jean-claude juncker , said the proposals to reinforce the euro zone would be discussed alongside juncker s own at a euro zone summit planned for december .
italy s eu affairs minister , sandro gozi , said the speech would inspire european leaders into action .
an excellent speech by emmanuel macron on reviving the european union .
let s work on this together , starting tomorrow at the lyon summit , he said , referring to a meeting of the italian and french leaders to discuss industrial policy .
macron said he hoped his ideas would be taken into account in germany s coalition building negotiations .
those talks are not expected to begin until mid-october and may take several months .
some had said i should wait for the coalition talks to be concluded , macron said , adding had he done so , the reaction in berlin would have been : your proposals are great but it s too late , the coalition deal already lays out what will we do on europe for the next four years .