rome ( reuters ) - a regional ballot in sicily this weekend will serve as a dress rehearsal for a forthcoming general election , with the political dynamics on the mediterranean island matching those being played out on the national stage .
bolstered by the return of four-times prime minister silvio berlusconi to the campaign trail , a resurgent centre-right is looking to reclaim its supremacy over sicily and show that after years of scandals it is once again a force to be reckoned with .
it faces a fierce opponent in the anti-establishment 5-star movement , which has never won control of a italian region and hopes victory on sunday might propel it to success in next year s parliamentary election .
meanwhile , the centre-left , which now heads both the sicilian and national governments , has succumbed to feuding with leftist rivals - a fratricidal struggle that looks likely to wreck its chances of regaining power .
sicily is one of the poorest regions in europe , ranking 237 out of 263 in european union competitiveness rankings , and has become a byword for bloated public payrolls , wasteful administration and the ever-present scourge of corruption and organized crime .
it is also seen as a bellwether of national politics .
the centre-right won all 61 seats on offer here in a 2001 national election when berlusconi was at the zenith of his power .
by 2012 , with the mood in the country changing , sicily shifted towards the centre-left , foreshadowing the bloc s subsequent victory five months later at a national level .
the 5-star hopes the political winds are now blowing in its favor and that voters are ready to embrace its manifesto , which focuses on fighting graft , promoting green energy and offering universal income support for the poor .
the vote on november 5 is like a referendum ... you are choosing between the future and the past , between legality and corruption , said luigi di maio , the 5-star s new national leader , who has campaigned relentlessly in sicily for weeks .
final opinion polls published before a blackout was imposed on oct. 23 put the centre-right candidate nello musumeci on some 33 percent against 31.5 percent for the 5-star s giancarlo cancelleri .
the centre-left s fabrizio micari was seen taking some 16 percent , just ahead of the leftist claudio fava .
since the release of the last surveys , musumeci has come under pressure over candidates on his list , some of whom have criminal records or are awaiting trial for graft .
the 5-star says the scandal has given it a major lift ahead of sunday .
while 5-star and centre-right leaders have criss-crossed sicily this autumn , the head of the ruling centre-left democratic party , former prime minister matteo renzi , has kept a low profile , insisting the vote is just about regional issues .
sicily certainly has its share of problems .
the island s economic output fell more than 13 percentage points between 2008 and 2015 and it will take many years before it recovers the lost ground .
unemployment stands at over 22 percent , twice the national average , and youth unemployment is at 57.2 percent , compared with some 36 percent nationally .
but should the democratic party candidate suffer a drubbing , it will undermine renzi s standing within the party and underscore the cost it is paying for civil war on the left before the national vote , which is due by may 2018 .
although the centre-right is running united , it too has internal divisions .
berlusconi has resisted campaigning alongside matteo salvini , the leader of his main ally , the northern league , whom he has dismissed as a populist .
but unlike renzi , 81-year-old berlusconi has papered over the differences and kept his focus on his main rival .
the sicilian elections resemble the national vote in one way .
in palermo , as in rome , the fight is between us and the ( 5-star ) , between our experience and competence ... and their utter poverty and incompetence , he said in palermo on wednesday .