nusa dua , indonesia , ( reuters ) - when students at indonesia s prestigious institute of agricultural studies swore an oath to support a caliphate in the world s largest muslim-majority country last year , a video of the event went viral and the government grew alarmed .
months later , indonesian president joko widodo banned the decades-old hardline group hizb ut-tahrir indonesia ( hti ) , which organized the student pledge , and declared its goal to set up a caliphate was incompatible with the constitution and could threaten security .
last month , under prodding from the government , thousands of students across the nation made an anti-radicalism pledge .
it followed an unprecedented gathering in late september of some 3,000 academics in bali , who also pledged to fight extremism and defend the secular constitution .
the campaign against extremism in education comes amid a rise of a hardline , politicized islam in indonesia , which until recently had occupied the fringe of the nation s politics .
radical organizations can spread like a virus in universities , said professor muhammad sirozi , rector of the state islamic university raden fatah in palembang on sumatra .
these are not the organizations that students form themselves , but they are from outside , he said at a briefing that outlined ways to help universities tackle radicalism following the bali conference .
the campaign to root out boosters of the caliphate is not just confined to schools .
a document collated by indonesia s intelligence agency lists 1,300 hti members in senior posts in the civil service , universities , the military and police .
an intelligence source confirmed the authenticity of the document , which was reviewed by reuters .
some of those on it declined to comment after being contacted , but hti s former spokesman ismail yusanto said it did include some of its members .
illustrating how a politicized brand of islam has gained traction , nearly 20 percent of high school and university students in indonesia support the establishment of a caliphate , a survey showed last week .
moreover , around one in four of the 4,200 muslim students in the survey by pollster alvara said they were , to varying degrees , ready to wage jihad to achieve this .
hizb ut-tahrir , an international organization , established by a palestinian islamic scholar in 1953 , has been banned in some arab , asian and european countries .
one of its former members in indonesia is bahrun naim , who went to fight for islamic state in syria and is accused of masterminding a series of attacks in indonesia since early last year .
an officially registered organization in indonesia since 2000 , hti has sought a judicial review in the constitutional court over its disbanding .
they never gave us a chance to defend ourselves .
is it not an authoritarian and repressive action ?
said hti spokesman yusanto , who likened the crackdown to the tactics used against opponents under former strongman president suharto .
asked whether hti was still operating , yusanto said no one could ban members from their duty to do dakwah ( missionary work ) and those activities would continue .
higher education minister muhammad nasir told reporters in july that hti members were lecturers in many universities - indonesia has 394 state universities and about 3,000 private ones .
he warned they could be sacked unless they proffer loyalty to indonesia s secular ideology pancasila , or five principles .
yusanto said , however , no lecturers who were hti members had been sacked .
a home ministry spokesman said a task force set up to find members in the civil service had not found any so far .
one former hti member , ayik heriansyah , said the group tries to enlist support from influential members of society and sympathizers in the security forces to overthrow governments , or what it terms the handing over of power .
universities have been a key recruiting ground .
heriansyah , who was once chairman of hti at the university of indonesia , said potential recruits were usuallyinvited to an islamic study group .
after about three months , they might be asked to participate in intensive hiz b-ut-tahrir study , said heriansyah , who said left the group after a falling out with its central board .
heriansyah said the ban on the group would simply push it underground .
they are still running the movement as usual , but with a new structure and stewardship , he said .
hti has not disclosed its membership .
raymond arifianto , a research fellow at singapore s s. rajaratnam school of international studies , said his sources say hti had about one million members , including an estimated 10-15 percent of junior army officers as members or sympathizers .
a spokesman for indonesia s military denied this .
the group has also gained a strong presence in state universities that train public school teachers , meaning new teachers could spread hti ideology to high school pupils .
a survey published last december by the institute for the study of islam and society , showed that 78 percent of 505 religious teachers in public schools supported implementing sharia law in indonesia .
the survey also found that 77 percent backed islamist groups advocating this goal .
muhammad abdullah darraz , director of the maarif institute , which promotes religious and cultural harmony , said hti had targeted religious lessons at state high schools to spread its ideology .
clerics offered their services for free , often with school principals and teachers being unaware of their affiliation , he told reuters.hti s spokesman denied this was a strategy but said members were obliged to do missionary work without charge .
indonesia s biggest islamic groups , the moderate nahdlatul ulama ( nu ) and muhammadiyah , which claim to have about 120 million members between them , back the crackdown on hti .
yaqut cholil qoumas , chairman of nu s gp ansor youth wing , said that indonesia had been built by many religions and cultures , but hti came and wanted to change this diversity into one nation called an islamic country .