rush limbaugh is spot on with his analysis of barack obama and how he has intentionally torn our nation apart , and more importantly , how republican leadership has allowed him to do it .
this is a great read for anyone who would like to understand exactly how this war on cops and war on white america started rush : this is so predictable to me .
you know , i didn t have a chance to really listen to it or study obama s speech in dallas yesterday because it happened while the program was on , so i had to bone up on it later in the day .
and it was predictable .
the reaction to it was predictable .
the drive-bys just thought it was the greatest speech ever .
it was just over the top great .
i mean , it was so timely , and it was so presidential.even some in the conservative media found it necessary to praise obama s speech .
and we know why this happens .
it is because some in the conservative media don t want to be seen as constantly pestering the guy , so it s thought that it ll add to their credibility if they can acknowledge that the president did something well , did something good , presidential , even if it was only a portion of the speech.but my take on it was entirely different .
i think the first half of his speech yesterday seemed to be high-minded and unifying , but he blows it all to smithereens because i think what the first half of the speech was was a setup for the political hackery that was to come .
it wasn t as if the speech suddenly and unexpectedly veered off course .
obama knew that he had to give the impression he was a healer and a unifier before he could pivot to what he really wanted to say.and i took it , you know , i m sitting there watching it like everybody else did , and i m absorbing it , and i felt like it was a political sucker punch .
the second half of the speech is what obama really wanted to say but couldn t unless he preceded it with the so-called unifying remarks beforehand.but here s the thing i was wondering as i m watching obama , and we hear people on the left in the drive-by media talking about how obama tries to unify and bring everybody together .
what a great effort !
ah , it was just stupendous .
then why draw a moral equivalence ?
here he was at a memorial service for five slain dallas police officers .
why draw any kind of a more ?
why do you mention alton sterling and what went on in minnesota ?
why ?
you can mention it , but this effort to draw some kind of moral equivalence as though there is one and we can understand all of it happening ?
this inability to look at something and proclaim it wrong ( interruption ) well , yeah , okay .
so he knew he d get grief from the left .
i don t think he cares he get grief from the left .
i think the guy s got his agenda and he s full-speed marching it down the path .
i m just when this year began , i warned everybody .
i said , folks , this year coming up with the republicans having given obama a clear road signaling they re not gon na oppose anything , not even his policies you know , mitch mcconnell and ryan announced they weren t gon na oppose obama.they didn t want to appear to be opposing or creating any negatives for the republican presidential nominee .
so obama knows he s got a free road .
so why does he care that the left might come at him and say he wasn t left-wing enough or he wasn t pro-black lives matter enough ?
i don t think there s any doubt where obama stands with people on the left .
i want you to stop and think about something .
i want to set it up by acknowledging something that we all know .
obama knows it ; everybody knows it.the entire narrative of ferguson , missouri , is a lie .
hands up , don t shoot is a lie .
the story that a racist cop went hunting and found an innocent gentle giant walking down the street when he should have been on the sidewalk contemplating excitedly this is part of the story : he was eagerly anticipating his freshman year at college , was michael brown , and this racist cop went hunting , and he found a guy breaking the law , walking in the street ! and he got up in his face and he all bullied him and so forth , and brown was immediately deferential and put his hands up and said , don t shoot !
don t shoot !
and the cop shot anyway .
that is the story that came out of there , and that story fed entire narrative of black lives matter and whatever they re trying to do to create controversy and division .
and it fed the new black panthers .
it was a lie .
it was a total lie.everything about that ferguson story as repeated by the media and prominent democrats and civil rights activists was a lie .
what if ?
i want you to think about it .
what if , in the aftermath of ferguson , missouri , barack obama , as president of the united states meaning president of the whole country , meaning president of everybody here had scheduled a national address from the oval office , an address to the people of america and told them the truth about what happened in ferguson ? after the grand jury investigation was complete , after it was inarguably so after we learned exactly what happened , that the gentle giant had robbed a convenience store , that he was looking for a mechanism to spoke some dope .
he had bullied the clerk in the 7-eleven , the convenience store , whatever .
he was walking down the street .
he had attempted to overtake the cop in his car .
he had defied the requests and the orders of the cop .
he had taken action which resulted in the cop shooting.everything about that story was not true.what if obama had gone on tv and simply told people ?
for the sake of national unity , for the sake of understanding , for the sake of promoting and acknowledged truth , what if obama had been on tv and acknowledged what really happened and had told everybody that what they think happened in ferguson didn t happen ?
what do you think the aftermath might have been ? this is what we expect of presidents , is the point .
we don t expect presidents to further and promulgate lies and misinformation for the express purpose of creating and fomenting deadly anger .
presidents try to quell these situations .
they try to get a handle on em and ratchet down the tension .
such an opportunity exists here because the truth was the truth , and the truth was not part of the narrative .
now , if that had happened and i can t predict in the alternative future , but i have to think that the aftermath of that incident the lie would have been short-lived.and the anger would have subdued .
maybe it would have been redirected toward obama ; i don t know .
but , remember : it fed baltimore , it fed freddie gray , it fed the situation in new york with the eric garner who also died of a heart attack , not a chokehold .
that s another lie that was told .
this guy was selling knock-off cigarettes on the street of new york .
he s telling because new york city taxes it so high that the guy could make a living selling black market cigarettes , selling black market cigarettes.for some reason , he came to the attention of the cop .
they ended up applying a restraining hold on the guy , but he had a heart attack .
it was not the chokehold didn t kill .
the cops did not kill the guy .
but that s not the story .
there are so many lies that have been created and then , if not promoted , they have not been quelled by the white house , which makes me question motive .
why not ?
of course , i know the answer to this , and you do , too.you know the answer lies in the president s agenda and is rapidly becoming the democrat party agenda .
i was looking at the democrat party platform .
you wouldn t believe , folks .
the democrat party has been totally now taken over by the radicals .
i mean , just insane lunatic radicals are now the mainstream of the democrat party .
you look at the democrat party platform in 08 and look at it in 2012 .
they acknowledge the legitimacy of the second amendment , these platforms.platforms don t matter much in terms of future governing .
i mean , they re not binding on presidents if they win the election to implement the platform , whatever .
what the platform basically does is tell you what the base of the party thinks about things , cause the base of the party dominates in primaries and they end up on the committee that writes the platform , so the platform gives you an indication where the base of both parties are .
the democrat party is not only is it not john f. kennedy s democrat party .
it isn t bill clinton or hillary clinton s democrat party .
hillary clinton is a well , i don t want to she s a radical in and of her own right , but she tempers her radicalness with enough proclamations or statements that make her to be mainstream in enough areas .
but there isn t any mainstream anything in the democrat party platform .
and i m telling you : it s what happens when there s no opposition.when there s no opposition , when there no guardrails , when there s nothing to stop people from descending to their extreme worst , that s exactly what s gon na happen .
and i m here to tell you : the extremism in america could be found almost exclusively on the democrat side , and that extremism has been documented in their platform , and it was speaking in dallas yesterday .
this idea of finding a moral equivalence , and taking the occasion of a memorial service at a funeral for one of the cops to say it ? it was a funeral for one of the cops yesterday .
to take the occasion and use it to amplify ?
that statement , it s easier to get a glock than to get a computer or gun ?
come on !
what in the world can that possibly represent , that kind of statement ?
there s nothing unifying about that .
it s not even true .
and he knows it isn t true .
so that s nothing but a provocative statement designed to illustrate an actual opinion held by barack obama , and he turned that whole thing yesterday into yet another attempt at gun control.i think it s the yes , ladies and gentlemen , there s a chapter .
if you haven t heard this , buckle up .
it s a chapter of the naalcp , the national association for the advancement of liberal colored people .
and somebody in some chapter prominently has now claimed that the death of micah x. johnson was nothing more than a modern day lynching .
yeah .
the guy who assassinated five dallas police officers and injured 11 or 12 others.so the police rally , and they use their explosive robot bomb to kill the guy , and now the naalcp is running around accusing that action of being a lynching .
innocent people were lynched .
the naalcp says , we don t know if the guy was a shooter !
we don t know if the guy did it .
we re just taking their word for it ?
we don t take their word for it !
we don t trust them ; we don t to believe em .
they re making it up !
we don t have any evidence the guy was the shooter .
we don t have any evidence blew him up with a robot bomb .
it s a lynching .
hey , here s to unity.for entire article : rushlimbaugh.com