washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump on sunday delivered a more orderly , less haphazard response than he has offered to other provocations by north korea after pyongyang conducted a powerful nuclear test that intensified the pressure on his young presidency .
trump s handling of pyongyang s nuclear test reflected a more traditional approach to crisis management , which u.s. officials said illustrated the influence of the new white house chief of staff , retired marine corps general john kelly , and defense secretary jim mattis .
that included the tone the president struck in some early morning tweets .
a meeting on the crisis that trump convened on sunday was limited to top aides and generals directly involved .
in the past , according to administration officials , white house aides and others wandered in and out of such discussions , contributing to an impression of policymaking chaos .
after the meeting , mattis , also a retired marine corps general , appeared before reporters , along with joint chiefs of staff chairman general joseph dunford , to warn north korea of u.s. military resolve .
trump himself was more restrained .
last month , he inflamed tensions by declaring that north korea might face fire and fury like the world has never seen .
when asked on sunday if he planned to launch an attack , he said only : we ll see .
north korea is a rogue nation which has become a great threat and embarrassment to china , which is trying to help but with little success , trump said on twitter .
a u.s. official who has participated in the discussions of how to respond to the north s sixth nuclear test , which pyongyang says was of an advanced hydrogen bomb , told reuters the u.s. response thus far reflected an improved organization .
if today s meeting and the president s public remarks on twitter , and the outreach to our allies and others by rex and others is an early indication , the process is at least more orderly , said the official , referring to secretary of state rex tillerson .
the crisis is also presenting a test for kelly , who officials said was trying to rein in the president s more combative impulses and place limits on who gets access to him .
the republican president has sometimes chafed at the restrictions his new chief of staff has imposed on the information flow in and out of the oval office in a bid to streamline the decision-making process , people familiar with the situation said .
you can t manage trump like that , said one outside trump adviser , who predicted the president would eventually tire of the process .
a second official familiar with the situation noted that kelly s influence extends so far .
the president is still the commander in chief , and he has his bully pulpit in twitter , said that official , who also requested anonymity to discuss internal white house matters .
if there was a discordant note on sunday , it might have been when trump took to twitter to admonish south korea , a key ally , for what he termed a policy of appeasement of north korea .
south korea is finding , as i have told them , that their talk of appeasement with north korea will not work , they ( north korea ) only understand one thing !
he said on twitter .
a former senior state department official criticized trump for making the remark .
it was unseemly , unhelpful , and divisive to gratuitously slap our major ally at the very moment when the threat from ( north korea ) has reached a new height , said the official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
mattis has a closer relationship with trump than do kelly , national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster and tillerson , and had played the leading role in explaining to the president the military options and the dangerous implications of using any of them , the second u.s. official said .
it s no accident that it was mattis who spoke to the media after the meeting , the official said .
both officials said trump had been briefed on north korea multiple times since taking office in january , but had pushed back against the idea that military action would be so costly that it should remain a last resort .
most military scenarios predict that a strike on north korea would bring a massive missile and artillery response against south korea and its capital , seoul , resulting in mass casualties .
for now , the strategy emerging in the white house includes greater economic pressure on china to step in to help resolve the crisis , officials said .
beijing denies it has sufficient influence on pyongyang .
the effort was signaled by treasury secretary steven mnuchin , who told fox news sunday that he was drafting a sanctions package in which anybody who wants to do trade or business with them ( north korea ) would be prevented from doing trade or business with us .
china is north korea s biggest trading partner .
a recent round of u.s. sanctions targeted some chinese financial institutions , but administration officials said a broader effort was being contemplated .
whether trump would launch such an effort is far from clear .
he has sought to impose tariffs against chinese steel imports but has been persuaded by his advisers not to take such a step because it could start a trade war .