moscow/beijing ( reuters ) - prospects for a meeting between russian president vladimir putin and u.s. counterpart donald trump at this week s asia-pacific economic cooperation summit were unclear after the kremlin said a meeting was definite before saying it was just a possibility .
putin and trump , who had their first face-to-face meeting in july to discuss allegations of russian meddling in the 2016 u.s. election , are both planning to attend this week s summit in the vietnamese city of danang .
the kremlin , which wants to try to improve battered u.s.-russia ties , says it has been trying to set up a meeting and trump told fox news before his asia tour that he might meet putin in vietnam to talk about syria , ukraine and north korea .
kremlin aide yuri ushakov told russian news agencies on thursday that such a meeting would happen on friday , but dmitry peskov , a putin spokesman , rowed back on that later on thursday after u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said no decision on formal talks had yet been taken .
tillerson , on a visit to beijing with trump , also questioned whether the two leaders would have enough to talk about to justify such a meeting .
there s never been an agreement , certainly not to a full bilat ( eral ) , said tillerson , who said it would not be unusual however if the two men had a spontaneous pull-aside meeting chat if they bumped into each other .
the question is whether we ve got sufficient substance ( for a more formal meeting ) and we re working with the russians as you know on a number of difficult areas , said tillerson .
we re in contact with them and the view s that the two leaders are going to meet if there s something sufficiently substantive to talk about that would warrant a formal meeting .
asked about tillerson s comments , peskov , putin s spokesman , told reporters on a conference call that a possible meeting was still being discussed before predicting that the two men would cross paths one way or another .
putin and trump first got together at a g20 summit in hamburg in july when they discussed accusations of russian interference in the u.s. election but agreed to focus on better relations rather than litigating the past .
but ties have soured further since then .
trump in august grudgingly signed off on new sanctions against russia , a move moscow said ended hopes for better relations .
putin ordered washington to cut its embassy and consular staff in russia by more than half .
tensions have also flared over the conflict in syria .