gay pride ?
tolerance is a one-way street for those on the left two street preachers were brutally beaten punched and kicked by a crowd at a gay pride festival in seattle and the entire melee was captured on video.the preachers were holding signs reading repent or else and jesus saves from sin .
the video shows a group of people initially screaming and threatening the men during pridefest at the seattle space needle.television station komo reported that some of the attackers belonged to a group called noh8a group of women tried to steal their signs but were unsuccessful .
the video then shows a group of men grabbing onto one of the preacher s signs and dragging him to the ground .
at some point he was punched in the back of the head a number of times while others can be seen kicking the man.another preacher was sucker punched in the back of the head.police arrested two suspects one of whom has a long rap sheet.it s not the first time christians have been attacked by pro-gay activists.last august a gunman opened fire inside the headquarters of the family research council in washington , d.c. floyd lee corkins , jr. pled guilty to committing an act of terrorism on the pro-family organization.corkins shot frc security guard leo johnson and intended to shoot others but johnson was able to disarm the man.last year a group called angry queers caused thousands of dollars in damage to the portland , ore. campus of mars hill church .
the vandals hurled stones through stain glass windows , lifesitenews reported.the angry queers sent an e-mail to television station koin defending their criminal acts because mars hill is notoriously anti-gay and anti-woman .
the vandals sent an e-mail to local television station koin-tv stating they took the action , because mars hill is notoriously anti-gay and anti-woman .
and when the new campus of the church opened gay rights protestors shouted profanities at children calling them homophobes and telling the boys and girls they were going to burn in hell .
via : todd starnes fox news