university trustees , known as the yale corporation , voted in favor of the renaming on friday , reversing a decision last year to keep the name .
keeping the name had been defended as a way to confront rather than paper over the legacy of slavery.the change will go into effect in time for the 2017-2018 academic year .
john c. calhoun s legacy as a white supremacist and a national leader who passionately promoted slavery as a positive good fundamentally conflicts with yale s mission and values , president peter salovey said in a message sent to the yale community on saturday .
he said depictions in the college celebrating plantations and the old south suggest that calhoun was honored in part because of his support for slavery , not in spite of it.yale is among a number of colleges that have grappled with how to honor their histories without offending modern sensibilities .
vanderbilt university last year said it would pay $ 1.2 million to remove the word confederate from a residence hall s facade , while princeton university said it would keep woodrow wilson s name on its school of public and international affairs and a residential college , while increasing discussion of the former president s support of segregation .
wsjif yale is so concerned about promoting diversity and working to erase any signs of slavery , why not rename the calhoun college with their most famous black alumni , us supreme court justice clarence thomas ?
the tradition at yale has been to name colleges after prominent , deceased , alumni , and ones that have contributed somehow to the human race .
morse college , for instance , is named after samuel morse , of the eponymous morse code.yale will feel immense pressure to rename calhoun for a minority figure , but who ?
of yale s deceased minority alumni , no one leaps to mind .
someone suggested levi jackson , which i thought was a nice idea , but jackson isn t well known outside yale circles , and i doubt any of today s students have any idea who he is.it seems likely yale might jettison the being dead requirement .
if that turns out to be the case , how about clarence thomas ?
he is easily yale s most prominent black alum , even if he wasn t an undergrad.i am joking of course .
while i would be proud if this came about , the left would sooner burn calhoun to the ground than let it be named for a black conservative , only going to show that this isn t about race , it s about power and politics.one other thought : elihu yale was apparently a slave trader , among other things .
how soon before the activists set there sights on renaming the entire university ?
the naked dollar