san francisco ( reuters ) - russian diplomats vacated three properties in the united states on saturday including the six-story consulate in san francisco , complying with a u.s. order issued in retaliation for moscow cutting the american diplomatic presence in russia .
staff at the san francisco consulate were seen moving equipment , furniture and small items from the building into minivans and driving away , before coming back for more 20 to 30 minutes later .
a group of men in plainclothes and suits were seen on the roof of the consulate looking around , some wearing rubber gloves .
the closure ordered by the trump administration of the consulate in san francisco and two buildings housing russian trade missions in washington and new york was the latest in tit-for-tat measures between the two countries that have helped plunge relations to a new post-cold war low .
accusations made by the russian government , including that u.s. officials threatened to break down doors in the relevant properties or that the fbi is clearing the premises , are untrue , a senior u.s. state department official said in a statement .
the state department said the russian government had complied with the order to shutter those operations by saturday and said no diplomats were being expelled as result of the closures .
russia will no longer be permitted to use these facilities for diplomatic or consular purposes , the department official said .
in july , the kremlin ordered the united states to cut its diplomatic and technical staff in russia by more than half , to 455 people , to match the number of russian diplomats in the united states , after the u.s. congress overwhelmingly approved new sanctions against russia .
those u.s. sanctions were imposed as punishment for what u.s. intelligence agencies concluded was moscow s interference in the 2016 u.s. presidential election as well as russia s annexation of the crimea region of ukraine .
as of early saturday afternoon , the russian flag was still seen atop the consulate in san francisco .
someone opened a window above the main entrance and wedged a small russian flag there .
a small contingent of news media and curious passersby gathered below the building .
images posted on social media on friday showed black smoke billowing from a chimney of the consulate on the hottest day in san francisco s recorded history .
the smoke prompted speculation that diplomatic staff inside the consulate were burning sensitive documents .
maria zakharova , the spokeswoman for the russian foreign ministry , said the fire was part of a mothballing .
russia s foreign ministry said on saturday it had summoned a u.s. diplomat in moscow to protest what it called plans to conduct searches in russia s trade mission complex in washington , another of the buildings ordered closed .
images posted on social media on friday showed smoke and flames visible outside the trade mission building in washington .