manila ( reuters ) - the philippines plans a cut of 75 percent in spending next year on drug rehabilitation facilities , while at the same time seeking a massive hike in funding for a war on drugs that has killed thousands , fuelling concerns among lawmakers .
the government has rejected criticism that it lacked the commitment to rehabilitate drug users , saying it has attracted financing and is building treatment facilities , but had underestimated the scale of addiction .
more than 3,800 people , most of them drugs suspects , have died in police operations in the drug war unleashed by president rodrigo duterte in july last year .
police deny they were executing suspects , saying those killed had violently resisted arrest .
senator ralph recto , who has questioned the government s anti-drugs budget , said he would scrutinize its proposal to cut expenditure on drug rehabilitation centers by 2.3 billion pesos ( $ 45.23 million ) , compared to this year .
the government has asked congress for an increase of more than 40 times in next year s police budget for anti-drugs operations next year .
i will discuss these issues when the budget is formally presented , recto told reuters in a text message .
the lack of rehabilitation centers would cripple the declared government policy to wean substance abusers off drugs , recto said in a statement over the weekend .
in august , health secretary paulyn ubial said eight drug rehabilitation centers would be built across the philippines , funded by private firms , including conglomerate san miguel corp and property firm megaworld .
last year , manila opened what it called a mega drug rehabilitation facility to treat up to 10,000 patients and funded by a chinese tycoon .
the department of health submitted a budget of 759.6 million pesos for state-managed rehabilitation facilities under the government s proposed 2018 spending plan , significantly less than this year s budget of 3.08 billion pesos .
methamphetamine use for a year or more would shrink the brain of a person , duterte said in a speech in august last year , adding , therefore he is no longer viable for rehabilitation .
he estimated there are already more than 3 million philippine drug users in a country of more than 100 million people .
the government s 13 drug abuse treatment and rehab facilities treated 14,733 out-patients in 2016 , up more than three times from the previous year , and close to 30,000 in- patients , up four percent over 2015 , the health department says .
duterte has said the drugs war will continue and would be unremitting as it will be unrelenting .