washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
senator bernie sanders had a rare oval office meeting on wednesday with president barack obama , days after obama praised hillary clinton , sanders ’ rival and front-runner in the race to be the democratic presidential candidate in the nov. 8 election .
emerging from the white house after an hour , sanders said the meeting was “ constructive ” and that obama was trying to be as “ even-handed ” as possible in the race , dismissing commentary that obama was favoring clinton , his former secretary of state .
“ i know there was some discussion the other day about a politico interview , where he was tipping the scale toward secretary clinton - i don ’ t believe that at all , ” the vermont lawmaker told reporters on the white house driveway .
while obama has not explicitly endorsed a candidate , he showered praise on clinton ’ s experience in the interview with politico while noting that sanders had the “ luxury of being a complete long shot. ” obama suggested sanders had not faced intense scrutiny and would need to broaden his populist message to go further in the race for the nomination .
the sanders-obama meeting came just before the first contests to pick the democratic and republican nominees : iowa , on monday , and new hampshire , on feb. 9 .
while sanders has surged in recent opinion polls , clinton still has the edge nationally .
sanders said he received an overview of foreign policy issues from obama and that the two talked “ a little politics. ” asked whether obama , who beat clinton for the democratic nomination in 2008 , had given him advice on how to defeat her , sanders laughed and said : “ no , no. ” obama said he had a “ good meeting ” with sanders and noted that he had previously met with clinton during the campaign .
“ the goal is to make sure that all the democrats , or folks running in the democratic primary , are focused on continuing the progress that we have made , ” obama said in an interview with an nbc affiliate in richmond , virginia .
obama and his aides have regular contact with clinton and her staff , which includes former obama white house staffers .
clinton dropped by the white house for an informal lunch on dec. 7 and had an hourlong chat in march .
the white house visitor logs show sanders making only one previous solo visit with obama in the oval office , on dec. 15 , 2014 .
the white house said the meeting with sanders had been in the works since sanders asked obama for some face time when he saw him a month ago at a holiday party for lawmakers .
former maryland governor martin o ’ malley is a distant third in democratic polls .
white house spokesman josh earnest said he was unaware of any request from o ’ malley to meet with obama but that obama would try to make time for him , if asked .
( additional reporting by ayesha rascoe ; editing by susan heavey , peter cooney and lisa shumaker ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .