the fear mongering washington post gives you a bleeding heart story that should outrage you because not one illegal was interviewed for this story !
they even changed the title to be even more alarming : this is the first title : here s the second scarier title : the washington post even admits they have no first hand interviews with illegals who are afraid : the evidence is still anecdotal and the washington post was unable to speak directly with immigrants who chose to cancel their snap benefits.luisa fortin sometimes sits up at night , wondering what her clients are eating .
she is the snap outreach coordinator for the chattanooga food bank but lately she has done less outreaching.her families , working immigrants in northwest georgia , are spooked by the political climate , fortin said .
increasingly , she s being asked to explain how food stamps may impact immigration status , if not to outright cancel family food benefits.since mid-january , five of fortin s families have withdrawn from the snap program .
one , the single mother of three citizen daughters , had fled to georgia to escape an abusive husband .
another , two green-card holders with four young children , were thinking of taking on third jobs to compensate for the lost benefits .
these families represent a small fraction of fortin s caseload she estimates she has signed 200 immigrant families up for snap over the past six months but based on the calls she gets from other clients , she fears more cancellations are imminent .
i get calls from concerned parents all the time : should i take my kids out of the program ?
fortin said .
they re risking hunger out of fear and my heart just breaks for them .
chattanooga is not an outlier here , either.in the two months since president trump s inauguration , food banks and hunger advocates around the country have noted a decline in the number of eligible immigrants applying for snap and an uptick in immigrants seeking to withdraw from the program.wapo goes on to display a video with a photo of stats on illegals in the u.s. : thanks to the washpo for writing a story that intends to highlight the terrible trump administration but instead shows us that people who are not supposed to be living here are not only living here illegally but also ( until now ) have felt free to take the taxpayer-funded benefits that we were assured by liberals that they weren t getting !
read more : wapo