london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may faced a backlash on wednesday from prominent supporters of brexit after reports that she is ready to pay much of what the european union is demanding to settle the country s divorce bill to leave the bloc .
the daily telegraph newspaper said the net bill would total 45 billion to 55 billion pounds ( $ 53 billion to $ 65 billion ) .
a government official cast doubt on those numbers and the european commission declined to comment , but there is a growing expectation that the sides will clinch a deal on cash .
veteran brexit campaigner nigel farage said britain should walk away from the talks rather than offer such huge sums .
this is a complete sell-out that is not in our national interest , said farage , a former leader of the uk independence party ( ukip ) who played a big role in the 2016 referendum in which 52 percent of britons voted to leave the eu .
the british prime minister needs to say : look , either start to behave reasonably , either start to behave in a grown-up way , or ... we are walking away , farage , who remains a member of the european parliament , told reuters .
many businesses and investors fear such an approach , leading to a disorderly brexit , would spook financial markets , sow legal chaos and badly harm the british and eu economies by disrupting trade ties and cross-border supply chains .
farage and pro-brexit entrepreneurs such as billionaire peter hargreaves say britain can prosper outside the eu and what they see as its onerous rules and regulations .
britain , which is due to leave in march 2019 , hopes to persuade eu leaders next month that the sides have made enough progress on three key issues - the rights of eu citizens living in the uk , the exit bill and the land border with ireland - to be able to move on to talks on a post-brexit trade relationship .
hardline brexit supporters in may s ruling conservative party have been fairly muted in recent weeks on the money issue , with british media saying the cabinet had swung behind her plans to pay more in the exit bill .
on wednesday foreign secretary boris johnson , one of the leaders of the 2016 leave campaign , said it was time to get the ship off the rocks .
but hargreaves , the second biggest donor to last year s leave campaign , denounced the government s handling of brexit talks , saying they showed no understanding of the sums involved .
we ought to say to the eu : thank you very much , we are never going to get a deal , goodbye and we are gone , lock stock and barrel , and carry on trading as before , hargreaves said .
farage dismissed calls by some opponents of brexit such as former prime minister tony blair that british voters might change their mind about leaving the eu .
the revolution of 2016 is still rolling , he said .
the european union project is in deep trouble and it s only a matter of time until it ends .
the eu s supporters say it has helped to cement peace , prosperity and stability across a continent historically ravaged by wars .
farage s opponents see him and his party - now riven by divisions and with no lawmakers in the british parliament - as dangerous populists who misled voters about the true costs of brexit .
( $ 1 = 0.8433 euros ) ( adds information in signoff field )