kiev ( reuters ) - ukraine s prime minister , voldoymyr groysman , said on saturday the government was reviewing the way it sets domestic gas bills to make sure market prices are taken into account - a bid to answer demands under a $ 17.5-billion imf aid program .
the long-delayed disbursement of a next tranche of imf loans depends on ukraine adjusting gas prices , and also on pension reform and the creation of an independent judicial body to tackle endemic graft .
speaking at the annual yalta european strategy conference , groysman said the gas pricing formula was being reviewed but did not say how tariffs would be affected .
we believe that the gas price should be determined in accordance with the gas market and in accordance with a formula .
the most important thing is for this formula to be fair , news agency interfax ukraine quoted groysman as saying at the annual yalta european strategy conference .
at the moment our technical division is working on verifying the formula that determines the gas price , he said .
the imf wants gas prices to be set by external market dynamics through an automatic formula to stop tariffs being set unsustainably low as a populist measure .
ukraine has so far received $ 8.4 billion from the fund , helping it recover from a two-year recession following the annexation of crimea by russia in 2014 and the outbreak of a russian-backed insurgency in its industrial east .
on friday , the imf s first deputy managing director , david lipton , said ukraine risked undoing progress made under the program and urged the authorities to push ahead with reforms needed for the next loan tranche .
earlier on saturday groysman said ukraine needed to set up an independent anti-graft judicial body quickly - adding that it did not matter if it was a separate court , as envisaged by the imf , or a chamber to existing courts .
we need to quickly establish an instrument that would allow corruptioneers to face justice and whether it s called an anti-corruption chamber or court doesn t matter , he told the conference .
on friday president petro poroshenko said an anti-graft chamber within the existing court system would be more feasible in the short-term - a proposal that reform activists have said would limit the independence of the body .
( this story corrects headline and second para to clarify ukraine is reviewing the gas price formula , not gas prices , which the imf wants under its reform program )