jalalabad , afghanistan ( reuters ) - islamic state beheaded 15 of its own fighters due to infighting in afghanistan s eastern province of nangarhar , officials said , while a separate suicide attack on thursday tore into a crowd in the provincial capital , jalalabad , killing at least eight .
the two incidents underline the insecurity and lawlessness across afghanistan , where thousands of civilians have been killed or wounded this year amid unrelenting violence involving militant groups including islamic state and the taliban .
in a bloody day for the province , a suicide bomber blew himself up , killing at least eight people at a meeting of supporters of a police commander who was sacked for illegal land grabbing .
there was no claim of responsibility and no immediate indication of who was behind the attack on the crowd in jalalabad , which had gathered to demand the reinstatement of the commander , who survived the attack .
a spokesman for the jalalabad hospital confirmed eight people had been killed and 15 wounded .
nangarhar , on the porous border with pakistan , has become a stronghold for islamic state , generally known as daesh in afghanistan , which has grown to become one of the country s most dangerous militant groups since it appeared around the start of 2015 .
attaullah khogyani , the provincial governor s spokesman , said the 15 islamic state fighters were executed after a bout of infighting in the group , which has become notorious for its brutality .
the killings occurred in the surkh ab bazaar of achin district .
further details were not available and there was no confirmation from islamic state , whose local branch is known as islamic state in khorasan , an old name for the area that includes modern afghanistan .
the taliban and islamic state have frequently fought each other in nangarhar and both have been targeted by sustained u.s. air strikes .
but the exact nature of the relationship between the two groups is little understood .
there have been isolated incidents in afghanistan in which the fighters of both appear to have cooperated .
afghan intelligence documents reviewed by reuters this year showed security officials believe islamic state is present in nine provinces , from nangarhar and kunar in the east to jawzjan , faryab and badakhshan in the north and ghor in the central west .