tartu , estonia ( reuters ) - a group of nato allies are considering a more muscular response to state-sponsored computer hackers that could involve using cyber attacks to bring down enemy networks , officials said .
the united states , britain , germany , norway , spain , denmark and the netherlands are drawing up cyber warfare principles to guide their militaries on what justifies deploying cyber attack weapons more broadly , aiming for agreement by early 2019 .
the doctrine could shift nato s approach from being defensive to confronting hackers that officials say russia , china and north korea use to try to undermine western governments and steal technology .
there s a change in the ( nato ) mindset to accept that computers , just like aircraft and ships , have an offensive capability , said u.s. navy commander michael widmann at the nato cooperative cyber defence centre of excellence , a research center affiliated to nato that is coordinating doctrine writing .
washington already has cyber weapons , such as computer code to take down websites or shut down it systems , and in 2011 declared that it would respond to hostile cyber acts .
the united states , and possibly israel , are widely believed to have been behind stuxnet , a computer virus that destroyed nuclear centrifuges in iran in 2010 .
neither has confirmed it .
some nato allies believe shutting down an enemy power plant through a cyber attack could be more effective than air strikes .
i need to do a certain mission and i have an air asset , i also have a cyber asset .
what fits best for the me to get the effect i want ?
widmann said .
the 29-nation nato alliance recognized cyber as a domain of warfare , along with land , air and sea , in 2014 , but has not outlined in detail what that entails .
in europe , the issue of deploying malware is sensitive because democratic governments do not want to be seen to be using the same tactics as an authoritarian regime .
commanders and experts have focused on defending their networks and blocking attempts at malicious manipulation of data .
senior baltic and british security officials say they have intelligence showing persistent russian cyber hacks to try to bring down european energy and telecommunications networks , coupled with internet disinformation campaigns .
they believe russia is trying to break western unity over economic sanctions imposed over moscow s 2014 annexation of crimea and its support for separatists in eastern ukraine .
they ( russia ) are seeking to attack the cohesion of nato , said a senior british security official , who said the balance between war and peace was becoming blurred in the virtual world .
it looks quite strategic .
moscow has repeatedly denied any such cyber attacks .
the united states , britain , the netherlands , germany and france have cyber commands special headquarters to combat cyber espionage and hacks of critical infrastructure .
estonia , which was hit by one of the world s first large-scale cyber attacks a decade ago , aims to open a cyber command next year and make it fully operational by 2020 , with offensive cyber weapons .
you can not only defend in cyberspace , said erki kodar , estonia s undersecretary for legal and administrative affairs who oversees cyber policy at the defense ministry .
across the globe this year computer hackers have disrupted multinational firms , ports and public services on an unprecedented scale , raising awareness of the issue .
nato held its biggest ever cyber exercise this week at a military base in southern estonia , testing 25 nato allies against a fictional state-sponsored hacker group seeking to infiltrate nato air defense and communication networks .
the fictional scenarios are based on real threats , said estonian army lieutenant-colonel anders kuusk , who ran the exercise .
nato s commanders will not develop cyber weapons but allied defense ministers agreed last month that nato commanders can request nations to allow them use of their weapons if requested .