yangon ( reuters ) - up to eight villages were burned down on friday in a part of northwest myanmar where large numbers of muslim rohingya had been sheltering from a wave of violence engulfing the area , a witness and three sources briefed on the matter told reuters .
the fires were blazing in the ethnically mixed rathedaung township , where populations of rohingya muslims and rakhine buddhists live side by side .
today around 4 p.m. , i saw the smoke coming from where the villages were burning ... i saw it from the chin village where i am staying now , said a villager from the area contacted by reuters by phone .
it was unclear who set fire to the villages .
independent journalists are not allowed into the area , where myanmar says its security forces are carrying out clearance operations to defend against extremist terrorists .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and rakhine vigilantes have unleashed a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
the burning of more villages is likely to fuel an exodus of rohingya to neighboring bangladesh .
nearly 270,000 have fled in less than two weeks , creating a humanitarian crisis .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi said on thursday her government was doing its best to protect everyone , but she has drawn criticism from around the world for failing to speak out about the violence and the muslim minority , including calls to revoke her 1991 nobel peace prize .
rathedaung , the site of the latest fires , is the furthest rohingya-inhabited area from the border with bangladesh .
humanitarian workers had been concerned that a large number of the muslims had been trapped there .
the blazes were confirmed by sources including two monitors with a network of informants on the ground , and a local journalist based in the nearby town of buthidaung .
they said that among the torched villages were the hamlets of ah htet nan yar and auk nan yar , some 65 km ( 40 miles ) north of sittwe , capital of rakhine state .
one source said a camp for internally displaced people in the area also went up in flames .
one of the sources said 300 to 400 rohingya who had escaped other burnings had been sheltering at ah htet nan yar until the day before the fire broke out .
they had escaped before it started , the source said , quoting an eyewitness .
the villagers were now hiding in the forest or attempting a perilous , days-long journey by foot in the monsoon rain toward the maungdaw region and further west to the river naf separating myanmar and bangladesh .
the latest flight of rohingya from their homes in myanmar began two weeks ago after rohingya insurgents attacked several police posts in rakhine .
that triggered an army counter-offensive in which at least 400 people were killed .