washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama will review briefing documents from his staff this weekend on potential supreme court nominees , the white house said on friday , as a tough political fight loomed with senate republicans over filling the pivotal vacancy .
the white house arranged for photographers to snap pictures of obama carrying a thick binder filled with papers during his walk from the oval office to his residence on friday night as he ponders who to pick to replace conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 .
earlier in the day , the president and first lady michelle obama paid respects to scalia as the late justice ’ s body lay in repose in the supreme court ’ s great hall .
“ the president ’ s team , over the course of this week , has spent a lot of time preparing materials for the president ’ s review , and i would expect , over the weekend , that the president will begin to dig into the materials that have been prepared for him , ” white house spokesman josh earnest said .
earnest gave no clues about who obama might pick but said the lengthy briefing materials included information about “ some potential nominees ” including career accomplishments and experience .
the court ’ s ideological balance of power is at stake , and obama ’ s nominee could tip it to the left for the first time in decades .
scalia ’ s death left the court with four conservative and four liberal justices .
obama phoned senate leaders , including republicans who have threatened to block any nominee made by the democratic president to replace scalia .
obama made it clear in his calls with two key senate republicans , majority leader mitch mcconnell and judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley , that he will nominate someone for the job , earnest told reporters .
mcconnell has said the seat should remain vacant until obama ’ s successor takes office next january so voters can have a say in the selection when they choose a new president in the nov. 8 election .
obama also spoke with senate democratic leader harry reid and senator patrick leahy , the judiciary committee ’ s top democrat , earnest said .
reid said on thursday after speaking with obama that he expected the president to name his pick in “ a little over three weeks. ” earnest declined to discuss a timetable for obama ’ s decision , and said the president ’ s staff had not yet provided a “ short list ” of candidates .