donald trump is so desperate to hear praise that he is retweeting anyone who congratulates him for withdrawing the united states from the paris climate deal.in an effort to prevent and reverse climate change , the developing nations of the world came together in paris , france and agreed to curb their carbon emissions.trump , however , is a climate change denier .
so he promised to pull america out of the deal and he did exactly that on thursday .
in order to fulfill my solemn duty to protect america and its citizens , the united states will withdraw from the paris climate accord , trump announced .
we re getting out .
and then he referred to himself in the third person and patted himself on the back .
the paris accord is a bad deal for americans and the president s action today is keeping his campaign promise to put america first .
the accord was negotiated poorly by the obama administration out of desperation .
trump s decision has spurred outrage across the nation and around the globe as world leaders feel that the united states has betrayed them .
one of the big reasons why the paris agreement became reality is because the united states led the way .
now america is retreating from that leadership role.however , trump was only interested in hearing praise for his monumentally moronic decision , so he proceeded to retweet anyone who kissed his ass , including lindsey graham , reince priebus , and kevin mccarthy.i support president trump s desire to re-enter the paris accord after the agreement becomes a better deal for america and business .
lindsey graham ( @ lindseygrahamsc ) june 1 , 2017promise kept .
@ potus exits flawed # parisaccord to seek better deal for u.s. workers & economy .
this wh will always put # americafirst .
reince priebus ( @ reince45 ) june 1 , 2017 .
@ potus made the right call in leaving a deal that would have put an unnecessary burden on the united states .
https : //t.co/quc6hxak2y kevin mccarthy ( @ gopleader ) june 1 , 2017president trump did the right thing by withdrawing us from paris treaty it would hurt american companies and american workers rep. jim jordan ( @ jim_jordan ) june 1 , 2017our president is choosing to put american jobs , american consumers , american energy , and american industry first .
https : //t.co/y2opdtmdu7 vice president pence ( @ vp ) june 1 , 2017wall street hits record highs after trump pulls out of climate pact https : //t.co/pdmwj13lus fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) june 2 , 2017but trump s ass kissers are no match for his critics , especially the weather channel , which made epic changes on their website homepage to drive home just how bad trump s decision is.the weather channel is really not happy with president trump right now.their homepage is popping off with climate change facts : pic.twitter.com/1ermhoyrkk aj+ ( @ ajplus ) june 1 , 2017 .
@ weatherchannel is not playing around today .
look at the homepage pic.twitter.com/bzx2jtlzmv mckenna blair ( @ macblairlife ) june 1 , 2017make no mistake , trump s decision might make big businesses happy in the short term , but we are all going to suffer the long term environmental consequences .
and that is not something to celebrate.featured image : chip somodevilla/getty images