beirut ( reuters ) - turkey s military has begun setting up observation posts in northwest syria s idlib province , its general staff said on friday , part of a deployment that appears partly aimed at containing a kurdish militia .
turkey sent a convoy of about 30 military vehicles into rebel-held northwest syria through the bab al-hawa crossing in idlib , rebels and a witness said .
video distributed by the turkish army showed what it said was the convoy starting to move on thursday night , with military vehicles traveling along a road in darkness .
turkey says its operation , along with syrian rebel groups it backs , is part of a deal it reached last month with russia and iran in astana , kazakhstan , to reduce fighting between insurgents and the syrian government .
the army said its forces in syria were conducting operations in line with rules of engagement agreed with russia and iran .
however , the deployment is also intended to rein in the kurdish ypg militia , which holds the adjacent afrin region , a senior rebel official involved in the operation said .
( it is ) in line with astana 6 resolutions to ensure the area is protected from russian and regime bombing and to foil any attempt by the separatist ypg militias to illegally seize any territory , said mustafa sejari , an official in a free syrian army ( fsa ) rebel group .
broadcaster cnn turk reported on its website that there was a clash in idlib countryside near the ogulpinar border post in turkey s reyhanli district .
it said the sound of doshka ( machine-gun ) fire from across the border could be heard in reyhanli district and it was not clear which forces were clashing .
the convoy was heading toward sheikh barakat , a high area overlooking rebel-held territory and the kurdish ypg-controlled canton of afrin , the witnesses said .
president tayyip erdogan announced the deployment on saturday , saying turkey was conducting a serious operation with rebel groups it supports .
turkey has supported rebels fighting syrian president bashar al-assad throughout the war .
but since last year ankara has focused on securing its border , both from jihadists and from kurdish forces that control much of the frontier area inside syria .
sejari , the rebel official , said it was important to contain the ypg to prevent any new military offensive to reach the mediterranean , something that would require it to capture swathes of mountains held by rebels and syria s army .
today we can say that the dream of the separatists to reach the sea and enter idlib and then to jisr al-shaqour and the coastal mountains has become a dream , he said turkey regards the ypg as an extension of the pkk , a kurdish group inside turkey that has been waging armed insurgency against ankara for three decades .
we said we may come unannounced one night , and tonight our armed forces started the operation in idlib with the free syrian army , erdogan said in a speech to his ak party on friday .
we are the ones with the 911 km border with syria , the ones who are constantly under threat , he added , noting the ypg s presence in afrin .
as the strongest part of the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , the ypg has received military aid from turkey s nato ally the united states to fight islamic state .
last year , turkey launched the euphrates shield operation , an incursion into northern syria alongside syrian rebel groups to take territory on the frontier from islamic state .
that operation was also aimed at stopping the ypg using its own advances against is from linking afrin with the much larger area it controls in northeastern syria .
in the area taken by the euphrates shield campaign , turkey has made changes to local governance that indicate it may be laying a foundation for long term ties with that part of syria .
the astana agreement with assad s foreign allies russia and iran involves reducing fighting in several regions of syria , including idlib and adjacent swathes of the northwest , the most populous rebel-held area .