abu dhabi ( reuters ) - the united arab emirates urged iran and turkey on tuesday to end what it called their colonial actions in syria , signaling unease about diminishing gulf arab influence in the war .
allied to regional powerhouse saudi arabia , the uae opposes syrian president bashar al-assad and his backer iran , and is wary of turkey , a friend of islamist forces the uae opposes throughout the arab world .
uae foreign minister sheikh abdullah bin zayed al nahyan urged the exit of those parties trying to reduce the sovereignty of the syrian state , and i speak here frankly and clearly about iran and turkey .
he was speaking at a news conference with russian counterpart sergei lavrov , whose country helps assad militarily .
if iran and turkey continue the same historical , colonial and competitive behavior and perspectives between them in arab affairs , we will continue in this situation not just in syria today but tomorrow in some other country , sheikh abdullah said .
the six-year-old war in syria has dragged in regional and international players who have sought to advance their interests there : iran has sent troops and military support to shore up assad s rule as he has battled mostly sunni muslim rebels backed by saudi arabia and other gulf arab states .
the syrian army and its allies have regained lost territory with the help of russian air strikes since 2015 .
at the same time , islamic state is being pushed back from strongholds in eastern syria by the syrian army and a rival offensive by kurdish and arab rebels backed by the united states .
fearing expanded kurdish influence along its border with syria , u.s. ally turkey has grown increasingly uneasy about the rebels armed thrust .
turkey and iran have discussed possible joint military action against kurdish militant groups , president tayyip erdogan said on monday .
lavrov and sheikh abdullah said they agreed on a need for a negotiated end to the war .
russia is helping shepherd talks in the kazakh capital astana which has already produced de-escalation zones to reduce combat in three parts of syria .
lavrov said russia hoped that efforts to unify the positions of syria s disparate opposition would aid the peace process .
there were some deep disagreements in the past which led to the failure of some meetings , but we will continue encouraging the participation of all the platforms , he said through a translator .
( this story corrects day in first paragraph )