oslo/moscow ( reuters ) - norwegian rescuers believe they may have located the sunken wreckage of a russian helicopter that went missing on thursday with eight people aboard off the coast of the arctic svalbard archipelago .
we ve found oil spills and air bubbles rising to the surface , and a vessel in the area has observed what appears to be a submerged object .
it may be the helicopter , tore hongset , the leader of norway s rescue coordination center , told reuters .
a remotely operated mini submarine was being flown to the site and would likely be deployed in the early hours of friday to help verify whether a discovery had been made , he added .
a search for survivors would continue , the rescue center said , noting that the helicopter was equipped with life rafts .
russia s emergency ministry said the five crew and three passengers were russians .
the russian-made mil mi-8 aircraft had been reported missing around 1335 gmt .
the three passengers were working for russia s arctic and antarctic research institute , the russian energy ministry said in a statement .
the helicopter was on its way from the abandoned pyramiden settlement to the coal mining port of barentsburg , but was later confirmed to have gone down in the ocean a few kilometers from its destination .
several vessels were in the area , according to shipping data from marinetraffic.com .
the ship of the governor of svalbard , the polarsyssel , was coordinating the search .
the russian coal company arktikugol runs the coal mine at barentsburg , which employs russian and ukrainian miners .
an official at the russian company convers avia air told reuters it owned the helicopter and had lost communication with it .
earlier , hongset told norwegian broadcaster tv2 : for every minute that goes by , the risk of hypothermia and death rises .
located around 700 kilometers ( 435 miles ) north of the european mainland , svalbard is governed under a treaty that grants nato-member norway sovereignty while allowing other signatories to do business and exploit natural resources .
more than 40 countries are parties to the treaty .
moscow has maintained a presence on the islands for decades as a strategic foothold in the high north .