washington ( reuters ) - u.s. lawmakers signaled they plan to ensure the united states complies with the 2015 iran nuclear deal despite u.s. president donald trump s misgivings about the pact , the european union s foreign policy chief said on tuesday .
i got clear indications that the intention is to keep the united states compliant with the agreement , the eu s federica mogherini said at a press conference on a visit to washington .
trump on oct. 13 dealt a blow to the pact by refusing to certify that tehran was complying with the accord even though international inspectors said it was .
under the deal iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in return for relief from economic sanctions .
trump s decision has thrown into doubt the future of the pact negotiated by iran , the eu and six major powers - britain , china , france , germany , russia and the united states .
congress has until mid-december to decide whether to reimpose sanctions lifted under the deal , something few diplomats expect .
mogherini sought to avoid publicly becoming embroiled in the u.s. congressional debate about what kind of legislation , if any , to pass even as she stressed the eu s desire to see the united states stick with the nuclear agreement .
i made clear any outcome of any process ... has to be , at the end of the day , compliant with the deal , mogherini said .
she said she had voiced her readiness to help lawmakers find solutions that are compatible with u.s. compliance under the agreement .
separately , the head of the u.n. nuclear watchdog told reporters it would be a pity if iran were to cease to provisionally implement the additional protocol , which gives the agency more tools to verify a country s nuclear compliance .
the additional protocol is the most ... important tool for us in the verification .
so if it happens , it s a pity , said international atomic energy agency director general yukiya amano .
under the 2015 deal , iran agreed to provisionally implement the additional protocol .
amano told reporters that if iran were to discontinue the protocol , the iaea would not be able to get access to undeclared potential nuclear sites .
amano said that on a visit to iran last month , iranian officials had assured him they would continue implementing the nuclear deal and would not be the first to abandon it .
the additional protocol was created in the 1990s as a way to smoke out covert , arms-related activities after the discovery of iraq s secret nuclear weapons program and revelations that north korea and romania had separated plutonium .
asked if the iranians had given him any sign that they might abandon the additional protocol , amano replied : they don t say what will happen , but anything can happen .
that is my sense .