by neil clark for rtof course , in state department-friendly western media , it s north korea and its leadership who are routinely portrayed as the nut jobs .
but you don t have to carry a torch for the north korean government or be a card-carrying member of the kim jong-un appreciation society to acknowledge that the country s leadership has actually been behaving very rationally .
because recent history tells us that the best way to deter an attack from the us and its allies is not to disarm , dress up as john lennon and make statements about how much you desire peace , but to do the exact opposite.the crisis on the korean peninsula is due to the actions of a rogue state ruled by madmen with nukes .
this rogue state is of course the usa .
https : //t.co/a0jyntplsy john wight ( @ johnwight1 ) august 11 , 2017consider what happened to yugoslavia , iraq and libya .
like the dprk , all three were us target states .
and all three were destroyed and their leaders killed .
do we honestly think these countries would have been attacked had they possessed nukes or missiles that could reach us targets ?
of course not .
detailed analysis of these conflicts shows us that the empire gets its way through a mixture of bluff followed by the use of military force , but only when it believes the risks are minimal , or non-existent .
if it believes the risks are too high , it backs off and starts talking about the need for dialogue and diplomacy .to understand how the global hegemon acts in the international arena we don t need to study huge academic textbooks , only remember what happens in the school playground.in 1999 , yugoslav president slobodan milosevic not only lacked icbms , but strong international allies who were prepared to stand by his country in its hour of need .
even though the russian military were champing at the bit to help their historical slavic allies in belgrade , yeltsin and the ruling elite in russia were purportedly given financial inducements to stay out .
whether or not that is true , a new imf loan was conveniently agreed just a week after nato began its illegal aerial bombing campaign.the us only expected military action to last a few days before slobo would cave in and accept the western military alliance s right to occupy mineral-rich kosovo and have free unhindered access over the whole of yugoslavia .
i don t see this as a long-term operation .
i think this is something that is achievable within a relatively short space of time , boasted secretary of state madeline albright.but slobo and the stoical serbs did not cave in .
as the bombing campaign continued , splits began to emerge in nato between the hawks , comprised of the us and britain , and the countries from continental europe who favored dialogue with belgrade.on april 15 , 1999 , the guardian reported that american officials rejected a six-point german peace plan which included a 24-hour bombing pause , a united nations peacekeeping force and civilian monitors .
it went on to note how british prime minister tony blair also gave the plan a polite cold shoulder .
nato atrocities , such as the killing of 16 civilians in the bombing of serbian state television a clear war crime and the bombing of a passenger train and a convoy of kosovan albanians , were beginning to turn public opinion against the humanitarian operation .
with the war not going to plan , it was time once again for the us to make threats .
to increase the pressure on milosevic- the yugoslav president was indicted as a war criminal , a process i described here.in addition , hints were made that nato was planning a ground invasion .
president clinton declared on 18th may 1999 that he would not take any option off the table .
victor chernomyrdin , yeltsin s envoy , flew to belgrade to persuade milosevic to accept nato s terms or face an escalation of the war.but would there really have been boots on the ground or was it one big bluff ?
evidence suggests the latter .
nato s supreme commander wesley clark revealed in his memoirs that the alliance s top political leaders had reached no consensus over sending in ground troops .
and would nato have gotten away with intensifying its air campaign ?
clark also admitted that by mid-may , nato had gone about as far as possible with the air strikes .
i m sure that seven years later , as he lay in his prison cell a sick man , denied the proper medical treatment which his heart condition required , milosevic regretted not saying nyet to chernomyrdin in 1999 and calling washington s bluff.four years later it was the turn of oil-rich iraq to be attacked.saddam hussein and his deputy prime minister tariq aziz repeatedly told the world s media that their country possessed no wmds.they were accused of lying by western neocons , but the endless war lobby knew the iraqi leadership was telling the truth .
saddam s country was attacked not because it possessed weapons of mass destruction , but because it didn t. with its air defenses severely weakened after years of allied bombing , and its own air force decimated in the first gulf war , iraq was a sitting duck .
bush and blair lied about the country being a threat and 1m iraqis eventually died.over in oil-rich libya , muammar gaddafi drew absolutely the wrong conclusions about what had happened to iraq .
eagerly seeking the end of us sanctions on his country , he foolishly agreed in december 2003 to eliminate his wmds program .
he should have reacted to shock and awe by building up his arsenal , but instead , falling for the silver-tongued promises of western leaders who were going to end his country s isolation , he did the opposite.george w. bush hailed his decision as a wise and sensible choice .
tony blair , for his part , said : this courageous decision by colonel gaddafi is an historic one .
i applaud it .
it will make the region and the world more secure .
but of course , it didn t. it only paved the way for the destruction of gaddafi s country by the same countries whose leaders had hailed him as wise and sensible a few years earlier.again , i m sure that eight years later , as gaddafi lay in his underground hideout , trying to escape capture from us-backed rebels ( who eventually killed him in the most brutal way imaginable ) , he bitterly regretted his decision to disarm.which brings us back to north korea.it s clear that kim jong-un has seen what happened to milosevic , saddam and gaddafi and the devastation wreaked on their countries and acted accordingly .
north korea s strategy is clearly based on the belief , borne out by events described above , that the us is a bully which only attacks the weak .
thus , saber-rattling and generally playing a high line is the best way to avoid attack .
we must remember too that north korea lost around 1m people in the korean war 1950-53 , many from an intensive us bombing campaign. # bbcpm discussing trump 's constitutional authority to attack n. korea .
international law , of course , is not even mentioned .
david traynier ( @ dtraynier ) august 11 , 2017 we need nukes to defend ourselves from attack , but it is deemed totally outrageous if countries in the global south , which we threaten on a routine basis , seek to acquire such weapons for the same reason.to deter a us attack , north korea , or indeed any other country in the line of fire , has to convince the serial warmongers in washington that the cost of launching such an assault would be too high .
being nice and singing give peace a chance won t cut the mustard .
remember that john lennon , who wrote and sang that song , lost his life from a gunshot.while saddam implored the west , believe me , i have no wmds , kim jong-un has done the exact opposite and talked up his country s capabilities .
however , kim knows that words alone are not enough ; he also needs to demonstrate that north korean projectiles can be a threat to the us .
hence the announcement on wednesday that it was carefully considering a plan to fire four missiles into the sea off the island of guam , home to two us bases.https : //twitter.com/paddybriggs/status/895547451381346305of course , pyongyang s strategy is high risk , especially with such a volatile individual as donald trump who seems desperate to earn neocon approval to avoid a possible impeachment in the white house.recent history though suggests that north korea , by keeping its fists clenched and continuing to indulge in missile willy-waving is doing absolutely the right thing .
the big lesson of the last thirty years is surely that deterrence works .
if you re a target state and can t deter the warmongers in washington , you re in grave danger .
just ask the ghosts of slobodan milosevic , saddam hussein and muammar gaddafi .
* * * follow neil clark @ neilclark66read more north korea news at : 21st century wire north korea filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv