almaty ( reuters ) - kazakh state prosecutors said on wednesday they will re-investigate the 2004 death of a prominent banker after the man convicted of accidentally killing him said he had in fact been hired to do so by mukhtar ablyazov , a former oligarch turned opponent of president nursultan nazarbayev .
the central asian nation s government has accused ablyazov , who has been living in france , of embezzling billions of dollars from a local bank he used to run .
a french court last year ruled against extraditing him , however , and set him free .
the new probe may lead to a fresh extradition request from the former soviet republic , setting the stage for another prolonged legal battle in european courts .
ablyazov , once a wealthy businessman who became a government minister , led an opposition political movement in the early 2000s until being convicted on corruption charges in 2002 .
nazarbayev pardoned him in 2003 .
but ablyazov fell out with the strongman leader again in 2009 when the government nationalized bta , kazakhstan s biggest bank at the time , of which ablyazov was the chairman and majority shareholder .
he then fled kazakhstan , whose authorities have since unsuccessfully tried to have him brought back to the country on fraud and embezzlement charges while also seeking to seize his personal assets .
on tuesday , a businessman now in prison for an unrelated crime claimed in a television documentary that he had murdered ablyazov s former associate in 2004 in a hit job ordered by the oligarch .
at the time , the death was ruled involuntary manslaughter as the killer said he had accidentally shot banker yerzhan tatishev during a hunting trip .
tatishev was the chief executive of bta ; shortly after his death ablyazov became the bank s chairman .
the prosecutor general s office said on wednesday it was reopening the case and reclassifying it as murder .
although the prosecutors statement did not mention ablyazov , the latter accused the government in a facebook post on wednesday of forcing the alleged killer to falsely testify against him .
since a french court set him free last december , ablyazov has regularly used social networks to criticize nazarbayev , who has run the oil-rich nation of 18 million since 1989 .