united nations ( reuters ) - the united states has proposed that the united nations security council blacklist 10 ships for transporting banned items from north korea , according to documents seen by reuters on tuesday .
the vessels are accused of conducting illegal ship-to-ship transfers of refined petroleum products to north korean vessels or illegally transporting north korean coal to other countries for exports , the united states said in its proposal .
if none of the 15 members of the security council s north korea sanctions committee object to the ships being designated by thursday afternoon , the u.s. proposal will be approved .
countries are required to ban blacklisted ships from entering their ports .
four ships were designated for carrying coal from north korea by the council s north korea sanctions committee in october .
north korea is under a u.n. arms embargo and the security council has banned trade in exports such as coal , textiles , seafood , iron and other minerals to choke funding for pyongyang s missile and nuclear programs .
in september , the council put a cap of 2 million barrels a year on refined petroleum products exports to north korea .
the ships proposed to be blacklisted are : xin sheng hai ( flag unknown ) ; hong-kong-flagged lighthouse winmore ; togo-flagged yu yuan ; panama-flagged glory hope 1 ( also known as orient shenyu ) , kai xiang , and billions no .
18 ; and north korean-flagged ul ji bong 6 , rung ra 2 , rye song gang 1 , and sam jong 2 .
reclusive north korea has boasted of developing a missile capable of carrying a nuclear warhead and reaching the mainland united states in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions and international condemnation .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on friday urged north korea to carry out a sustained cessation of weapons testing to allow the two countries to hold talks .
he did not specify how long the lull should last .
north korea conducted missile tests at a steady pace since april , then paused in september after firing a rocket that passed over japan s hokkaido island .
but it renewed tests in november when it fired a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile , which flew higher and further than previous tests .