dubai ( reuters ) - former saudi intelligence chief prince turki al-faisal has criticized u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , in one of the sharpest reactions emanating from the u.s.-allied kingdom .
in a letter to trump published in a saudi newspaper on monday , prince turki , a former ambassador to washington who now holds no government office but remains influential , called the move a domestic political ploy which would stoke violence .
bloodshed and mayhem will definitely follow your opportunistic attempt to make electoral gain , prince turki wrote in a letter published in the saudi newspaper al-jazeera .
trump reversed decades of u.s. policy and veered from international consensus last week by recognizing jerusalem as the capital of israel .
most countries say the city s status must be left to negotiations between israel and the palestinians .
your action has emboldened the most extreme elements in the israeli society ... because they take your action as a license to evict the palestinians from their lands and subject them to an apartheid state , prince turki wrote .
your action has equally emboldened iran and its terrorist minions to claim that they are the legitimate defenders of palestinian rights , he added , referring to the kingdom s arch-foe shi ite iran .
saudi arabia has sought better ties with washington under trump than it had under his predecessor barack obama , who alarmed riyadh by signing a nuclear agreement with iran , saudi arabia s arch enemy .
prince turki is a son of king faisal , who was assassinated in 1975 .
his brother , saud al-faisal , served as foreign minister for 40 years until 2015 , and their branch of the family is seen as influential over saudi foreign policy , even as crown prince mohammed bin salman has solidified his authority .
prince saud championed a 2002 arab peace initiative which called for normalizing relations between arab countries and israel in return for israel s withdrawal from occupied territories .
although most foreign policy in saudi arabia is now overseen by crown prince mohammed , a source at the king faisal centre for research and islamic studies which prince turki chairs said he still meets king salman every week .