brasilia ( reuters ) - the new prosecutor general tasked with leading brazil s anti-corruption drive was sworn in on monday , and said she would continue her predecessor s campaign against graft in latin america s biggest nation .
raquel dodge took over as head of the prosecutor-general s office from rodrigo janot , during whose tenure investigators uncovered brazil s largest graft scheme , involving billions of dollars in political kickbacks in return for contracts at state-run companies .
in brief remarks at the prosecutor-general headquarters in capital , brasilia , dodge said that the brazilian people expected her to carry on cleaning up corruption .
the people maintain their hope for a better nation , they are interested in the nation s destiny , she said .
they are following the investigations and trials , they will not tolerate corruption and do not just wait on results , but demand them .
as janot s four-year term as prosecutor-general drew to an end , brazil s entire body of federal prosecutors cast ballots for his replacement .
dodge came second in the vote , but under brazilian law the president has the final word in selecting the nominee .
president michel temer chose dodge , who was confirmed by the senate two weeks later in july .
her nomination was backed by the core team of federal prosecutors who have uncovered the worst of brazil s graft , which centered on state-run oil firm petroleo brasileiro .
janot lodged three corruption charges against temer .
one , for allegedly taking bribes , was blocked by the lower house of congress in early august .
under brazilian law , a president can only be tried before the supreme court if two-thirds of federal deputies vote to allow it .
last week , janot filed two more charges against temer , one for racketeering and the other for obstruction of justice .
the criminal charges filed against the president were based on the plea-bargain testimony of the owners of the world s largest meatpacker , jbs sa .
they accused temer of taking bribes in return for political favors and of conspiring to buy the silence of a witness who could implicate him .
temer has repeatedly said he was innocent and accused janot of running a political witch hunt against him .
at dodge s swearing-in ceremony , temer said that supreme authority is not found in officials , but in the law .