dubai ( reuters ) - saudi king salman has ordered that women be allowed to drive , ending a restriction seen by rights activists as an emblem of the islamic kingdom s repression of women .
here is a look at some of the biggest outstanding women s rights issues in saudi arabia : women must have a male guardian s approval for decisions in fields including marriage , travel , applying for a passport and even medical treatment and employment in some cases .
many aspects of the guardianship system are not codified in law but stem from informal practice .
the saudi ambassador to the united states has said women will not need permission from a guardian to get a driving license nor to have a guardian in the car .
earlier this year king salman issued an order allowing women to benefit from services such as education and healthcare without the consent of a male guardian .
rights groups say this is being implemented only on an ad hoc basis .
women may testify in court , but in some cases their testimony is considered worth only half that of a man .
the kingdom has removed requirements that a woman bring a male relative to identify them in court .
saudi arabia licensed the first female attorneys to practice law in 2013 , with the right to represent clients and to own and run their own law firms .
it has improved women s access to government services in recent years , enabling women to secure their own identity cards and issuing divorced and widowed women family cards , which identify familial relationships and are needed for bureaucratic processes , according to human rights watch .
women are required to dress modestly , but there is no specific written dress code and compliance varies in different regions and different situations .
in practice , most saudi women are expected to wear the long , dark abaya robe and a headscarf .
dress is monitored by religious police and women have been detained and released for immodest clothing .
the requirements do not tend to apply to foreign women .
unrelated saudi men and women are not supposed to mix , meaning that they are separated into male and family sections in restaurants or entertainment venues or in sex-segregated areas at conferences .
in a business environment women can find themselves in areas where they have little or no access to senior officials and policymakers , who are mainly male .
the strict segregation policies act as a disincentive to employers wanting to hire women .
businesses and government agencies in saudi arabia are segregated , with the exception of oil giant saudi aramco and some foreign companies .
saudi arabia allowed women into the national stadium for the first time this week as it launched celebrations to mark the 87th anniversary of its founding .
there is no formal bar on women buying or renting property but it can be difficult for women to do so without a male relative , according to rights groups .
the saudi government wants to encourage female participation in the workforce .
authorities have removed restrictions on women s work in the labor code and ended formal requirements for women to obtain a guardian s permission to work , but some employers still demand this and are not penalized for doing so .
saudi women have been moving into roles previously reserved for men such as retail , air traffic control and emergency call centers .
but the vast majority of chief executives and senior government officials are male and all-male workplaces can lack basic facilities like ladies restrooms .
conservative clerics have repeatedly said women who do physical exercise are immodest , even when they are not in public or seen by men .
but saudi public schools will begin offering physical education for girls in this academic year , the education ministry announced in july , and the advisory shura council has opened the door to licensing women s gyms .
the kingdom sent two female athletes to the olympics for the first time in 2012 , and four to the 2016 games .