what the heck !
first it s hillary clinton who gets off even though she s guilty and now it s pelosi screeching through traffic to shop at a fancy shoe store !
the thing that s so infuriating is that she s racing around town ignoring laws in an suv !
i guess global warming is for the little people too but not for dc divas u.s. house democratic leader nancy pelosi is above the law , as st. helena , california residents learned last month.local paul smith wrote in to the st. helena star in june to describe pelosi s recent shoe shopping excursion at a fancy boutique , prompting a response from police chief bill imboden about the former house speaker s special status ( see below ) .
last saturday afternoon ( june 4 ) i m standing on the west side of main street directly across from the hunt avenue intersection chatting with friends .
of course , traffic was heavy in both directions , smith wrote .
a large perfectly polished and gleaming black suv is attempting a left turn from hunt onto southbound main ( not easy ) .
suddenly blue/red lights are flashing from the windshield area of the suv ( like you would see in an official fire/police vehicle ) , he continued .
i said to my friends , i ve never seen that before on a regular vehicle and i d think that s illegal and dangerous .
they agreed .
that s when the large black suv jolted across two lanes of traffic , lights flashing , to park in front of a fire hydrant at the high end shoe boutique footcandy .
a st. helena police car happens to be going northbound and pulls into the center lane and the officer starts shaking his arm and hollering at the driver of the suv .
while this goes on a man exits the suv assisting a woman from the vehicle .
she dashes off to footcandy while he waits by the suv in the red zone , smith explained.the shpd car leaves and proceeds northbound.my friends and i are puzzled , say goodbye and i walk south on main .
as i approach footcandy , nancy pelosi comes out with her shopping bags and the man assists her into the awaiting suv .
the suv , with lights flashing , bursts back into southbound traffic.wow ! privilege ?
power ?
arrogance ?
whose suv , taxpayers ?
say it ain t so , nancy.paul smithst .
helenaeditor s note : the star asked st. helena police chief bill imboden to respond , and here s what he wrote : the st. helena police department has received similar complaints in the past , and on occasion we come across a scenario like what is mentioned in the complaint .
unfortunately local law enforcement has no authority to prevent this type of activity .
the u.s. capitol police and the u.s. secret service provide dignitary protection for certain high-ranking members of the federal government , and this protection comes with the discretion to violate some state and local laws ( illegal u-turns , parking in a red zone ) under the guise of providing the best possible protection to the dignitary .
in the case of congresswoman pelosi , she receives her protection detail from the capitol police .
as the chief of police in st. helena i can assure you we don t like or condone their behavior , but i can tell you from personal experience that while they sympathize with the position they put us in , they will not alter their tactics to appease us .
anyone who wishes to lodge a complaint about congresswoman pelosi can email her at the following website : pelosi.house.gov .
you can also lodge a complaint with the protection agency at : u.s. capitol police office of professional responsibility opr @ uscp.gov .
read more : the american mirror