beirut ( reuters ) - the head of syria s main kurdish political party indicated on wednesday his group favors attending a russian-sponsored peace congress later this month , the first time the kurds would participate in a major diplomatic push to end the war .
shahoz hasan said his democratic union party ( pyd ) would advocate for its decentralized model for syria , which it says is the only way to end the six-year-old conflict that has made half of syrians homeless and killed hundreds of thousands .
we tabled the democratic federal solution in mid-march of 2016 , and without it there are no solutions but only rendering the syrian crisis permanent , hasan , pyd co-chair , said in written responses to questions from reuters .
although he did not firmly commit to attending the nov. 18 peace conference in the russian black sea city of sochi , he said a majority among the pyd and its allies now favored going : we are discussing it and the majority view is to attend .
the pyd has emerged as one of the most powerful players in syria since the eruption of the civil war in 2011 .
its armed affiliate , the ypg , controls swathes of northern syria where kurdish-led local administrations have been set up .
they are allied to the united states as the core of the syrian defence forces ( sdf ) that , with u.s. air support and ground advisers , drove islamic state from much of northern syria and captured the militants de facto capital raqqa last month .
the main rebel groups fighting to overthrow president bashar al-assad are planning to boycott the nov. 18 peace congress in sochi , which moscow says will focus on a new constitution .
but attendance by the pyd could be important if it yields steps toward rapprochement between the russian-backed government and the u.s.-backed kurds , which between them now control most of the country .
the kurds and the government have largely avoided fighting each other during the multi-sided civil war , with both concentrating instead on fighting other enemies such as islamic state and arab rebels hostile to both assad and the ypg .
the pyd says it is not fighting to win independence , but to ensure any post-war constitution gives autonomy to regions .
in september , its administrations held the first part of a three-phase election that will conclude in january with the establishment of a parliament .
syria s foreign minister said in september that kurdish autonomy demands were negotiable .
but damascus recently toughened its stance , declaring on sunday that raqqa was under sdf occupation and the city would only be considered liberated once the syrian army recovered it .
hasan said this showed damascus was moving away from the democratic solution and returning to its old stance that there is no revolutionary movement in syria and that the pre-2011 syria can be recreated .
this vision is counter to reality and stands against the democratic solution , said hasan , who was elected to his post in september , replacing saleh muslim .
he added that solving the crisis required a three-year period of political transition .
hasan did not respond to a question of whether the pyd would seek assad s removal from office , the core demand of the syrian opposition .
the ypg has previously said it would have no problem with the regime if kurdish rights were guaranteed .
the invitation to sochi marks the first time the syrian kurds have been asked to attend a major peace conference .
the pyd has been left out of diplomacy in line with the wishes of turkey , which views it as an offshoot of the kurdistan workers party that has fought a decades-long insurgency in turkey .
hasan said the broad lines and fundamental elements that guarantee the solution should be agreed ahead of time , otherwise the congress would amount to a media carnival .