london ( reuters ) - princes william and harry paid a quiet tribute to their mother princess diana on wednesday , a day before the 20th anniversary of her death that has reignited interest in one of the world s most famous women .
diana s two sons met representatives of the charities she supported in a public garden at kensington palace , their home and where their mother lived until she was killed in a car crash in paris on aug. 31 , 1997 .
outside the palace gates supporters of the royal family gathered in the rain to mark the occasion , with many praising diana s sons for keeping her in the public memory .
everyone remembers where they were the day she died , and when they heard about it , said 74-year-old nancy purinton , on holiday with her husband from the united states .
it was pretty dramatic .
sheltering under umbrellas , william , harry and kate took a tour of the renamed white garden , which has been transformed temporarily with white english roses and forget-me-nots planted earlier this year .
the palace s head gardener and a gardener who knew diana from her frequent visits to the spot , usually known as the sunken garden , explained the design and pointed out some of the princess s favorite plants .
the gathering follows weeks of renewed interest in diana , the first wife of heir-to-the-throne prince charles .
she has once again become front page news with new revelations about her life and a raft of tv documentaries to mark the anniversary .
previous anniversaries of her death have passed with little fuss , suggesting that the people s princess , as she was dubbed by then-british prime minister tony blair , had perhaps lost some of her allure and relevance .
but with the popular william and harry coming to the fore , the 20th anniversary has sparked a re-examination of the role diana played in britain and the royal family , from her lavish wedding in 1981 to her bitter divorce .
the princes have also been increasingly willing to speak about the trauma of her death and its lasting impact .
i m glad that they ve finally loosened up a little bit to talk about her and how really hard it was for them , purinton said of the princes .
i think they were stiff upper lip for so long and now they re able to talk about it , which i think helps other people if they re grieving .
diana s death in a paris underpass sparked an outpouring of grief that stunned many britons , with thousands of mourners descending on the palace to leave flowers and letters to pay tribute to a woman who had become a global fashion icon and charity campaigner .
i was here the first time around , alexia mcdonald , 54 and a full-time carer , told reuters .
we were similar age ... ( i remember ) seeing the fairytale wedding .
she was my generation and i just felt a connection .
i felt i needed to pay my respects to diana .
outside the palace on wednesday , britons again left flowers , photographs and messages attached to the front gates , although in far fewer numbers than immediately after her death .
after touring the garden , the princes met representatives from causes diana had supported , including great ormond street hospital , the national aids trust and the leprosy mission .
on thursday , they will reflect on their mother s life in private .