berlin ( reuters ) - the leadership of germany s far right cracked within hours of its electoral success on monday , when the highest-profile figure in its more moderate wing stormed out of its victory news conference and abandoned its parliamentary group .
frauke petry , a 42-year-old chemist , was the most recognizable face in the alternative for germany ( afd ) during its swift rise over the past two years .
but she said she could not stand with an anarchistic party that lacked a credible plan to govern , and would sit in parliament as an independent .
the anti-immigrant afd shocked the establishment by winning 12.6 percent of the vote in sunday s election after a campaign that channeled public anger at chancellor angela merkel s 2015 decision to leave germany s border open to migrants .
the result made the afd the first far-right group to win seats in the bundestag since the 1950s .
a vocal critic of immigration , petry served as co-leader of the afd , but had come into conflict with other senior figures in the party in recent months , saying she understood why some voters were alarmed at some of their radical rhetoric .
she has been less visible as a figure since a surprise decision in april not to run the party s election campaign .
i ve decided i won t be part of the afd s group in the german parliament but will initially be an individual member of parliament in the lower house , petry said as she left the party s news conference .
she has said the afd should be ready to join coalition governments , while other figures said the party should stick to opposition .
all established parties refuse to work with the afd .
berlin-based political expert gero neugebauer said petry had realized she would not have much influence in the afd s parliamentary group and may see herself in future as a potential leader of a new group attracting likeminded lawmakers .
other senior party figures played down her importance .
it s always a shame when someone very talented leaves the party and frauke petry is very talented .
but i must note that she wasn t much help recently in the campaign , one of the afd s top candidates , alexander gauland , told reuters .
once seen as a radical for transforming the afd from an obscure group opposed to euro zone financial bailouts into germany s leading anti-immigration party , petry had distanced herself from other top afd candidates before the election .
she had sought to have the party expel bjoern hoecke , a senior party official who courted controversy by denying that adolf hitler was absolutely evil and calling berlin s holocaust memorial a monument of shame .
gauland , who replaced petry in recent months as the party s most recognizable face , provoked outrage during the election campaign by saying germans should be proud of their world war two soldiers and germany s immigration minister should be disposed of in turkey where her parents come from .
petry said she was aiming to bring about a conservative turning point in parliament in 2021 , the next time germany is due to hold a national election .
i ll do everything i can to achieve that so the sensible ideas the afd has been working on since 2013 actually become a political reality , she added .
she declined to answer further questions , including whether she would remain the afd s co-leader , but said the public would hear from her in the coming days .
the party , founded in 2013 by a group of academics opposed to the euro , has long been riven by infighting .
commentators have predicted that its divisions could be amplified by its entry onto the national political stage .
gauland said neither he nor the other top candidate alice weidel nor co-leader joerg meuthen knew why petry left .
thomas jaeger , political scientist at cologne university , said petry would now need to leave the party , and her decision would likely help the afd because its parliamentary group would more cohesive without her .