have you ever noticed how dhs director jeh johnson repeatedly lies or answers questions with very vague answers ?
i can name numerous times he s given smug and incomplete answers when testifying about immigration and terrorism .
of course , the press has done nothing to expose this incompetence and the background of our homeland security director nothing .
he was basically gifted the job at the dhs after his job as a bundler for obama .
anyone who has been paying attention knows there s something strange going on here .
well , here s your lightbulb moment : the ineffectiveness and incompetence of the department of homeland security under the clueless moonbat jeh johnson may have you wondering what possible qualifications he might have , other than being black and a bundler of campaign donations for obama .
he has exactly one .
like obama himself , he is a red diaper baby : while speaking to muslims [ since the san bernardino attack ] , homeland security chief jeh johnson revealed why he s so protective of them .
he compared growing suspicions cast on them to the plight of his communist kin.johnson dropped the bombshell that his grandfather had been investigated for communism and un-american activities .
we can t say we re surprised .
add him to the parade of red diaper babies in the cabinet , including top white house advisor valerie jarrett , former political advisor david axelrod and president obama himself.no wonder this administration isn t interested in monitoring radical muslims for terrorist connections .
in 1949 , during the mccarthy era , my own grandfather was called upon to testify before the house un-american activities committee , to deny he was a member of the communist party and defend the patriotism of african-americans , johnson said in a speech to the adams center in sterling , va. , a mosque founded by alleged radical muslim brotherhood leaders .
today his grandson is responsible for the homeland security of this entire nation , he boasted.he likened the current climate of fear , suspicions and prejudice against muslim immigrants to the red scare and mccarthyism his grandfather , charles s. johnson , lived under in the 1940s and 1950s .
in 1949 , johnson , a sociologist and president of predominantly black fisk university , was dragged before the house un-american activities committee and asked to deny if he is or ever has been a member of the communist party .
the panel had good cause to investigate .
communists hadn t just infiltrated fisk as professors , but johnson had readily hired them , including giovanni ross lomanitz , a known communist operative .
even after lomanitz s communist loyalties were exposed , johnson spoke out on his behalf .
johnson then hired and defended yet another communist , math professor lee lorch .
johnson initially refused to fire him , but relented under withering criticism .
there was also the issue of johnson s own membership in communist fronts such as the national sharecroppers fund .
johnson denied the charges and called the hearings a witch hunt .
but the charges stuck .
after he died of a massive heart attack , grandson jeh charles johnson took his name .
of course , none of this came out in the younger johnson s confirmation hearings .
we only this summer learned that old fbi papers reveal hard-core communism in jarrett s family .
her chicago kin , who were known as concealed communists , included her late father , james e. bowman .
he was involved with communist front groups and was in contact with a paid soviet agent in the 1950s who was wanted for espionage .
via : investor s business dailythat means the danger joe mccarthy is maligned to this day for heroically attempting to protect us against has come to pass .
it means that we are in deep trouble.via : moonbattery after you watch the two videos note that there s a lack of will to do anything at all : senator sessions hammers jeh johnson on immigration :