this will make you sick valerie jarrett is as much a liar as obama.in her 60 minutes interview , valerie jarrett partially reveals the sway and power she possesses in the obama white house .
the full disclosure of her power must wait for another time , perhaps in a tell all book , post obama administration .
it is clear she is very proud of her effect on the obama presidency , its decisions , its attitudes , and its resultant force upon constitutional boundaries and the racial injustices she perceives in america.in a surprisingly blunt 60 minutes interview , cbs s this morning co-host norah o donnell took ms. jarrett to task on several issues .
much was revealed , much unspoken yet suggested.ms .
o donnell opens , rarely does one person in the white house have the influence that valerie jarrett has had .
she holds the job title of senior advisor , but she is more than that .
now there is an understatement .
ms o donnell continues ; jarrett has said she is involved in nearly every decision that is made including who should be chief of staff or who should sit on the supreme court .
it is reasonable to add other considerations such as attorney general appointments , iran nuclear deals , and transgender issues.ms .
o donnell notes that valerie jarrett has at least three formal job titles , including senior advisor and best friend .
jarrett has clashed with robert gibbs , rahm emanuel , bill daley , in all five chiefs of staff but only one valerie jarrett remains .
she has also made a commitment to push the issues she cares about .
she is at the center of the administrations efforts to raise the minimum wage around the country and to expand paid parental leave .
she has also pushed criminal justice reform .
jarrett offers this snippet , a peek inside the two person think tank that is valerie and barack .
they share , a world view shaped by childhoods spent abroad .
obama s four years in indonesia and the fact that she was born in iran and spent five years there.she says in the interview , that bond we had from having lived in cultures very different than our own , and how that shaped our view of the world , was a bond we had that day .
one may conclude that valerie jarrett enjoys a unique and intrinsic input into the obama administration s policies and actions .