berlin ( reuters ) - near the end of a recent campaign speech in northern germany , chancellor angela merkel turned to europe s refugee crisis of 2015 and offered her audience a comforting dual message .
germans should be proud of the warm welcome they gave hundreds of thousands of asylum seekers , many of them fleeing war and persecution in the middle east , she told an audience of over 1,000 gathered in the fishing village of steinhude .
then she shifted gears : what happened in 2015 can not , should not and must not happen again .
it is a phrase she has used repeatedly in market squares across germany as she campaigns for a fourth term in a federal election on sept. 24 that she is widely expected to win .
[ nl5n1lq0h1 two years since she opened germany s borders to asylum seekers to avert what she says was a looming humanitarian disaster , and saw her popularity slide as a result , merkel has climbed her way out of the deepest hole of her political career .
there are many factors behind her comeback .
but few are as important as her skill at spinning a narrative about the refugee crisis that many germans can support , whether they cheered or condemned her actions of 2015 .
merkel is not running on a policy of open borders and that fits perfectly with the mood in the country , said robin alexander , author of a best-selling book on the german government s handling of the refugee crisis .
many people like the image of germany as a model of humanitarian virtue .
at the same time they know the country could not continue to welcome refugees like it did .
it is this set of feelings that merkel is appealing to .
by the end of 2015 , 890,000 asylum seekers had entered germany , many without proper identity checks , overwhelming local communities .
merkel s actions divided europe and led to a surge in anti-immigrant sentiment .
the hard-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party seems sure to enter parliament for the first time .
a year after her decision , and following a series of small-scale attacks in germany by islamist militants , her popularity ratings had plunged 30 points to 45 percent and she faced questions about whether she would run for chancellor again .
yet today , 63 percent of germans say she is doing a good job and , according to a bertelsmann foundation survey this week , 59 percent believe the country is on the right track .
it has been a long , difficult road back , said one of her top aides .
but we have gotten to a point where the refugee issue is no longer a negative for merkel in the election campaign .
merkel has been helped by external events such as britain s vote for brexit last year and donald trump s election victory in the 2016 u.s. presidential election , both of which reinforced her appeal as a guarantor of stability .
a decision by macedonia in early 2016 to shut its border with greece stemmed the flow of refugees , easing pressure on germany .
and the country has not suffered a large-scale islamist attack , an event which might have triggered a voter backlash .
but merkel s knack for understanding how germans tick has also been crucial .
at many of her public appearances , she is confronted by anti-immigration protesters who try to drown out her speeches with whistles and chants of merkel must go !
.
in steinhude , a woman held up a sign showing merkel s diamond-shaped hand pose over a german flag with a blood-spattered bullet hole in the middle .
i offer you terror , death and chaos , the sign read .
but the dozen or so protesters were dwarfed by supporters who applauded her message .
i m not sure if there was another way to handle the refugee crisis .
those refugees had to go somewhere , said willi kordes , 70 , who runs a sewage treatment firm in nearby vlotho .
i don t trust anyone to do it better .
working in her favor in the election is the fact that many of germany s other established parties , including the centre-left social democrats ( spd ) , led by her main challenger martin schulz , backed her open-door policy .
the afd , running a racially-tinged campaign that has put off some voters , has come off its 2016 highs in the polls .
the one mainstream party that has offered a hardline alternative , the christian social union ( csu ) , is the bavarian sister party to merkel s christian democratic union ( cdu ) .
a vote for the csu is akin to a vote for merkel .
a crucial factor behind merkel s rebound has been the decline in asylum seekers entering germany .
about 280,000 arrived in 2016 , with another drop likely this year .
merkel takes credit for this , pointing to a deal she brokered between the european union and turkey , under which ankara has cut the number of migrants crossing into europe via its territory .
but critics say the closing of balkan borders which merkel publicly opposed was the real driver .
some see parallels with her behavior in the euro zone financial crisis , when european central bank president mario draghi s pledge to do whatever it takes to keep the currency bloc together , allowing her to stick to a hard line towards euro states such as greece without fear of consequences .
in the refugee crisis , it has been countries like macedonia , turkey and hungary - which shut down routes the refugees used - that have done merkel s dirty work , allowing her to maintain the image of a caring leader who helped people fleeing war .
the approach has helped merkel extend her control over the political centre .
some right-wing voters may have fled for the afd but polls suggest young , urban voters who traditionally lean left could fill the gap .
germany s economy has been strong enough to absorb the influx of refugees without big cracks emerging in society .
in reaction to its nazi past , germany has emerged as a more open , tolerant country than many assumed when the crisis hit .
a survey published this month ranking the top fears of the germans put terrorism at the top .
but a separate poll for the bild newspaper showed they do not see curbing immigration as a priority .
germans are astonishingly global , liberal and open to the world , said menno smid , head of the infas institute for applied social sciences , which released a survey last month showing broad acceptance of refugees in germany .
we are the winners from globalization .
the economic factors that led to trump simply don t exist .