the difference between us and them is that we listen to them says the husband of the woman who is hell-bent on fulfilling obama s promise to completely shut down the coal industry .
never mind that it has devastated generations of coal workers and entire communities supported by the coal industry .
bill clinton was repeatedly interrupted by protesters during a rally for hillary clinton in logan , west virginia sunday before the state s primary on may 10.the group booed the former president and confronted him about hillary clinton s promise to destroy coal jobs , a long-standing staple of west virginia s economy.during the rally , clinton recounted that he had asked his wife to send him to any place in america that feels left out and left behind .
the protesters then began shouting at the former president , to which he reacted with disdain .
this is where they start screaming because they don t want to hear this , clinton said with his hand raised .
the crowd applauded and stood up to face the protesters , who continued booing and were ushered out .
the difference between us and them is that we listen to them , clinton said.prior to clinton s appearance in logan , city officials emailed sen. joe manchin ( d. , w. va. ) attempting to prevent his visit , according to wvns-tv .
bill and hillary clinton are simply not welcome in our town , their email stated .
mrs. clinton s anti-coal messages are the last thing our suffering town needs at this point .
the policies that have been championed by people like mrs. clinton have all but devastated our fair town , and honestly , enough is enough .
at the same rally , clinton was confronted about his wife s march pledge to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business .
when s she going to lay us all off and wipe us all out ?
the protester said , interrupting clinton s remarks.clinton , hard of hearing , asked manchin what the man said as the room filled with angry murmurs .
he s getting laid off and wiped out , what we gon na do about that , manchin said .
well , that s good , that s a fair question , clinton said.in a letter to manchin days after her promise to destroy coal jobs , hillary clinton admitted that she was mistaken and reiterated her commitment to bringing jobs to appalachia .
those close to clinton defended her remarks by saying that she did not communicate her intent clearly .
wfbyeah .right hillary just misspoke or something like that .