des moines ( reuters ) - an influential conservative magazine ’ s rejection of donald trump ’ s presidential candidacy triggered a fire storm on friday , with republican rivals saying it is validation of what they have been saying all along : that trump is not a conservative .
with iowa to kick off the republican search for a presidential candidate with its feb. 1 caucuses , trump and his aides reacted with scorn to the editorial in national review , which was signed by 22 prominent conservative intellectuals .
the “ against trump ” editorial by national review , a new york-based magazine founded in 1955 by famed conservative thinker william f. buckley jr. , was scathing .
“ trump is a philosophically unmoored political opportunist who would trash the broad conservative ideological consensus within the gop ( republican party ) in favor of a free-floating populism with strong-man overtones , ” national review said .
trump ’ s opponents in the nomination fight pounced quickly .
“ i don ’ t think donald is running as a movement conservative , ” republican candidate marco rubio told fox news .
“ i don ’ t think he ’ s ever said that .
it ’ s clear he ’ s not .
i mean , what he ’ s running [ as is ] someone who ’ s a populist , who ’ s upset about the direction of this country. ” republican candidate jeb bush told fox that national review was “ just telling the truth. ” “ this transformation ( to conservative ) that he claims he ’ s done needs to be tested , ” bush said .
the republican national committee , concerned that the magazine was taking sides , dumped national review from co-sponsoring a candidates ’ debate on feb. 25 in houston .
the national review editorial emerged as some establishment republican figures debate whether trump is a preferable standard-bearer for the nov. 8 election instead of the other leader in the republican race , texas senator ted cruz .
trump , anxious to put his stamp on the race with a victory in iowa , tweeted that the national review is a dying magazine and a ghost of its past .
his campaign manager , corey lewandowski , said the publication ’ s conclusion is irrelevant .
“ the bottom line is nobody cares , ” he told cnn .
“ the average voter in iowa doesn ’ t care .
the average voter in new hampshire doesn ’ t care. ” trump is currently in position to seize control of the race .
polls show he could win not only iowa ’ s caucuses , but also new hampshire ’ s first-in-the-nation primary on feb. 9 , which would put him on a strong path to the presidential nomination .
a cnn/orc poll on thursday said trump had taken a solid lead over cruz in iowa , with 37 percent to 26 percent for cruz .
cruz has led other polls in iowa .
both men will campaign in iowa on saturday , the same day that the influential des moines register newspaper will announce its endorsements for the caucuses .
trump ’ s campaign released a tv ad accusing cruz of being weak on illegal immigration .
“ against trump ” began trending on twitter in the united states by friday morning .
most of the response on the social media site was negative toward “ national review , ” with several twitter users expressing dismay over the publication ’ s decision to criticize the front-runner .
“ national review is leading a coalition against trump , ” wrote jeff fogle ( @ jefffogle342 ) .
“ we the people will get him in office if we push hard .
stick together !
we can do it ! !
! ” “ without any sense of self awareness @ nro [ national review ] ignores [ its ] attacks on conservatives last 2 cycles , ” tweeted madlaw ( @ madlaw1071 ) .
( additional reporting by doina chiacu in washington ; editing by dan grebler ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .