is there a worse crime than being a white male in america ?
unless you re a gay male , you have no victim protection .
so technically , in a liberals world your life has no real value .
it s hard to argue with these bright harvard students who say things like , your life ain t worth it .
i m pretty sure the student featured in this video s parents ( if they had to pay the $ 57,000 tuition tab that privileged kids parents have to pay ) wouldn t be too happy about his clearly underdeveloped language skills .
why does white life have value ?
our argument is that we should never affirm white life .
so , should he kill himself ?
i don t see why not .
why should he do that ?
how does that help ?
it s ethical .
how is it ethical ?
we all have some form or another of privilege .
why does that mean we should kill ourselves because you have white privilege .
why does having white privilege necessarily mean i should kill myself ?
why shouldn t i like struggle against the structure thing ?
struggling against the structure means putting yourself on the line , putting your body on the line .
do it .
affirmative suicide , i mean , it s one little step in the right direction watch : white life is wrong , feliciano was quoted as saying by infowars.com .
our argument is that we should never affirm white life .
white life is based off black subjugation .
when a white debater asked feliciano whether he should commit suicide , feliciano said i don t see why not , it s ethical .
when the white debater suggested that it might be better to remain alive and fight the social forces that promote white privilege , feliciano rejects the notion.ironically , the debate topic was supposed to be about renewable energy .
the black debaters simply chose to point out their opponents skin color and begin advocating genocide , reported investmentwatchdogblog.com .
they expressly stated that these were their sincere beliefs , not just an argument to win a debate .
feliciano and davis are not some anonymous student crackpots posing as serious debaters.they form a respected two-person debate team that took second place at the 2013 cross-examination debate association nationals , according to infowars.com.feliciano also acts as an instructor at the eddie conway liberation institute , an annual debate camp at coppin state university that reportedly instructs high school students on debate strategy and radical thought , infowars reported.the institute is named after former black panther party member eddie conway , who was convicted and imprisoned for 44 years for his involvement with the 1970 murder of a baltimore police officer .
via : eag news