21st century wire says over the past month , more than 12 million declassified documents from the cia have been reportedly published online .
while the intelligence docu-dump supposedly sheds additional light on covert war programs , psychic research and the cold war era , it also contains more evidence confirming the symbiotic relationship between the cia and american media .
in late january the uk s guardian reported that the cia themselves released millions of documents online : the cia has published more than 12 million pages of declassified documents online , making decades of us intelligence files more easily accessible and searchable.the agency published the roughly 930,000 documents that make up the cia records search tool ( crest ) on tuesday .
the online publication of the files was first reported by buzzfeed news .
although all of the documents in crest were part of the public record before tuesday , they could only be inspected by visiting the national archives in maryland in person .
once at the archives , just four computers available only during business hours provided access to crest .
a lawsuit from the open-government nonprofit muckrock prompted the cia to make the documents available online .
further pressure to publish the documents came from the transparency advocate and journalist michael best , who began steadily scanning and uploading the documents one by one .
continuing , the guardian reported that the cia also kept files and documents on media organizations and individual reporters .
in 2014 , best from muckrock , filed a freedom of information act ( foia ) lawsuit in order to get the cia to post all of its documents online .
along the way , best reportedly crowd-funded more than $ 15000 to print out and then publicly upload the records , one by one , to apply pressure to the cia .
although some mainstream outlets have been somewhat congratulatory of the cia , many of the files released remain heavily redacted.in the early 1950 s , the cia ran a wide-scale program called operation mockingbird that was said to have infiltrated the american news media in particular , which propagandized the public through various front organizations , magazines and cultural groups .
the company the central intelligence agency of the united states .
( image source : zerohedge.com ) in recent years , there has been a series of surreal and unreal news stories since the smith-mundt act was effectively rendered obsolete by us lawmakers on july 2nd 2013 , as published by rt below : until earlier this month , a longstanding federal law made it illegal for the us department of state to share domestically the internally-authored news stories sent to american-operated outlets broadcasting around the globe .
all of that changed effective july 2 , when the broadcasting board of governors ( bbg ) was given permission to let us households tune-in to hear the type of programming that has previously only been allowed in outside nations .
the smith-mundt act has ensured for decades that government-made media intended for foreign audiences doesn t end up on radio networks broadcast within the us .
an amendment tagged onto the national defense authorization act removed that prohibition this year .
more from washington s blog below ( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) washington s blognewly-declassified documents show that a senior cia agent and deputy director of the directorate of intelligence worked closely with the owners and journalists of many of the largest media outlets : the united states senate select committee to study governmental operations with respect to intelligence activities found in 1975 that the cia submitted stories to the american press : wikipedia adds details : after 1953 , the network was overseen by allen w. dulles , director of the cia .
by this time , operation mockingbird had a major influence over 25 newspapers and wire agencies .
the usual methodology was placing reports developed from intelligence provided by the cia to witting or unwitting reporters .
those reports would then be repeated or cited by the preceding reporters which in turn would then be cited throughout the media wire services.the office of policy coordination ( opc ) was funded by siphoning off funds intended for the marshall plan [ i.e .
the rebuilding of europe by the u.s. after wwii ] .
some of this money was used to bribe journalists and publishers.in 2008 , the new york times wrote : during the early years of the cold war , [ prominent writers and artists , from arthur schlesinger jr. to jackson pollock ] were supported , sometimes lavishly , always secretly , by the c.i.a .
as part of its propaganda war against the soviet union .
it was perhaps the most successful use of soft power in american history.a cia operative told washington post owner philip graham in a conversation about the willingness of journalists to peddle cia propaganda and cover stories : you could get a journalist cheaper than a good call girl , for a couple hundred dollars a month.famed watergate reporter carl bernstein wrote in 1977 : more than 400 american journalists in the past twenty five years have secretly carried out assignments for the central intelligence agency , according to documents on file at cia headquarters .
* * * in many instances , cia documents show , journalists were engaged to perform tasks for the cia with the consent of the managements of america s leading news organizations .
* * * among the executives who lent their cooperation to the agency were [ the heads of cbs , time , the new york times , the louisville courier journal , and copley news service .
other organizations which cooperated with the cia include [ abc , nbc , ap , upi , reuters ] , hearst newspapers , scripps howard , newsweek magazine , the mutual broadcasting system , the miami herald and the old saturday evening post and new york herald tribune .
* * * there is ample evidence that america s leading publishers and news executives allowed themselves and their organizations to become handmaidens to the intelligence services .
let s not pick on some poor reporters , for god s sake , william colby exclaimed at one point to the church committee s investigators .
let s go to the managements .
* * * the cia even ran a formal training program in the 1950s to teach its agents to be journalists .
intelligence officers were taught to make noises like reporters , explained a high cia official , and were then placed in major news organizations with help from management .
* * * once a year during the 1950s and early 1960s , cbs correspondents joined the cia hierarchy for private dinners and briefings .
* * * allen dulles often interceded with his good friend , the late henry luce , founder of time and life magazines , who readily allowed certain members of his staff to work for the agency and agreed to provide jobs and credentials for other cia operatives who lacked journalistic experience .
* * * in the 1950s and early 1960s , time magazine s foreign correspondents attended cia briefing dinners similar to those the cia held for cbs .
* * * when newsweek was purchased by the washington post company , publisher philip l. graham was informed by agency officials that the cia occasionally used the magazine for cover purposes , according to cia sources .
it was widely known that phil graham was somebody you could get help from , said a former deputy director of the agency .
frank wisner dealt with him .
wisner , deputy director of the cia from 1950 until shortly before his suicide in 1965 , was the agency s premier orchestrator of black operations , including many in which journalists were involved .
wisner liked to boast of his mighty wurlitzer , a wondrous propaganda instrument he built , and played , with help from the press .
) * * * in november 1973 , after [ the cia claimed to have ended the program ] , colby told reporters and editors from the new york times and the washington star that the agency had some three dozen american newsmen on the cia payroll , including five who worked for general circulation news organizations .
yet even while the senate intelligence committee was holding its hearings in 1976 , according to high level cia sources , the cia continued to maintain ties with seventy five to ninety journalists of every description executives , reporters , stringers , photographers , columnists , bureau clerks and members of broadcast technical crews .
more than half of these had been moved off cia contracts and payrolls but they were still bound by other secret agreements with the agency .
according to an unpublished report by the house select committee on intelligence , chaired by representative otis pike , at least fifteen news organizations were still providing cover for cia operatives as of 1976 .
* * * those officials most knowledgeable about the subject say that a figure of 400 american journalists is on the low side .
there were a lot of representations that if this stuff got out some of the biggest names in journalism would get smeared .an expert on propaganda testified under oath during trial that the cia now employs thousands of reporters and owns its own media organizations .
whether or not his estimate is accurate , it is clear that many prominent reporters still report to the cia.a 4-part bbc documentary called the century of the self shows that an american freud s nephew , edward bernays created the modern field of manipulation of public perceptions , and the u.s. government has extensively used his techniques.more from washington s blog here read more propaganda news at : 21st century wire propaganda filesread more pentagon news at : 21st century wire pentagon filessupport 21wire by subscribing and becoming a member @ 21wire.tv