sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - thousands of rohingya muslims in violence-racked northwest myanmar are pleading with authorities for safe passage from two remote villages that are cut off by hostile buddhists and running short of food .
we re terrified , maung maung , a rohingya official at ah nauk pyin village , told reuters by telephone .
we ll starve soon and they re threatening to burn down our houses .
another rohingya contacted by reuters , who asked not to be named , said ethnic rakhine buddhists came to the same village and shouted , leave , or we will kill you all .
fragile relations between ah nauk pyin and its rakhine neighbors were shattered on aug. 25 , when deadly attacks by rohingya militants in rakhine state prompted a ferocious response from myanmar s security forces .
at least 430,000 rohingya have since fled into neighboring bangladesh to evade what the united nations has called a `` textbook example of ethnic cleansing '' .
about a million rohingya lived in rakhine state until the recent violence .
most face draconian travel restrictions and are denied citizenship in a country where many buddhists regard them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
tin maung swe , secretary of the rakhine state government , told reuters he was working closely with the rathedaung authorities , and had received no information about the rohingya villagers plea for safe passage .
there is nothing to be concerned about , he said when asked about local tensions .
southern rathedaung is completely safe .
national police spokesman myo thu soe said he also had no information about the rohingya villages but that he would look into the matter .
asked to comment , a spokeswoman for the u.s. state department s east asia bureau made no reference to the situation in the villages , but said the united states was calling urgently for myanmar s security forces to act in accordance with the rule of law and to stop the violence and displacement suffered by individuals from all communities .
tens of thousands of people reportedly lack adequate food , water , and shelter in northern rakhine state , spokeswoman katina adams said .
the government should act immediately to assist them .
adams said patrick murphy , the u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state for east asia , would reiterate grave u.s. concern about the situation in rakhine when he meets senior officials in myanmar this week .
britain is to host a ministerial meeting on monday on the sidelines of the annual u.n. general assembly in new york to discuss the situation in rakhine .
ah nauk pyin sits on a mangrove-fringed peninsula in rathedaung , one of three townships in northern rakhine state .
the villagers say they have no boats .
until three weeks ago , there were 21 muslim villages in rathedaung , along with three camps for muslims displaced by previous bouts of religious violence .
sixteen of those villages and all three camps have since been emptied and in many cases burnt , forcing an estimated 28,000 rohingya to flee .
rathedaung s five surviving rohingya villages and their 8,000 or so inhabitants are encircled by rakhine buddhists and acutely vulnerable , say human rights monitors .
the situation is particularly dire in ah nauk pyin and nearby naung pin gyi , where any escape route to bangladesh is long , arduous , and sometimes blocked by hostile rakhine neighbors .
maung maung , the rohingya official , said the villagers were resigned to leaving but the authorities had not responded to their requests for security .
at night , he said , villagers had heard distant gunfire .
it s better they go somewhere else , said thein aung , a rathedaung official , who dismissed rohingya allegations that rakhines were threatening them .
only two of the aug. 25 attacks by the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) took place in rathedaung .
but the township was already a tinderbox of religious tension , with arsa citing the mistreatment of rohingya there as one justification for its offensive .
in late july , rakhine residents of a large , mixed village in northern rathedaung corraled hundreds of rohingya inside their neighborhood , blocking access to food and water .
a similar pattern is repeating itself in southern rathedaung , with local rakhine citing possible arsa infiltration as a reason for ejecting the last remaining rohingya .
maung maung said he had called the police at least 30 times to report threats against his village .
on sept. 13 , he said , he got a call from a rakhine villager he knew .
leave tomorrow or we ll come and burn down all your houses , said the man , according to a recording maung maung gave to reuters .
when maung maung protested that they had no means to escape , the man replied : that s not our problem .
on aug. 31 , the police convened a roadside meeting between two villages , attended by seven rohingya from ah nauk pyin and 14 rakhine officials from the surrounding villages .
instead of addressing the rohingya complaints , said maung maung and two other rohingya who attended the meeting , the rakhine officials delivered an ultimatum .
they said they didn t want any muslims in the region and we should leave immediately , said the rohingya resident of ah nauk pyin who requested anonymity .
the rohingya agreed , said maung maung , but only if the authorities provided security .
he showed reuters a letter that the village elders had sent to the rathedaung authorities on sept. 7 , asking to be moved to another place .
they had yet to receive a response , he said .
relations between the two communities deteriorated in 2012 , when religious unrest in rakhine state killed nearly 200 people and made 140,000 homeless , most of them rohingya .
scores of houses in ah nauk pyin were torched .
since then , said villagers , rohingya have been too scared to leave the village or till their land , surviving mainly on monthly deliveries from the world food programme ( wfp ) .
the recent violence halted those deliveries .
the wfp pulled out most staff and suspended operations in the region after aug. 25 .
residents in the area s two rohingya villages said they could no longer venture out to fish or buy food from rakhine traders , and were running low on food and medicines .
maung maung said the local police told the rohingya to stay in their villages and not to worry because nothing would happen , he said .
but the nearest police station had only half a dozen or so officers , he said , and could not do much if ah nauk pyin was attacked .
a few minutes walk away , at the rakhine village of shwe long tin , residents were also on edge , said its leader , khin tun aye .
they had also heard gunfire at night , he said , and were guarding the village around the clock with machetes and slingshots in case the rohingya attacked with arsa s help .
we re also terrified , he said .
he said he told his fellow rakhine to stay calm , but the situation remained so tense that he feared for the safety of his rohingya neighbors .
if there is violence , all of them will be killed , he said .