the # nfl has become a showcase for an anti-law enforcement movement inspired by barack obama , eric holder , al sharpton and now , black lives matter activist colin kaepernick and fellow nfl players first it was beyonce s black panther , anti-cop performance during the 2016 super bowl .
the nfl was silent.next , cleveland browns player isaiah crowell took to instagram to post an isis like photo of a man wearing a black ski mask while slitting the neck of a cop .
the nfl was silent.the dallas cowboys wanted to wear a decal to show their support for the 5 cops slain by a black lives matter supporter in their home town during a pre-game .
the nfl said , no .
colin kaepernick , quarterback for the san francisco 49er s thought it would be a great way to show his disdain for our law enforcement if he sat during our national anthem .
the nfl was silent.apparently disrespecting our flag was totally okay with the nfl.months later , more and more nfl players joined kaepernick and his anti-american antics .
it wasn t long before high school and college players , who were inspired by the attention colin kaepernick received for his anti-american act , decided to follow suit .
some knelt during the national anthem and performed a die in for a more dramatic effect .
all were disrespecting our flag.the nfl was silent.the time has come for america to show the nfl how we feel about their silence .
america s biggest football fans are turning off the tv in a silent protest that is sure to get the attention of an organization that can not survive without fan support.so far , america s protest against the nfl seems to be working : it seems likely that the numerous # boycottnfl online campaigns and fan outrage aimed at the national anthem protests in the nfl have taken a toll in terms of viewership this season .
additionally , cord-cutting continues to eat into traditional tv s ratings at an alarming rate .
but could there be something else at play ? we re barely a year removed from the nfl setting all-time records in viewership , yet now the league is on pace for its lowest ratings in years .
that s a sharp and unexpectedly sudden turn.given the politicized controversies and the variety of streaming options this year , have we reached a cumulative point of football fatigue ?
the numbers suggest so.last night s monday night football matchup between the minnesota vikings and new york giants drew a 9.1 overnight rating , an 8 % drop from last year s comparable week 4 game between the detroit lions and seattle seahawks .
the new england patriots and kansas city chiefs game in 2014 earned a 9.6 rating .
via : forbes