rome ( reuters ) - a deal with libya that has slashed the number of migrants reaching italy could scupper the ruling center democratic party s ( pd ) already dwindling hopes of staying in power next year as it is opposed by the pd s potential coalition partners .
the deal , struck in february , is popular with the italian public and with right-wing and anti-establishment parties now ahead in opinion polls , but it has drawn criticism from the united nations , rights groups and many on italy s left .
under the accord , italy and the european union pledged to finance migrant camps in libya , and rome also agreed to train the libyan coastguard , part of a crackdown on migrants attempting the hazardous sea crossing to europe .
but the deal has also led to tens of thousands of migrants being trapped in libya , where humanitarian groups say they are locked up in appalling conditions , bought and sold , and subjected to crimes on a daily basis .
one politician who wants changes to the agreement is emma bonino , a former foreign minister in a center government .
i ve always criticized this agreement with libya .
it s a cork in a bottle that can not hold , bonino told reuters .
italians have the perception that they are being invaded by muslim foreigners .
it s not true .
fear is fantastic for winning elections , but it s simply useless for controlling migration .
bonino is considering forming a pro-eu party with other left-leaning figures that could support the pd ahead of next year s national election , which must be held by may .
in other criticism of the libya deal , giulio marcon , the top lawmaker in the lower house for the italian left party , said : we can not be complicit in migrant push backs .
left-wing voters hold humanitarian values dear , said marcon , whose party has so far refused an alliance with the pd .
anti-immigrant parties gaining the pd needs the support of other parties , on the left in particular .
it trailed the populist 5-star movement in a recent poll with 24 percent to 29 percent , while a center coalition that includes the anti-immigrant northern league , silvio berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy ! )
and the far-right brothers of italy has combined support totaling about 36 percent .
the deal with libya , modeled on a similar one struck between the eu and turkey , has been successful in reducing the flow of migrants into italy , with arrivals down by about a third so far this year compared to the same period in 2016 .
in october alone arrivals were down about 80 percent from a year earlier .
ordinary italians , alarmed by the arrival of some 600,000 migrants in the past four years , have welcomed the trend .
an swg poll this month showed two thirds of italians do not want more immigrants , fearing they will take away jobs and increase crime .
the northern league , tapping into the anti-immigrant mood , has seen its popularity more than double to about 15 percent in three years .
its leader , matteo salvini , has accused fake refugees of invading italy and bringing crime with them .
not to be outdone , the 5-star movement s candidate for prime minister , luigi di maio , this summer accused charity ships rescuing migrants piled onto overcrowded and unseaworthy boats of being a taxi service .
under the february deal , libya s coastguard has so far picked up about 20,000 migrants , including refugees .
they are then forced into detention centers where they can be held indefinitely .
last week the u.n. high commissioner for human rights condemned the eu s support for the libyan coastguard as inhuman because intercepted migrants were imprisoned and subjected to unimaginable horrors .
former u.n. secretary-general and nobel peace prize winner kofi annan said the libya deal suggested italy was complicit in a breach of the geneva convention , which says refugees can not be returned to a place where they may be persecuted .
under the convention , you can not push them ( refugees ) back .
but if you make an arrangement with somebody else to keep them from moving , in a way you are complicit , annan said during a trip to rome this month .