washington ( reuters ) - the pentagon plans to transfer about a dozen inmates of the guantanamo military prison to at least two countries that have agreed to take them , a u.s. official said on wednesday , the latest move in president barack obama ’ s final push to close the facility .
the first of the transfers are expected in the next few days and the others will take place in coming weeks , said the official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
among them will be tariq ba odah , a yemeni man who has been on a long-term hunger strike and has lost about half of his body weight .
there are now 91 prisoners at the u.s. naval base in guantanamo bay , cuba .
most have been held without charge or trial for more than a decade , drawing international condemnation .
obama , who last month presented congress with a blueprint for closing the prison , is seeking to make good on his long-time pledge before he leaves office in january .
but he faces stiff opposition from many republican lawmakers , as well as some of his fellow democrats .
the pentagon has notified congress of its latest planned transfers from among the 37 detainees already cleared to be sent to their homelands or other countries , the official said .
u.s. officials have said they expect to move out all members of that group by this summer .
obama ’ s plan for shuttering the facility calls for bringing the several dozen remaining prisoners to maximum-security prison in the united states .
but u.s. law bars such transfers to the mainland , and obama has not ruled out doing so by use of executive action .
“ i do not have a timeline on when particular detainees will be transferred from guantanamo , ” commander gary ross , a defense department spokesman , said in a statement .
“ however , the administration is committed to reducing the detainee population and to closing the detention facility responsibly. ” the most prominent of those to be resettled over the next several weeks is bah odah , a 37-year-old yemeni who has been force-fed by nasal tube since he stopped eating solid food in 2007 .
his weight had dropped to 74 pounds from 148 and his legal team feared he could die of starvation , according to an account in a reuters report at the end of december .
lawyers for ba odah , who was cleared for transfer in 2009 , had tried unsuccessfully to win his release on health and humanitarian grounds , but pentagon officials said he was receiving proper care .
the plan to resettle about a dozen inmates was first reported by the washington post .
the u.s. official declined to name the countries ready to take them in .
ten yemeni men were sent to oman in january .
others were recently sent to ghana , bosnia and montenegro .
the obama administration has ruled out sending yemenis , who make up the bulk of the remaining prisoners , to their homeland because it is engulfed in civil war and has an active al qaeda branch .
guantanamo prisoners were rounded up overseas when the united states became embroiled in wars in iraq and afghanistan following the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks on new york and washington .
the facility , opened by obama ’ s predecessor george w. bush , came to symbolize aggressive detention practices that opened the united states to accusations of torture .
( this story has been refiled to insert dropped words in paragraph 9 attribution )