prague ( reuters ) - czech billionaire andrej babis s ano party met an anti-european union , anti-immigration group on thursday in search of a coalition partner as it struggles to convert a huge election win into a majority government .
ano won three times the votes of its nearest rival in last weekend s election that saw a popular swing from mainstream traditional parties towards outsiders , echoing a recent shift in europe in favor of anti-establishment groups .
but with babis facing potential fraud charges , which he denies , most parties have ruled out any tie-up with ano although it won over many voters with pledges to run the state like a business and weed out political corruption .
the post-election limbo raises the risk that the 2018 state budget might not be approved within the deadline of year-end and kept open the possibility that ano could opt for minority rule supported by far-left and far-right factions .
on thursday , ano met the freedom and direct democracy ( spd ) party , which won 22 seats to ano s 78 .
ano has so far ruled out a block with the spd but the two have found common ground on curbing immigration , a referendum law and welfare reform .
ano deputy chief jaroslav faltynek declined to say whether it would seek spd support in a coalition or for a minority government .
we have not spoken with the spd about a government today .
we issued a clear stance , even before the election , that we would not form a government either with spd or kscm ( communists ) , he told reporters .
police are looking into whether babis hid ownership of a convention centre that received a 2 million-euro eu subsidy in 2008 though it was intended for small businesses .
he says the investigation was part of efforts to push him from politics .
babis has called single-party government unrealistic and says he aims to have a coalition by christmas .
he has been talking to the social democrats and christian democrats , ano s partners in the outgoing government , the spd , communists , conservative civic democrats and the liberal pirates .
turning to the spd could raise eyebrows in brussels as the party has demanded a referendum on membership in the eu , a risky move in the eurosceptic-leaning country of 10.6 million people .