a powerful letter from a lifer in the military : because i am a lifer in the military , i ve seen the impact of a president more than many of you can imagine .
i enlisted with lbj and saw just what a democrat clusterflock was all about .
i went to vietnam and saw how we were constantly and incessantly bombarded with micromanagement from washington that got thousands of military people killed .
i sometimes wonder if i ll get to heaven , but if i go to hell , i m sure i ll still be a few hundred floors above that bastard robert mcnamara , lbj , john kerry , jane fonda , and yes , even the hero john mccain.after johnson abdicated rather than having his ass waxed , i lived through nixon who was hawkish but allowed the generals ( and there were a few real generals back then versus now ) run the show .
he was so out of touch that he never knew north vietnam was about to surrender when the paris accord was presented.only god could help us after gerald ford was beaten by jimmy peanuts who d been funded by saudi money .
the military was turned into section 8 and even the whitehouse suffered the austerity .
then the light began to shine and ronald reagan swept into the fray .
he not only loved the country and the military , they loved him back .
esprit d corps was off the scale during his presidency .
the liberals were slowly turning into socialists , however , and about this time all the draft dodgers of the 1960 s who d been given amnesty by jimmy peanuts were turning out college graduates with degrees in socialism .
bush 1 was an enigma from the cia and though he never did much either way , he never did much either way.welcome to bill clinton .
clinton spent most of his two terms wagging the dog and creating the oral office , sending a bomber to blow up quaddafi s tent and killing a goat or two , while allowing the un to set up the infamous black hawk down situation .
he made history by becoming only the second president to be impeached.i actually felt sorry for bush 2 .
he was doomed to infamy from the start .
he thought most of america was still the rah rah patriots of wwii when they were simply socialists waiting to feed him to the sharks .
then there came the manchurian candidate with a faked ( ok democrats , let s say of questionable origin to assuage your pc brains ) birth certificate , who d gotten a free ride through college under a foreign student exemption , and whose college records and complete life history had been sealed .
( we know more about thomas jefferson s bastard children than we do about obama , michelle , or their two kids . )
from his inaugural address , he slandered america and within days had begun to encourage dissention of the races as well as slandering police who acted stupidly .
that was mild to the crap that would come in doubling the national debt from what had been built by all the previous presidents combined , feeding us bullspit about how muslims built this country , and nationalizing american industries .
fueled by george soros money and using the air force fleet as his personal charters , he appointed malcontents and traitors into positions of authority .
he trashed the constitution by installing czars ( interesting he chose a title like that ) to bypass congressional authority .
by that time , congress was completely corrupt on both sides of the aisle .
no one had balls to impeach this charlatan .
mysteriously , the lone outspoken conservative supreme court justice suddenly dies in his sleep at an obama pal s hunting lodge and the supreme court is evenly split .
finally , congress shows some balls and rejects obama s nomination .
the libtards aren t worried because the fix is in .
soros has paid demonstrators to cause turmoil at all the republican gatherings , obama concedes that illegal aliens should vote as they won t be prosecuted , and soros-manufactured voting machines are caught switching votes in certain precincts .
hillary has cheated her way to the nomination and her lies are completely ignored by the brainwashed minions of sycophants who follow her .
but a shocking thing happened on the way to the forum.middle america had had enough and although the pollsters and the pipers tried to convince them not even to bother to vote , they were fed up with the denizens of the swamp .
it was time .
florida was designated a swing state ignoring that all those old retirees living in st. petersburg , and the fed up cuban americans of miami weren t interested in their platform .
ohio and pennsylvania , where coal production was blacklisted and where obama had ridiculed them for clinging to their bibles and their guns , lay awaiting this supposed landslide hillary vote and creamed it.the socialist world of the democratic party disintegrated .
an american who expressed unbridled love of country and respect for police , firemen , and military steamrolled across the heartland and the liberals realized their scheme was trashed .
a constitutionalist would be nominated to the supreme court and if the hag who d claimed to retire if trump were elected would actually leave , the supreme court would have a massive majority of constitutionalists for the next 40-50 years.now , the same party who d ridiculed trump on his comments about the election being rigged , started screaming that the election was rigged .
they even advocated having the election repeated .
they created mobs that burned and pillaged , stopped traffic , threatened murder , battery and rape of trump supporters , and became the anarchists that the socialist dream thrives upon .
they run like castrated pigs for safe zones and use diaper pins as their national symbol.this is exactly what happens when political correctness takes over and participation trophies are awarded to everyone .
they can t conceive how disgusting and subservient they have become .
donald trump may not be the best person for the job , but he s such a welcome respite from the candy-assed whimps who ve been running the swamp that it s refreshing to see .
at the very least , donald trump derailed the socialist train and bought us precious time .
if he only does half of what he s promised , we ll still be legions ahead of where obama has dragged us .
already countries who held us in contempt are lining up to be found in the favor of america.so for you liberal lurkers and you half-assed fence-sitters , kiss off .
you had your big hurrah and now your party is over .
for you staunch republicans in office , don t gloat so much yourselves .
you ve been put on notice by the american people that we re fed up with all you bastards and if you don t start putting america first , you do so at your own peril .
you might want to buy a copy of george mcgovern s autobiography and see how shocking and humbling it can be for a professional politician to have to try to find legitimate work once he falls from grace .
this election was pure , unadulterated american .
hillary got beaten and america won the election .
you can claim he s not your president all you want , but unless you forfeit your american citizenship , yes he is ! ! ! !
go cry a river some place they need water.retired chief master sergeant george roof gave permission to 100percentfedup.com to publish his amazing letter on our website .
we applaud george s passion and his honesty .
most of all , we thank him for dedicating his life to service in our us armed forces .