brasilia ( reuters ) - he is anti-gay , pro-gun and warns that china is taking over brazil .
and with one year to go before brazil s presidential election , right-wing congressman jair bolsonaro is running second in opinion polls .
bolsonaro , a 62-year-old former paratrooper , lacks a major party behind him but hopes to emulate donald trump s unexpected rise to the u.s. presidency with the support of brazilians fed up with corrupt politicians and bad government .
trump faced the same attacks i am facing - that he was a homophobe , a fascist , a racist , a nazi - but the people believed in his platform , and i was rooting for him , bolsonaro told reuters in an interview this week in his office in brasilia , decorated with the portraits of five military presidents from brazil s 1964-1985 dictatorship .
a seven-term congressman , bolsonaro is emerging as the law-and-order and anti-corruption candidate for the october 2018 vote .
his support is fed by a surge in violent crime and brazil s worst-ever graft scandal , which has implicated much of the political class , including president michel temer .
for many disillusioned voters in latin america s largest country , bolsonaro s appeal lies in his clean record , with not a single allegation of graft raised against him .
many others in the catholic country , however , are outraged by misogynist comments and outspoken support for brazil s former military dictatorship , including its use of torture .
bolsonaro is appealing a conviction for inciting violence after he told a female congresswoman on the floor of the lower house that he would not rape her because she did not deserve it .
after a high-ranking army officer , general antonio mour o , warned this month the military could seize power if brazil s courts do not punish corrupt politicians , bolsonaro played down the remark .
it was just a warning .
nobody wants to seize power that way , he said , adding with a smile : maybe we could have a military man winning in 2018 , but through elections .
battling what he sees as a hostile press , bolsonaro aims to use social media to deliver his message directly to voters , as trump did successfully in the u.s. election last year .
his facebook page has more followers than any other politician in brazil - 4.5 million .
a poll by datafolha in june put him second in voting intentions for the 2018 elections , at 16 percent , trailing only former president luiz inacio lula da silva , at 30 percent , who has been convicted of corruption and could be barred from running .
however , political watchers say bolsonaro s appeal is likely to wane as opponents play on his divisive comments .
his rejection rate of 30 percent is only surpassed by lula s 46 percent and the governor of sao paulo geraldo alckmin s 34 percent .
bolsonaro s homophobic reputation arose from his strident opposition to same-sex unions and attacks on a sexual education program for schools that he said encouraged homosexuality .
he has maintained that adoption of children by same-sex couples is tantamount to pedophilia .
as he prepares for a presidential run , bolsonaro has moderated his rhetoric , telling reuters that politics had no place in the bedroom and what adults did between the sheets was a private matter .
but he won t budge on other policies such as easing gun control laws so any brazilian can purchase a weapon .
he said pro-gun bills he has sponsored should win approval in a more conservative congress elected in 2018 .
while pledging to continue current efforts to reduce red tape and the size of the state , bolsonaro would not privatize companies considered strategic , such as state-run oil company petrobras - a national development strategy espoused by brazil s military governments .
if elected , bolsonaro s priority in foreign affairs would be to strengthen ties with washington , especially with trump in the white house .
he would aim to make the united states brazil s main trade partner , a position it lost to china in 2009 .
china is taking over brazil and that is worrying .
they are investing in mining , agriculture , energy , ports and airports , bolsonaro said , pledging to restrict chinese investors from buying brazilian companies .
at the end of the interview , bolsonaro stood up and saluted in front of the portraits of the five military presidents .
outside , people lined up to get selfies with him .
i want a photo .
he is the only politician who has not stolen , said marcos , 18 , a student from goias state .