michael flynn resigned as president donald trump s national security adviser monday night , amid a growing scandal over his contacts with russian officials.the white house announced the resignation after days of uncertainty about flynn s fate after reports that he d obfuscated the details of his conversations with russian officials to vice president mike pence and other administration officials.trump administration officials , including chief white house counsel don mcgahn , were briefed last month on flynn s apparent misstatements about his discussions with the russians .
yates was dismissed a few days later after refusing to enforce trump s travel ban executive order but a source familiar with the situation said her briefing on flynn did not appear to play a role in her firing.the washington post was the first to report the briefing monday .
the white house announced flynn s resignation shortly afterward .
in the course of my duties as the incoming national security advisor , i held numerous phone calls with foreign counterparts , ministers , and ambassadors .
these calls were to facilitate a smooth transition and begin to build the necessary relationships between the president , his advisors and foreign leaders .
such calls are standard practice in any transition of this magnitude , flynn wrote in his resignation letter .
i inadvertently briefed the vice president elect and others with incomplete information regarding my phone calls with the russian ambassador .
i have sincerely apologized to the president and the vice president , and they have accepted my apology , flynn added.keith kellogg , the national security council chief of staff , will step in as the acting national security adviser and head of the national security council .
retired army gen. barry mccaffrey , who has known kellogg for decades , said early tuesday that he is a good man who was among the earliest trump loyalists.flynn , long a controversial figure in the national security establishment , was widely disliked by trump s more establishment aides , who said he fueled trump s conspiracy theories and distrust of the intelligence community .
but he had maintained trump s support , as the president believed he was loyal and had insight into military affairs .
he was also particularly close to stephen bannon , the president s top strategist and a philosophical and strategic adviser with a vast sway on the presidency.over the weekend , bannon pulled flynn aside for a conversation , according to a white house official .
gannon , who had supported flynn amid turmoil , told him he should do the right thing and resign , this official said.the white house has already begun canvassing for flynn s permanent replacement .
retired gen. david petraeus is scheduled to meet with trump at the white house on tuesday , according to people familiar with the plans.petraeus was briefly considered for secretary of state during the transition but was passed over in part because of his 2015 conviction for mishandling classified information.trump has long admired petraeus and sought his counsel .
trump likes him , he respects him , said a person close to trump.petraeus did not respond to an email seeking comment.for entire story politico