abuja ( reuters ) - nigerian state governors on thursday approved the release of $ 1 billion from the country s excess oil account to the government to help fight the boko haram islamist insurgency .
the account holds foreign reserves from excess earnings from sales of crude .
it currently totals $ 2.3 billion , according to nigeria s accountant general .
we are pleased with the federal government achievements in the insurgency war and in that vein state governors have approved that the sum of $ 1 billion be taken from the excess crude account by the federal government to fight the insurgency war to its conclusion , said godwin obaseki , edo state governor .
the money will cover the whole array of needs which includes purchase of equipments , training for military personnel and logistics , he told reporters after a meeting of nigeria s national economic council .
the release of such a large sum could raise concerns over corruption , endemic in nigeria .
the next presidential and gubernatorial national elections are scheduled for february and march 2019 .
historically , the run-up to elections has seen rampant graft and theft of public funds as politicians build war chests to contest the vote .
the insurgency in the northeast is in its ninth year .
deadly attacks on the military and civilians continue , and large areas are out of government control .
officials have siphoned off funds meant for aid for 8.5 million people in the region .
in october , president muhammadu buhari sacked the country s top civil servant , accused of having inflated the value of contracts for aid projects , part of a suspected kickback scheme .
the united nations appealed to donors for $ 1.05 billion to fund humanitarian aid in the northeast in 2017 , and says it will require another $ 1.1 billion in 2018 .
nigeria , which has africa s largest economy , has come under fire for devoting little of its own resources to humanitarian aid .
military officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , have said troops are undersupplied and underpaid , with weapons , vehicles and other basic equipment often in disrepair or lacking .
some have alleged their own officers are skimming from already-meagre supplies .
the release of the funds is a further sign the nigerian government and military may be abandoning their two-year narrative that boko haram has been all but defeated .
nigeria s long-term plan is now to corral civilians inside fortified garrison towns - effectively ceding the countryside to boko haram .
earlier this month , nigeria replaced the military commander of the campaign against boko haram after half a year in the post .
military sources told reuters that came after a series of embarrassing attacks by the islamists .