siauliai air base ( reuters ) - the united states has sent a reinforced detachment of fighter planes to police the skies over nato members lithuania , latvia and estonia during a major russian military exercise in the baltic region next month .
the zapad war games from sept. 14 to 20 in belarus , western russia and russia s exclave of kaliningrad , have caused unease in the region , though russia has said the large-scale exercise will rehearse a purely defensive scenario and will not be a springboard for invasion .
seven u.s. f-15c fighters landed at siauliai airfield this week to patrol skies over the baltic countries , three more than normally used since the nato policing mission was upgraded after the crimean crisis in 2014 .
the three baltic states do not operate their own fighter aircraft and rely on their nato allies for patrols .
we are reinforcing the air police mission for the period ( of zapad ) .
and we are glad to also have additional land troops here , lithuanian deputy defense minister vytautas umbrasas told reporters at siauliai , referring to 600 extra u.s. airborne troops being deployed during zapad in the baltic states .
this is very helpful in a situation like this , he said .
tod wolters , the top u.s. air force commander in europe , said fighter numbers had been increased due to training opportunities in lithuania , without mentioning russia during the news conference in siauliai .
the air policing mission will remain as it has been .
and the purpose of the air policing mission is to protect the sovereign skies of the three baltic nations , said wolters .
moscow says almost 13,000 russian and belarussian servicemen will take part in zapad , as well as around 70 planes and helicopters and 700 pieces of military hardware including tanks , artillery and rocket systems .
lieutenant general ben hodges , the u.s. army s top general in europe , told reuters last month that u.s. allies in eastern europe and ukraine were worried the exercises could be a trojan horse aimed at leaving behind military equipment brought into belarus .
a russian deputy defense minister said on tuesday there was no truth in allegations russia would use the exercise as a cover to invade and occupy lithuania , poland or ukraine .
suggestions that russia posed a threat were myths , the deputy minister , alexander fomin , said .
three u.s. exercises will be underway at the same time as zapad , in sweden , poland and ukraine , and a u.s. armored brigade has already deployed in europe .