melbourne ( reuters ) - a papua new guinea court has given hundreds of asylum-seekers who were held for years in a controversial australian detention center the right to sue the png government for compensation , australian media reported on saturday .
papua new guinea s supreme court rejected an attempt by the png government to stop the asylum-seekers seeking compensation on friday , the australian broadcasting corporation reported .
the government had tried to argue that the time frame for such attempts to sue for compensation had passed but the court rejected its application .
the finding opens the way to a major compensation and also for consequential orders against both the png and australian governments , refugee action coalition spokesman ian rintoul told australian associated press .
the decision comes two months after the png government closed the detention center on remote manus island , which had housed about 400 male asylum-seekers .
conditions in the camp , and another on the tiny pacific island of nauru , have been widely criticized by the united nations and human rights groups .
the two camps have been cornerstones of australia s contentious immigration policy , under which it refuses to allow asylum-seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores .
the policy , aimed at deterring people from making a perilous sea voyage to australia , has bipartisan political support .
the closure of the manus island camp , criticized by the united nations as shocking , caused chaos , with the men refusing to leave the compound for fear of being attacked by manus island residents .
staff left the closed compound and the men were left without food , water , power or medical support before they were expelled and moved to a transit camp .
papua new guinea s supreme court declared in 2016 that the detention of asylum-seekers on behalf of the australian government was illegal and that it breached asylum-seekers fundamental human rights .
the asylum-seekers will now go back to court in february to seek orders from australia and papua new guinea for them to be settled in a safe third country .
the united states announced on friday that it had agreed to accept about 200 more refugees from manus island and nauru under a deal struck between australian prime minister malcolm turnbull and former u.s. president barack obama .
another 50 refugees had already been accepted as part of the deal , under which australia agreed to accept refugees from central america .
u.s president donald trump has called the deal dumb .