budapest ( reuters ) - a hungarian european parliament member who belongs to the nationalist opposition jobbik party has been charged with spying on european union institutions for russia , prosecutors said on wednesday .
the charges against bela kovacs , which include using forged private documents , stem from an investigation dating from april 2014 , when hungarian authorities first reported the suspected espionage and filed for his immunity to be lifted .
this was followed by declaring reasonable suspicion , the essence of which was that the member of parliament had been involved in espionage on behalf of a foreign state for its secret service , the prosecutors said in a statement .
the foreign state in question was russia , a spokeswoman for the prosecutor s office said .
kovacs himself said the case against him was based on fantasy and added he looked forward to the court proceedings , where he expected to exonerate himself .
i am very happy that we finally made it to this point and i can clear my name in court and put an end to this saga , he told reuters by phone .
no date has been announced for a trial .
the charges against kovacs follow a probe by hungarian prosecutors into the financial reporting practices of jobbik , the strongest opposition party .
the issue of collusion with russia is especially touchy in hungary because prime minister viktor orban has also often been charged with having uncomfortably close ties with moscow .
he struck a giant nuclear power deal with russia , along with other major business deals , has criticized the eu embargo on russia and meets annually with russian president vladimir putin .
orban s ruling fidesz party , which is runaway favorite to win a third successive term in power , declined comment on kovacs s remarks .
for more than a decade in the 1980s and 1990s kovacs lived in moscow , a fact that he has never denied .
he returned to budapest in 2003 and two years later joined jobbik , then a nascent political movement .
asked about that path now , kovacs said the stories that paint him as a spy were strange to my eyes , too .
all the red and green dossiers ... fantasy is boundless .
kovacs added that his case , which the hungarian secret services first brought during the 2014 election season , was probably a political tool in the hands of the ruling fidesz party used to deflect the stigma of association with russia away from fidesz onto jobbik .
i am almost positive this has a political relevance , kovacs said .
it is no coincidence that it was brought up before elections .
now the court dates will probably fall in the thick of the election campaign , and clearly will be used to attack my party .
kovacs told reuters that he would quit jobbik as of wednesday to spare the party political smears , but said he would hold onto his mep mandate until it expired in 2019 .
the european parliament lifted kovacs immunity in the spy case after a lengthy process in october 2015 .
following a report by european anti-fraud office ( olaf ) , hungarian prosecutors also launched an investigation in 2015 against kovacs over the fictitious employment of interns .
kovacs and his associates are suspected of defrauding the european parliament of funds worth 21,076 euros ( $ 24,909.72 ) in total , hungarian prosecutors said .
kovacs also denies that charge but told reuters he will repay that sum in the next couple of months .
( $ 1 = 0.8461 euros )