marshalltown , iowa/iowa city , iowa ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential hopeful donald trump withdrew on tuesday from a debate with party rivals this week out of anger at host fox news ( foxa.o ) , leaving the last encounter before iowa ’ s pivotal nominating contest without the front-runner .
trump ’ s campaign manager , corey lewandowski , told reporters after a combative news conference held by the candidate that trump would definitely not be participating in the debate scheduled for thursday in des moines , iowa , and co-hosted by google ( googl.o ) .
during the news conference before he addressed a large crowd in marshalltown , iowa , trump expressed irritation that fox news planned to leave in place as a moderator the anchor megyn kelly , whose questioning of trump at a debate last august angered him .
he also expressed displeasure at a fox news statement on monday night saying trump would have to learn sooner or later that “ he doesn ’ t get to pick the journalists ” and that “ we ’ re very surprised he ’ s willing to show that much fear about being questioned by megyn kelly. ” “ i was all set to do the debate , i came here to do the debate .
when they sent out the wise-guy press release done by some pr person along with ( fox news chairman ) roger ailes , i said : ‘ bye bye , ok ’ ” “ let ’ s see how much money fox makes without me in the debate , ” the billionaire businessman added .
trump has been engaged in a public spat with fox news since the network hosted the first debate and kelly asked trump about his treatment of woman , prompting a stream of insults from the candidate .
the debate is scheduled for just days before iowa ’ s caucuses on monday , the first nominating contest for the nov. 8 presidential election .
trump ’ s campaign announced that instead of participating in the debate , he would hold a fundraiser for “ veterans and wounded warriors. ” fox news responded by releasing a statement charging trump ’ s campaign manager with threatening kelly , saying during a call lewandowski had referred to her “ rough couple of days ” after the previous debate she moderated and added that he would “ hate to have her go through that again. ” “ we can ’ t give in to terrorizations toward any of our employees , ” fox said in a statement .
the network added that trump remains welcome to participate in the thursday night debate .
trump ’ s republican rivals quickly criticized him for opting out of the debate .
“ the fact that donald is now afraid to appear on the debate stage , that he doesn ’ t want his record questioned , i think that reflects a lack of respect for the men and women on iowa , ” texas senator ted cruz , who is in a tight race with trump for first place in the state , said on mark levin ’ s radio program .
“ if donald is afraid of megyn kelly , i would like to invite him on your show to participate in a one-on-one debate between me and donald , mano-a-mano , ” cruz said , adding : “ if he thinks megyn kelly is so scary , what exactly does he think he ’ d do with vladimir putin ? ” former florida governor jeb bush criticized trump on twitter , saying : “ exactly ” in response to a conservative commentator who cast doubt on whether trump could run against democratic front-runner hillary clinton if he were afraid of kelly .
in the democratic contest , news channel msnbc and the new hampshire union leader newspaper sketched out plans to host a debate in new hampshire among clinton and challengers bernie sanders and martin o ’ malley , a few days before the state ’ s primary election on feb. 9 .
but the democratic national committee raised doubts about whether it would proceed , saying in a statement it had no plans to sanction the debate .
it left open the question of whether it would punish any participants by excluding them from the two remaining sanctioned debates .
spokesmen for clinton , the former secretary of state who leads most polls , and o ’ malley , a former maryland governor , said their candidates would be happy to take part , at least in theory .
the new york times quoted the campaign manager for sanders as saying the vermont senator would sit out the unsanctioned debate .
trump ’ s blunt-spoken candidacy has boosted ratings for the republican presidential debates .
the august debate on fox news drew 24 million viewers , a record for a presidential primary debate and the highest non-sports telecast in cable tv history .
but a boycott could prove risky for trump as iowa republicans seek to take one more look at who they want as their presidential candidate .
rivals like cruz , florida senator marco rubio , bush , and retired neurosurgeon ben carson could reap the benefits .
“ how many debates do you have to do ? ” trump told reporters .
“ the democrats are finished with their debates .
...
the republicans go on forever and ever and ever with debates .
we have people on the stand who have zero ( percentage points in the poll ) , who have one , who have nothing .
so it ’ s time that somebody plays grown up. ” at his campaign event in marshalltown , trump expressed confidence in his position in the race , saying if he were to win iowa , he could “ run the table ” and roll up subsequent victories in new hampshire , south carolina and beyond .
“ iowa is very important .
so you ’ ve got to get out , you ’ ve got to get out and caucus , ” he told his supporters .