bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand on friday held a nationwide buddhist almsgiving ceremony to mark the passage of a year since the death of its revered king bhumibol adulyadej , a father figure to the nation during a reign that spanned seven decades .
as many as 199 buddhist monks in orange robes participated in the event at siriraj hospital in bangkok , the capital , where the king spent most of his twilight years being treated for various ailments before his death last year on oct. 13 .
the monks filed past hundreds of thais clad in mourning black , receiving packages of biscuits and bottled water , among other items , in large brass alms bowls , as a way of amassing merit for the people s king , who helped shape the southeast asian nation in the decades after world war two .
we ll remember his goodness and follow his every footstep , said one of the mourners , laksana lueprasert , 65 , her voice breaking as she said the feeling of loss would never fade from her heart .
he is gone , but we still keep him in our thoughts to this day , said manee chawalitnate , 58 .
at bangkok s government house , prime minister prayuth chan-ocha led government officials and media in a similar ceremony that observed 89 seconds of silence , to mark the king s age if he had lived until his birthday on dec. 5 .
rows of monks prayed amid portraits of the king bordered with yellow marigold flowers .
the nationwide ceremony precedes a royal cremation function on oct. 26 at the grand palace , where thais will bid the king a final farewell .
though steeped in ancient traditions , the funeral , which will run five days , will allow greater participation by the public than those of previous kings .
artisans have spent 10 months working in bangkok s ancient quarter to build an elaborate cremation site fashioned after a vision of heaven .
king maha vajiralongkorn , or rama x , succeeded his father and has overseen sweeping changes to the royal household , including the running of palace finances .