brasilia ( reuters ) - the arrest on sunday of joesley batista , a billionaire meatpacker who implicated president michel temer in a corruption scandal , has actually improved the brazilian leader s prospects of surviving graft allegations and serving out his term through 2018 .
but the three-month political crisis triggered by the plea bargain allegations by batista , formerly chairman of meatpacker jbs sa ( jbss3.sa ) , has consumed precious time that temer has to pass legislation to overhaul brazil s costly pension system and avoid a fiscal crisis in latin america s largest nation .
temer and his coalition allies in congress are confident they can block a second corruption charge that brazil s top prosecutor , rodrigo janot , is expected to file against the president by the end of the week .
a supreme court judge on tuesday authorized a new probe of temer for suspected corruption involving a decree regulating ports , a day after a separate police probe into temer s allies kept pressure on the president .
yet as long as temer is in office , any charges against the president must be approved by the lower house of congress in which he has retained enough backing to avoid trial by the supreme court .
temer s political standing in congress has improved a lot , because the economy is starting to grow again and the pressure of another corruption charge is falling , said the government s deputy whip in the lower house , beto mansur .
the prosecutor s case has been weakened and the next charge will arrive here with little credibility , he told reuters .
a new poll by arko advice consultancy , however , shows that most lawmakers do not expect pension reform to clear congress until 2018 , and passing the unpopular measure in the run-up to next year s elections may be an uphill struggle .
a proposed overhaul of the pension system , the main contributor to brazil s record budget deficit , was headed for approval in the lower house of congress until accusations against temer in may derailed his plans .
in a bombshell plea bargain agreement in may , batista confessed to bribing hundreds of politicians and gave prosecutors a taped conversation of the president .
the recording appeared to show temer condoning hush money payments to silence a witness in a sprawling corruption scandal .
just two weeks ago , however , another tape inadvertently submitted to prosecutors by batista with other documents appeared to show he had been helped by a close aide to janot in crafting the deal .
the supreme court revoked his immunity and ordered his arrest for concealing other crimes .
beyond the embarrassment to janot in his last days in office - he steps down as top prosecutor on sunday - the revelation has given temer s lawyers an opening to try to dismiss evidence provided by batista , while strengthening the president s hand in congress to fight any further charges .
the credibility of temer s accuser was further undermined on wednesday by the arrest of batista s brother wesley , the chief executive officer of jbs sa , for alleged insider trading to avoid hefty losses related to the may plea bargain .
temer mustered enough support to block janot s initial corruption charge from putting him on trial , in a 263-227 vote in the lower house on aug. 2 .
that margin is expected to widen if a second charge comes before the house .
there is no motivation in congress to remove president temer .
many of the politicians who will vote are being investigated , so why would they empower the public prosecutors at this time ?
said lucas de arag o , a political scientist and partner at arko advice .
still , arag o said fighting the next charge will cost temer more pork barrel and patronage for lawmakers and at least a 30-day delay for pension reform , leaving the senate with little time to pass the bill in 2017 .
no less than 83 percent of lawmakers believe pension reform will not be passed this year , according to an arko poll of 201 congressmen last week .
temer has ordered his minister to restart the pension reform debate in congress immediately so that it can be put to the vote in the house my mid-october .
the country lost 90 days .
the economy could be recovering faster and growth would have been more robust if it had not been for this artificial crisis , said a temer aide who requested anonymity because he was not authorized to speak publicly .
speaker rodrigo maia is expected to expedite the pension bill after temer signed off on a bailout for his bankrupt state of rio de janeiro , a source on the economic team said .