bangkok ( reuters ) - for decades since the vietnam war , the scantily clad dancers in the go-go bars of bangkok s patpong red-light district have been the face of thailand s tourism industry .
but last year for the first time , the country drew more women tourists than men as a surge in chinese female visitors outweighed a longstanding distortion spurred by men drawn to the world s sex capital .
the shift is welcome news for thai authorities , who have tried to promote the country s shopping , beaches and temples and to minimize the importance of sex tourism , which thrived after thailand became an r & r hotspot for u.s. troops in the 1960s and 1970s .
tourism ministry figures reviewed by reuters showed 52 percent of more than 32 million visitors last year were women .
that compared to 48 percent in 2015 and only 42 percent in 2012 .
no earlier official data were available , but research from as far back as the 1980s shows a ratio of about 60 percent male to 40 percent female visitors .
not as many women visited thailand because they thought we were a cheap destination with too much vice , but now more are coming , which means our image accommodates them , tourism minister kobkarn wattanavrangkul told reuters .
tourism accounts for around 12 percent of southeast asia s second-biggest economy and is easily the fastest growing sector , particularly since a coup in 2014 .
hoping to attract more female tourists , the state s tourism authority of thailand started a women s journey campaign last year , with a website and mobile application offering discounts for hotels , spas , malls , and restaurants .
but the biggest factor has been tourism from china , which has reshaped the industry around the world .
the number of chinese visitors rose from nearly 12 percent of thailand s visitors in 2012 to 27 percent last year .
the number of chinese women visiting thailand nearly quadrupled over the same period to more than 5.3 million .
when chinese men make a lot of money , they tend to take their wife , daughter , and mother to travel , making the ratio heavier on the female side , said virat chatturaputpitak , vice president of the association of thai travel agents .
major chinese travel website tuniu reported that 62 percent of its customers last year were women , chinese media reported .
i chose to come to thailand because it s close by , there are many flights , it s cheap to travel and easy to get a visa , said man na zhang , 24 , at bangkok s erawan shrine , a favorite spot for chinese tourists despite a deadly bombing in 2015 .
chinese female visitors , who get a tourist visa on arrival , also cited a simple tax rebate procedure on duty free goods as another drawcard as they snap up items such as cosmetics , bottled bird s nest soup , vitamins and supplements .
many stores in bangkok s shopping malls now accept alipay , china s giant online payment service .
a big c supermarket near the erawan shrine buzzes with chinese tourists who fill their trolleys with bulk packets tom yum goong flavored instant noodles , crispy seaweed and dried squid snacks .
businesses in tourist towns have started printing menus in chinese and getting workers to learn the language to cater to chinese tourists , who last year made up more than those from europe , the americas , the middle east and africa combined .
china s recent golden week holiday brought 70 percent more chinese visitors than last year , the tourism ministry said .
for nationalities that traditionally patronized thailand s sex industry , tourist numbers are still dominated by men - 68 percent of japanese visitors , 58 percent of british and nearly 56 percent of american , australian and german tourists .
but even for those countries , the balance has shifted more towards female tourists .
although the sex industry is far from dead , local businesses complain fewer tourists were visiting areas such as patpong and nearby silom neighborhood .
there are evidently fewer tourists , especially in the low season , when sales can go from tens of thousands of baht a day to nothing , said somkid sangwong , a manager of a restaurant in a silom alley next to patpong , surrounded by neon-lit signs for bars blasting loud music and offering raunchy live shows .
phadet mesild , a board member of the tourism association of koh samui , another popular spot for sex tourism , told reuters the decline in demand had forced many venues in the island to close down .
since 2014 , thailand s military government has occasionally raided brothels , bars , and massage parlors in an effort to clean up the country s image , but they have usually bounced back quickly .