bangkok ( reuters ) - rights groups on wednesday urged the european union and japan to consider halting their funding for the election panel in cambodia , if the ruling party succeeds in a bid to dissolve the main opposition party ahead of next year s general election .
the ruling cambodia people s party ( cpp ) has launched a crackdown on its critics , including politicians , independent media and non-government bodies .
nearly half the opposition members of parliament have fled abroad since september .
in a session boycotted by the opposition , cambodia s parliament voted on monday to change party laws to re-distribute seats if a party is dissolved .
the measure came after the government filed a lawsuit this month seeking to dissolve the main opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
if the government s position to dissolve the opposition cambodia national rescue party succeeds , next year s election will be a joke , phil robertson , deputy director for asia at new york-based group human rights watch , told reuters .
at that point , both the eu and japan should face reality and terminate their financial and technical assistance to avoid lending credibility to what will be a charade of democracy , he added , speaking after a news conference in bangkok .
japan and the eu are the two biggest foreign funders of the 2018 vote .
china and the united states have also contributed , with the united states providing trucks and technical support , while japan has given computers .
japan s embassy in phnom penh did not reply to a reuters request for comment on the matter .
george edgar , head of the eu delegation to cambodia , said the eu remains ready to support a credible electoral process but added that the polls should only go ahead with the opposition s involvement .
he urged cambodian authorities not to go ahead with the dissolution of the opposition party .
the eu remains ready to support a credible electoral process up to the national assembly election in 2018 .
however we do not believe that a process from which the main opposition party was arbitrarily excluded could be seen as legitimate , edgar told reuters .
cambodia s election commission was not immediately available for comment .
the cpp has used dirty tricks to jail opposition leaders and force others into exile , robertson added .
cnrp leader kem sokha was arrested on sept. 3 and charged with treason after the government said he had conspired with foreign advisers to topple it .
cambodia is relying on a partisan judiciary to silence critics and dismantle democracy , the geneva-based international commission of jurists ( icj ) said in a report on wednesday .
old laws are being dusted off and new laws are being created , kingsley abbot , the group s southeast asia adviser , told reporters .
and all of these have led to a list of seemingly politicized investigations .
in recent months , the government of prime minister hun sen , who has ruled cambodia for more than 30 years , has revoked the licenses of about 15 independent radio stations .
the cambodia daily , an english-language newspaper , was also forced to shut in september following government allegations of non-payment of millions of dollars in taxes .
hun sen has the backing of beijing , which says it supports cambodia s right to maintain its national security .