( reuters ) - louisiana governor john bel edwards on tuesday urged state legislators to approve a plan to increase taxes and tap reserves to plug the largest budget shortfall in state history .
louisiana faces a projected shortfall of $ 750 million this fiscal year and the gap is expected to grow to $ 1.9 billion in the next fiscal year beginning july 1 from deteriorating tax revenues and a drop in oil prices .
edwards , a democrat who took office earlier this month , wants to add 1 cent to the state ’ s existing 4-cent sales tax , excluding the purchase of groceries , prescription drugs and residential utilities .
the proposed measure is expected to raise $ 216 million by late june .
the plan also taps $ 128 million from the state ’ s rainy day fund and $ 200 million paid by plc to reimburse cleanup efforts following the 2010 deepwater horizon oil spill .
the state would also cut some discretionary funding .
if enacted , the governor ’ s plan would reduce but not eliminate the deficits the state faces .
“ the days of using budget gimmicks that helped us limp along are over , ” said edwards , the first democrat to hold the office of governor in louisiana since 2008 .
“ this administration will remove the smoke and mirrors and provide the facts of where we are and where we are going. ” edwards warned that if leaders did not act quickly , universities could struggle , distressed hospitals could close , and public education could suffer severe cuts .
“ raising taxes is not my first , second , or even third option when seeking to fill the state ’ s budget shortfall , ” said edwards .
“ unfortunately , those cuts will not be enough to bridge the enormous shortfall we face today. ” the state ’ s overall budget problems stem from the drop in oil prices , but much of the shortfall also comes from previous excessive use of one-time money and lower-than-expected revenues , the governor ’ s office reported .
louisiana is now contending with years of unresolved structural budget deficits that have collided with a weakening state economy and a sharp drop in revenues from oil and gas extraction taxes , moody ’ s investors services said in december .
moody ’ s rates louisiana aa2 with a negative outlook .
during edwards ’ inaugural address last week , he pledged to begin accepting federal funding to expand healthcare to residents through the affordable care act , also known as obamacare .