( in this dec. 6 story , corrects newspaper location to jilin province , from jilin city , paragraph one ) beijing ( reuters ) - a state-run newspaper in china s jilin province , which borders north korea and russia , on wednesday published a page of common sense advice on how readers can protect themselves from a nuclear weapons attack or explosion .
china has voiced grave concern over north korea s nuclear and missiles program , as well as calling on the united states and south korea to stop provoking pyongyang .
u.s. bombers will fly over the korean peninsula on wednesday as part of a large-scale joint military drills with south korea .
the north has warned the drills would push the korean peninsula to the brink of war .
the full page article in the jilin daily , which does not mention possible attacks by north korea or any other country , explains how nuclear weapons differ from traditional arms and instructs people how to protect themselves in the event of an attack .
nuclear weapons have five means of causing destruction : light radiation , blast waves , early-stage nuclear radiation , nuclear electro-magnetic pulses and radioactive pollution , the article explained .
it said the first four kill instantly .
people who find themselves outside during a nuclear attack should try to lie in a ditch , cover exposed skin in light colored clothing or dive into a river or lake to try and minimize the possibility of instantaneous death , it said .
cartoon illustrations of ways to dispel radioactive contamination were also provided , such as using water to wash off shoes and using cotton buds to clean ears , as well as a picture of a vomiting child to show how medical help can be sought to speed the expulsion of radiation through stomach pumping and induced urination .
the influential state-backed global times in a commentary on wednesday described the article as a public service announcement due to the situation on the korean peninsula .
if war breaks out , it is not possible to rule out the korean peninsula producing nuclear contaminants , and countermeasures must be seriously researched and spoken openly about to let the common folk know .
but at the same time , there is absolutely no reason to be alarmed , the global times said .
north korea last week tested what it called its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) that could reach all of the united states .
u.s. president donald trump has warned he would destroy the north korean regime if it threatened the united states with nuclear weapons .
china has rejected military intervention and called for an end to the war of words between washington and pyongyang .