vancouver ( reuters ) - high-rolling gamblers will face more stringent anti-money-laundering standards in british columbia casinos , the canadian province said on tuesday , as it unveiled the first set of recommendations from a review of its casino sector .
gamblers wanting to deposit cash or bonds worth c $ 10,000 or more will now need to provide identification and proof of their source of funds , including details on their bank and the account from which the money is sourced , the province said .
two consecutive large transactions will trigger added scrutiny .
regulators will also be placed onsite to provide the increased vigilance needed to ensure anti-money laundering protocols are followed , it said .
an internal government report , commissioned by the previous liberal government and released in september by the current ndp government , found high-risk cash transactions taking place at a vancouver-area casino popular with high roller asian vip clients .
media reports have noted similar issues at other vancouver-area casinos , in many cases tying the suspicious funds to the west coast city s runaway housing market .
our government has made clear the urgency around addressing issues of money-laundering at b.c .
casinos , and we will ensure these first two recommendations are not only implemented as soon as possible , but enforced on the ground , british columbia attorney general david eby said in a statement .
he later told reporters that some details still need to be worked out and noted the regulator , the gaming policy and enforcement branch , will need to hire more staff to fill casino roles , particularly people with mandarin language skills .
the recommendations unveiled on tuesday are the first from investigator peter german , a former deputy commissioner with the royal canadian mounted police , who will provide his final report to the provincial government by the end of march 2018 .
eby said it is possible that the recommendations could impact gaming revenues in the province , but that it was a price the government was willing to pay to ensure that british columbians have confidence that the proceeds of crime are not flowing through b.c .
casinos .
the province s commercial gambling revenues , excluding horse racing , topped c $ 2.9 billion ( $ 2.3 billion ) in 2014-15 , according to government data .