stealing jobs from minorities to satisfy white environmentalists is the worst kind of racism it s always about the money for hillary .
a university of michigan survey in may found that leaders of environmental groups are overwhelmingly white males , with ethnic minorities occupying fewer than 12 % of leadership positions.the environmental groups that are calling for sweeping changes to the economy moving away from oil and coal to carbon-free sources of energy seem incapable of making a transition themselves .
these almost exclusively white groups are helping to fund hillary s campaign while stealing the livelihood of hard-working black american coal miners and blacks in the communities who s livelihood depends on the coal industry.take a look at the top executives at eight of the top 10 groups devoted to fighting that fight : sierra club ?
white male.nature conservancy ?
white male.league of conservation voters ?
white male.advertisementworld wildlife fund ?
white male.environmental defense fund ?
white male.friends of the earth ?
white male.national audubon society ?
white male.nature conservancy ?
white male.yet , hillary persists in her desire to shut down the coal industry that has given minorities a way to live a middle to upper middle-class lifestyle , as a way to satisfy her white donors and activists.watch here as coal miner confronts hillary on her promise to shut down coal industry : https : //youtu.be/-aihd7acfbscoal was booming , and work was plentiful .
by the 1930s , the industry employed 400,000 miners , 55,000 of whom were black .
african americans were restricted to more physically demanding positions requiring less skill , earning 30 percent less than whites .
but their wages were still high by national standards : $ 118.30 per month , according to one 1929 survey .
by contrast , a national study in 1939 later found that black men earned an average income of $ 460 per year.by the 1950s , african americans made up 24 percent of mcdowell s population , compared with 6 percent statewide .
locals came to refer to the area as the free state of mcdowell .
black doctors , lawyers and entrepreneurs also flocked to the county , drawn to the promise of a better life .
even in the jim crow era , unions in the area were integrated , blacks in west virginia enjoyed voting rights , and local political leadership included many people of color .
everybody had money , says clif moore , a current state delegate for mcdowell who was born in the county in 1949 .
it was sort of like little new york .
like a little manhattan .
everything was popping .
but at mid-century , as machines began to take over the tasks of drilling and blasting coal and hauling it above ground , black miners were the first to lose their jobs .
what had once been an all but certain gateway to the middle class began to close .
african americans fled the industry at even higher rates than whites ; by 1960 , the share of black workers in coal shrank to 6.6 from 12 percent a decade earlier .
in 2014 , the most recent year for which bureau of labor statistics data are available , only about 2,500 blacks worked as coal miners , less than 3 percent of the total.coal has seen booms and busts before , but for locals , this time feels different .
production in appalachia fell last year by 13 percent ( and 10 percent nationwide ) as tougher environmental regulations and cheaper natural gas choked off demand for the highly polluting fossil fuel .
last month , the obama administration announced a moratorium on new coal leases on public lands .
many of the area s mines have closed .
shops are often empty ; drug use is rampant .
mcdowell is now west virginia s poorest county.still , families who ve lived here for generations say they re reluctant to leave .
they praise the region s physical beauty , close-knit family life and friendly southern manners .
it s a different kind of black folk here .
they dress differently , they talk differently , they carry themselves differently .
they have a little arrogance about them , says moore with a grin.wade , like others here , harbors particular resentment for the obama administration .
he hasn t done anything for us , says the 88-year-old , leaning back on a couch in his living room overlooking the mountains .
if he were running again , i just couldn t vote for him .
and i ve been a democrat my whole life .
when wade first started in the mines , franklin d. roosevelt was president .
it was a dangerous gig , but wade didn t worry much about safety , even after his brother nearly died in a motor accident underground and his father lost an eye in a roof collapse .
wade says he didn t witness much discrimination , either .
i had some of the nicest white friends that you would ever want to meet .
he got involved in the mine s union , serving as president , and later took a job with the united mine workers of america .
from 2005 to 2011 , after his retirement , he also served as mayor of keystone .
but while he cared about local politics , his heart was in the mines .
even today , wade drives the 30 minutes to the union offices once a week just to say hello.for jeremy mcmillian , 25 , working in the mines was difficult at first .
he was one of just 13 black employees among roughly 400 at the pinnacle mine in pineville , west virginia , he says .
occasionally , people directed racial slurs his way , but more often , they simply ignored him .
people not talking to you , just walking by you like you re invisible , says mcmillian .
it s been days i wanted to snap , go crazy .
they ll push your buttons .
but over five years of running a coal buggy in and out of the mine , he gradually grew close to some colleagues .
i can t blame them .
their parents taught them that .
mcmillian never thought he d be a coal miner .
his father was a cop , and his stepdad , who raised him , owned a roofing business .
no one in high school had ambitions to work in the mines unless their fathers did , so mcmillian never expected to end up there .
in fact , he was afraid of the mines .
he d heard of coal workers pneumoconiosis , more commonly known as black lung .
( a recent report found that after near eradication 15 years ago , black lung has resurged as coal miners work longer hours , often in dirtier conditions . )
and he didn t think it was a profession welcome to black people .
so after high school , he found a job as a mechanic.but when a father of a friend , a white man who d worked in the mines for 32 years , told him he could earn six figures as a coal miner , mcmillian signed on .
his health concerns haven t evaporated , though .
you can make $ 100,00 a year , he says .
they pay you that much because it s a dangerous job .
each time a shift of workers prepares to go underground , he says , they pray together .
all i can do and pray [ is that ] it ain t my last day in the mines .
his wife , a cheerleading coach at the local high school , is ready for him to quit .
but there aren t many other jobs available .
he has two children to provide for a 7-year-old daughter and 7-month-old girl .
he s studying for his roofing license so he can take over his stepfather s business one day .
but he plans to keep working in coal as long as it s viable.that may not be long .
in october , his employer , cliffs natural resources , announced it was laying off more than 200 people roughly half its staff at the pinnacle mine .
mcmillian kept his job , but his overtime hours were capped , costing him about $ 2,300 a month , he says .
he was relieved , though , to still have a job.mcmillian says he s frustrated that so many national politicians seem to be turning against coal .
we don t like obama cause he don t like us , he says .
instead , he may vote for donald trump : he talk a good game , mcmillian says .
we ll see if he stick to it .
i mean , who wouldn t want to pay less taxes ?
he says he pays up to $ 2,400 a month in state and federal taxes on his monthly salary , which ranges from $ 4,000 to $ 4,500 , depending on his hours.two days before new year s , mcmillian was laid off .
but as he was making plans to start a job as a truck driver hauling cars and heavy equipment cross-country , he was called back to the mines .
he s happy to be back at work , for now .
but he imagines he ll soon have to give up coal for trucking.with her long , black dreadlocks ; warm smile ; and trinidadian accent , janice martin , 62 , doesn t look or sound like a typical coal miner .
she arrived in mcdowell county in the late 1970s when her then-husband returned to his home state to find work in the lucrative coal industry.following her mother s counsel , martin searched for a job too .
the mines seemed an obvious place to look .
but she was shut out .
they said women were not allowed in the coal mines because they thought it was bad luck , says martin .
but a few years later , after equal opportunity laws forced the mines to hire women , she tried again .
this time she was successful and soon was one of the first five women hired at u.s. steel co .
mine number 9 in gary , west virginia.at mine 9 , martin was a mason .
she laid blocks and built stoppings to aid air ventilation for $ 10 an hour , a good salary for a man or woman .
she didn t mind the work , but the male-dominated culture could be demoralizing .
they cuss , and they make dirty jokes , and they make women jokes , and they make black jokes , and they make polish jokes .
i mean , that s how life is , and you have to get used to it .
but none of the jokes were personal , martin says , and she never felt disrespected.nearly 40 years later , she s still employed in the coal industry , as the only female ( or african-american ) mine inspector for the state of west virginia , covering mcdowell and a few other counties .
she loves her work but believes even bigger job losses are about to hit .
these communities are dying slowly , she says .
people are moving out of these areas , and they aren t coming back .
as she drives through mcdowell in her beige gmc truck , the trinidadian flag flying from the mirror , she points with sadness and frustration to the retail stores and government buildings that have shut down in recent years cleaners , banks , grocery stories , a school .
the industry s decline is also hitting her at home .
martin once hoped her 19-year-old daughter , jazzlee , would work in the mines , but instead she s studying to be a welder .
i raised her that she was going to be in the mines , but the mines dropped drastically ; there is no future in mining now .
via : al jazeera america