kathmandu ( reuters ) - nepal has scrapped a $ 2.5 billion deal with china gezhouba group corporation to build the country s biggest hydropower plant , citing lapses in the award process , the energy minister said .
the cabinet has canceled the irregular ... agreement with gezhouba group to build the budhi gandaki hydroelectric project , energy minister kamal thapa , who is also the country s deputy prime minister , said on monday in a twitter post in nepali after a cabinet meeting .
he did not give further details .
nepal s rivers , cascading from the snow-capped himalayas , have vast , untapped potential for hydropower generation , but a lack of funds and technology has made nepal lean on neighbor india to meet annual demand of 1,400 megawatts ( mw ) .
in june , a maoist-dominated coalition government awarded a contract to china gezhouba group corporation to build a 1,200 mw plant on the budhi gandaki river , about 50 km ( 32 miles ) west of kathmandu , to address acute power shortages .
critics say the $ 2.5 billion project was handed to the chinese company without any competitive bidding , which is required by law , and a parliamentary panel asked the government that succeeded the maoist-led coalition to scrap the deal .
speaking in beijing on tuesday , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said he was unaware of the reports but said china maintained very good relations with nepal and enjoyed cooperation in many areas and projects .
gezhouba did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment and did not answer telephone calls .
china and india jostle for influence with aid and investment in infrastructure projects in nepal .
kathmandu has cleared a 750 mw project to be built on the west seti river in the western part of the country by china s state-owned three gorges international corp .
it has also permitted two indian companies - gmr group and satluj jal vidyut nigam limited - to build one hydropower plant each , both capable of generating 900 mw of power each , mainly to be exported to india .