dar es salaam ( reuters ) - police in tanzania have arrested a woman after a video clip showing her kissing and embracing another woman at a party was widely shared online , a senior official said .
homosexuality is a criminal offense in the east african nation , where a conviction for having carnal knowledge of any person against the order of nature can carry a life sentence .
the woman , who police said resides in the northwestern tanzanian town of geita , was arrested after a video circulated on social media showing a woman kissing and hugging another woman and presenting her with a ring .
i can confirm that a tanzanian woman is under police custody over that video clip .
we will issue more details later after we conclude our investigation , geita police chief mponjoli mwabulambo told reuters by telephone on saturday .
tanzanian president john magufuli s government has stepped up a crackdown against homosexuality since coming into power in 2015 and threatened in june to arrest and expel activists , as well as deregister all non-governmental organizations that campaign for gay rights .
in october , authorities in the main city dar es salaam raided a meeting at a hotel , saying the gathering was promoting same-sex relationships , and arrested at least 12 men .
the arrest of the woman in geita was thought to be the first arrest of a lesbian suspect in the recent crackdown and police sources said authorities were also searching for the woman who was given the ring in the video clip .
reuters could not confirm where or when the video the filmed .
the clip drew condemnation on social media platforms in the socially conservative nation , with some tanzanians condemning the celebration as immoral .
both of them should be arrested .
why did the woman accept an engagement ring from another woman ?
cosmas alele , a resident of the northwestern town of kagera said on twitter , writing in kiswahili .
since homosexuality is a criminal offense in tanzania , rights groups are reluctant to speak publicly in defense of gay rights .
the country s health ministry banned non governmental organizations last year from distributing free lubricants to gays as part hiv/aids control measures .
some health experts warn that shutting down hiv/aids outreach programs targeting gay people could put the wider population at higher risk of infections .
around 1.4 million tanzanians among a population of more than 50 million are living with hiv , the virus that causes aids , according to government estimates .