ardeuil et montfauxelles , france ( reuters ) - in a half-forgotten field in france stands a worn monument to a regiment of u.s. soldiers who faced down racism at home and in their ranks to become world war one s most decorated unit of african american soldiers .
in the run up to veterans day on nov. 11 , campaigners say the record of the 371st infantry regiment needs to be fully recognized .
one man is trying to have one of the unit s soldiers finally decorated with the medal of honor the u.s. military s highest award a century after his death .
the 371st was largely made up of poor black laborers from segregated south carolina .
they were drafted into the army by a military machine keen to keep them away from potential frontline glory by putting them in support roles .
but they soon found themselves in the heat of battle under the command of the french army , which was desperate for manpower in the dying days of the war .
you had these african americans in the early 1900s who were subject to jim crow , racism was rampant , the military was segregated , said gerald torrence of the american battle monuments commission ( abmc ) , a government agency that serves as guardian of u.s. military memorials and cemeteries overseas .
these men were victimized in their daily life in the united states , yet they were not victims in their minds , said torrence , who is co-author of willing patriots : men of color in the first world war .
until 2015 , when president barack obama posthumously decorated a soldier from another regiment , the 371st contained the war s only african american winner of the medal of honor .
but now jeff gusky , a campaigner , explorer and photographer , has dug through the records and believes it deserves another .
private burton holmes was in his early twenties on sept. 28 , 1918 when he was badly injured during an assault on a ridge in champagne , eastern france .
in the face of heavy machinegun fire , he returned to headquarters to re-arm and fought on , rallying the troops before being killed .
he was recommended for the medal of honor but it was downgraded to a lesser award , a decision gusky believes was down to institutional racism .
an african american comrade of holmes , freddie stowers , was also recommended for the medal of honor during the war but his paperwork was misplaced for decades and he was only recognized in 1991 , 73 years after his death .
now veterans organizations say the case of holmes needs to be reviewed too .
i think the burden is on the present day u.s. army to tell us why he wouldn t deserve the medal of honor , gusky said .
in the tiny village of ardeuil et montfauxelles in eastern france ( population 86 ) , the residents have not forgotten the sacrifice of the soldiers .
local man frank lesjean treks through a field after work to tend to their memorial , accessible only by a muddy track .
he touches up the names of those who died with red paint and looks after the roses around the chipped granite .
restoring this monument helps their memory to endure , he told reuters .
without it , they d be even more forgotten .