dakar/lome ( reuters ) - the leader of togo s main opposition alliance said on friday that president faure gnassingbe must quit power immediately or protests against his family s 50-year ruling dynasty would continue .
thousands of people have taken to the streets in the past three days to demand that gnassingbe step aside , in the most serious challenge to his family s stranglehold on power since the death of his father in 2005 .
police used tear gas to disperse protesters who were burning tires in lome s opposition stronghold of be on friday , a reuters correspondent said .
he has to leave now .
we will not accept him staying on any longer , jean-pierre fabre , head of the national alliance for change , told reuters by telephone .
the togolese are tired ... we will continue to protest .
it was not immediately possible to reach gnassingbe s office .
text messages and phone calls were restricted and the internet has suffered outages .
a short government statement on state tv merely acknowledged the protests and said that 10 people had been injured in them , of which eight were security forces and two protesters .
but unrest was less widespread than in previous days and traffic had resumed in some areas of the seaside capital amid a heavy police and paramilitary presence .
by evening there were no further reports of protests , which seemed to have died down , a reuters witness said .
the president s father gnassingbe eyadema seized power in a coup in 1967 and ruled for 38 years before his death .
in response to protests , he introduced a 1992 constitution that brought in notional multi-party democracy and limited presidential terms to two .
ten years later , lawmakers scrapped the term limit so eyadema could run for another term .
when he died in 2005 , the military installed his son instead of the national assembly head as was legally required , triggering protests in which at least 500 people were killed .
fabre , a french-educated former economics lecturer and newspaper editor , lost to gnassingbe in disputed presidential polls in 2010 and 2015 .
he told reuters that another election would not be fair unless major reforms were made .
gnassingbe s government this week sought to appease its opponents by tabling a draft bill to reform the constitution and reintroduce a two-term limit , but opposition leaders reject it because it could still enable gnassingbe to rule until 2030 .
the president , who has encouraged investment to try to turn his tiny nation into a business , banking and shipping hub modeled on singapore or dubai , has a mandate due to expire in 2020 .
but fabre said even that was too late for him to leave .
we can t accept that .
this is a question of liberty , he said .
the resistance is now organizing itself ... we are very numerous .
the u.n. special representative for west africa and the sahel mohamed ibn chambas urged togo to respond to people s legitimate expectations .
he also called on all parties to preserve peace and security .
chambas , who met with gnassingbe on thursday , has delayed his departure and is staying in togo for further discussions , his spokesman said .
i remain convinced that all parties want to move forward on the reforms ... in order to reach a consensus to respond to the legitimate expectations of the togolese people , chambas said in a statement .
since gambian autocrat yahya jammeh was forced out after losing an election last december , west african countries have become unanimous in accepting two terms as the limit on presidential office the only exception being togo .
security forces appear to have avoided bloodshed so far this week , but amnesty international condemned security forces for firing tear gas at and beating peaceful protesters , and for an unjustified attack on internet freedom .