kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia , which until recently had been one of pyongyang s closest friends , has halted all imports from north korea , as part of global efforts to cut off funding over its nuclear and missile programs .
malaysia did not buy any goods from north korea in june and july , after buying 20.6 million ringgit ( $ 4.89 million ) worth of goods in the first five months of the year , according to data from the department of statistics .
malaysia s ties with north korea have deteriorated since the february assassination of kim jong un s estranged half brother at kuala lumpur international airport , which the united states and south korea say was ordered by the north korean leader .
kuala lumpur last month banned its citizens from traveling to north korea , two weeks after prime minister najib razak met with u.s. president donald trump at the white house .
the visit gave najib a political boost at home , with his popularity suffering over a massive scandal at a state investment fund , which the u.s. department of justice is investigating .
trump told reporters after meeting with najib at the white house last month that malaysian prime minister najib razak does not do business with north korea any longer , and we find that to be very important .
malaysia had been a key source of revenue for the north .
citizens from both countries enjoyed visa-free travel .
malaysia was host to hundreds of overseas workers .
more importantly were operations that funneled money to the regime .
reuters reported earlier this year north korea s spy agency , the reconnaissance bureau , was running an arms operation out of kuala lumpur .
malaysia s halt to north korean imports came ahead of drastic u.n. and u.s. sanctions last month that ramp up export bans and penalize companies and individuals doing business with north korea .
the united nations on sept. 11 banned north korea s lucrative textile exports as well as all joint ventures with north koran individuals or entities .
trump issued an executive order 10 days later penalizing any company or person doing business with north korea by cutting off their access to the u.s. financial system , freezing their assets or both .
other southeast asian nations have similarly reduced imports from north korea .
the philippines said last month it has suspended trade with north korea to comply with sanctions .
thailand s imports from north korea dropped to $ 400,000 between january and august , compared with $ 1.8 million in the same period last year , according to data from the commerce ministry .
indonesia , on the other hand , increased its imports from north korea to $ 1.8 million in january-july before the latest round of sanctions , versus $ 910,000 in the same period last year .
secretary of state rex tillerson , on a swing through southeast asia in august , urged countries to do more to cut funding streams for north korea .
for instance , north korean front companies were using bangkok as a regional hub , changing their names frequently , assistant secretary for east asian and pacific affairs susan thornton told reporters during tillerson s visit to bangkok in early august .
[ nl4n1ku2la malaysia s past imports from north korea ranged from big ticket items such as coal , medical devices and light emitting diodes to even crabs , noodles , cloth hangers and fire extinguishers .
a u.s. government official told reuters malaysia has assured the united states it does not import from pyongyang anymore .
malaysia s trade ministry did not respond to requests for comment .
malaysia had been one of the few countries increasing its imports from north korea in recent years - from a mere 1,183 ringgit ( $ 311 ) in 2012 to 8.2 million ringgit in 2016 .
an unusual purchase this year was coal , which malaysia bought right after china , the top buyer of the north s minerals banned imports of the commodity in february .
a u.n. report in september said north korea had diversified its coal exports to other countries after the china ban .
malaysia bought $ 3.4 million worth of coal in march and $ 16.6 million worth of coal tar products , data showed .
the march purchase was the first time malaysia had bought coal from north korea since at least 2012 .
while imports have stopped , malaysia has continued exports to north korea .
exports included palm oil , food and medical supplies worth 4.4 million ringgit between january and july .