berlin ( reuters ) - germany s three would-be coalition partners went deep into overtime in talks on saturday as they sought enough common ground in climate and migration policy to form a government and stave off the prospect of a repeat election .
incumbent chancellor angela merkel s only realistic hope of securing a fourth term after suffering losses in september s election is an awkward three-way conservative-liberal-green alliance .
but after four weeks of talks , the parties remained far apart as they adjourned for the night .
the biggest sticking points are climate change , where the greens want emissions cuts that the other parties see as economically ruinous , and immigration , where merkel s arch-conservative allies in bavaria insist on stricter rules .
with the pro-business , tax-cutting free democrat ( fdp ) liberals freshly returned to parliament after four years in the wilderness , and the greens out of office for 12 years , neither is keen to give ground .
a self-imposed deadline of thursday for wrapping up exploratory talks and starting formal coalition negotiations passed without agreement , forcing the conservatives to promise further concessions on emissions cuts to the greens .
fdp leader christian lindner said the talks now had to be wrapped up by 1700 gmt on sunday .
but president frank-walter steinmeier , a former foreign minister who now plays an apolitical role , said brinkmanship was to be expected .
before the formal talks start , there are always attempts by parties to drive prices up , he told the weekly welt am sonntag .
what we ve seen in the past weeks isn t so different from previous coalition negotiations .
greens chairwoman simone peter said much that had earlier been agreed on emissions policy had been undone , without giving details .
bavaria s christian social union ( csu ) faces regional state elections next year , and fears the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) could unseat it after 60 years if it fails to secure tough immigration rules - which are anathema to the left-leaning greens .
among its demands are a cap of 200,000 per year on the number of refugees germany will take , and an end to the practice of allowing successful asylum seekers to bring their immediate families to join them .
all parties are anxious to avoid a repeat election , which they fear could boost the afd , which surged into parliament for the first time in september s national election .
but the heterogeneous three-way coalition , made necessary after the conservatives and the centre-left suffered punishing election losses , is untested at national level .