here s chris matthews attacking trump s speech and his acknowledgment of ryan owens widow last night .
matthews can be seen along with fellow msnb host rachel maddow demanding that trump take responsibility for the death of navy seal ryan owens .
no such demand was ever made of barack obama or hillary clinton by her friends in the press ( fake media ) : so lets take a closer look at obama s war legacy , which includes a horrendous record number of deaths in afghanistan during his 8 years in office and the rise of isis , an even greater threat to america and to the stability of the middle east.a discussion about president barack obama s legacy can not ignore his policies in afghanistan , where security conditions continue to deteriorate primarily at the hands of the taliban , afghans have suffered record casualties , and u.s. military fatalities have dramatically increased under his watch .
the rise of the islamic state ( isis/isil ) in iraq and syria has continued to overshadow obama s war in afghanistan even after the group established its still growing branch in the south asian nation.the president s legacy on afghanistan can not be measured without taking into account what he inherited from george w. bush .
president bush had been well aware at the end of his presidency that he was leaving behind afghanistan a challenge .
in his memoir decision points , he acknowledged afghanistan was unfinished business , adding that the effort to transform the country into a stable democracy had turned out to be more daunting than i anticipated .
nevertheless , the war found a successor willing to put in more time and resources , including human capital , into the ongoing effort .
as president , i will make the fight against al qaeda and the taliban the top priority that it should be .
this is a war that we have to win , obama vowed in a major 2008 campaign speech on the wars in iraq and afghanistan .
obama also vowed to turn the good war in afghanistan around and pull out all u.s. service members.eight years later , u.s. military fatalities in the war have more than quadrupled from 558 under bush to 2,247 under obama , pentagon data shows .
there were 1,689 u.s. military deaths in afghanistan under obama , a figure that makes up more than 75 percent of all american fatalities since the war started in october 2001 .
the number of u.s. military injuries has increased more than 7-fold , from 2,702 under bush to 20,237 now , according to pentagon figures.the number of u.s. military injuries under obama s watch ( 17,535 ) account for more than 90 percent of all 20,237 wounded in action incidents throughout the 15-year-old war.almost immediately after implementing his own strategy , violence dramatically worsened in 2009 , peaking in 2010 , the deadliest year ( 497 deaths ) for u.s. troops in afghanistan.obama presided over the top three deadliest years of the war : 2009 ( 303 deaths ) ; 2010 ( 497 deaths ) ; and 2011 ( 399 ) .
u.s. military fatalities under bush peaked in 2008 at 151 , according to a breitbart news analysis of pentagon data.at nearly 100,000 in 2010 , the presence of the american military also reached its zenith under obama.the rules of engagement have also been a subject of contempt for analysts and u.s. service members alike.a top commander of u.s. and nato troops indicated that , after the end of the combat mission on december 31 , 2014 , american forces fighting taliban jihadists had to wait to be shot at first to be able to attack .
being a member of the taliban was no longer a justification for u.s. troops to open fire , attack a even as the terrorist group expands its territorial control across the war-ravaged nation.the taliban currently controls more territory now than at any time since the group s regime was dethrone by the u.s. military in 2001 .
in the year after president obama declared an end to the u.s. combat mission ( 2015 ) , the taliban surpassed their isis jihadist rivals as the the world s chief perpetrators of terrorist attacks , with 1,093 individual attacks , reported u.s. state department.nevertheless , u.s. troops are still banned from offensively attacking the taliban .
american forces can only attack from a position of defense.- breitbart