dubai ( reuters ) - emirates and flydubai have resumed using iraqi airspace for flights to other countries , the middle east airlines said on monday , two days after iraq declared victory in its years-long fight against islamic state .
several airlines stopped flying over iraq in 2014 on safety concerns because of the conflict and after a malaysian airlines passenger jet was shot down over ukraine the same year .
airlines have instead been flying longer routes over iran and other countries , increasing congestion in the region , with many airlines also avoiding syrian airspace .
the use of iraqi airspace is likely to help emirates and flydubai to save on fuel costs by shortening flying hours and also reduce regional airspace congestion .
emirates has resumed utilizing iraqi airspace and a very small number of our flights overfly iraqi airspace each day , an airline spokeswoman said in an emailed statement .
the spokeswoman said that emirates reviews its flight operations regularly , in line with advice from regulators and authorities .
safety , security and operational efficiency will always be the top considerations when planning flight paths , the spokeswoman said .
emirates did not say when it started flying over iraq again or which routes were affected .
airlines flying through the region have in the past used iraqi airspace for flights to europe and the united states .
flydubai started using eastern iraqi airspace again on nov. 28 , mostly affecting flights to and from eastern europe and turkey , a spokeswoman said in an email .
all the necessary risk and security assessments were conducted prior to the start of overflying , the spokeswoman said .
iraqi forces recaptured the last areas still under islamic state control along the border with syria on saturday and secured the western desert , marking the end of the war against the militants three years after they had captured about a third of iraq s territory .
emirates and flydubai have continued flying to and from iraq since 2014 but with temporary suspensions on some flights from time to time .