london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may has reaffirmed britain s commitment to a 2015 iran nuclear deal in a telephone conversation with u.s. president donald trump ahead of a key u.s. decision on whether tehran has stuck to the terms of the pact .
trump has cast doubt on the future of the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) , which sought to curb iran s nuclear program in return for lifting most western economic sanctions .
a senior u.s. administration official said last week that trump - who has criticized the pact as an embarrassment and the worst deal ever negotiated , - was expected to decertify iran s compliance ahead of an oct. 15 deadline .
the ( prime minister ) reaffirmed the uk s strong commitment to the deal alongside our european partners , saying it was vitally important for regional security , said a statement from may s office following the call on tuesday evening .
( the prime minister ) stressed that it was important that the deal was carefully monitored and properly enforced .
in contrast , a white house statement on the phone call said trump underscored the need to work together to hold the iranian regime accountable for its malign and destabilizing activities , especially its sponsorship of terrorism and its development of threatening missiles .
in a separate statement , britain s foreign office said iran had upheld its nuclear commitments , adding to international pressure on trump not to jeopardize security in the region .
the nuclear deal was a crucial agreement that neutralized iran s nuclear threat , foreign minister boris johnson said .
it was the culmination of 13 years of painstaking diplomacy and has increased security , both in the region and in the uk .
it is these security implications that we continue to encourage the us to consider .
johnson spoke by telephone with u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson and iranian foreign minister javad zarif on tuesday and will on wednesday meet the head of iran s nuclear agency in london to press for continued compliance with the deal .
may and trump also discussed the need for britain , the united states and others to work together to counter destabilizing iranian activity in the region , may s office said .
britain and the united states are two of eight signatories to the deal , along with iran , china , france , russia , germany and the european union .
china , russia and the european states have already expressed their continued support for the deal , while iran has said trump would not be able to undermine the pact .
if trump declines to certify iran s compliance , u.s. congressional leaders would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions on tehran suspended under the agreement .
earlier , the white house said trump would make an announcement later this week on an overall iran strategy , including whether to decertify the nuclear deal .
may s office said she agreed with trump that their teams should remain in contact ahead of the decision on recertification .