washington ( reuters ) - one possible contender to replace justice antonin scalia on the u.s. supreme court is an indian-american appeals court judge , sri srinivasan , who has pro-business credentials and a stellar resume .
if he was nominated his background may make it more politically challenging for republicans as they plan to block anyone put forward by president barack obama .
srinivasan , 48 , has served on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit since he was confirmed on a 97-0 bipartisan vote in the u.s. senate in may 2013 .
republican senators who supported him then would likely be asked to justify why they couldn ’ t back him for the supreme court .
many names are likely under consideration and the white house has not tipped its hand , but recent supreme court appointments have tended to be appeals court judges and the appeals court in washington on which srinivasan serves has often been a springboard to the high court .
scalia himself served on the court , as did other supreme court members chief justice john roberts , justice clarence thomas and justice ruth bader ginsburg .
the white house said on sunday that obama will wait until the u.s. senate is back in session before making a nomination .
the senate returns from recess on feb. 22 .
republicans have called for scalia ’ s seat to remain open so that the next president , who would take office in january 2017 , can nominate a replacement .
other judges obama could consider appointing include paul watford , a black man who serves on the 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , and jacqueline nguyen , a vietnamese-american woman who serves on the same court as watford .
little is known about srinivasan ’ s views on divisive social issues like abortion and affirmative action .
but as a senior justice department lawyer in 2013 , he was part of the legal team that successfully urged the high court to strike down the defense of marriage act , a law that restricted the definition of marriage to heterosexual couples for the purposes of federal benefits .
the ruling helped pave the way for the court ’ s ruling in june 2015 that legalized gay marriage nationwide .
srinivasan could not be reached for comment .
in private practice , prior to his appointment to the appeals court , srinivasan successfully represented former enron corp ceo jeff skilling in a supreme court case .
the supreme court narrowed the reach of the so-called honest services fraud law , invalidating one theory used by prosecutors for skilling ’ s conspiracy conviction and ordering further appeals court review .
despite the high court ruling , skilling ’ s conviction was later upheld by an appeals court .
srinivasan also represented exxon mobil corp in a lawsuit alleging human rights abuses in indonesia , and mining giant rio tinto in a similar case about its activities in papua new guinea .
both cases concerned in part whether a law called the alien tort statute allows such cases to be heard in u.s. courts .
the exxon case is still ongoing .
the rio tinto lawsuit was dismissed .
his work during two stints with the o ’ melveny and myers law firm prompted expressions of concern from liberal groups and unions that normally back democratic judicial nominations when he was nominated to the appeals court in 2012 .
he has had a lengthy career in public service , serving in the justice department during both the obama and george w. bush administrations .
under bush he had a junior role , while under obama he was a political appointee serving as the top deputy to the solicitor general .
srinivasan was born in chandigarh , india and grew up in lawrence , kansas , where his father was a professor at the university of kansas .
if appointed , he would be the first indian-american to serve on the supreme court .
he played basketball in high school and then attended stanford for undergraduate , business and law degrees , yet never lost his allegiance to the university of kansas jayhawks .
that was a theme of the judicial dignitaries that saluted him at his 2013 investiture for the appeals court , as was the fact that when he was an advocate before the supreme court , he carried in his pockets for good luck the socks his twin son and daughter wore when they were newborns .
srinivasan ’ s bipartisan credentials are lengthy .
he was a law clerk to supreme court justice sandra day o ’ connor , now retired , a 1981 appointee of republican president ronald reagan .
at srinivasan ’ s confirmation hearing , he was backed by conservative texas republican senator ted cruz , who is now running for president .
“ we have been friends a long time , so i am hopeful that our friendship will not be seen as a strike against you by some , ” cruz , who is known for having tense relationships with senate colleagues , joked at the time .
a spokesman for cruz said the senator would not be commenting on any possible obama nominee , reaffirming that cruz believes the nomination should be left to the next u.s. president .