only two weeks after u.s. congressman steve scalise and four others were shot during a baseball practice in a washington suburb by a man with a history of lashing out at republicans , a florida lawmaker decided he wasn t taking any chances .
after someone threatened his life on a facebook page , state rep. jose felix diaz , r-miami , told police .
hadn t taken his meds and on monday , northwest miami-dade resident steve st. felix , 34 , was arrested and charged with written threats with intent to do bodily injury .
police said st. felix was fed up with the republican party and that he hadn t taken his meds when he posted the threat .
it s unclear what condition the medications were treating.the threat i ll kill your ass and you better not show up to the next rec meeting was quickly removed from the facebook page , police said .
it appeared to refer to the republican executive committee , the name of the local miami-dade county gop.recent threats and the shooting of scalise call attention to threats : on june 14 , steve scalise , the u.s. house republican whip , was badly injured during an early morning shootout in alexandria , virginia , as a group of republicans practiced for their annual baseball game against democrats.two members of scalise s capitol police security detail , a congressional aide and a lobbyist were also shot and injured .
the shooter , james t. hodgkinson , a 66-year-old from a belleville , ill. , a suburb outside st. louis , was shot and killed.two members of scalise s baseball squad said they spoke with hodgkinson before the practice and that he asked them what party they were affiliated with.read more : miami heraldthe interesting thing is that facebook just hired thousands to delete hate speech facebook hires thousands to launch crackdown on hate speech facebook s statement : our current definition of hate speech is anything that directly attacks people based on what are known as their protected characteristics race , ethnicity , national origin , religious affiliation , sexual orientation , sex , gender , gender identity , or serious disability or disease , said richard allan , facebook vice president of public policy for europe , the middle east and africa said in the blog post .
there is no universally accepted answer for when something crosses the line .
although a number of countries have laws against hate speech , their definitions of it vary significantly .
this could get really interesting with facebook being called out for not catching things like the incident above but deleting a harmless conservative post .
censorship is getting even worse at facebook .