london ( reuters ) - british ministers rallied around boris johnson on sunday , saying the foreign secretary was doing a great job and had no reason to resign over remarks that critics say may prompt iran to extend the prison sentence of a jailed aid worker .
the coordinated defense is part of attempts to shore up the government of prime minister theresa may , weakened by a series of scandals and gaffes involving her top team of ministers as she negotiates britain s departure from the european union .
the leader of britain s main opposition labour party , jeremy corbyn , called on may to sack johnson , writing in the observer newspaper on sunday that we ve put up with him embarrassing and undermining our country through his incompetence ... for long enough .
it s time for boris johnson to go .
corbyn , and london mayor sadiq khan , also a labour member , said johnson had offended states and religions before bungling the case of iranian-british aid worker nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , in prison after being convicted of plotting to overthrow iran s clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
but two of his allies , brexit minister david davis and environment minister michael gove , defended johnson , who last week said he could have been clearer in his remark that zaghari-ratcliffe had been teaching people journalism before her arrest in april 2016 .
zaghari-ratcliffe s employer , the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization , said johnson s comment made on nov. 1 was incorrect , while opposition british lawmakers said the remarks could land the aid worker a longer term in jail .
the thomson reuters foundation is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
why would you want to sack him ?
he s a good foreign secretary , davis told sky news .
gove urged critics to stop focusing on johnson s role in the case and instead to question the motivation of what he called the iranian regime in jailing zaghari-ratcliffe .
there is no reason , no excuse and no justification for her detention and she should be released , he told the bbc s andrew marr show .
a foreign office source later said johnson had held a very constructive phone call with her husband , richard ratcliffe , who has called on the minister to visit his wife in jail .
the show of support for johnson from fellow brexit campaigners demonstrates the difficulties may faces in keeping her cabinet unified on a range of issues .
she lost two of her ministers in a week : michael fallon quit as defense minister in a growing sexual harassment scandal and then priti patel was forced out of her job as aid minister over undisclosed meetings with israeli officials .
forty members of the conservative party have agreed to sign a letter of no-confidence in the prime ministers , eight short of the number needed to trigger a leadership contest , the sunday times newspaper reported .