erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraq launched an offensive on thursday to dislodge islamic state from hawija , west of the oil city of kirkuk and one of two areas of the country still under the control of the militants .
the iraqi joint operations command said the offensive to capture hawija in northern iraq will be swift , state tv reported .
the action , announced by prime minister haider al-abadi , took place four days before a referendum on kurdish independence due to be held in northern iraq , including kirkuk .
abadi says monday s referendum is against the constitution and has called on the autonomous kurdistan regional government to cancel it .
kirkuk is shaping up as a flashpoint ahead of the independence vote as it is also home to arab and turkmen communities who oppose breaking away from iraq .
kurdish peshmerga forces took control of kirkuk after the iraqi army collapsed in the face of islamic state offensive in 2014 , preventing the militants from capturing the oil fields .
a u.s.-led international coalition is providing air support to the iraqi forces offensive on hawija , state tv said .
the iraqi forces , deployed north and west of hawija district , are pushing southward along the tigris river and had cleared the first lines of defense by midday , state tv said .
a total of 23 villages were captured from islamic state , said the operation s commander , lieutenant general abdul ameer yarallah , cited by the tv channel .
we finished the first chapter of the liberation operation , in hawija , he said , without indicating the timing of the second chapter .
the united nations last week said up to 85,000 people could be displaced from the hawija region .
up to 30,000 children are in extreme danger , save the children said on thursday .
they have already suffered horribly under isis rule ... food , water and medicine are running out , with many children reportedly weak and malnourished , the organization said .
it is imperative that all iraqi and coalition forces open up safe escape routes for people and allow civilians to flee to wherever is safest , it added .
iraqi forces and sunni tribal fighters also captured on thursday the region of ana , in the euphrates river valley , as they pushed toward the syria border , a military statement said .
the offensive on hawija should not affect the kurdish plan to hold the referendum in kirkuk on monday , a kurdish official told reuters .
the peshmerga hold the frontlines with the hawija district from the eastern side , near kirkuk , but are not taking part in the offensive , he said .
hawija , north of baghdad , and a stretch of land along the syrian border , west of the iraqi capital , are the last pieces of the country still in the hands of islamic state .
the group overran about a third of iraq in 2014 .
islamic state s self-declared caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , after a grueling nine-month battle .
kurdish peshmerga fighters took part in operations against the militants .
islamic state also controls territory in syria , along the iraqi border but it is shrinking fast in the face of a u.s.-backed kurdish-led coalition and russian and iranian-backed forces loyal to syrian president bashar al-assad .