the clinton grifters were out in nyc and ready to fundraise for hillary but looks like bill didn t waste any time he s such a flirt !
check out the photo below of the not so loving grasp bill has on hillary .
very interesting but what s more interesting is that the efforts to make hillary relatable have been intense but doesn t this type of elitist event ruin all that work to make hillary just another gal ?
let s face it , the same liberal elites who backed the obamas are jumping on the clinton train but they want you to believe they re not anything like those greedy capitalist republicans they like to bash hahaha ! !
! new york s a-list came out to support hillary clinton s presidential campaign last night at a private but star-studded new york city fundraiser.the event was held in designer vera wang s upper east side apartment on sunday night , and was co-hosted by vera , vogue editor-in-chief anna wintour , marchesa designer georgina chapman , and georgina s husband , producer harvey weinstein .
and plenty of other famous names were happy to fork over a donation for the chance to spend time with the democratic frontrunner , who turns 68 today and arrived at the party with husband bill clinton in tow.tickets for the exclusive event cost $ 2,700 and included a photo with the clintons , who seemed to be in a good mood as they walked past paparazzi after most of the other guests had arrived .
hillary took a break from matching pantsuits and opted instead for a shiny red top and plain black pants , while bill who waved and held her hand as he walked beside her donned a simple blue suit .
other fashionable guests who turned up for the fete included celebrity designers jason wu , michael kors , and cynthia rowley .
martha stewart , photographer annie leibovitz , producer jane rosenthal ( of meet the parents fame ) , vogue editor andr leon talley , and anna wintour s daughter bee shaffer were all shot walking in as well , while glee star matthew morrison and his wife renee puente stopped to pose for pictures.read more : uk daily mail