waukee , iowa ( reuters ) - president barack obama praised hillary clinton ’ s political experience , a boost to her campaign as she battles an insurgent bernie sanders a week before the democratic presidential nominating process kicks off .
obama ’ s kind words for his former secretary of state , in a politico interview published on monday , will help clinton as she tries to link her campaign more closely with the president and so draw in more support from his backers .
while never explicitly criticizing sanders , a senator from vermont whose campaign is focused on pledges to redress social inequality and contain wall street excesses , obama praised clinton ’ s experience and suggested several times that clinton ’ s messages are grounded in realism .
“ ( s ) he ’ s extraordinarily experienced — and , you know , wicked smart and knows every policy inside and out — ( and ) sometimes ( that ) could make her more cautious , and her campaign more prose than poetry , ” obama said .
the interview was conducted on friday and published a week before the feb. 1 voting in iowa , which launches the process to pick the parties ’ nominees for the november presidential election .
clinton , who lost the democratic primary to obama in 2008 , was for months the clear front-runner to be the party ’ s nominee this time around , but opinion polls have showed a surge of support for sanders in recent weeks .
she argues that while sanders ’ goals on issues such as social inequality are laudable , some are unobtainable and he lacks the experience to tackle a wide range of issues .
“ when you ’ re in the white house you can not pick the issues you want to work on , you ’ ve got to be ready to take on every issue that comes your way , including those you can not predict , ” clinton told the jewish federation of greater des moines on monday .
in an echo of that point that will be gratifying to the clinton campaign , obama said in the politico interview , “ ( the ) one thing everybody understands is that this job right here , you don ’ t have the luxury of just focusing on one thing. ” “ i think that what hillary presents is a recognition that translating values into governance and delivering the goods is ultimately the job of politics , making a real-life difference to people in their day-to-day lives , ” he said .
obama , who remains very popular within the democratic party , has said he will not endorse a candidate in the primary but has admitted he is watching closely to see who will succeed him .
all three democrats in the race - clinton , sanders and former maryland governor martin o ’ malley - were set for a prime-time opportunity to make their closing arguments on monday night in a nationally televised town hall meeting on cnn due to begin at 9 p.m. est ( 0200 gmt ) .
the candidates were set to appear individually on stage , fielding questions from the moderators and trying to make their final pitches ahead of the iowa voting .
in the interview , obama took issue with comparisons being made by pundits between himself and sanders .
the vermont senator is often described as an underdog candidate who excites young voters and draws larger crowds - as obama did in his come-from-behind primary win in 2008 .
“ i don ’ t think that ’ s true , ” obama said when asked whether sanders reminded him of himself .
however , obama did note that sanders had the “ luxury of being a complete long shot and just letting loose , ” while “ hillary came in with the both privilege — and burden — of being perceived as the front-runner. ” sanders ’ campaign manager , jeff weaver , agreed they are not the same , but still pointed to a similar crowd response and said sanders enjoys a similar momentum .
“ they ’ re obviously very different people , ” weaver told cnn .
on the republican side of the nomination fight , the battle for endorsements and voters gathered pace .
senator marco rubio of florida appeared at a des moines rally with republican senator joni ernst of iowa , who told the crowd she was not endorsing a candidate but called him “ someone who is very near and dear to my heart and a good friend to me. ” taking questions from reporters after the event , rubio expressed confidence in a solid finish in iowa .
given his current place in the polls , finishing third would likely be portrayed as a victory for rubio .
“ we feel very positive about it , ” he said .
“ we feel a real good vibe here. ” iowa ’ s other senator , chuck grassley , raised eyebrows on saturday when he appeared at a donald trump event .
grassley stressed he was not providing a formal endorsement .
u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas picked up the endorsement of former texas governor rick perry , who dropped out of the presidential campaign last year after failing to gain traction .
this was a first endorsement by a former governor for cruz , who has received no endorsements from sitting senators despite serving in the chamber .
opinion polls show trump , a real estate mogul , and cruz locked in a tight battle to win the iowa voting .
trump launched a video on facebook arguing that the “ establishment ” is trying to undermine his campaign - a direct response to recent attacks by cruz that he is part of the establishment .
being dubbed part of the establishment has taken on a strong negative connotation in the republican campaign as candidates presenting themselves as outsiders have risen in the polls .
the video got more than 370,000 views in the first three hours .
( story refiles to add dropped first name of president in paragraph 1 ) ( reporting by ginger gibson ; additional reporting by susan heavey and roberta rampton ; editing by frances kerry ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .