washington ( reuters ) - a year after donald trump was elected president on a promise to revive the ailing u.s. coal industry , the sector ’ s long-term prospects for growth and hiring remain as bleak as ever .
a reuters review of mining data shows an industry that has seen only modest gains in jobs and production this year - much of it from a temporary uptick in foreign demand for u.s. coal rather than presidential policy changes .
u.s. utilities are shutting coal-fired power plants at a rapid pace and shifting to cheap natural gas , along with wind and solar power .
and domestic demand makes up about 90 percent of the market for u.s. coal .
“ we ’ re not planning to build any additional coal facilities , ” said melissa mchenry , a spokeswoman for american electric power , one of the largest u.s. utilities .
“ the future for coal is dictated by economics … and you can ’ t make those kinds of investments based on one administration ’ s politics. ” coal plants now make up 47 percent of aep ’ s capacity for power generation , a figure it plans to shrink to 33 percent by 2030 .
( for a graphic on coal production , demand and employment , see : tmsnrt.rs/2zky1tq ) the situation highlights the limitations of presidential policy on major industries and global economic trends .
as some energy experts have said all along , the forces that will make or break mining are well beyond the powers of the oval office .
a white house official did not respond to a request for comment .
trump has likely done all he can do to help the industry , said luke popovich , a spokesman for the national mining association , which represents major u.s. coal companies .
“ the government is no longer against us , ” he said .
“ we now only have market forces to contend with. ” trump has taken action on many promises he made to coal interests in states that helped him win the election .
the president started the process of killing former president barack obama ’ s clean power plan , meant to reduce carbon emissions from power plants ; ended an obama-era moratorium on coal leasing on federal lands ; ditched limits on dumping coal waste into streams ; and started withdrawing the united states from the paris climate agreement .
now trump ’ s energy secretary , rick perry , is attempting to push a rule through the independent federal energy regulatory commission that would subsidize power plants that store at least a 90-day supply of coal on site .
the goal is to extend the life of some coal burning power plants , a move perry says will make the electric grid more reliable .
while the full impact of trump ’ s coal policy could take years to understand , the changes so far are unlikely to boost domestic demand , energy analysts and utility officials said .
trump has cast the coal industry as a victim of burdensome regulation .
the industry has lost more than 40 percent of its work force in less than a decade and seen production drop to its lowest levels since 1978 .
its share of the power market has fallen to less than a third from about half in 2003 .
“ we ’ re going to bring the coal industry back 100 percent , ” trump said at a rally in virginia in august of 2016 .
so far , progress has been limited .
u.s. coal production is on track to rise more than 8 percent in 2017 over the previous year , to 790 million tons , according to the energy information administration .
but 2018 output is expected to decline .
the number of coal miners has also risen slightly to 51,900 in october , up about 2,200 since november 2016 - but down about 70 percent from a 1985 peak , according to the labor department .
on november 1 , trump cited the modest production increases in a tweet , saying , “ it is finally happening for our great clean coal miners ! ” but these increases are largely attributable to demand for u.s. coal from asian steel mills after temporary outages from their usual suppliers in australia , according to james stevenson , a coal analyst at ihs markit .
during the first six months of 2017 , asian countries took in 7.5 million short tons of u.s. coal , up 97 percent over the same period in 2016 , according to the eia .
that demand will soon fade , stevenson said .
“ we are not going to get a repeat of 2017 , ” he said of the spike in exports .
forecasts from utilities and the u.s. government reveal little reason for hope of a sustained coal rebound .
utilities are expected to shut down more than 13,600 megawatts of coal plant capacity in 2018 .
that follows a loss of nearly 8,000 mw this year and 13,000 mw in 2016 , according to eia and thomson reuters data .
by 2025 , coal-fired power plant capacity will dip to 226,380 mw , down about 30 percent from 2011 , according to eia .
three texas coal plants owned by vistra energy corp subsidiary luminant are among the latest to close , bringing the number of plants that shut , or plan to , to 265 since 2010 - a figure higher than the 258 plants that remain , according to the sierra club , which has campaigned against coal .
vistra said the closures were forced by lower prices for natural gas and renewable power - and not by environmental regulations .
duke energy , one of the country ’ s largest utilities , has shut down more than 5,400 mw of coal capacity since 2011 and plans to shed another 2,000 mw by 2024 .
over the next decade , duke plans to invest $ 11 billion in new natural gas and renewable power - and nothing in new coal-fired generation , said spokesman rick rhodes .
a nov. 2 report by the federal reserve bank of st. louis - which has two of the largest coal producers in its district , peabody energy corp and arch coal inc - said coal-fired power plants “ may eventually become obsolete. ” coal companies believe they can survive despite the troubling market outlook .
peabody expects a “ modest number ” of coal power plant retirements in the coming years , with some of that lost capacity shifting to remaining plants that will increase output , spokesman vic svec said .
arch spokeswoman logan bonacorsi offered a similar forecast .
robert murray , the chief executive of privately-held murray energy corp - one of america ’ s biggest underground miners - said trump could do more for the industry .
the administration , murray said , should end tax breaks for wind and solar power and reverse an epa finding that carbon emissions endanger human health .
but trump ’ s tax bill last week preserved most solar incentives , which have bi-partisan backing .
and the epa has so far steered clear of the so-called “ endangerment finding ” on emissions that is the basis of many fossil-fuel regulations , given the breadth of scientific evidence that would be needed to reverse it .
murray energy , meanwhile , announced on oct. 31 it will buy a 30.5 percent stake in a coal-mining partnership in utah called canyon consolidated resources , llc .
the deal might help the companies cut costs , but it ’ s unlikely to help workers : murray said about 200 of 1,000 jobs in utah could be lost .