ankara ( reuters ) - courts in the united states can not put turkey on trial , turkish president tayyip erdogan said on saturday , in reference to the case of a turkish bank executive who has been charged with evading u.s. sanctions on iran .
already strained ties between nato allies ankara and washington have deteriorated in recent weeks as turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors , detailed in court a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
over three days of testimony , zarrab has implicated top turkish politicians , including erdogan .
zarrab said on thursday that erdogan personally authorized two turkish banks to join the scheme when he was prime minister .
ankara has cast the testimony as an attempt to undermine turkey and its economy , and has previously said it was a clear plot by the network of u.s.-based fethullah gulen , who it alleges engineered last year s coup attempt .
reuters was not immediately able to reach representatives for the ministers implicated by zarrab in the trial .
turkey has repeatedly requested gulen s extradition , but u.s. officials have said the courts require sufficient evidence before they can extradite the elderly cleric , who has denied any involvement in the coup .
erdogan , who has governed turkey for almost 15 years , told members of his ruling ak party in the northeastern province of kars on saturday that u.s. courts can never try my country .
although he has not yet responded to the courtroom claims , he has dismissed the case as a politically motivated attempt to bring down the turkish government and on friday the state-run anadolu news agency said turkish prosecutors are set to seize the assets of zarrab and his acquaintances .
turkey has stepped up its pressure on the u.s. and on saturday anadolu quoted foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu as saying that gulen s followers had infiltrated the u.s. judiciary , congress , and other state institutions .
the united states says its judiciary is independent of any political or other interference .
some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs over alleged links to gulen since the attempted coup , while close to 50,000 people from the military , public and private sector have been jailed .
and in a further blow to turkish-u.s. ties , turkish authorities on friday issued an arrest warrant for former u.s. central intelligence agency ( cia ) officer graham fuller over suspected links to the abortive putsch .
rights groups and turkey s western allies have voiced concerns that erdogan is using the crackdown to muzzle dissent , but the government says the purges are necessary due to the gravity of the threat it faces .