cairo ( reuters ) - gunmen who attacked a mosque on friday in egypt s north sinai brandished an islamic state flag as they opened fire through doorways and windows , killing more than 300 worshippers , including two dozen children , officials said on saturday .
no group has claimed responsibility , but egyptian forces are battling a stubborn islamic state affiliate in the region , one of the surviving branches of the militant group after it suffered defeats by u.s.-backed forces in iraq and syria .
the assault on a mosque has stunned egyptians , prompting president abdel fattah al-sisi s government to tighten security at places of worship and key buildings , and call three days of mourning for the bloodiest attack in egypt s modern history .
state news agency mena said the death toll had risen to 305 , including 27 children , and 128 people were injured .
egypt s public prosecutor s office , citing interviews with wounded survivors as part of its investigation , linked islamic state militants , also known as daesh , to the attack on the al rawdah mosque in bir al-abed , west of el-arish city .
the worshippers were taken by surprise by these elements , the prosecutor said in a statement .
they numbered between 25 and 30 , carrying the daesh flag and took up positions in front of the mosque door and its 12 windows with automatic rifles .
the gunmen , some wearing masks and military-style uniforms , had arrived in jeeps , surrounded the mosque and opened fire inside , sending panicked worshippers scrambling over each other to escape the carnage .
witnesses had said gunmen set off a bomb at the end of friday prayers and then opened fire as people tried to flee , shooting at ambulances and setting fire to cars to block roads .
images on state media showed bloodied victims and bodies covered in blankets inside the mosque .
when the shooting began everyone was running , and everyone was bumping into one another , magdy rezk , a wounded survivor , said from his hospital bed .
but i was able to make out masked men wearing military clothing .
striking a mosque would be a shift in tactics for the sinai militants , who have previously attacked troops and police and more recently tried to spread their insurgency to the mainland by hitting christian churches and pilgrims .
local sources said some of the worshippers were sufis , whom groups such as islamic state consider targets because they revere saints and shrines , which for islamists is tantamount to idolatry .
islamic state has targeted sufi and shi ite muslims in other countries like iraq .
the jihadists in egypt s sinai have also attacked local tribes and their militias for working with the army and police .
sisi , a former armed forces commander who supporters see as a bulwark against islamist militants , promised the utmost force against those responsible for friday s attack .
security has been a key reason for his supporters to back him , and he is expected to run for re-election next year .
egypt s military carried out air strikes and raids overnight to target hideouts and vehicles involved in the attack , the army said , without giving details on the number of militants .
what is happening is an attempt to stop us from our efforts in the fight against terrorism , sisi said on friday .
the sinai attack came as sisi s government looks to draw more foreign investment and finish an imf reform program to help revive an economy that struggled through instability after the 2011 uprising ousted long-standing leader hosni mubarak .
north sinai , a mostly desert area stretching from the suez canal eastwards to the gaza strip and israel , has long been a security headache for egypt and is a strategic region for cairo because of its sensitive borders .
local militant group ansar bayt al-maqdis , once allied to al qaeda , split from it and declared allegiance to islamic state in 2014 .
but attacks in the sinai worsened after 2013 when sisi led the overthrow of president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood after mass protests against his rule .