thank you for everything you did to promote conservatism in the united states of america .
godspeed fred thompson , a former u.s. senator from tennessee , gop presidential candidate , watergate attorney and actor who starred on the television drama law and order , died on sunday in nashville .
he was 73.mr .
thompson died after a recurrence of lymphoma , according to a prepared statement issued by the thompson family .
mr thompson , who had recently purchased a house in nashville to return to tennessee , was first diagnosed with cancer in 2004 .
it is with a heavy heart and a deep sense of grief that we share the passing of our brother , husband , father , and grandfather who died peacefully in nashville surrounded by his family , the thompson family s statement reads .
fred once said that the experiences he had growing up in small-town tennessee formed the prism through which he viewed the world and shaped the way he dealt with life , his family said .
fred stood on principle and common sense , and had a deep love for and connection with the people across tennessee whom he had the privilege to serve in the united states senate .
he enjoyed a hearty laugh , a strong handshake , a good cigar , and a healthy dose of humility .
fred was the same man on the floor of the senate , the movie studio , or the town square of lawrenceburg , his home .
] here is fred thompson explaining federalism .
it would be great if this video was mandatory viewing for every student in grades k-12 : standing at least 6 feet , 5 inches with a booming voice , mr. thompson and his larger-than-life persona played a role in several key moments that shaped the u.s. and tennessee political landscape.as an attorney , he helped lead to the resignation of president richard nixon .
as an actor , he starred in some of the most prominent films and television series of his time .
and as a politician , he served the state of tennessee in the u.s. senate from 1994 to 2003 , before making a brief run for the republican presidential nomination in 2008.here is our favorite fred thompson clip , where he brilliantly responds to michael moore s sicko letter : today tennessee lost a talented and admired statesman and many of us lost a beloved friend , said former u.s. senate majority leader bill frist , whose senate term overlapped with mr. thompson s time in washington .
working at his side in the senate for eight years , fred embodied what has always been the best of tennessee politics he listened carefully and was happy to work across the aisle for causes that he believed were right .
via : the tennesseean