21st century wire says in the wake of the charlottesville m l e , reactionary social justice flash mobs and assorted vigilantes have begun a campaign of attacking and destroying statues and monuments all over the country .
the irrational rationale of these activists is that these historic monuments represent oppression and slavery , and therefore they must marked for ceremonial destruction .
watch this scene in durham , north carolina this week where , bizarrely , the hysterical mob of liberal progressive protesters lines up to take turns kicking the inanimate bronze statue on the ground , after it was pulled down in an impromptu ceremony .
this is an emotive crowd , clearly carried away by the political hysteria : question : should a small violent , reactionary mob be allowed bypass any sensible public discussion or forum thereby litigating and dictating history for the rest of the community and country ? so this is really happening .
george orwell was a prophet .
# durham # confederate # monuments # wrongthink pic.twitter.com/7seucanqyd mark ( @ markantro ) august 17 , 2017in many ways , are rapidly heading towards a 1984-style thought police environment now .
viewed from a police state perspective , this contrived disorder is designed to further breakdown social cohesion in american in effect , finishing the job which barack obama started in 2008 .
this is an invitation for the federal state to then move in with more emergency powers to restore order .
for the populace at large , less rights of expression will be the outcome .
while the new left in american appoints itself as policeman of history , its ranks seem to be more ignorant than ever of it .
they fail to note mao s purge , and other such examples in history .
after charlottesville the culture wars have begun.what happened to this judge in georgia may be a taste of things to come .
the culture war has arrived rt international news reports the nut cases tearing down monuments are equivalent to isis destroying history , judge jim hinkle wrote on facebook tuesday , the same day protesters in durham , north carolina toppled a statue honoring confederate soldiers.judge jim hinkle suspended : the nut cases tearing down monuments are equivalent to isis destroying history . ''
https : //t.co/xvpsllurwj pic.twitter.com/biqcy5bnz8 jeffrey guterman ( @ jeffreyguterman ) august 16 , 2017on saturday , hinkle had written that protesters in charlottesville , virginia were snowflakes with no concept of history , as they came to counter a rally of white nationalists who gathered to oppose the planned relocation of a statue to confederate general robert e. lee .
in charlottesville everyone is upset over robert e. lee statue , hinkle s post said .
it looks like all of the snowflakes have no concept of history .
it is what it is .
get over it and move on .
leave history alone those who ignore history are deemed ( sic ) to repeat the mistake of the past .
that post was written approximately an hour before a car crashed into a group of counter-protesters in charlottesville , killing a woman and injuring 19 other people .
police have charged the driver , who reportedly took part in the white nationalist rally , with second-degree murder .
i have suspended judge hinkle effective immediately while i consider the appropriate final action , gwinnett county chief magistrate judge kristina hammer blum told the atlanta journal-constitution ( ajc ) tuesday.hinkle told the ajc he didn t see anything controversial about the posts .
but you know , with the way things are going in the world today , i guess everything s controversial , he told the outlet full text of chief judge s statement about suspending judge james hinkle : pic.twitter.com/wcse2wqhfg tony thomas ( @ tonythomaswsb ) august 15 , 2017continue this report at rtread more cultural marxism news at : 21st century wire cultural marxism filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv