recruiting kids is what obama s campaign did so well .
this must be a loony lefty tactic to train the kids early to accept socialism .
remember this creepy video from the obama campaign : we re gon na change the world could you imagine the national media firestorm had the school been recruiting for donald trump s campaign ? students at marshwood high school in south berwick received an email from the clinton campaign urging them to sign up for positions as unpaid fellows .
hillary for new hampshire is looking for smart , energetic winter fellows who are committed to winning the new hampshire primary for hillary clinton , read the email from a campaign staffer .
everyone working on the campaign now started off as a fellow at some point so it is a great way of getting a different skill set whilst helping an important cause .
tim and elita galvin were furious that their teenage son had received the solicitation calling it disingenuous and sneaky .
my son didn t appreciate being targeted by anybody via his school email for a political campaign , mrs. galvin told me .
i ll be honest he s not a fan of hillary clinton to begin with .
he s done his homework and he doesn t like her .
the galvins reached out to paul mehlhorn , the principal of the high school .
they provided me with a copy of his emailed response .
we often receive information from outside sources regarding opportunities for students to get involved in their communities , he wrote .
we pass on this information to provide students with ways they may meet the requirement to perform 50 hours of community service to graduate .
mehlhorn went on to explain that students are not obligated to volunteer for clinton s campaign , nor does it suggest the school supports a particular political candidate , religious doctrine or branch of military .
if other campaigns were to seek volunteers , we would pass that on also , he noted.the principal went to say that the email solicitation sounded like a great way to have a conversation with their children about understanding their choices in getting involved or not.as you might imagine , mr. and mrs. galvin were not all that thrilled with the principal s explanation .
politics doesn t belong there republican , democrat , green , purple , white , whatever , mrs. galvin told me.read more : fox