zurich ( reuters ) - swiss voters rejected raising women s retirement age to 65 in a referendum on sunday on shoring up the wealthy nation s pension system as a wave of baby boomers stops working .
authorities pushing the first serious reform of the pension system in two decades had warned that old-age benefits were increasingly at risk as life expectancy rises and interest rates remain exceptionally low , cutting investment yields .
but it fell by a margin of 53-47 percent , sending the government back to the drawing board on the thorny social issue .
the package turned down under the swiss system of direct democracy included making retirement between the ages of 62 and 70 more flexible and raising the standard value-added tax ( vat ) rate from 2021 to help finance the stretched pension system .
it sought to secure the level of pensions through 2030 by cutting costs and raising additional revenue .
minimum pay-out rates would have gradually fallen and workers contributions would rise , while public pensions for all new recipients would go up by 70 swiss francs ( $ 72.25 ) a month .
the retirement age for women would have gradually risen by a year to 65 , the same as for men .
that is no life , complained one 49-year-old kiosk cashier , who identified herself only as angie .
you go straight from work to the graveyard .
some critics had complained that the higher retirement age for women and higher vat rates were unfair , while others opposed expanding public benefits and said the reforms only postponed for a decade rather than solved the system s financial woes .
opinion polls had shown the reforms just squeaking by , but support had been waning .
the standard vat rate would have gone up by 0.3 point from 2021 to 8.3 percent helping generate 2.1 billion francs a year for pensions by 2030 but the rejection means the standard vat rate will now fall to 7.7 percent next year as a levy earmarked for disability insurance ends .
a 2014 oecd survey found switzerland , where a worker earns over $ 91,000 on average , spends a relatively low 6.6 percent of economic output on public pensions .
life expectancy at birth was 82.5 years .
more than 18 percent of the population was older than 65 .