nairobi ( reuters ) - nurses in kenya have ended a five-month-old strike over delays to agreed wage rises , a union official said on thursday , just as university lecturers began a similar action over their pay and benefits .
the nurses strike had brought health services to a halt in many parts of the country , with patients being sent away from some government-run hospitals .
their pay deal was meant to have been approved in june by the union , the national government and county governments , but the state commission that advises on public sector pay rejected it shortly afterwards .
we have asked all nurses to resume duty latest by friday , union head seth panyako told reuters , adding that an agreement had been reached with the government .
kenyan president uhuru kenyatta won a second term in a re-run election on oct. 26 after his initial victory in august was nullified by the electoral commission because of procedural irregularities .
panyako said a collective bargaining agreement would be signed in 30 days time .
kenyan public servants often strike over pay inequalities .
the country s members of parliament are among the world s most well-paid , taking home around 1.2 million shillings ( $ 11,577.42 ) per month , including allowances , says justine musila of the parliamentary watchdog website mzalendo .
in contrast , basic salaries for lecturers at public universities range from 69,000 shillings to 200,000 shillings each month , before allowances .
a newly-qualified doctor typically earns about 156,000 shillings a month .
on thursday , lecturers also launched a strike to protest against what they described as the government s continued failure to implement a deal signed in march to boost salaries and housing allowances .
that pact , which provided for a pay hike of 17.5 percent and an increase of 3.9 percent in housing allowances , ended a previous 54-day strike over pay that also affected the more than half a million students in kenya s 31 public universities .
all academic staff at the 31 public universities are on strike from november 1 , constantine wasonga , secretary general of the university academic staff union , said in a statement seen by reuters on thursday .
the strike remains in force until the collective bargaining agreement is implemented in total .