tallinn ( reuters ) - turkey said on friday the european union was making a child s game out of its membership talks , wrangling over threats to end them , and reminded the bloc of its strategic importance abutting middle eastern conflict zones .
after trading bitter barbs for months with president tayyip erdogan , largely over turkey s human rights record , german chancellor angela merkel said on sunday it was clear turkey should not join the eu and accession talks should end .
most other eu states reacted cautiously to her comments and said any real discussion would be possible only after german elections on sept. 24 .
but some , like austria , backed merkel and some officials have suggested suspension of talks .
this is not a children s game at all , turkish eu minister omer celik said after meeting eu foreign ministers in estonia s capital tallinn .
you can not talk about suspending or halting the accession negotiations and then restarting it in six months , and that turkey is a great strategic and important country .
the bloc has been shocked by the scale of erdogan s purges and the intensity of his crackdown on dissenters - including academics and journalists - after a failed coup last year .
many eu ministers in tallinn stressed that turkey , a nato ally of 80 million people , was indispensable for security cooperation and keeping a lid on immigration to the bloc from the tumultuous middle east .
french president emmanuel macron said separately that turkey remained a vital partner for the eu .
celik reiterated his call to open more areas of negotiations with the eu .
this approach of i froze talks , now i restarted them is not acceptable for us , he said .
the talks started in 2005 , viewed by many in turkey and abroad as a stimulus in themselves to turkish democratic reform .
but they have stalled over opposition from eu states including cyprus and france , erdogan s track record on human rights and other issues .
while austria and luxembourg were among those who backed merkel s tougher line on turkey , hungary , lithuania and britain - which will be leaving the eu - held the opposite view .
all european countries , including the uk , have concerns , serious concerns about human rights in turkey , about arrests ... ( and ) the treatment of journalists , british foreign minister boris johnson told reporters .
but it s always been my view that we shouldn t push turkey away .
turkey is a great country and a strategically important country for all of us .
eu states would have to be unanimous to kill off turkey s bid , but suspension requires only majority backing .
eu leaders are expected to discuss the matter in brussels in october .