potomac , md .
( reuters ) - as hillary clinton sets her sights on becoming the first female president of the united states , the democratic front-runner has found herself in another role - the subject of children ’ s books .
in “ hillary rodham clinton : do all the good you can , ” author cynthia levinson charts her rise from her youth in park ridge , illinois , to her work as a u.s. senator and secretary of state .
levinson brought clinton ’ s story this week to fourth graders at cold spring elementary school in suburban washington , whom she found were paying close attention to the presidential race .
“ i hope kids enjoy the book , and i hope that it ’ s thought-provoking for them , ” said levinson , who went to wellesley college with clinton and interviewed mutual acquaintances and the former first lady for the book .
the book is among several recent children ’ s biographies on clinton .
they include “ hillary rodham clinton : some girls are born to lead ” by michelle markel and jonah winter ’ s picture book “ hillary. ” while the books all include the theme of female strength , levinson said she was keen to highlight both clinton ’ s successes and failures , such as her vote for the u.s. war in iraq and bungled healthcare initiative while first lady .
the grade-schoolers were divided over whether clinton , 68 , was the woman for the job .
“ i ’ m more on bernie sanders ’ side .
hillary clinton is less direct than bernie sanders , ” said sudhish swain , 10 , referring to clinton ’ s rival for the democratic nomination .
many students said they got their news about the election , which will be held in november , from the radio or school bus debates .
“ we mostly agree that donald trump would not be a good president , ” said tianlai yang .
katherine pease , 9 , added : “ he lies , he ’ s a hypocrite , he ’ s a megalomaniac , and he ’ s delusional , which , really , those four qualities aren ’ t good for a president. ” she showed off an op-ed piece she had submitted to the washington post urging republicans to rally around one candidate to counter trump .
she said she hoped that candidate would be ohio governor john kasich .
kyle baer said he liked clinton but still would not vote for her if he were old enough .
“ the only thing i have against her is that she ’ s already been a resident of the white house before , and i don ’ t think she should be a resident again , ” he said .
( reporting by vanessa johnston , writing by ian simpson ; editing by richard chang ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .