washington ( reuters ) - the wealthiest americans would benefit the most from president donald trump ’ s proposed tax cuts while many upper middle-income people would face higher taxes , independent experts said on friday in the first detailed analysis of the plan .
a u.s. senate panel took trump ’ s proposal , announced on wednesday , a step forward by unveiling a budget plan for the coming fiscal year that acknowledges lost revenues from tax cuts , while trump pressed ahead with selling the plan to the public .
a report from the non-profit washington-based tax policy center found that in 2018 , about 12 percent of taxpayers would face a tax increase of roughly $ 1,800 on average .
that includes more than a third of taxpayers making between about $ 150,000 and $ 300,000 , mainly because most itemized deductions would be repealed including for state and local taxes , it said .
its analysis showed that the republican tax proposal would fuel the growing federal deficit , providing $ 5.99 trillion in tax cuts while reducing federal revenues by a net $ 2.4 trillion in the next 10 years .
trump , who promised major tax cuts as a candidate , has called his proposal “ a miracle for the middle class , ” but the report concluded it would provide middle-income taxpayers uneven tax relief .
in 2018 , all income groups would see their average taxes fall , but some taxpayers in each group would face tax increases , it found .
taxpayers in the top 1 percent of incomes - above $ 730,000 - would receive about 50 percent of the total tax benefit from the tax overhaul , with their after-tax income forecast to increase an average of 8.5 percent , the group said .
“ the biggest share of people with increased taxes will be ... people who might be considered upper-middle-income people , high-income professionals , people whose income is between $ 150,000 and $ 300,000 in a year in 2017 , ” tax policy center co-director eric toder said .
the bottom 95 percent of taxpayers could expect a tax cut of 0.5 to 1.2 percent , according to the analysis .
the proposed tax cuts for corporations and small businesses would reduce federal revenue by $ 2.6 trillion over a decade and largely would benefit high-income taxpayers , it said .
trump , a real estate mogul-turned-politician , had pledged that the tax plan would not benefit the rich , himself included .
the budget resolution released by the senate budget committee , which would pave the way for republicans to avoid potential democratic procedural moves to block it , builds in $ 1.5 trillion in reduced revenue from tax cuts over the next decade .
the white house and republicans in congress aim to have the tax proposal passed by the end of the year .
republicans control the white house , the senate and both chambers of congress .
the resolution is vital to plans by the republicans to move tax legislation through the senate , which they control by a slim 52-48 majority , using a parliamentary process that lets them pass legislation without a customary 60-vote threshold that would necessitate some democratic support .
the proposal calls for slashing the corporate tax rate to 20 percent from 35 percent , the small business rate to 25 percent from 39.6 percent and the top individual rate to 35 percent from 39.6 percent .
democrats call the tax plan a giveaway to the rich and corporations that would balloon the federal deficit .
“ the senate republican budget is the clearest sign yet that republicans are intent on pursuing a tax plan that would blow a huge hole in the deficit and stack up debt , leading to cuts in programs that middle-class americans rely on , ” senate democratic leader chuck schumer said in a statement .
trump talked up the tax proposal during a speech on friday to the national association of manufacturers business lobbying group in washington , calling it “ a giant , beautiful , massive — the biggest ever in our country — tax cut. ” “ the biggest winners will be everyday working families , as jobs start pouring into our country , ” trump said .
the u.s. national debt stands at about $ 20 trillion and the proposal provided few details on how to offset the federal revenues that would be lost with the tax cuts .
trump has failed to secure passage of any major legislation since taking office in january , with a healthcare overhaul collapsing in the senate , money to build his promised wall along the border with mexico failing to materialize and infrastructure spending legislation never getting off the ground .