sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - the thousands of rohingya muslims thronging the desolate beach had no food or water , except what the red cross gives them , and there was no shelter from the tropical sun and rain , yet fear of tomorrow has persuaded them to abandon their homes .
fabrizio carboni , the top international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) official in myanmar , described the plight of some 5 , ooo people who had made their way to the mouth of the naf river that divides buddhist myanmar from muslim bangladesh .
he said some had been there as long as a month , unable to afford to pay fishermen to take them to bangladesh , where most of their fellow rohingyas have fled to escape the ethnic violence that erupted in myanmar s rakhine state two months ago .
what i can just tell them is a beach is not a place where you live , carboni told reuters on thursday , a day after visiting this stretch on the frontline of an unfolding humanitarian crisis .
myanmar has blocked humanitarian agencies apart from red cross organisations from accessing the northern part of rakhine state , where the conflict worsened after rohingya militants attacked 30 security posts on aug. 25 .
many of the 600,000 stateless rohingya muslims who have fled myanmar say they were driven out by a brutal military counteroffensive .
the united nations has called it a campaign of ethnic cleansing , and myanmar soldiers have been accused of rape , killings and arson .
myanmar s de facto leader , nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi , has said the refugees can return , but thousands have continued to arrive in bangladesh .
when you decide to leave everything and go it s because , rightly or not , you believe that tomorrow will be worse than today where you are staying , carboni told reuters in sittwe , the capital of myanmar s rakhine state .
the stranded people weighed up their access to basic services , intercommunal relations and security before deciding to flee , he said .
probably it s a lack of trust for the future where they are .
i don t think we are in a moment now where there s a specific event triggering movement .
we are in another phase , he added .
the red cross , which has about 200 personnel working in northern rakhine , provided plastic sheets , food and water to the people on the beach .
prior to the attacks on security posts in august , several groups had hundreds of staff and volunteers working in the area , but the government has restricted the movement of aid workers after accusing some groups of aiding rohingya militants .
ethnic rakhine buddhists , who accuse aid groups of favoring muslims , on wednesday blocked relief international staff from visiting a camp for muslims displaced in earlier violence .
protesters threw petrol bombs to try to block a red cross aid shipment in an incident on sept. 20 .
carboni said the red cross organisations could not be the only ones working in northern rakhine for the long run , but said their ability to reach people was ramping up .
food had reached 40,000 people by monday , and at least 5,000 households would get food in the next week , he said .
in our dialogue with the government , we were always very clear , saying we will do our best and more to reach as many people as possible , said carboni .
now there is a need for the government to re-engage with the rest of the humanitarian community , and find an acceptable way for the people to receive the assistance they need .