washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama ’ s fiscal 2017 budget would produce $ 6.9 trillion in deficits over the next decade if enacted , about $ 2.4 trillion less than under current tax and spending laws , congressional forecasters said on tuesday .
the congressional budget office said in a new analysis , however , that its 10-year deficit estimate is $ 776 billion higher than the administration ’ s own forecast .
this is largely the result of lower revenues resulting from the cbo ’ s projections for slower economic growth , lower wage and salary growth , and lower revenue gains associated with obama ’ s tax proposals .
obama ’ s budget calls for limiting tax deductions for high-income taxpayers , increasing capital gains taxes , and imposing minimum taxes on foreign income and about a $ 10-a-barrel oil tax .
the cbo ’ s estimate of a $ 2.8 trillion revenue gain through fiscal 2026 would also partly come from the enactment of immigration reforms , estimated to result in $ 386 billion in new revenue over the decade .
obama ’ s budget plan has no chance of passing in the republican-controlled congress .
the house and the senate are working on budget resolutions that are expected to adhere to spending limits agreed to in a two-year budget deal largely negotiated last year by former house speaker john boehner and the white house .
some republican conservatives , however , have called for lower spending levels for government agencies or savings elsewhere in the budget .
the nonpartisan cbo said that spending outlays would also be higher in obama ’ s budget by about $ 400 billion over the 10-year period than under current laws .
in the near term , the agency said , the deficit under obama ’ s budget for fiscal 2017 would be $ 433 billion , versus $ 550 billion under current law .
in 2018 , the deficit would fall to $ 383 billion , or 1.9 percent of gross domestic product , before steadily climbing to $ 972 billion , or 3.5 percent of gdp , in 2026 as costs associated with aging baby boomers mount .
over the decade , the cbo said , the cumulative 10-year deficit would be 3 percent versus 4 percent with no changes in law .
many economists say deficits under 3 percent of gdp are considered sustainable .
debt held by the public in 2026 would be 77.4 percent of gdp under obama ’ s budget versus the current trajectory of 85.6 percent .