london ( reuters ) - net migration to britain fell by the largest amount on record in the 12 months after the brexit vote , with more than three-quarters of the drop due to more eu citizens leaving and fewer arriving , official data showed on thursday .
net migration tumbled by 106,000 to 230,000 people in the 12 months to june , the office for national statistics ( ons ) said .
some 82,000 of the decline was due to eu citizens , cutting net migration from the bloc to its lowest level since june 2013 .
the total fall in net migration was the largest since people moving to britain started to outnumber those leaving in the 1980s .
the ons said brexit was likely to be one of the factors driving the fall .
prime minister theresa may has said she wants to reduce net migration to the tens of thousands , a promise first made by the government in 2010 and designed to reassure britons worried about the impact immigration had on public services .
net migration into britain has exceeded 100,000 in every year since 1998 , as workers from abroad were attracted by a relatively strong currency , a vibrant economy and easy hiring rules .
jonathan portes , a professor of economics at king s college london , linked the latest fall to britain s economic slowdown since the brexit vote and the weakening of the pound - which means foreign workers earn less in britain when converted to their own national currencies .
it can not be good news that the uk is a less attractive place to live and work , and that we will be poorer as a result , said portes , who has previously argued that brexit is likely to hurt britain s economy .
he predicted that net migration to britain was likely to fall further to 150,000 over the next few years .
business groups reacted to the latest figures with disappointment .
the chartered institute of personnel and development said the fall in net migration was an alarm bell for britain s economy , with many employers struggling to find skilled workers .
but steven woolfe , an independent british lawmaker in the european parliament who campaigned for brexit , said long-term migration remained high .
this number again highlights the greater need for britain to have a brand new immigration system , starting on brexit day one , he said on twitter .
britain is scheduled to leave the eu on march 29 , 2019 .
larger numbers of foreign workers have helped britain s economy to expand .
the bank of england has said almost all of its growth in the last decade stems from an increase in workers .
britain s retail , hospitality , manufacturing and agriculture sectors are particularly reliant on staff from abroad .
the boe has said a fall in migrant workers coming to britain is likely to contribute to a new , slower speed limit for the economy , meaning it would be more prone to inflation .
opinion polls have shown immigration topping the list of concerns among people who voted for brexit in the 2016 referendum , in which 52 percent backed leaving the eu .
the ons said the scale of the drop in net migration in the most recent data partly reflected a strong run-up in migration last year , which pushed it to a record high in june 2016 .