do you know who this is ?
he is edward ed mezvinsky , born january 17 , 1937 .
then you ll probably say , who is ed mezvinsky ?
well , he is a former democrat congressman who represented iowa s 1st congressional district in the united states house of representatives for two terms , from 1973 to 1977.he sat on the house judiciary committee that decided the fate of richard nixon.he was outspoken saying that nixon was a crook and a disgrace to politics and the nation and should be impeached.he and the clintons were friends and very politically intertwined for many years.ed mezvinsky had an affair with nbc news reporter marjorie sue margolies and later married her after his wife divorced him.in 1993 , marjorie margolies-mezvinsky , then a freshman democrat in congress , cast the deciding vote that got president bill clinton s controversial tax package through the house of representatives.in march 2001 , mezvinsky was indicted and later pleaded guilty to 31 of 69 counts of bank fraud , mail fraud , and wire fraud.ed mezvinsky embezzled more than $ 10 million dollars from people via both a ponzi scheme and the notorious nigerian e-mail scams.he was found guilty and sentenced to 80 months in federal prison .
after serving less than five years in federal prison , he was released in april 2008 and remains on federal probation.to this day , he still owes $ 9.4 million in restitution to his victims.about now you are saying , so what !
well , this is marc and chelsea mezvinsky.that s right ; ed mezvinsky is chelsea clinton s father-in law.now marc and chelsea are in their early thirties and purchased a 10.5 million dollar nyc apartment ( after being married in george soros mansion ) .has anyone heard mention of any of this in any of the media ? if this guy was jenna or barbara bush s , or better yet , sarah palin s daughter s father-in- law , the news would be an everyday headline and every detail would be reported over and over.and yet say there are no double standards in political reporting .
and people are already talking about hillary as our next president !
and then there is possibly chelsea for president in our future ! the cycle never ends ! via : before it s news