no mercy for welfare leech and america hater , dzhokhar tsarnaev this is nothing to celebrate .
this is justice , said first-responder michael ward .
he wanted to go to hell and he s going to get there early .
a jury s ruling today to sentence marathon bomber dzhokhar tsarnaev to death is justice and a warning boston will not tolerate terrorism , survivors and police said after the verdict .
this is nothing to celebrate .
this is justice , said first-responder michael ward .
he wanted to go to hell and he s going to get there early .
the verdict against tsarnaev , who ll turn 22 in july , was announced by u.s. district court judge george a. o toole jr. s courtroom clerk paul lyness .
tsarnaev showed no emotion as the verdict was read.marathon bombing survivor adrianne haslet-davis , who lost a third of her left leg in the bombing , told the herald she s happy with the verdict .
my heart goes out to everyone in the survivor community and to the victims families , she added .
it s still a lot to process right now .
only three of the 12 jurors bought into the defense argument that tsarnaev was influenced by his older brother tamerlan .
the jurors unanimously agreed that tsarnaev showed no remorse for the marathon attack and its aftermath that killed four young people , maimed 17 and injured hundreds.the jurors unanimously voted to put him to death for the week of terror .
you re not going to blow up our marathon .
you re not going to blow up our city , said boston police commissioner william evans .
we will not tolerate terrorism .
tsarnaev will be formally sentenced by o toole this summer after survivors and loved ones of the victims have the opportunity to present impact statements.tsarnaev will also be afforded the chance to speak .
he chose not to take the stand in his own defense during the trial a factor jurors were not allowed to consider or even discuss amongst themselves , per o toole s orders.tsarnaev is expected to remain incarcerated locally until after the sentencing , when he will be delivered to the usp terre haute prison in indiana , where he will be the youngest person on federal death row.u.s .
attorney loretta lynch said today in a statement that tsarnaev coldly and callously perpetrated a terrorist attack in boston .
we know all too well that no verdict can heal the souls of those who lost loved ones , nor the minds and bodies of those who suffered life-changing injuries from this cowardly attack , lynch said .
but the ultimate penalty is a fitting punishment for this horrific crime and we hope that the completion of this prosecution will bring some measure of closure to the victims and their families .
we thank the jurors for their service , the people of boston for their vigilance , resilience and support and the law enforcement community in boston and throughout the country for their important work .
the seven women and five men , who reached their verdict after 14 hours of deliberations , convicted the former university of massachusetts dartmouth sophomore on april 8 of a 30-count indictment that included the april 15 , 2013 , bombing murders of marathon spectators martin richard , 8 , of dorchester , lingzi lu , 23 , a boston university graduate statistics student from china , and restaurant manager krystle marie campbell , 29 , a medford native.tsarnaev was also held responsible for the shooting death of mit police officer sean collier , 27 , three days after the marathon massacre , when the fbi went public with photos of tsarnaev and his late older brother tamerlan , 26 , as their terror suspects.via : bostonherald.com