really andrew ?
does all of new york really stand against racism ?
isn t al sharpton , one of the greatest race agitators of all time , a resident of new york ?
wasn t he one of barack obama s generals in the race war he spent eight years orchestrating from our white house ?
wasn t al sharpton behind the massive march in new york city where organizers held bull horns calling for the death of police officers ?
where was your selective outrage when al sharpton was one of the most frequent visitors to our white house ? who could forget the infamous beer summit , where former president barack obama hosted prof henry gates , a prominent black scholar , and sgt james crowley , a white police sergeant , for beers in the white house rose garden , that was actually a photo-op for obama where he pretended to be working towards the goal of defusing racial tension in america.and now , as though the last 8 years of race agitating from the highest office in the land never happened , governor andrew cuomo s joining the leftist mob in an attempt to erase american history , foolishly believing that if democrats are seen as the party removing confederate statues , perhaps americans will forget that the democrat party was in fact , the party who fought so hard to keep slavery alive in america.here s the ridiculous tweet from governor andrew cuomo : robert e. lee and stonewall jackson will be removed from the cuny hall of great americans because new york stands against racism .
andrew cuomo ( @ nygovcuomo ) august 17 , 2017sean davis , co-founder of the federalist quickly schooled the leftist governor on the history behind the naming of the state of new york : new york is named after the head of a british slave-trading monopoly .
https : //t.co/edp3zzywyr sean davis ( @ seanmdav ) august 17 , 2017the duke of york was the main shareholder in and the director of the company of royal adventurers trading in africa ; established at the time of the restoration of the english monarchy in 1660 .
the shareholders in this company were a combination of the stuart royal family along with a number of wealthy london merchants .
the company established london s monopoly of the english slave trade .
it created slave ports on the west coast of africa where british-produced goods were exchanged for africans who were then transported as slaves to colonies in the caribbean and the americas.in 1664 , the duke of york , as admiral of the navy , annexed the dutch colony of new amsterdam ( it was then renamed new york in his honour ) .
when the duke took over new york one of the first actions of the new authority was to grant the colony port privileges and the right to use warehouses to ships engaged in the slave trade ( 1 ) ~ i.e .
ships owned by the company of royal adventurers trading in africa in which the duke was the largest shareholder.previously , under the dutch west india company , the african slaves of new amsterdam had lived in what was known as half-freedom ; that is to say under the dutch they had some rights and some , limited , independence .
however , once under stuart , british rule they became chattel slaves ( i.e perceived as personal property of the slave owners in a way that was different from previous slave-systems .
it was slavery used as labour under an emerging and consolidating capitalism ) .
though it is worth noting that these urban slaves of new york never accepted the complete servitude endured by their rural counterparts.president trump took to twitter this morning to denounce decisions being made by leftists in positions of authority to erase the history of our great nation : sad to see the history and culture of our great country being ripped apart with the removal of our beautiful statues and monuments .
you .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 17 , 2017 ca n't change history , but you can learn from it .
robert e lee , stonewall jackson who 's next , washington , jefferson ?
so foolish !
also donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 17 , 2017 the beauty that is being taken out of our cities , towns and parks will be greatly missed and never able to be comparably replaced !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 17 , 2017