dubai/zurich ( reuters ) - saudi arabia has announced it will confiscate money and assets held by dozens of top officials and businessmen detained in an anti-corruption crackdown .
but the experiences of two other arab states trying to recover stolen money , egypt and tunisia , suggest riyadh may face years of legal and diplomatic battles to secure assets held abroad .
even then success is not guaranteed .
the anti-corruption committee that detained princes , tycoons and ministers at the weekend has the power under a royal decree to take whatever measures are deemed necessary to seize companies , funds and other assets without waiting for the results of criminal investigations .
the offshore scrutiny of assets has already begun in the gulf region , where saudi arabia regularly shares information .
the united arab emirates central bank and securities regulator has asked banks and finance companies there to provide information on the accounts of 19 saudi citizens , banking sources told reuters on thursday .
the saudi committee has not given details of the allegations individuals face , though saudi officials say they include money laundering , bribery , extortion and taking advantage of public office for personal gain .
riyadh has also set no timetable for its confiscations , although banking sources say more than 1,700 domestic bank accounts have already been frozen at the request of the central bank .
if the committee were to try to retrieve all the revenue that has been lost to corruption , from bribes to illegal expropriation of land , the total would be $ 800 billion , an official at the riyadh chamber of commerce and industry has estimated .
a large amount of the funds are believed by financial sources to be held offshore in bank accounts , portfolio investments , corporate shareholdings and real estate .
many of the businessmen detained have private planes one has a boeing 747 airliner .
and a study by the u.s. national bureau of economic research estimated saudis have stashed away wealth equivalent to over 55 percent of the country s gross domestic product in foreign tax havens an amount exceeding $ 300 billion .
but egypt and tunisia s experiences show that although asset freezes can be arranged within months , repatriating the money can take many years .
cairo has tried unsuccessfully for five years to retrieve about 85 million pounds ( $ 111 million ) in british bank accounts belonging to the inner circle of former president hosni mubarak .
british officials have said they are bound by british law , which requires the egyptians to provide them with criminal convictions first .
tunisia has so far recovered only a small portion of about $ 35 million claimed from switzerland following the 2011 revolution that inspired the arab spring uprising .
saudi prince alwaleed 's investment : tmsnrt.rs/2j5fe04 there are some precedents that could give saudi arabia cause for hope that it will be able to repatriate money .
last year , nigeria and switzerland signed a deal paving the way for the return of over $ 300 million confiscated from the family of nigeria s former military ruler sani abacha .
requests from egypt , tunisia , libya and syria have led to nearly 1 billion swiss francs ( $ 1 billion ) of assets being frozen by swiss authorities .
but the efforts of egypt and tunisia to retrieve the money have stumbled over a requirement to submit evidence that would be admissible in western legal systems , proving the beneficial owners of the assets and showing that corruption has taken place .
often assets are held in complex offshore vehicles making it hard to show who really owns them .
carlo lombardini , a banking lawyer and professor of banking law at university of lausanne , said riyadh would have to provide detailed evidence proving how the money was obtained to seize assets in switzerland on the grounds of corruption .
and then there is an issue whether this person in saudi arabia can defend themselves , and whether they benefit from a proper defense , he said .
saudi officials would have to satisfy swiss authorities that owners of assets had been given due process .
this could be difficult given the speed and the scale of the crackdown , and the sweeping powers given to the anti-corruption committee .
the saudi attorney-general said on monday that detailed questioning of detainees had already produced a great deal of evidence , but gave no more details .
senior saudi officials did not respond to requests for information on the investigation .
a gulf-based lawyer familiar with international corruption cases said there were two channels through which saudi arabia could pursue assets abroad .
in cases where riyadh had a signed a treaty or convention with a foreign country , it could use this to obtain assistance gathering evidence before seeking to seize assets via the court system .
however , saudi arabia does not have such a treaty with the united states , switzerland and many other countries .
saudi arabia could also send a letter of request to a relevant ministry in the other nation .
this would be a test of its diplomatic influence in foreign capitals .
businessmen in detention include international investor prince prince alwaleed bin talal , whose wealth was estimated by forbes magazine before the crackdown at $ 17 billion ; mohammad al-amoudi at $ 10.4 billion , with construction , agriculture and energy companies in sweden , saudi arabia and ethiopia ; and finance and healthcare magnate saleh kamel at $ 2.3 billion .
repatriating assets could be so hard that riyadh may try to avoid foreign legal action altogether in many cases , instead making deals with detained tycoons and princes that in effect legalize their fortunes in exchange for a share of their money , some bankers and consultants say .
the government will also strike deals with businessmen and royals to avoid arrest , but only as part of a greater commitment to the local economy , said ayham kamel , eurasia group s practice head , middle east & north africa in a note .
saudi wealth stored abroad : tmsnrt.rs/2znhlrl