( reuters ) - a populist politician whose party could emerge as a kingmaker at this month s new zealand election has called for an inquiry into whether a member of the ruling national party government has been working for china s intelligence services .
earlier this week the financial times reported that national party member jian yang spent a decade at elite chinese military academies and has been under investigation by new zealand s national intelligence agency .
winston peters , whose new zealand first party is widely expected to form a ruling coalition with either the national or labour parties , said that new zealanders should be very concerned .
national must act now and a full inquiry is required .
peters said on his official twitter account .
there must be proof dr yang is not a risk .
meanwhile , dr yang must step aside .
yang who is 55 , had lived in china until he was 32 , the financial times said .
no information about his chinese education or military background was included in his official biographies in new zealand or those published when he was an academic at auckland university , it said .
yang , who has been a major fundraiser for the national party and has pushed for closer ties with beijing , told media that he was the victim of a smear campaign and denied passing on any information to china during his time in new zealand .
i can understand people can be concerned , because they do not understand chinese system , but once they understand the system they should be assured this is nothing really you should be concerned about , he said according to a newshub report .
prime minister and national party leader bill english said that he was well aware of yang s background , employment and training in china .
this is a new zealand citizen .
dr jian is a new zealand citizen .
the country is happy to have him as a citizen , english told new zealand s 1news .
english said he had been aware from early on that dr yang had had military training , including military intelligence .
he s never tried to hide that background , english said .
meanwhile , labour leader and contender for the premiership jacinda ardern declined to comment , saying only it was an issue for the national party to respond to , according to the report .