beijing ( reuters ) - china has launched more rigorous investigations into the activities and finances of rights lawyers and law firms that take on politically sensitive issues , human rights watch said on tuesday , in its multi-year campaign to stifle dissent .
china has arrested , jailed or detained thousands of rights lawyers and activists since president xi jinping launched a sweeping crackdown in the summer of 2015 .
judicial officials and police are investigating the cases and finances at seven law firms that often work on rights abuses , lawyers at the firms told the new york-based human rights watch .
with unusually high-level officials performing scrutiny on site for days , the duration of investigations has exceeded that of previous regular checks on such firms , it added .
while china s human rights lawyers are no strangers to official harassment , these sudden , invasive probes send an alarming message , sophie richardson , the group s washington-based china director , said in a statement .
china s justice ministry did not immediately respond to a faxed request for comment from reuters .
china has defended the new measures against critics by saying it is a country with the rule of law , and that those found guilty are criminals who damaged social stability and endangered national security .
there has been an open attack on rights lawyers under xi , and the probes should be considered in the context of the attack , said maya wang , a china researcher for hrw based in hong kong .
it is meant to tell lawyers that this is not over , that they had better be on their best behavior for the 19th party congress , wang said , referring to a five-yearly leadership reshuffle of the ruling communist party set to begin on oct. 18 .
political checks and requirements for law firms have also been tightened under xi , making it harder for lawyers to take sensitive cases , activists say , especially as law firms can be held jointly accountable for individual violations .
chinese law firms are required to explicitly support the party and to set up an internal party branch , while lawyers are banned from expressing opinions that endanger national security or reject china s political system .
in the run-up to the party congress , xi has also urged public security officials to ensure stability and maintain the party s authority and unified leadership .
[ nl4n1m11ey ]