sara carter of circa news is a very trusted source who goes deep like no other journalist we know .
carter is reporting that national security advisor , h.r .
mcmaster has been communicating white house internal information to deep state acting fbi director andy mccabe.investigating : sources say , mcmaster has been communicating wh internal politics 2 acting fbi director andy mccabe .
more shake-ups ?
sara a. carter ( @ saracarterdc ) july 28 , 2017we ve written extensively on mccabe who was in hot water for doing unscrupulous things ( see below ) during his wife s campaign .
his loyalty to trump has been called into question numerous times .
the timing is interesting because judicial watch just filed three lawsuits for info on mccabe.investigative reporter mike cernovich has been reporting for months that mcmaster is on the globalist s agenda and secretly working against president trump s america first plans .
it has also been previously reported that comey s replacement as acting fbi head , andrew mccabe , has ties to the hillary clinton campaign.mccabe is also being investigated by the office of u.s .
counsel violating the hatch act which prohibits fbi agents from campaigning in partisan races .
concerns arose when different media outlets found that a political action committee affiliated with virginia governor terry mcauliffe ( who has ties to bill and hilary clinton ) contributed almost $ 500,000 to the 2015 virginia state senate campaign of mccabe s wife , jill mccabe .
she also received $ 207,788 from the virginia democratic party , which is connected to mcauliffe , a democrat.our previous report on the fbi s mccabe being under investigation : acting fbi director andrew mccabe is being investigated by the office of u.s .
counsel violating the hatch act according to a new report by circa news.the hatch act prohibits fbi agents from campaigning in partisan races .
photos of mccabe campaigning for his wife raised questions about mccabe s compliance with the law.acting fbi director andrew mccabe is being investigated by the office of u.s. special counsel for violating the hatch act that prohibits fbi agents from campaigning in partisan races.the office of u.s. special counsel , the government s main whistleblower agency , is investigating whether fbi deputy director andrew mccabe s activities supporting his wife jill s democratic campaign for virginia state senate in 2015 violated the hatch act s prohibition against fbi agents campaigning in partisan races .
i am voting for jill because she is the best wife ever , mccabe put on a sign that he photographed himself holding .
the photo was posted on her social media page a few days before the election , in response to dr. jill mccabe s plea to help me win by posting photos expressing reasons why voters should vote for her , according to the complaint.other social media photos in the complaint showed mccabe s minor daughter campaigning with her mother , wearing an fbi shirt , and mccabe voting with his wife at a polling station.here is another social media photo of our acting # fbi director , # andrewmccabe breaking the rules by campaigning on social media .
# corrupt pic.twitter.com/hbch29yery senator dick black ( @ senrichardblack ) may 9 , 2017the hatch act prohibits fbi employees from engaging in political activity in concert with a political party , a candidate for partisan political office , or a partisan political group .
it defines prohibited political activity as any activity directed at the success or failure of a partisan group or candidate in a partisan election .
an ethics expert told circa the photos raised legitimate questions about mccabe s compliance with the law.meanwhile , virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe s office released to circa under the freedom of information act documents showing mccabe attended a meeting with his wife and the governor on a saturday in march 2015 specifically to discuss having jill mccabe run for state senate in virginia as a democrat .
this is a candidate recruitment meeting .
mccabe is seriously considering running against state senator dick black .
you have been asked to close the deal , the briefing memo for mcauliffe read.watch sean hannity discuss mccabe s involvement in his wife s campaign as well as his ties to hillary s campaign : included in the governor s briefing package was a copy of mccabe s fbi biography .
the biography made clear that andrew mccabe was a senior executive who at the time oversaw the fbi s washington field office that among many tasks supervised investigations in northern virginia.at the time of the meeting , published reports indicate agents in the washington field office were involved in both a probe of mcauliffe and of the governor s close friend , hillary clinton s and her private email account.h/t gateway punditread more : gateway pundit