new delhi ( reuters ) - the indian capital declared a pollution emergency and banned the entry of trucks and construction activity as a toxic smog hung over the city for a third day on thursday and air quality worsened by the hour .
illegal crop burning in the farm states surrounding new delhi , vehicle exhaust emissions in a city with limited public transport and swirling construction dust have caused the crisis , which arises every year .
the problem has been compounded this year by still conditions , the weather office said .
a u.s. embassy measure of tiny particulate matter pm 2.5 showed a reading of 608 at 10 a.m. when the safe limit is 50 .
an hour before it was 591 .
pm 2.5 is particulate matter about 30 times finer than a human hair .
the particles can be inhaled deep into the lungs , causing heart attacks , strokes , lung cancer and respiratory diseases .
residents complained of headaches , coughs and smarting eyes .
many stayed home and restaurants in some of the city s most crowded parts were deserted .
i d like to assure people that the central government shall do everything possible to bring about improvement in air quality in delhi and the nation capital region , federal environment minister harsh vardhan said as authorities faced criticism for failing to take steps to fight a problem that erupts every year .
the haze covered india gate , a war memorial in the center of the city where britain s prince charles and his wife camilla were due to pay respects in a two-day trip ending on thursday .
schools have been shut for the week and late on wednesday the city administration announced a set of measures to try to clean up the air .
commercial trucks have been banned from the city unless they are transporting essential commodities , all construction has been stopped and car parking charges raised four times to force residents to use public transport .
the delhi transport department said it would take a decision later in the day on whether to introduce an odd-even scheme under which cars with license plates ending in an odd number are allowed one day and even-numbered cars the next .
but experts said these measures were unlikely to bring immediate relief .
there is such a cloud over us that you probably need artificial rain or some such to clear this , said dr vivek nangia , a pulmonologist at delhi s fortis hospital .
video images shot by ani , a reuters affiliate , showed farmers illegally burning crop stubble in rohtak , about 65 km from delhi .
farmers in haryana , where rohtak is located , and punjab , the two big agrarian states surrounding delhi , burn millions of tonnes of crop waste around october every year before sowing the winter crop of wheat .
state authorities say it is hard to enforce the ban unless farmers , a powerful political constituency , are given funds to buy machinery to clear their land .
punjab chief minister amarinder singh said in a twitter post : situation is serious but punjab helpless as problem is widespread & state has no money to compensate farmers for stubble management .