manila ( reuters ) - a tropical storm in the southern philippines triggered mudslides and flash floods that killed more than 100 people , while dozens are missing , police and disaster officials said on saturday .
the casualties , most of them caused late on friday , were all on the main southern island of mindanao , they said , adding three provinces were hardest hit .
disaster officials said many residents had ignored warnings to leave coastal areas and riverbanks .
many people were swept to the sea as flood waters quickly rose due to the high tide , manuel luis ochotorena , a disaster agency official , said .
they never heeded the warnings .
they thought it was a weak storm but it dumped more rains .
hundreds of kilometers to the east , army and emergency workers were checking reports an entire village was buried by mudslide in tubod town in lanao del norte .
ryan cabus , a local official , said power and communication lines to the area had been cut , complicating rescue efforts .
the weather bureau said the storm had gathered strength over the sulu sea and was packing winds of up 80 kph ( 50 mph ) and moving west at 20 kph .
it was heading out over the sea by midday on saturday and would have moved clear of the philippines by monday , it said .
emergency workers , soldiers , police and volunteers were being mobilized to search for survivors , clear debris , and restore power and communications .
more than 100 deaths were reported in various places including 60 in tubod , el salvador and munai towns in lanao del norte province .
in zamboanga del norte province , police said 42 people had been killed in the towns of sibuco and salug .
three people were killed in bukidnon province , while politicians in lanao del sur province said 18 people had drowned in flash floods there .
sixty-four people were reported missing in floods and landslides , according to a tally of reports form officials and police .
the philippines is battered by about 20 typhoons every year , bringing death and destruction , usually to the poorest communities .
last week , 46 people were killed in the central philippines when a typhoon hit .
in 2013 , super typhoon haiyan killed nearly 8,000 people and left 200,000 families homeless .