united nations ( reuters ) - at the entrance to the united nations building in new york a sign advertises an upcoming party to celebrate the end of the annual gathering of world leaders .
next to it a weathered box with crumpled papers urges people to donate for syrian refugees .
the contrast is striking a year after nations jousted verbally for a week in the same halls attempting to strike a ceasefire deal as russia and iran backed syrian government troops in a brutal advance on the then rebel bastion of aleppo .
but tensions in the korean peninsula and a growing crisis over the fate of a nuclear agreement between iran and world powers has relegated talk of resolving the six-year-old syrian civil war to back rooms and bilateral chitchat as international diplomacy struggles to find a strategy to end the crisis .
on the ground , violence between government forces and rebels has been drastically reduced after the creation of de-escalation zones in the west of the country negotiated between russia , turkey and iran in astana , the capital of kazakhstan .
a separate effort between russia , jordan and the united states has also helped in the south .
its backers say the zones have restored some security to syrians and open the way for local reconciliation .
its detractors warn that they will fragment the country and lead to a more radicalised opposition .
you don t have the u.s. and the europeans around the table and that is a huge defeat for all of us .
this astana process is just a military de-escalation process and it must be supplemented with a political process , french president emmanuel macron , whose country supports rebels and urges the departure of syrian president bashar al-assad , told reporters this week .
but there appears little momentum for that .
while all actors in the conflict agree on the common goal of defeating islamic state and al-qaeda-backed militants , an objective that is well on course , there is no consensus on how to breathe fresh life into the political process .
that has been compounded by the arrival of the trump administration whose priority in syria is focused on destroying islamist groups and curbing iran s influence .
meanwhile , they have reduced support for some opposition groups .
the american withdrawal has left russia dominating the entire process , riad hijab , the head of the opposition high negotiations committee ( hnc ) , told reuters in new york .
the last major international attempt to resolve the crisis ended in failure when the international syria support group ( issg ) was cast aside after syrian government forces retook aleppo in 2016 .
u.n.-brokered peace talks in geneva that have pitted a government delegation against a divided opposition for several years with the ultimate aim of implementing an existing u.n. roadmap have been kept on life-support as sponsors of the warring parties fail to pressure them to engage in dialogue .
the question is , are these de-escalation areas going to be limited for six months or do they risk becoming a de facto partition of syria ?
u.n. special envoy staffan de mistura told a sparsely attended meeting on the crisis .
it s time for geneva to ensure sustainability of de-escalation , he said .
if we miss this we will be regretting it once again .
those talks are tentatively scheduled to resume at the end october .
there is growing pressure on the riyadh-based opposition , which has suffered repeated reversals since the start of the year , to restructure by including groups that have closer ties to russia , but also shaking up its top leadership .
western and arab diplomats argue that it aims to merely strengthen moscow s hand in any future negotiating process .
now that the opposition no longer has the hope to win the war , things can be different , but if we put up a fragmented , demoralized and radicalised opposition in geneva versus a regime that , while weak , believes it can win , then nothing will happen in geneva , a senior european diplomat said .
it s time for the sponsors to blow the final whistle .
but after a week at the united nations , there was little sign of progress .
a french effort to get the five permanent members of the security council - britain , china , france , russia and the united states - to talk to each other yielded no concrete results .
there s a lot of wariness and mistrust from russia who think we have a hidden agenda and the united states ... who are obsessed with iran , said a senior french diplomat .
at no point have the powers ever been clear on what they want so we want to now have that conversation .
how russia and iran see the political evolution remains unclear given their interests and influence in syria have never been greater .
iran s foreign minister mohammad javad zarif , whose country may be feeling under pressure after this week s barrage of threats from u.s. president donald trump , on thursday urged all the sponsors to commit to ourselves that there will be no solution without a political solution .
speaking at the high-level syria meeting , russia s deputy foreign minister gennady gatilov pushed for a new round of geneva talks .
however , he condemned as unacceptable the west s attitude in refusing to help fund reconstruction of areas taken back by syrian government-backed forces , a sign perhaps that moscow is concerned about its long-term role in the country .
the united states , britain and france have all dismissed that idea , believing they can use the promise of reconstruction to push assad and his allies to the negotiating table .
absent a credible political horizon that can lead to a transition that s supported by a majority of the syrian people , the reality is the international community will not be coming in with significant reconstruction assistance , said brett mcgurk , u.s. special envoy for the coalition against islamic state .