goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - congo and uganda are planning a joint military operation against a congo-based ugandan rebel group blamed for an attack that killed 15 united nations peacekeepers , army officials from the two countries said on wednesday .
fighters from the allied democratic forces are suspected of being behind the dec. 8 assault on a base manned by tanzanian u.n. troops in the democratic republic of congo s troubled eastern borderlands .
the attack , which also killed five congolese soldiers and wounded another 53 peacekeepers , and came amid a rising wave of violence in the mineral-rich area .
the commanders of the adf are ugandan citizens .
a mechanism will be outlined so the two armies can share intelligence and carry out a coordinated operation , said general marcel mbangu mashita , a senior congolese army commander in the east .
representatives from the two armies met in the congolese border town of kasindi last week .
under the plan , ugandan troops will not cross over into congolese territory but instead be concentrated along the border .
( the ugandan army ) is reinforcing security on the common border with congo in order to dissuade any attempt by the adf to cross over and attack targets of interest in uganda , ugandan army spokesman brigadier richard karemire said .
congo s u.n. peacekeeping mission , monusco , has pledged to track down those responsible for the attack on its base .
but it was not involved in the bilateral talks between the congolese and ugandan officials .
rival militia groups control parts of eastern congo , long after the official end of a 1998-2003 war in which millions of people died , mostly from hunger and disease .
congo and uganda were enemies during that conflict and , in the years since , relations between the two countries have at times been strained .
increased militia violence this year in the center and east comes as congo faces a political crisis linked to president joseph kabila s refusal to step down when his mandate expired last december .
the adf is an islamist group that has long been active along the border and has been blamed for a wave of massacres there over the past two years .
since its leader jamil mukulu was arrested in 2015 , it has been headed by musa baluku .
general mashita said previous congolese operations had succeeded in eliminating around a third of the adf s top commanders , but added that its ranks had been bolstered by escaped prisoners after a major prison break in june .