washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on monday rejected new zealand-based internet mogul kim dotcom s challenge to the u.s. government s bid to seize assets held by him and others involved in the now-defunct streaming website megaupload .
the justices left in place a lower court ruling that the u.s. government could seize up to $ 40 million in assets held outside the united states as part of a civil forfeiture action being pursued in parallel with criminal charges for alleged copyright violations and money laundering .
dotcom and several other defendants have contested u.s. attempts to extradite them from new zealand .
german-born entrepreneur dotcom is wanted by u.s. law enforcement authorities on copyright and money-laundering allegations related to megaupload , which was shut down in 2012 following an fbi-ordered raid on his auckland mansion .
he was indicted the same year along with fellow megaupload executives .
it s no surprise because the chance to be heard by the u.s. supreme court is very slim in general , dotcom said in an email to reuters .
the seizure is also being challenged in courts in hong kong and new zealand , whose authorities have restrained dotcom s assets at the u.s. government s request .
dotcom s lawyer ira rothken said that his team was cautiously optimistic about those court proceedings .
kim dotcom has never been to the united states , is presumed innocent , and is lawfully opposing extradition ... yet the doj ( department of justice ) by merely labeling him as a fugitive gets a judgment to take all of his assets with no due process , rothken said in an email .
u.s. authorities say dotcom and his colleagues cost film studios and record companies more than $ 500 million and generated more than $ 175 million in profits by encouraging paying users to store and share copyrighted material including movies and tv shows .
the u.s. government sought up to $ 175 million in assets but the defendants say the assets in question are worth only around $ 40 million .
the assets include two houses , luxury cars and bank accounts .
a new zealand court ruled in february that dotcom and three other new zealand-based defendants - finn batato , mathias ortmann and bram van der kolk - could be extradited to the united states to face the charges .
two other indicted megaupload associates , sven echternach and julius bencko , who live in germany and slovakia respectively , have not been arrested , according to court filings .
the defendants contested the u.s. government s forfeiture claims , saying in part that it could not seize property under the jurisdiction of a foreign court .
the u.s. government s legal argument , adopted by the appeals court , is that the defendants are fugitives seeking to avoid criminal prosecution in the united states and therefore are not allowed to contest the forfeiture .
the richmond , virginia-based 4th u.s .
circuit court of appeals ruled against dotcom in august 2016 , and he asked the supreme court to hear his appeal .