srebrenica , bosnia ( reuters ) - almir salihovic sits in his office in srebrenica , waiting for a u.n. tribunal to give its judgment on the man accused of massacring his cousins and uncles there in 1995 .
he is hoping for a measure of justice , but little else .
the businessman was 10 when he fled through the woods with his father and brother as bosnian serb soldiers opened fire behind them .
the troops killed more than 8,000 muslim men and boys in the days that followed .
next week the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia will give its verdict on ratko mladic , the former bosnian serb general accused of overseeing the murders and other war crimes , including the siege of sarajevo .
a guilty verdict on nov. 22 would give some personal satisfaction to victims , salihovic told reuters at his transportation company in the eastern town , where his family returned in 2004 .
but it would do little else - certainly nothing to heal the deeper traumas and still gaping divides .
for most serbs he will remain a hero , for others he will be the butcher and criminal , and we will continue to live in our folds , side by side , not together , he said .
we carry the burden of a terrible crime that puts inter-ethnic relations under pressure .
the legacy of a commander who led the bosnian serb army in its swift takeover of two-thirds of the country during the 1992-95 war still divides muslim bosniaks and serbs in bosnia .
for srebrenica muslims , mladic is a symbol of the chaos and killings that broke out when his forces took over the u.n-protected eastern enclave where about 40,000 muslims from eastern bosnia had sought refuge .
for serbs the 74-year-old is a proud general who won the territory with very few of his own casualties .
srebrenica s own serb mayor mladen grujicic says the killings did not amount to genocide - and the two international courts who ruled that they did were biased against his fellow serbs .
it will take many more years to reveal the complete truth , which is not favoring any side , grujicic told reuters .
we in both communities are victims while higher agendas are at stake , he added , without elaborating .
srebrenica is now a shrinking town where about 7,000 muslim bosniaks and serbs still live side by side , suspicious of each other and divided by the past .
one thing they do share is their poverty .
the town is dotted with empty houses , left behind by people seeking a better life .
this year the only bakery and butchers shop had to close down .
srebrenica was once known for its metal plant and nearby lead , zinc and gold mines .
these days , the main landmark is the cemetery on its outskirts and the 6,575 white tombstones marking the remains of the victims that authorities have managed to find .
in 2010 , i buried my children and husband .
nobody should go through it ever again .
now i live alone , and i should not have had to live alone if it was not for some hotheads , said hatidza mehmedovic .
the 66-year-old comes every day to tend the graves of her husband and two sons killed in what is widely seen as europe s worst atrocity since the world war two .
this is not life , this is hell , this is a life of punishment , mehmedovic told reuters .
further southwest , in mladic s home village of bozanovici , his cousins are also waiting for the tribunal s verdict .
they fear he will be jailed for crimes they say he did not commit .
i would be happiest if he died before the judgment , his uncle mile mladic told reuters .
we would then raise a large monument for him in the village and write the truth .
all this that is happening is not the truth .
it is a lie .
the general is not guilty .