new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidates donald trump and ted cruz turned to twitter to defend their wives ’ honor after a super pac put out an ad featuring trump ’ s wife nude and trump threatened to “ spill the beans ” on cruz ’ s wife .
trump ’ s threat came on tuesday night when he was upset about an ad that showed his wife , former model melania trump , lounging nude with a caption saying , “ meet melania trump .
your next first lady .
or , you could support ted cruz on tuesday. ” trump said cruz was behind the ad , which appeared on tuesday , the day of nominating contests in utah , where the heavily mormon electorate favored cruz in its caucuses , and arizona , which gave trump a victory in its primary vote .
the ad said it was from make america awesome , a super pac that is allowed to promote a candidate but not coordinate with the campaign .
“ wow @ sentedcruz , that is some low level ad you did using a picture [ of ] melania in a g.q .
shoot , ” trump tweeted on tuesday .
“ be careful or i will spill the beans on your wife. ” trump later deleted the tweet but published another that read : “ lyin ’ ted cruz just used a picture of melania from a g.q .
shoot in his ad .
be careful , lyin ’ ted , or i will spill the beans on your wife ! ” trump did not indicate what kind of beans he intended to spill about heidi cruz , who is on leave from an executive job at goldman sachs while campaigning , but her husband quickly came to her defense on twitter .
“ pic of your wife not from us , ” the u.s. senator from texas said .
“ donald , if you try to attack heidi , you ’ re more of a coward than i thought .
# classless. ” the battle continued on wednesday with cruz telling cnn : “ he went directly after my wife .
if donald wants to get in a character fight , he ’ s better off sticking with me because heidi is way out of his league. ” a twitter response from trump questioned cruz ’ honesty .
“ lyin ’ ted cruz denied that he had anything to do with the g.q .
model photo post of melania .
that ’ s why we call him lyin ’ ted ! ” he said .
the director of make america awesome , liz mair , posted on twitter that her group was responsible for the ad .
she did not respond to an email from reuters seeking comment .
in a campaign appearance for her husband in waukesha , wisconsin , heidi cruz addressed the uproar briefly .
“ you probably know by now that most of the things that donald trump says have no basis in reality , ” she told reporters .
“ so we are not worried in the least . ”