islamabad ( reuters ) - shelling along the disputed border between pakistan and india killed six civilians , and wounded an additional 30 people , officials from the two sides said on friday , in the latest confrontation between the two nuclear-armed countries .
the clash came on the heels of the two arch-foes trading accusations at the united nations general assembly in new york .
the firing took place across the frontier separating pakistan s punjab province from indian-administered kashmir s jammu region , and most of the casualties were reported on the pakistani side .
pakistan s military said six civilians were killed and 26 wounded .
pakistan rangers punjab befittingly responded on posts targeting civil population , the pakistan army s public relations wing said in a statement .
indian police officials in jammu said the ceasefire was violated by pakistani forces , who injured four civilians on the indian side .
both countries claim kashmir , and have fought two of their three wars over the himalayan region , which they have disputed since partition and independence from british colonial rule in 1947 .
in july , four soldiers were killed when indian shelling from across the line of control ( loc ) that separates parts of kashmir held by both countries struck a pakistani army vehicle .
indian officials denied any knowledge of the incident .
in may , india accused pakistani forces of killing two soldiers patrolling the loc and mutilating their bodies .
pakistan s military denied the allegations and said it had not committed ceasefire violations .
both sides have previously accused each of violating the ceasefire and of beheading soldiers in the past .
on thursday in new york , pakistani prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi urged the un secretary general to appoint a special envoy for kashmir .
he accused india s military of brutality in a crackdown against anti-india activists .
hundreds of kashmiris have been killed or injured and shotgun pellets have blinded and maimed others , he said .
india rejected the allegation , terming pakistan a home to terrorism that harbors violent militants .
india accuses pakistan of backing several anti-india militant groups and helping them infiltrate the kashmir to stoke violence and carry out terrorist acts .
pakistan denies the charge .