unreal !
mooch gets millions for pakistani girls ?
the american taxpayers should be outraged by this !
let pakistan empower its own people !
michelle obama has been traveling all over the world with the let girls learn initiative as her pet project .
the only thing is that most of the places she s traveled to have a great track record with educating girls .
it s just one big around the world vacation for mooch compliments of the american taxpayer .
judicial watch s tom fitton had this to say about the trip : the obama family continues to bill the taxpayers for costly tourism jaunts thinly disguised as humanitarian crusades european vacation : mooch runs up a huge tab compliments of the taxpayers could someone please remind this woman that america is broke !
as public schools around the united states suffer through a perpetual financial crisis , the obama administration commits a breathtaking $ 70 million to help educate girls in a terrorist nation known as al qaeda headquarters .
it s part of the first lady s initiative ( let girls learn ) to educate and empower an estimated 62 million girls in third-world countries who are not in school .
a noble cause indeed , but it s costing american taxpayers huge sums while kids especially minorities in this country struggle in schools that aren t adequately funded , according to public education advocates .
we know that countries with more girls in secondary school tend to have lower maternal mortality rates , lower infant mortality rates , lower rates of hiv/aids , and better child nutrition , according to the initiative s website .
but too often , a girl who could change her world for the better is locked out of that future by the circumstances of her birth or the customs of her community .
so it s uncle sam to the rescue .
the government of pakistan , which is included in the state department s country reports on terrorism , will get the $ 70 million to promote education among 200,000 girls and young women age 10-19 .
the announcement was initially made during a white house event this month with the wife and daughter of pakistan s prime minister , nawaz sharif .
the program will serve as a platform and catalyst for broader political and social commitment to strengthen girls education and empowerment in pakistan , according to a government announcement .
young women in pakistan face barriers and lack of access to education opportunities from an early age due to poverty , cultural norms , and geographic isolation , the announcement states .
the question remains ; should american tax dollars go to this foreign education cause when public schools in this country have been hurting for years ?
besides financial troubles , there s an epidemic of low-performing schools and dismal graduation rates around the country , especially in the nation s inner cities .
they could probably use a few million to create programs that might help improve academic performance or perhaps empower needy students like the multi-million-dollar allocation is predicted to help empower girls in pakistan .
the public school district in the obamas own hometown of chicago could use some extra cash .
by thanksgiving as many as 5,000 teachers could be laid off unless the 367,499-student district chicago public schools gets a $ 500 million bailout from the state .
a recent editorial in the area s mainstream newspaper says that it has been a disastrous time for chicago public schools .
the piece is accompanied by an illustration of a yellow school bus with corruption & politics in our schools plastered across the side .
districts across the nation are in similar situations .
in detroit , michigan the public school system has a $ 515 million debt and among the nation s worst performing students .
read more : judicial watch