moscow/washington ( reuters ) - the kremlin-backed television station rt america registered monday with the u.s. department of justice as a foreign agent in the united states , the outlet s editor in chief said and the department of justice confirmed later in the day .
u.s. intelligence agencies said in a report in january that the television station , which broadcasts on cable in the united states , is russia s state-run propaganda machine and that it contributed to the kremlin s campaign to interfere with last year s presidential election in favor of republican party candidate donald trump .
after that report , the department of justice insisted that rt america comply with registration requirements under the foreign agent registration act ( fara ) .
under the act , rt will be required to disclose financial information .
moscow has repeatedly denied the allegations of election meddling and said it views the actions against rt as an unfriendly act .
but rt s editor in chief , margarita simonyan , said on monday that it would comply with the demand in order to avoid further legal action by the u.s. government .
between a criminal case and registration , we chose the latter .
we congratulate american freedom of speech and all those who still believe in it , simonyan said on twitter .
the department of justice confirmed that it received a registration from t & r productions llc , which has operated studios for rt , hired and paid u.s.-based employees and produced english-language programming .
americans have a right to know who is acting in the united states to influence the u.s. government or public on behalf of foreign principals , said acting assistant attorney general dana boente .
in october , twitter announced it would no longer allow advertisements from rt and another kremlin-backed news organization , citing intelligence that the television station participated in efforts to influence the election .
fara requires foreign governments , political parties and the lobbyists and public relations firms they hire in the united states to register with the department of justice .
fara was first passed in 1938 in the lead up to world war two in an effort to combat german propaganda efforts .
foreign government-owned news organizations , including china daily , the english-language newspaper owned by china s government , register under fara .
the law applies to companies that are owned or controlled by foreign governments .
the united states and russia are engaged in a back-and-forth over foreign agent registration .
russia s parliament warned on friday that some u.s. and other foreign media could also be declared foreign agents in response to the actions against rt , requiring them to regularly declare full details of their funds , financing and staffing .
u.s. government-sponsored radio free europe/radio liberty ( rfe/rl ) , cnn and germany s deutsche welle could all be affected by the retaliatory measures , a senior russian lawmaker said earlier on monday .
while traveling in asia , trump touted the relationship between himself and russia and posted on twitter that improved relations with the country would a good thing , not a bad thing .