nairobi ( reuters ) - burundi s cabinet backed a constitutional change that would allow its president to stay in office until 2034 , widening a political rift that has driven the country progressively deeper into crisis .
under existing laws , burundian presidents are limited to two five-year terms .
unrest that has gripped burundi since april 2015 , when pierre nkurunziza announced he would stand for a third , has killed hundreds , left the economy moribund and forced about 400,000 people to seek safety in neighboring countries .
un rights investigators and independent activists have accused government forces of widespread violations including forced disappearances , and of orchestrating a campaign of terror .
a senior government official told reuters on friday that the cabinet adopted the draft legislation seeking to amend the constitution on tuesday .
nkurunziza , who has been in office since 2005 , won re-election in july 2015 in a ballot that critics said violated the constitution and the terms of an agreement that ended a previous rebellion .
nkurunziza s backers said the country s constitutional court had cleared him to run again , but some opponents took up arms against his rule and insecurity has plagued the country since .
other african leaders have in the recent past also tinkered with or defied their constitutions to extend their rule , including uganda s president yoweri museveni , rwanda s paul kagame and democratic republic of congo s joseph kabila .
proposed amendments under the burundian bill seek to abolish the two-term limit and lengthen presidential terms to seven years .
incumbents would be able to serve two consecutive terms of seven years each and also be eligible to seek re-election after an interregnum .
if the amendment was passed by parliament , the current head of state can rule until 2034 , the source said .
a second official told reuters the government would hold a referendum on the draft legislation next year , but did not say which month .
opposition officials have criticized the legislation which they say was initiated in secrecy and designed to entrench nkurunziza in power .
no one knew what was being done .
it was done in total secrecy ... we will always oppose it , deputy president of the opposition frodebu party , leonce ngendakumana , told reuters .
the constitution should not be revised in a tense social climate .