medellin , colombia ( reuters ) - pope francis on saturday travels to medellin , once notorious as the stomping grounds of drug lord pablo escobar , to find a city transformed since his predecessor pope john paul visited in 1986 .
violence between cartels , paramilitary groups and guerrillas raged in the poor comuna neighborhoods on its outskirts and the late pontiff was moved to decry drug violence .
instead , francis is expected to honor the commitment and sacrifice of those who dedicate themselves to religious vocations when he says mass for a crowd expected to draw hundreds of thousands of people near an airport .
he also visits a home for children who were victims of violence and addresses priests , nuns , seminarians and their families at the la macarena bullring .
in the 1980s and early 1990s , violence between cartels , paramilitary groups and guerrillas raged in the poor comuna neighborhoods on its outskirts and the visiting pontiff was moved to decry drug violence .
the city is now heralded as a model of urban development .
it has installed cable cars up the steep andean slopes that surround it to save working-class residents a punishing climb home and built libraries in neighborhoods once host to gun battles .
feared drug trafficker escobar , medellin s most infamous resident , was gunned down in the city in a u.s.-backed operation in 1993 .
he was recently resurrected as a character in the popular netflix series narcos .
during his visit to the city , francis will highlight those who choose the habit and the cassock over secular careers , as the number of new entrants to vocations in the roman catholic church has slumped .
at the la macarena meeting , francis will also pray before the relics of mother laura montoya , a nun who was the first female colombian saint .
montoya was a teacher and prolific author who hosted classes in her own home when the 1895 civil war forced schools to close .
the leader of the world s 1.2 billion roman catholics has brought a message of national reconciliation as the country tries to heal the wounds left by the conflict and bitter disagreements over a peace deal with guerrillas agreed last year .
on friday in the tropical city of villavicencio , he urged colombians skeptical of a the deal with the farc guerrillas to be open to reconciliation with those who have repented , speaking hours after a top rebel leader asked the pontiff for forgiveness ..
he visits the city of cartagena on sunday before leaving for rome that night .