no wonder donald trump is accusing everything of being rigged the polls are no longer showing trump beating hillary clinton .
some polls have her six points ahead , some seven , some as high as fifteen.but a new poll from the conservative fox news shows a very telling attitude in the public s shift towards hillary clinton .
as it turns out , clinton is leading the conservative-dream-come-true by 10 points , 49 percent to 39 percent , well above the margin of error ( 3 percent ) .the poll shows some very good news for clinton : she s winning over the obama coalition ( which , as we all know , secured his reelection ) when it comes to being qualified for the office of the presidency , clinton leads trump by 22 points ( 65-43 ) .when it comes to the temperament to be president ?
clinton , once again , bests trump , by 27 points ( 64-37 ) .when it comes to having the knowledge to be president ?
guess who takes the lead !
you guessed it !
clinton does , by 32 points ( 72-40 ) .trump is only winning men by 5 points , 45-40 , and whites by 10 points .
interesting enough , when it comes to whites without a college degree , he leads by only 16 .
considering trump needs a blowout win amongst whites and men to win , these numbers should make republicans nervous .
trump is currently underperforming all of these demographics when compared to mitt romney in 2012.when factoring in libertarian gary johnson , who gets 12 percent support , clinton still comes out on top with 44 percent to trump s 35 percent.this poll is drastically different than their matchup in may , where trump was beating clinton by 3 percentage points , which sent liberals into a frenzy.something that also helps clinton ?
president obama s approval rating .
currently , according to the fox news poll , president obama stands at 52 percent approval while 45 percent disapprove .
that s his best showing on a fox news poll since may 2011 when osama bin laden was killed.as trump continues his decent into madness , clinton is looking like the savior we ve all needed during this atypical election season .
liberals , remember , vote !
if one thing rings true it s that trump is unpredictable .
who knows what his temper will be like in the next three months.featured image via justin sullivan/getty images