frankfurt ( reuters ) - a swiss man was handed a suspended prison term of nearly two years and a fine on thursday for spying on a german tax authority , in a case that has pitted swiss bank secrecy against germany s clampdown on tax evasion .
the penalty was relatively modest as spying for a foreign state is punishable in germany by up to five years in prison , but the frankfurt court said the man , identified only as daniel m. , had no prior convictions and had made a full confession .
daniel m. , 54 , had tried to get the personal contact details of german tax officials for swiss intelligence , which wanted to prosecute them for obtaining secret bank data .
german states including the one in question , north rhine-westphalia , have over the past few years gotten hold of cds containing details of bank accounts held secretly in switzerland by germans hoping to avoid tax .
swiss authorities say this amounts to the theft of business secrets , while german officials say they are combating illegal tax evasion .
lawyers for daniel m. , whose spying activities lasted from 2011 until 2015 , had argued that their client was simply a patriot caught between two ideologies .
the court , which handed him a suspended prison term of a year and 10 months and a fine of 40,000 euros ( $ 46,392 ) , acknowledged that he had suffered considerable financial damage since being detained in frankfurt in may .
but it also criticized his cooperation with swiss intelligence over a period of at least two and a half years .
the depiction of the defendant s actions as those of a swiss patriot did not convince the court , especially because tax evasion , the reason for the tax officials actions , is not considered morally protected behavior in switzerland either , the court said in a statement .
the swiss banking act requires employees of swiss-regulated banks to keep client information confidential , but a number of staff have leaked account details to foreign authorities in the past decade as western governments crack down on tax evasion .
whistleblowers and new disclosure standards have proven costly for swiss banks , which have suffered hundreds of billions of dollars in outflows as a result .
over a third of swiss private banks have permanently closed .