washington ( reuters ) - more than 90 republican foreign policy veterans have pledged to oppose donald trump , saying his proposals would undermine u.s. security , in the latest sign of fissures between the republican presidential front-runner and the party establishment .
“ mr .
trump ’ s own statements lead us to conclude that as president , he would use the authority of his office to act in ways that make america less safe , and which would diminish our standing in the world , ” the signatories wrote in a open letter on wednesday .
“ furthermore , his expansive view of how presidential power should be wielded against his detractors poses a distinct threat to civil liberty in the united states , ” said the letter , which was posted on a blog called war on the rocks .
the signatories include robert zoellick , a former world bank president and deputy secretary of state ; former u.s .
homeland security secretary michael chertoff ; and dov zakheim , a top pentagon official under president george w. bush .
they represent both centrist republican foreign policy circles and neoconservatives who favor a robust u.s. international role and wielded clout during bush ’ s 2001-2009 presidency .
billionaire businessman trump won the largest number of states in this week ’ s super tuesday nominating contests , intensifying moves by the party ’ s establishment wing to derail his path to the nomination .
on thursday , trump in an interview with abc news flatly rejected the criticism in the letter and blasted the nation ’ s military leaders as ineffective .
bryan mcgrath , a retired u.s. navy officer and adviser to republican mitt romney ’ s unsuccessful 2012 presidential campaign who helped organize the letter , said at least two people declined to sign because of concerns it would fuel trump ’ s campaign theme of being an anti-washington candidate opposed by the establishment .
“ this is really drawing a bright moral line and saying that if we ’ re going to keep our souls , we can ’ t cross it , ” said eliot cohen , who served as counselor to former secretary of state condoleezza rice and helped spearhead the letter .
rice was asked to sign but chose not to , in keeping with her general practice of not signing on to such group letters , a spokeswoman for the stanford university professor said .
the list of signatures , which numbered 60 when the letter was released on wednesday night , had grown to 94 by thursday afternoon .
the signatories did not include other several high-profile former officials such as bush national security adviser stephen hadley or former secretary of state colin powell .
it was unknown if they were invited to sign .
the letter rejects numerous trump foreign policy statements , including his “ hateful , anti-muslim rhetoric , ” his demand that mexico fund a wall to control illegal immigration across the u.s. border , and his insistence that japan pay much more for u.s. security assistance .
“ as committed and loyal republicans , we are unable to support a party ticket with mr. trump at its head , ” the signatories said .
“ we commit ourselves to working energetically to prevent the election of someone so utterly unfitted to the office. ” the war on the rocks blog calls itself a platform for former diplomats , military and intelligence officers and scholars to comment “ through a realist lens ” on global affairs .
trump has alarmed some mainstream republicans with vows to shred international trade deals .
many fear a trump presidency would severely strain ties with allies and are concerned about his stated willingness to work more closely with authoritarian russian president vladimir putin .
trump also has criticized the republican party for its backing of bush ’ s 2003 iraq invasion and has said he supports the practice of waterboarding and other similar interrogation techniques .
max boot , a foreign policy adviser to romney ’ s 2012 campaign and supporter of the iraq invasion , was among the letter ’ s signers and said he “ would sooner work for ( north korean dictator ) kim jong un than for donald trump .
i think donald trump is objectively more dangerous than kim jong un and not as stable. ” kurt volker , a permanent representative to nato under bush , said he did not sign the letter because of concerns that any letter from “ national security intelligentsia ” could backfire .
“ he would actually use it as a bragging right , ” said volker , adding he had no intention of working for trump but wanted to be free to offer advice to any future president , and that such a letter could prompt trump to hold a grudge .
several others who declined to sign and asked not to be identified , said they feared it could help democrat hillary clinton win the presidency .
trump told msnbc on thursday that he would name his foreign policy and national security advisers “ in a week or two .
...
but ultimately it ’ s my thought more than anybody else ’ s. ” those trump has spoken with on foreign policy include a retired u.s. general and intelligence official , michael flynn , who favors closer ties with russia .
flynn has declined to comment on whether he is advising trump .
former new york mayor rudy giuliani , who won popularity for his response to the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks , has said he has been having regular talks with trump but not in a formal role .
( additional reporting by phil stewart , arshad mohammed and susan heavey ; editing by david rohde , stuart grudgings , bill trott and peter cooney ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .