brussels ( reuters ) - european council president donald tusk will make a statement on brexit early on friday , his office said on thursday , prompting speculation on the fate of british prime minister theresa may s plans for a deal with brussels .
she was in brussels about to agree outline divorce terms on britain s withdrawal on monday , dec. 4 , when she was interrupted by objections from her northern irish allies to a planned wording on the irish border .
talks have been continuing since then to try to resolve the dispute so that eu leaders will agree at a summit next friday , dec. 15 , to open talks on future trade .
no details were available of tusk s plans for the morning , when he will brief reporters at 7:50 a.m. ( 0650 gmt ) .
an eu official noted , however , that he would be departing for a scheduled visit to hungary at 8:15 a.m .
earlier , a spokesman for european commission president jean-claude juncker said may had an effective deadline of sunday night if she wants to return to brussels to seal a deal and hope to have agreement on trade talks next friday .
tusk s role in the delicate choreography of reaching an accord had been to wait until may strikes a deal on making sufficient progress on divorce terms with juncker s brexit negotiator michel barnier .
tusk would then confirm that he is asking the other 27 eu national leaders to consider draft guidelines on trade negotiations for approval at the summit he will chair .
however , tusk has also warned that time is running out for him to secure the agreement of the other leaders to opening the trade talks on such a tight schedule after may and barnier reach agreement .
failure , officials say , would push any deal back into the new year , unnerving already worried investors in britain .
tusk said in october that if london failed to settle divorce terms by the end of this year , the eu would have to reconsider its approach to negotiations intended to limit disruption when britain leaves the european union in march 2019 .
senior officials have said this week that a more immediate consequence of failing to strike a deal this month could be new pressure on may at home to step down which in itself could greatly disrupt the negotiating process .