rome/tunis ( reuters ) - a powerful armed group , known for smuggling people from libya , is seeking legitimacy and state security jobs from the tripoli government in exchange for stopping migrant boats from leaving the coast of sabratha for italy , a senior group member said .
the group , the anas al-dabbashi brigade , struck a deal with libya s united nations-backed government of national accord ( gna ) this summer to clamp down on trafficking , the senior brigade member , who gave his name as mohamed , told reuters .
the need for the gna to strike such a deal would illustrate the power of armed groups in western libya , which continue to hold the real influence locally as they have since a 2011 uprising that ousted muammar gaddafi .
the revelation would also throw light on the fragility of the sharp recent reduction in migrant arrivals from italy , which took over from the aegean route as the main focus of european concerns in the crisis .
the gna did not respond to requests for comment .
local sources , who declined to be named , said there had been at least one meeting between government officials and ahmed al-dabbashi , identified as one of the main facilitators of human smuggling in libya in a u.n. report earlier this year .
mohamed said there had been a number of such meetings , and that the brigade was also offered the possibility of an amnesty for past smuggling activity .
to show it could uphold the deal with tripoli , the several-hundred-strong brigade has cracked down on departures with the help of the coastguard leading to an 80 percent fall in the arrival of rescued migrants in italy last month , mohamed said .
with a national election looming in the first half of next year , the government in rome , which welcomed the sudden decline shown in official data , is under pressure to show it can stop , or at least slow , migration from the oil-producing desert state .
libya remains split between rival political camps and armed alliances .
the gna has struggled to impose its authority on tripoli and other parts of western libya , and has been rejected by factions that control the east of the country .
mohamed said the gna , under pressure from italy to halt the migrant flows , had exerted pressure on the dabbashi brigade .
the gna said that they would gather all the cities west of tripoli against us , and they would come and fight us .
on the other hand , they have offered to let us join the police , and let us join the military , mohamed said .
if this plan goes forward and the ( tripoli ) government was telling the truth ... in six months time everybody in this battalion will be like normal police .
a second source in sabratha spoke to ahmed al-dabbashi , who confirmed that mohamed was a member of the brigade .
it is the first time a brigade member has spoken at length about why the group suddenly shifted from smuggling to policing , a change first reported by reuters last month .
some international media reported that dabbashi had received five million euros directly from italy s secret services to stop the migrant boats , but mohamed denied this .
italy has also denied any direct payments to armed groups .
the fragility of the security situation in sabratha was underscored by territorial clashes that erupted there over the weekend , with dabbashi s group battling cross-town rivals in some of the heaviest fighting the city has seen in recent years .
explosions could be heard as far away as the port of zawiya , 22 km ( 14 miles ) away .
both sides in the fighting claim to have the backing of the tripoli government , and both battled together to drive islamic state forces out of the area last year .
with italy and the eu offering millions of euros to local authorities in libya who can put a cap on trafficking , armed groups have an interest in proving that they are the only ones who can police the territory .
this smuggling thing everybody knows that libya is not going to be like this forever , mohamed said .
if you are just a little bit smart , you will go with the government .
as a result of the policing by dabbashi and coastguard interceptions , arrivals of rescued migrants in italy fell 50 percent in july from a year earlier , and declined more than 80 percent in august two months that had been peak periods during the previous three years .
overall , there have been more than 100,000 arrivals in italy this year , a decline of more than 20 percent compared to 2016 , official italian data show .
to rein in smuggling , italy has spearheaded efforts to bolster the libyan coast guard , and it is dealing directly with local governments to try to offer incentives for them to shut it down , including with sabratha s mayor , hussein al-thwadi .
thwadi sought support directly from italy , meeting the ambassador earlier this month and interior minister marco minniti in july .
the dabbashi brigade , which also guards an oil and gas facility west of sabratha run jointly by libya s national oil corporation ( noc ) and italian firm eni , denied any direct contacts with italy .
it is allied to brigade 48 , a group of some 300 soldiers aligned with the gna .
we only have deals with the ( tripoli ) government , mohamed said .
they said they might forgive all of what we have done in the past , he added , referring to people smuggling .
but it is unclear if tripoli can deliver on its promises to integrate dabbashi s men , or whether any group can hold the line against forces who want to keep smuggling .
on saturday , libyan coastguard officials said they had turned back more than 1,000 migrants traveling in at least eight boats .
on the same day , the dabbashi brigade intercepted about 3,000 more , said mohamed .
more than 1,500 were rescued at sea and brought to italy .
a lot of people are pressuring us to stop this , mohamed said of dabbashi s crackdown on departing migrant boats .
they want to start ( human trafficking ) again .