never let an opportunity go to waste .
its the democrat mantra whenever a black person dies , no matter what the circumstances , the first and most important question is : how can al sharpton turn this into dollars ?
with the death of funk/pop icon prince yesterday , you re probably thinking there is no way the race-hustling reverend can turn the tragedy into social justice ( aka cold hard cash ) but you re underestimating his awesome powers of exploitation.the amsterdam news reports that al sharpton will be holding a rally on saturday at the national action network s house of justice in new york .
i m not kidding , he really has a place he calls the house of justice .
the original purpose of this rally was to protest the police shooting a black guy who pointed a gun at officers , but with prince s untimely death , sharpton has decided to combine faux outrage with a faux tribute.here s the black guy who was wronged by a racist system : tillman was fatally shot by nypd officers on sunday in ozone park , queens .
reports indicate that he was allegedly holding an open alcohol container when officers approached him .
tillman had a gun on his waistband and allegedly ran as they approached him .
police say he reached for the weapon before officers opened fire shooting tillman in the chest .
he was pronounced dead at jamaica medical center.let s see if i have this correctly : a black guy was carrying an illegal firearm in nyc and violating the city s drinking in public law .
when police tried to question him , he resisted arrest and took off .
he then took out the illegal firearm and pointed it at officers and they responded by shooting him .
in other words , police used appropriate force to deal with a violent life-threatening situation .
how exactly is this a case of racial injustice ?
oh , because the guy was black .
i get it now.i guess it s getting harder and harder for sharpton to find any real racism to rage against , so he has to work with what he s got.just in case people have a hard time freaking out over a justified police shooting , big al is throwing in a tribute to prince to get asses in the seats : as the aftermath of the death of singer prince continues , sharpton will conduct a special memorial in honor of the legendary entertainer and humanitarian.i wasn t aware there was aftermath from prince s death , but it sure does seem like a shitty tribute to combine this with some bogus racial outrage over a guy who got shot for trying to kill some cops.really the only question left is : how will sharpton blame prince s death on white supremacy ?
was there a white conspiracy to kill the singer ?
did he die because white emts responded slower than they would have if prince were white ?
did a white man give him the flu and force him to take opioids ? via : downtrend