strasbourg ( reuters ) - the european union should investigate malta s anti-money laundering system , eu lawmakers said on tuesday in response to the murder of a maltese journalist who reported widely on financial and political corruption .
daphne caruana galizia , who was blown up by a car bomb last week , had published leaked documents on alleged money laundering cases involving top maltese officials .
eu parliamentarians said malta now needed to show it was clean .
the maltese government has failed to take serious action against high level cases of money laundering in its country , green members of the european parliament ( meps ) eva joly and sven giegold said in a joint statement .
we want a serious investigation by the european commission on malta s respect of the european rules against money laundering .
eu justice commissioner vera jourova said in a letter to green meps dated oct. 23 that based on the information available so far , there appear to be no grounds to suspect a systematic breach of union law pertaining to the prevention of money laundering in malta .
but she added that the commission had requested more information from malta on cases of alleged money laundering involving keith allen schembri , the chief of staff of prime minister joseph muscat .
schembri has denied the allegations .
prime minister joseph muscat told reuters in an interview last week that the island s financial services sector is as transparent , solid and compliant as any other european jurisdiction .
ahead of a debate on the protection of journalists and the defense of media freedom in malta , the european parliament held a minute s silence , at a session in strasbourg attended by caruana galizia s widower and children .
parliament president antonio tajani said the parliament s press room would be named after the murdered reporter .
he added that europol , the eu law enforcement agency , should help investigate caruana galizia s murder as part of an international investigation where all police forces can contribute to find the culprits .
the maltese government has sought assistance from the u.s. federal bureau of investigation and from dutch experts to help resolve the case .
the head of the italian parliament s anti-mafia committee urged malta to toughen laws to combat organized crime .
italian investigators have traced criminal proceeds to companies set up in malta to launder money by the southern italian mafia groups .
anti-mafia committee head rosy bindi said during a visit to the island that malta had to close legal loopholes .
those who order assassinations are often the ones who fear that loopholes will be closed , she said .