new york ( reuters ) - pennsylvania governor tom wolf , a democrat , said on wednesday that he would veto the latest republican budget as lawmakers continue their months-long struggle to set a spending plan .
the pennsylvania senate passed a $ 30 billion supplemental budget for fiscal 2016 on wednesday , and the house is also expected to approve the same bill .
“ in its current form , i will veto this budget , and i urge republicans in the legislature to stop the partisan games and come back to the table to negotiate a final budget that funds our schools and eliminates the nearly $ 2 billion deficit , ” wolf said in a statement .
using the republicans ’ own math , he said , the budget creates a deficit that would prompt big cuts to education and social programs and lead to higher property taxes .
though wolf introduced a fiscal 2017 budget on feb. 9 , the state still has only a partial spending plan for this fiscal year , which began july 1 .
that makes a full 2016 budget nearly nine months overdue .
during the impasse , school districts , colleges and social service agencies have all had to make due without state funding .
the partial budget wolf agreed to in december finally sent the first six months of aid flowing to schools , but by then they had gone almost that long without any state money .
school districts borrowed a collective $ 1 billion across the state - incurring up to $ 50 million in interest and fees - to stay open through december .
they are now warning , again , that they could soon have to consider shutting without state funds .
the spending plan passed on wednesday by the senate does not raise sales or income taxes but restores most of the $ 6 billion in funding wolf eliminated in his line-item vetoes in december .
the bill would provide $ 5.95 billion for basic education , a $ 200 million increase from the previous year .
it would also restore higher education funds , including for community colleges , the pennsylvania state university and temple university .
wolf took office in january 2015 pledging to restore the previous administration ’ s cuts to education funding .
he wanted to pay for it in part with a tax on natural gas extraction , which some republican legislative leaders have opposed .