london ( reuters ) - britain s government has not yet decided what it wants from a final brexit deal because it is still waiting to clear preliminary talks with brussels , finance minister philip hammond said on wednesday .
with the clock ticking towards britain s scheduled march 2019 exit from the european union , the government is focused at the moment on getting a green light for the negotiations on future trade relations with the eu , hammond said .
the cabinet has had general discussions about our brexit negotiations but we haven t had a specific mandating of an end-state position , he told lawmakers in britain s parliament .
prime minister theresa may s top ministers have big differences over what brexit should mean for britain , and over the extent of concessions that the country should offer in return for preferential access to the eu s single market .
hammond said a group of key government ministers would deal with the issue once britain is given the go-ahead by other eu countries that it can proceed with negotiations for a new , post-brexit trade deal .
that go-ahead is on hold pending an agreement by the bloc s other 27 member states that britain has done enough on the terms of its divorce , now stuck on differences over how open the future border between ireland and northern ireland should be .
we are not yet at that stage and it would have been premature to have that discussion until we reach that stage , hammond told parliament s treasury committee .
a spokesman for may , asked about hammond s comments , told reporters that government ministers would discuss the preferred outcome of the brexit talks before the end of the year .
we re not into phase two ( of negotiations ) yet , and brussels have been clear that they re not prepared to discuss end state , the spokesman said .
earlier on wednesday brexit minister david davis inflamed critics of the government s handling of brexit when he said he had not conducted formal sector-by-sector analyses of the effect of brexit on the economy , arguing they were not yet necessary .
hammond has previously said he favors striking a pragmatic deal with the eu to minimize brexit s impact on businesses and the economy , angering some brexit supporters who favor a more definitive rupture with brussels .
on wednesday , hammond reiterated that britain would leave the eu s single market and its customs union but that need not represent a big change to britain s relationship with the bloc , if britain replicates most of the current arrangements .
now , that would have consequences and some of our colleagues would not find that palatable , but it would be logically possible to approach it in that way , he said .
may hopes to secure the launch of the second phase of the brexit negotiations when she meets other eu leaders next week .
but she suffered a setback this week when her allies in a political party from northern ireland objected to proposals for post-brexit rules for the border with ireland .
the democratic unionist party said on wednesday the stand-off increased the likelihood of a no deal brexit - the nightmare scenario for many british businesses .