so in an effort to reach out to muslims living in america , we need to invite groups that are tied to terrorists ?
why stop at groups like cair ?
why not invite isis ?
perhaps we missed it , but we haven t seen the list of prominent christian leaders invited to obama s sotu , who will represent the worldwide mass persecution of christians as many as 25 house democrats are expected to have muslim guests during tuesday night s state of the union speech .
it s in response to a call from democratic national committee chair debbie wasserman schultz and minnesota rep. keith ellison , the first muslim voted into congress , to counter an alarming rise in hateful rhetoric against muslim americans and people of the islamic faith worldwide .
the gesture might not generate much more than a shrug , except that in at least two cases , democrats invited officials from a group the fbi formally avoids due to historic ties to a hamas support network.delray beach rep. alcee hastings invited nezar hamze , regional operations director for the council on american-islamic relations ( cair ) in florida .
and san jose , cal .
rep. zoe lofgren invited sameena usman , a 10-year veteran government relations official with cair s san francisco chapter , the investigative project on terrorism has learned.cair officials routinely accuse federal law enforcement of entrapping otherwise innocent and peaceful muslims in order to gin up terrorism prosecutions .
hamze s colleagues in cair-florida are helping a family sue the fbi over the 2013 fatal shooting of a terror suspect who attacked agents after extensive questioning .
usman s office published a notorious poster urging muslims to build a wall of resistance [ and ] don t talk to the fbi .
for its part , the fbi cut off contact with cair , except in investigations , in 2008 based on evidence its agents uncovered which placed cair in a hamas-support network in the united states .
until it can be shown that those connections no longer exist , an fbi official explained in 2009 , cair is not an appropriate liaison partner .
in addition , several cair officials have compared israel to isis.calls to press contacts in lofgren and hastings offices were not returned monday.last month , the ipt provided exclusive details from eyewitness accounts about cair s creation , including an account of how a co-founder sought approval from the egyptian muslim brotherhood for cair s bylaws , and how executive director nihad awad s move to washington was in order to represent hamas .
hastings and lofgren either failed to check out their guests employer or they don t care .
these connections have nothing to do with the faith of cair officials .
but the organization has a record that elected officials stubbornly insist should be ignored .
unfortunately , this is part of a pattern of outreach house democrats seek out with the wrong people .
last month , cair-florida s hassan shibly was invited to the white house for a discussion about religious discrimination .
then , as with the state of the union speech , no one from the new muslim reform movement which issued a declaration clearly rejecting interpretations of islam that call for any violence , social injustice and politicized islam and standing for peace , human rights and secular governance .
via : family security matters