beijing ( reuters ) - china hopes syria can show flexibility in promoting peace talks , chinese foreign minister wang yi said on friday in a meeting with an adviser to syria s president , adding that china would help with its reconstruction .
syria s six-year-old civil war has killed hundreds of thousands of people , forced millions to flee in the worst refugee crisis since world war two and embroiled regional and world powers .
for years , western and arab countries backed an opposition demand that president bashar al-assad quit power , but since russia s 2015 entry into the war , his government has won back major cities and now looks militarily unassailable .
leaders of russia , turkey and iran agreed on wednesday to help support a full-scale political process in syria and announced an agreement to sponsor a conference in the russian black sea resort of sochi to try to end the war .
syria is looking chiefly to russia , china and iran for help with reconstruction .
western states say recovery and reconstruction support for syria depends on a credible political process leading to a genuine political transition that can be supported by a majority of the syrian people .
wang told bouthaina shaaban , a senior aide to assad visiting china , that engagement over the future of syria s political arrangements had intensified , and that he believed it would contribute to a formal peace process talks in geneva .
china hopes the syrian side can seize the opportunity , display flexibility , and promote dialogue and negotiation to achieve substantive results , wang said , according to a statement from china s foreign ministry .
the international community should emphasize and actively support syria s reconstruction .
china will put forth its own effort for this , wang said , without elaborating on what those efforts would be .
shaaban welcomed china playing a greater role in syria s political resolution process , the ministry said .
while relying on the middle east for oil supplies , china tends to leave the region s diplomacy to the other permanent members of the u.n. security council , namely the united states , britain , france and russia .
but china has been trying to get more involved , including sending envoys to help push for a diplomatic solution to the violence there and hosting syrian government and opposition figures .
china hopes a peaceful middle east will also help end the involvement of ethnic uighurs , a muslim people from the far western chinese region of xinjiang , with militant groups in syria and iraq .