who is this terrorist and why has not yet been arrested for making open threats against our law enforcement officers and firemen ?
those clinton s they sure do know some interesting characters .
thank goodness donald j. trump or his wife weren t ever caught in the same room with this racist monster !
the media would slaughtered him .
the media has come to expect nothing less from the clinton s. they ll do anything for a vote .
it s always been their motto .
and no donor is too evil .
if you don t believe me , ask george soros or some of hillary s top donors in the nation of saudi arabia where women are treated like second class citizens micah xavier johnson , the now-notorious dallas cop-killer , was one of a handful of online fans of a group which proclaimed , we must kill white police officers across the country !
shortly after 10 p.m. on thursday night , when micah xavier johnson shot and killed five dallas police officers and wounded nine others , mauricelm-lei millere , founder of the african american defense league hate group , posted a picture on his instagram account.the caption led with this : we have no alternative !
we must kill white police officers across the country !
the picture was of a meeting with former president bill clinton , which millere alleged occurred in may.at 10:52 a.m. the morning after the shooting , millere posted the following message to the african american defense league s facebook page : we are calling on the gangs across the nation !
attack everything in blue except the mail man , unless he is carrying more than mail !
micah johnson was one of just 170 members who follow that facebook page.founded in the wake of ferguson protests in 2014 , the african american defense league is tiny , with possibly only millere himself as its current leadership , according to the anti-defamation league s center on extremism .
but millere and the aadl operate many different front groups , including a jonesboro , louisiana church called the morning star baptist church.the aadl s calls to kill white police officers are not new .
in november of 2015 , the aadl s facebook page said every black person across this nation should find a white police to kill in every state and american/european province around the globe .
he warns followers on a facebook post to remember that fireman and the police are on the same side : after the killing of alton sterling by baton rouge police and before the terror in dallas , millere called for cops blood again .
the pig has shot and killed alton sterling in baton rouge , louisiana !
you and i know what we must do and i don t mean marching , making a lot of noise , or attending conventions , he wrote on facebook .
we must rally the troops !
it is time to visit louisiana and hold a barbeque .
the highlight of our occasion will be to sprinkle pigs blood !
about 36 hours later , johnson took aim at white police officers from dallas rooftops.for entire story : the daily beast