who won the debate tonight ?
donald j. trump or the lester holt-clinton team ? nbc news lester holt had his candy crowley moment at the first debate of the 2016 presidential election on monday night , bowing to pressure from the hillary clinton campaign and the liberal media by fact-checking republican nominee donald trump on the question of his support for the iraq war.holt lived up to the expectations of his peers .
but he lived down to the worst expectations of conservatives , who routinely see republican candidates treated unfairly by debate moderators.hillary also went over the 2 minute mark several times , while there were several times when lester holt would cut donald trump off after only having a little over a minute to answer a question .
again and again , holt asked trump tough questions that were straight from the clinton campaign s talking points , and which were obvious set-ups for clinton to attack ( and for fact-checkers to pounce on whatever trump asserted in his own defense ) .here are the five worst examples.tax returns .
holt never asked clinton about her e-mail scandal , about benghazi , or about the clinton foundation and its dubious dealings .
but he did ask trump about his tax returns , arguing not asking that there might be questionable information in them that the american public deserved to hear.birther conspiracy theory .
holt never asked clinton about her past record of racist statements , including her super-predator remarks as first lady , or her explicit appeal to white americans in her 2008 primary campaign against obama .
yet he asked trump about the birther conspiracy theory and cast it as racist.stop-and-frisk .
after an exchange between the candidates over the policy of stop-and-frisk , holt interjected to bolster clinton s point by stating , erroneously , that stop-and-frisk had ended in new york because it had been declared unconstitutional by a court .
trump countered , correctly , that the new mayor had canceled the policy before the litigation was over .
a presidential look .
towards the end of the debate , holt asked trump about what he meant by saying hillary clinton did not have a presidential look .
he did so after noting that clinton had become the first woman to be nominated for president by a major political party , thus setting trump up as a sexist .
as trump answered , holt interrupted him , then gave clinton a chance to respond with her talking points about trump s past comments on women.iraq war .
the question of whether trump supported the iraq war or not has been widely debated .
what is beyond doubt is that hillary clinton voted for it .
holt only represented one side of the debate about trump , and never asked clinton about her own vote .
via : breitbart