hamar , norway ( reuters ) - young norwegians , politicized by the massacre of 77 people by far-right militant anders behring breivik , will play a key role in an election next week that could hinge on issues close to their hearts such as climate change .
in 2011 breivik killed eight people in a bombing in central oslo and gunned down another 69 at a labour party youth camp on utoeya island , in the worst attacks in norway since world war two .
they motivated a generation of young people , often children or teenagers at the time , to become more involved in mainstream politics - both on the left and the right - in a backlash against his xenophobic and anti-muslim world view .
and data shows young voters are now more likely than in the past to actually cast their ballots .
( for a graphic on norway 's parliamentary elections click tmsnrt.rs/2ugjcjo ) i felt so powerless that day .
it was a way to fight back , said anja ariel toernes brekke , 21 , who joined the youth wing of the labour party a few weeks after breivik s attacks .
she is now the general secretary of the far-left red party s youth wing .
i wanted to prove that the left was not weakened , that there would be people with those beliefs to replace those who had died , she told reuters .
brekke is touring schools in norway to get the youth vote out .
on a recent morning , she was at the cathedral school in hamar , 120 km ( 75 miles ) north of oslo , to take part in a debate with other young politicians in front of 1,250 high-school students packed in a gym hall .
our society is more unequal .
what we lack is justice .
we need a new politics , she told the crowd , to applause .
her party , the reds , could be one of several kingmakers in monday s parliamentary election , in which the right-wing bloc of conservative prime minister erna solberg is neck-and-neck in opinion polls with an opposition grouping led by jonas gahr stoere s labour .
younger voters tend to care more than the average norwegian about issues such as schools , climate change and the environment , especially linked to norway s oil and gas production , researchers say .
the trend has been called generation utoeya by the political scientist who identified it , johannes bergh at the institute of social research in oslo .
according to bergh s research , published in the 2015 book the vote and voters he co-edited with bernt aardal , some 13.8 percent of first-time voters said they belonged to a party in 2013 , the last time a parliamentary election took place , up from 6.0 percent in 2009 .
this more-than-doubling was higher than the increase reported for all voters , to 9.3 percent from 7.2 percent , and it was spread across the political spectrum - not just for labour , the target of breivik s attack .
it did come as a surprise .
we had sort of expected that young people would ( go ) for labour , bergh told reuters .
we saw a spike in the membership of the youth wing of the labour party immediately after the attacks .
but the same thing happened with the conservatives too .
the attacks were an attack on norwegian democracy , not on a political party .
young people are also voting more since july 22 - the common shorthand for the killings by breivik , who is serving a 21-year jail term that can be extended indefinitely .
at the last election in 2013 , 66.5 percent of 18- to 21-year-olds cast ballots , up more than 10 percentage points from 2009 .
parties are paying more attention to this young constituency .
politicians have to listen to young people and have to make an effort to appeal to young people , said bergh .
in the longer term , he believes the utoeya generation effect will help ensure the renewal of democracy in norway .
it is going to be positive .
once young people start voting , they tend to continue later in life .
the future of norway s oil industry has emerged as a key issue for voters this time around .
the small but growing green party , which pledges to stop oil exploration and phase out production within 15 years , is emerging as a potential key in deciding who will get to govern the scandinavian country .
it was certainly on the mind of some first-time voters in hamar .
we need to phase out oil production and respect the paris climate agreement , said 17-year-old student signe dahl .
we need to turn norway into an environmental nation from an oil nation , she told reuters .
dahl , who can vote as she is turning 18 later this year , said she had whittled down her choice of party to between the green party and the reds .
her friend silje fugleberg , 18 , agreed : we must think about other resources to use than oil .
we must think about norway s future and the environment .
before the debate , she was considering voting either for the socialist left party or the red party .
after the debate and listening to brekke , i think i have decided and will vote for the reds , she said .