tokyo ( reuters ) - the u.n. refugee agency has urged japan to resettle more asylum seekers , its chief said on monday , pressuring the country to help solve a global crisis after giving refugee status to just three people in the first half of the year .
japan is one of the developed world s least welcoming countries for asylum seekers .
it accepted 28 in 2016 , despite applications from a record 10,091 people .
it has since 2008 given home to limited numbers of refugees through a so-called third-country resettlement scheme , resettling a total of 152 people - mostly ethnic karen people from myanmar living in thai and malaysian camps .
that program is very small , about 20-30 refugees a year , u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi told a news conference in tokyo .
i have asked the government to consider whether it could be expanded .
japan s reluctance to accept refugees mirrors a wider caution towards immigration in a nation where many pride themselves on cultural and ethnic homogeneity .
its record at home has drawn sharp criticism from international human rights groups , and has been at odds with its traditional status as a major international donor on refugees .
but japan s donations to the unhcr have slipped : in the year to oct. 2 , it was the fourth-largest donor , giving $ 152 million , compared to the second-largest four years ago .
contributions from the government to the unhcr have been declining a little bit every year since 2013 , grandi said .
what i asked the government to consider is that the needs of refugees and displaced people are increasing .
more than 2 million people fleeing wars or persecution have joined the ranks of the world s refugees this year .
at the end of last year , the latest figure available , 17.2 million refugees fell under the unhcr s mandate .
japan says that many people claim asylum in japan to find work , encouraged by access to renewable work permits for people applying for refugee status .
it officially rejects unskilled migrant workers , even as a fast-shrinking and ageing population blunts the potency of government efforts to rouse the economy from over two decades of sluggish growth and deflation .
the justice ministry , which oversees refugee recognition , is weighing steps including restrictions on work permits for asylum seekers to curb what it deems abusive applications .