kid rock , aka robert ( bob ) ritchie , a native of michigan who was born and raised in my hometown of romeo , just announced on twitter that he s running for us senate .
as a kid , i remember frequently sitting across from the ritchie family in our local catholic church .
kid rock is a philanthropist who s done so much to help those in need in the city of detroit .
he s also very passionate about supporting our troops .
ritchie s made several overseas trips to play for our troops , and even donated specially designed homes for disabled veterans .
ritchie ( kid rock ) has not yet announced which party he ll be aligning himself with .
he s been a staunch supporter of republican presidential candidates in the past like mitt romney , ben carson and after he won the gop primary , kid rock got behind donald trump .
in 2013 , ritchie told rolling stones that he considers himself more of a libertarian .
stay tuned i have had a ton of emails and texts asking me if this website is real https : //t.co/rrvgisdfeq the answer is an absolute yes .
pic.twitter.com/uycug6mjw1 kid rock ( @ kidrock ) july 12 , 2017rock is one of the most prominent right-leaning voices in music , but he s also a somewhat irregular republican : i don t like the hardcore views on either side and i m not in bed with anybody , he told rolling stone in 2013 .
i d probably be more libertarian , but i m a firm believer you have to pick a side .
i can t be playing the middle .
if rock runs as a republican , he ll be up against trump s michigan campaign chair , lena epstein for the gop nomination.lena is a candidate the left will have a very hard time defeating .
she s jewish , she s a harvard grad , and she s a tough-minded , successful business woman who wasn t afraid to jump in and support trump from the moment he announced he was running .
rock may have his hands full with the very popular lena epstein , who we believe has the ability to defeat the very liberal democrat senator debbie stabenow .
rock has the star power , but many will question if he s really got what it takes to run for us senate.cbs sunday morning attempts to find out who badass rocker kid rock really is in this interview : and for those who might be saying ( or thinking ) kid rock running for senate is crazy or ridiculous .
keep in mind that al franken has been a senator for 9 years : democrats on twitter right now : `` kid rock ca n't be a senator that 's ridicolous ! ''
pic.twitter.com/ws1z8dlqxq ken webster jr ( @ producerken ) july 12 , 2017nancy pelosi has been a congresswoman for 30 years : and maxine impeach trump waters has held a political position since 1977 and has been serving in the us house of representatives since 1991 !