james o keefe s project veritas reporters went undercover at cnn to investigate the # veryfakenews network to determine the motivation behind cnn s trump-russia collusion obsession .
since the inauguration , cnn has mentioned russian story nearly 16,000 times.project veritas reporters can be seen in the video below having a conversation with cnn s supervising producer john bonifield .
the reporter talked to bonifield first about the constant barrage of trump-russia stories on cnn .
bonifield admitted that although cnn has no evidence or proof of trump involvement with russia , they continue to make it their top story on cnn simply for ratings and to make money .
bonifield actually confessed to the undercover project veritas journalist that president trump is correct when he says the media is on a witch hunt to take him down .
bonifield told the reporter : i think the president is right to say , like , look you are witch hunting me you have no real smoking gun , you have no proof .
bonifield told the undercover reporter for project veritas that cnn is biased and is playing to their audience by attacking president trump , and actually admitted that trump is good for business right now .
the project veritas reporter asked bonifield , but honestly , you think the whole russia shit is bullshit ?
to which bonifield replied : could be bullshit .
i mean , it s mostly bullshit right now .
like , we don t have any big , giant proof .
the way these leaks happen , they d leak it .
it d leak .
if it was something really good , it would leak .
president trump took to twitter this morning to call out cnn .
in his tweet , trump hinted that fake news cnn would likely be replacing the top brass at the dishonest and discredited network .
trump also mentioned cnn s failing ratings , to which cnn communications boasted that after months of reporting lies about a phony trump-russia collusion story , their ratings have actually increased .
in other words , because we dragged your name through the mud and falsely accused you of collusion with the russians without a shred of evidence , our ratings have actually gone up with our liberal viewers who are desperate for any negative trump news .
cnn just posted it 's most-watched second quarter in history .
those are the facts .
cnn communications ( @ cnnpr ) june 27 , 2017president trump didn t stop at calling out the obvious very fake news network cnn , he also asked when the other fake news networks would be exposed , specifically nbc , cbs , abc , the new york times and the washington post : so they caught fake news cnn cold , but what about nbc , cbs & abc ?
what about the failing @ nytimes & @ washingtonpost ?
they are all fake news !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 27 , 2017