ben shapiro debates two students on when a baby becomes a human being .
a hot topic that stumps pro-choice people but not pro-lifers : i believe , as do most people who feel this way about abortion , that life begins at conception .
when sperm meets egg , and the child is conceived , that s when life begins ; that is what i believe in .
ben shapiro it s my body .
how about you stay out of it ?
the student replied .
i don t care about your appendix , shapiro quipped , referencing the student s earlier argument .
i don t even care about your uterus .
i care about what s in it .
and i can take out my appendix if i don t want it .
so why can t i take out other parts of my body ?
the student asked .
because they are not independent living human beings , shapiro fired back.the student continued to engage in a debate , arguing the fetus is merely a bundle of cells .
at what point does that bundle of cells become a human being in your judgement ?
shapiro asked her .
um , the student said.another student chimed in .
the concept of body autonomy means that i don t have to give up any part of my body unless i say so , she said .
the baby is not part of your body , shapiro quipped.in general , the fear of calling a baby a baby within progressive circles is an entertaining spectacle , given the amount of intellectual gymnastics that are involved , which almost always ends with some disingenuous conclusion that a woman s life holds more value than that of her child barring any life threatening conditions , or the pro-abortion supporter storming out because folks , like shapiro , totally own them on the issue .
in other words , they feel triggered , so off to the safe space , where like-minded people can sulk and discuss how the patriarchy sucks , or something.yet , one thing is clear in this exchange , which is that shapiro is open to debate , and he wants to discuss these issues in which conservatives find themselves in the crosshairs of political correctness in campuses across the country .
after going back and forth about the science relating to pregnancy , it becomes clear that the pro-choice wing of the attendees in the room are exasperated to the point where they accuse shapiro of trying to shut them down ; shapiro aptly noted that he allowed them to speak for almost ten minutes on the subject .
another student asked shapiro what criteria does he have regarding what defines a life , but then made an aberrant pivot by asking him of he considers semen to be a life , insinuating that shapiro masturbates a lot because he s a human being ( no , i m not making that part up ) .
well put , sir , said shapiro , which drew laughter from the audience .
i believe , as do most people who feel this way about abortion , that life begins at conception .
when sperm meets egg , and the child is conceived , that s when life begins ; that is what i believe in .
the rest of the question was weird , he added.indeed , sir.via : hot air