sadly , this will be the only reason many women will vote for her .
hillary s crimes will suddenly become a distant memory to many female ( and some male ) voters .
because when it comes to defending a woman s right to kill her baby , every criminal act hillary s ever committed takes a backseat there are many on the gop side thankfully , who are still defending the lives of the most vulnerable among us : planned parenthood , the national women s health organization that hillary clinton often mentions on the campaign trial , will endorse the 2016 candidate for president on sunday in new hampshire.this will be the first time the group , which has been mired in controversy since a series of videos by anti-abortion activists were released in 2015 , will endorse in a presidential primary .
as a lifelong planned parenthood supporter , i m honored to have the endorsement of the planned parenthood action fund , clinton said in response to the endorsement .
there has never been a more important election when it comes to women s health and reproductive rights and planned parenthood s patients , providers , and advocates across the country are a crucial line of defense against the dangerous agenda being advanced by every republican candidate for president .
the group will make the endorsement official at what they are billing as their election kickoff event in manchester , new hampshire on sunday .
the group plans to spend at least $ 20 million in this election cycle , according to a press release.the endorsement was somewhat of a forgone conclusion .
clinton regularly mentions planned parenthood on the campaign trail i will defend a woman s right to choose , she says a line that draws applause from democratic crowds .
in congress and on the campaign trail , republicans that claim they just hate big government are only too happy to have government step in when it comes to women s bodies and heath , clinton said at the new hampshire democratic party s jefferson-jackson dinner in 2015 .
it is wrong , and we are not going to stand for it .
planned parenthood s endorsement , which was first reported by cbs , is sure to draw scorn from republican presidential candidates , many of whom regularly pledge to defund the group is elected president.in accepting the endorsement , clinton said the united states needs a president who has what it takes to stop republicans from defunding planned parenthood and taking away a woman s right to basic health care .
if i m elected , she added , i will be that president .
this is the second national women s health group to back clinton .
naral pro-choice america pac endorsed clinton earlier this week , their president stating that clinton has what it takes to fight republican attacks on women s reproductive rights , and has the vision and experience to ensure women and families thrive .
via : cnn