houston ( reuters ) - republican ted cruz ’ s hopes of a sweeping nominating victory in his home state of texas are being eroded as donald trump taps into conservative anger over immigration .
polls show cruz , the u.s. senator from texas , is poised to win the state ’ s nominating contest on tuesday - the biggest voting day so far in the 2016 race - a result seen as essential to keeping alive his chance of winning his party ’ s nomination .
but he could be stopped short of thresholds required to sweep its 155 delegates to the republican convention if national front-runner trump and other rivals win enough of the vote .
cruz needs as resounding a victory as possible to stay competitive on a day when trump is expected to put in a dominant performance in other states voting on “ super tuesday ” .
interviews with more than two dozen voters in texas suggest that trump ’ s anti-immigration platform - which includes building a mexico-funded border wall and deporting millions of illegal immigrants - could present cruz ’ s biggest weakness against the real estate mogul .
the senator proposes similarly tough policies to prevent illegal immigration , but many texans credit trump with vaulting it to a top issue in the election , largely because of his tough , outraged tone rather than policy differences .
“ trump has been honest enough to say what we ’ re all thinking but we ’ re all scared to say , ” said sharon neil , 68 , of fort worth , who is voting for trump .
republicans in texas , home to about 1.5 million undocumented immigrants , rank immigration the third most important problem facing the country , compared to seventh overall nationwide , according to reuters/ipsos polling .
and fans of trump were twice as likely nationwide as cruz supporters to say immigration was a top issue .
scott ragno , 39 , another trump supporter from fort worth , said trump ’ s tone on immigration was attractive .
“ is building a fence the right answer ?
i don ’ t know about that .
but i definitely think he ’ d do something to curb the problem. ” cruz has a strong base of support among texas ’ s grassroots tea party activists , high-profile endorsements including the state ’ s governor greg abbott , and a lead in most recent polls in texas .
he got 42 percent of support in a cbs news poll released on sunday , compared to 31 percent for trump .
and cruz led by 39 percent to trump ’ s 26 percent in an nbc news/wall street journal poll the same day .
cruz 's lead over trump in texas has , however , shown signs of decline , according to polls aggregated by huffington post since the two launched their campaigns in june .
( here # ! selected=cruz , trump ) winning a majority of votes in a texas district allows a candidate to sweep all of the district 's delegates .
a candidate gets to sweep an additional category of 47 delegates if he wins a majority of the vote statewide - an outcome that is unlikely for cruz .
( here ) trump has vented over immigration from the get-go , calling mexican immigrants rapists and drug dealers at his campaign launch in june .
at his rallies , he recounts incidents where americans were killed by illegal immigrants .
cruz has pledged to build a wall too .
during a republican debate on thursday , he criticized trump for giving money to politicians who tried to overhaul immigration laws , including by offering new protections to people in the country illegally .
cruz has argued trump has been inconsistent , criticizing him for hiring foreign workers instead of americans to work at his florida hotel .
“ it is a fact that for four decades donald trump has supported open-borders democrats , ” cruz said monday in san antonio .
“ nobody who supports open-border democrats for 40 years can care about securing the borders. ” trump , who held a rally in fort worth on friday and packed a convention center hall with raucous supporters , has hit back by saying cruz has toughened his stance on immigration lately mainly because of him .
voters in the houston and fort worth areas described concerns about immigration ranging from overcrowded schools to more crime to cultural change .
“ it ’ s not that we don ’ t want ( immigrants ) here , ” said neil , the trump supporter .
but she said she felt immigrants were taking a toll on the public school system - an issue close to her heart because her daughter-in-law is a teacher and her son is studying education .
( additional reporting by chris kahn ; editing by richard valdmanis and stuart grudgings ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .