conservative talk radio , tv and websites are no friends of rino senator john mccain , and he knows it .
mccain used his moment he was given to shine on the senate floor after being diagnosed with brain cancer , to excoriate conservatives who speak out against him on talk radio , tv and the internet .
for years , conservatives on social media have declared open season on rino s ( republicans in name only ) in dc .
like senator s john mccain ( r-az ) and his close ally lindsey graham ( r-sc ) .
in june 2015 , candidate hillary clinton used her good working relationships with mccain and graham as examples of how she can reach out across the aisle.mccain has been a thorn in the side of president trump and has been openly antagonistic towards him since it became apparent trump would be the republican candidate for president .
only one day after his surgery and diagnosis with brain cancer , senator john mccain just couldn t help himself .
while millions of americans were praying for his recovery , mccain took to twitter to admonish president trump over his decision to end a failed program that was supposed to train , fund and arm syrians to fight assad and isis.tuesday on the senate floor , sen. john mccain ( r-az ) gave a speech upon returning from arizona after having an emergency craniotomy to remove a blood clot and a subsequent diagnosis of cancer.mccain cast the deciding vote to begin the health care debate and chided both sides for not being bipartisan over the last several years , saying , i voted for the motion to proceed to allow debate to continue and amendments to be offered .
i will not vote for this bill as it is today .
mccain said , i hope we can again rely on humility , on our need to cooperate , on our dependence on each other , to learn how to trust each other again , and by so doing , better serve the people who elected us .
stop listening to the bombastic loudmouths on the radio , television and the internet .
to hell with them .
they don t want anything done for the public good .
our incapacity is their livelihood .
here s how conservative radio and tv host mark levin reacted to mccain s comments : oh my .
i 'm hurt to the core .
https : //t.co/jfnssmz9rj mark r. levin ( @ marklevinshow ) july 26 , 2017mccain went on to encourage his fellow senators to get behind him and help find a way to fix the disastrous obamacare , our health care insurance system is a mess .
we all know it .
those who support obamacare and those who oppose it .
something has to be done .
he added , we republicans have looked for a way to end it and replace it with something else without paying a terrible political price .
we haven t found it yet .
and i m not sure we will .
all we have managed to do is make more popular a policy that wasn t very popular when we started trying to get rid of it .
i voted for the motion to proceed to allow debate to continue and amendments to be offered .
i will not vote for this bill as it is today .
it s a shell of a bill right now , we all know that .
i have changes urged by my state s governor that will need to be made before i support any bill .
i know the bill has to change substantially before you will support it .
breitbart