raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - a final assault on islamic state s last line of defense in its former syrian capital raqqa should begin on sunday night , a field commander for the u.s.-backed forces operating there said .
the loss of islamic state s remaining streets and buildings in raqqa following its defeat in iraq s mosul this year and its retreat from swathes of territory in both countries , would mark a major milestone in the battle to destroy the jihadist group .
the assault on militants in the center of the northern city will focus on surrounding the sports stadium there , said a field commander in the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) in western raqqa , who gave his name as ardal raqqa .
daesh is massing there because this is the last stage .
they will resist , or they will surrender or die , he said .
this their last stand to the death .
islamic state declared a caliphate in 2014 and at the height of its power ruled over millions of people , from northern syria to the outskirts of iraq s capital baghdad , but it has since endured a series of losses under attack from many sides .
raqqa was the group s de facto syrian capital , a center of operations where it oversaw the management of much of eastern , central and northern syria and planned attacks abroad .
now it is hemmed into a small area in the city center that includes the stadium , the national hospital and a roundabout where islamic state once displayed the heads of its enemies .
in the hours before the expected launch of the final assault , which the commander said could take up to a week , the sound of gunfire sporadically rattled around the area near the hospital .
the district had been flattened , with buildings completely gone .
coalition jets soared overhead and air strikes pounded at a higher rate than in recent days .
islamic state has lost most of its territory to the sdf , spearheaded by the kurdish ypg militia , and to a rival offensive by syria s army and allied forces this year , and has fallen back on the fertile euphrates valley area downstream of raqqa .
the army and its allies reached the city of deir al-zor in september after a months-long offensive across the syrian desert , and have since then pushed down the euphrates towards the border with iraq .
on sunday a syrian military source said they had encircled islamic state fighters in the city of al-mayadin , one of the jihadists last strongholds in the area .
units of our armed forces with the allied forces continue their advance on a number of fronts and axes in deir al-zor and its countryside ... and encircle daesh terrorists in the city of al-mayadin , the military source said .
however , the group has still been able to launch a series of effective counter attacks against the syrian army in the central desert region over the past week , putting pressure on the main supply road to deir al-zor from the west .
syrian president bashar al-assad is backed in the war by russia , iran and shi ite militias including lebanon s hezbollah , and its campaign against islamic state has mostly been on the west bank of the river .
the u.s.-backed sdf campaign has mostly been on the east bank , where raqqa is located , and has also advanced downstream to hold areas opposite deir al-zor .
the united states and russia have put in place channels to lessen the risk of fighting between the rival offensives they back .
u.s. officials have previously said that islamic state had relocated some of its diminished command and propaganda structures to al-mayadin as it was forced from territory elsewhere .
the spokeswoman for the sdf campaign in raqqa , jihan sheikh ahmad , said in a statement on a website for the campaign that it would announce the liberation of raqqa in the coming few days after having captured 85 percent of the city .
commanders directing the battle in raqqa have said that islamic state fighters have taken civilian hostages and are using sniper fire , booby traps and tunnels to slow the sdf advance .
the sdf began its campaign to isolate raqqa early this year , pushing along several fronts to enclose the city against the euphrates backed by coalition air strikes and special forces .
its attack on the city itself started in june and the fighting left much of raqqa in ruins , as intense air strikes and street-to-street battles devastated buildings .