berlin ( reuters ) - a franco-german program to develop a european fighter jet will likely be widened to include other countries to lower costs , officials with the german defense ministry and europe s airbus said on wednesday .
france and germany unveiled the plans in july , burying past rivalries as part of a raft of measures to tighten defense and security cooperation .
companies in britain , italy and sweden have expressed interest in participating in the multi-billion-euro program , that is widely expected to be led by airbus and france s dassault aviation .
bertram gorlo , airbus defence and space s head of key account management for germany , austria and switzerland , told a panel at the berlin security conference that details were still being worked out , but he expected the program to be expanded to include more partners than just germany and france .
i think ... we will have to ask for the support of other nations , he said .
france and germany aim to come up with a roadmap by mid-2018 for jointly leading development of the new aircraft to replace their existing fleets of warplanes .
brigadier general gerald funke , head of the strategic defense planning and concepts division at the german defense ministry , said development of the next-generation aircraft system would likely begin the 2020s with the goal of seeing it enter into service in 2045 .
in the meantime , he said germany was looking at buying an existing aircraft to replace its aging fleet of 85 tornado jets beginning in 2025 .
funke said it would be tough to avoid the national rivalries over jobs and other considerations that plagued earlier international programs like the a400m military transport plane .
in europe , we re in a world where we still have national interests , industrial interests .
and the more partners you have the more complicated it is , he said .
on the other hand , i m also fully convinced that we will not be able to afford a national solution alone .
the key is the will of the partners to cooperate and to find compromise .
gorlo told the panel that airbus successfully coordinated with many partners on each of its commercial airliners .
the question is less about the number of partners , it s more about the governance model under which we contract , gorlo said .
he said the german defense ministry had already expressed interest in setting up a lead nation or lead industry concept for the new fighter program , which could help ensure a more efficient and streamlined development process .