it s pretty common knowledge there is no love lost between valerie jarrett and the clinton crime syndicate .
it s also pretty common knowledge who s calling the shots at the white house .
if valerie doesn t want hillary to be coronated as the next democratic presidential candidate , it s highly likely that in the dirty world of obama s chicago thug style politics that hillary s not gon na be the candidate the lady in waiting will have to keep waiting .
probably forever .
fate has spoken.already threatened by a growing trust deficit with voters , her would-be majesty now faces an even more lethal adversary .
it s called the truth , though she probably sees it as a vast , left-wing conspiracy.the news that two inspectors general from the obama administration want the justice department to investigate her handling of classified material is a potential game changer .
for many democrats , it will serve as final proof she is fatally flawed .
her standing will further erode , turning her coronation plans into a long , hot summer .
the drip , drip , drip of details will produce new polls showing a bleeding of support , which will entice other candidates into the race .
look for vice president joe biden to jump in soon , and lefty sen. elizabeth warren might also take the leap.meanwhile , clinton must play defense against her former colleagues in the state department and intelligence agencies .
actually , it s worse .
she s almost certainly up against the white house.somebody very high in the food chain leaked the memos requesting the probe .
the new york times , which broke the story , identified its source only as a senior government official .
my money is on valerie jarrett , the obamas rasputin , who is known to despise clinton .
if it was jarrett , she would not do this against the president s wishes.that also would be true for any senior government official who leaked the memos .
targets don t get any bigger than hillary clinton , so this was not a rogue operation .
this was an approved hit.clinton has an enemies list and it looks like she s on obama s. it s also possible the white house is using the issue to keep her in line on the iranian nuke deal .
the implied threat is look what happened to robert menendez .
either way , she had it coming .
her arrogance and bald-faced lies about the emails must have infuriated her boss and colleagues .
her decision to conduct government business on a private server in her home and use personal email accounts was a giant f k you to the administration.when it was revealed in march that she had deleted tens of thousands of emails before turning over those she deemed government property , she compounded injury with an insulting insistence that she did nothing wrong .
insiders knew that was a big fat lie.as i wrote then , clinton s claim that she acted out of convenience was hogwash .
she wanted to keep her correspondence secret from congress , the media and also from the white house , and the people it stashed at state to watch her .
it s obvious now she underestimated the ammunition she was providing .
as a result , she has put her dream of being the second president clinton in mortal jeopardy.and her problems may not end with the classified issue .
any honest prosecutor looking at her emails would also look for evidence she traded government favors for contributions to the clinton foundation or paid speeches.she and bill clinton were paid $ 25 million for speeches in just 16 months , and some of that cash came from donors and companies with business before her .
similarly , big donors to the foundation also sought help from her as secretary.and now a career marked by persistent dishonesty might be nearing the finish line long before she planned.via : ny post