madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - spanish police raided catalan government offices and arrested officials on wednesday to halt a banned referendum on independence , an action the regional president said meant madrid had effectively taken over his administration .
tens of thousands of protesters gathered outside the regional government offices in the center of barcelona s tourist district as well as in several catalan cities , waving the red-and-yellow catalan flag and chanting occupying forces out and where is europe ?
.
the spanish state has by all rights intervened in catalonia s government and has established emergency rule , catalan president carles puigdemont said in a televised address .
we condemn and reject the anti-democratic and totalitarian actions of the spanish state , he said , adding catalans should turn out in force to vote in the oct. 1 referendum on a split from spain that madrid has declared illegal .
state police arrested catalonia s junior economy minister josep maria jove on wednesday in their first raid of government offices in the region , catalan government sources said .
the raid targeted several regional government departments .
a dozen high-ranking local officials were arrested , la vanguardia newspaper said .
police confirmed they were carrying out raids connected with the banned referendum , but did not give details .
the catalan government sources could not confirm the other arrests .
in several barcelona districts , people banged on balconies railings and dumpsters while passing cars hooted noisily .
among the protesters outside the government office in barcelona , was carlos , a 47-year-old taxi driver .
we re here so they know they can t do whatever they want , he said , as protesters bore banners reading democracy and vote to be free .
the fc barcelona soccer club said in a statement : fc barcelona , in remaining faithful to its historic commitment to the defense of the nation , to democracy , to freedom of speech , and to self-determination , condemns any act that may impede the free exercise of these rights .
police efforts to stop the referendum have intensified in recent days as the wealthy northeastern region shows no signs of halting it .
acting under court orders , police have raided printers , newspaper offices and private delivery companies in a search for campaign literature , instruction manuals for manning voting stations and ballot boxes .
the civil guard , a national police force , on wednesday seized 10 million ballot papers , polling station displays as well as documents and forms to run the vote , including a list of voters under the headline 2017 catalonia self-determination referendum .
( for a graphic on catalonia secession click tmsnrt.rs/2xw6jto ) it had on tuesday seized more than 45,000 envelopes packed in cardboard boxes that the catalan government was ready to send to notify people about the referendum , while the first of hundreds of catalan mayors appeared before the state prosecutor after they said they would back the referendum .
spain s finance ministry has taken over the region s finances to prevent the use of public money to organize the vote .
but the central government must tread a fine line in enforcing the law in the region without seeming heavy-handed .
polls show a minority of catalans , albeit more than 40 percent , support independence although a majority want a referendum on the issue .
prime minister mariano rajoy said on wednesday the operations in catalonia were the result of legal rulings and were to ensure the rule of law .
he later called on catalan leaders to cancel the vote .
don t go ahead , you don t have any legitimacy to do it .
go back to the law and democracy ( ... ) this referendum is a chimera , he said in a televised speech .
any action that broke the law would be met with a proportionate response , he added .
the constitutional court has suspended the vote after the central government challenged its legality .
spain s central government says the referendum goes against the 1978 constitution which states spain is indivisible .
under article 155 of the constitution , madrid has the power to suspend the regional government s authority to rule .
it has yet to exercise this option as it seeks to block the vote through the courts .
although markets have so far shrugged off the increasing tension , spain s top stock index underperformed regional european stock peers on wednesday .
the ibex fell more than 1 percent by late afternoon trading with financials the biggest drags .
euro zone stocks were off about 0.2 percent .