barack obama and hillary are both advocates of open-borders .
they privately use their position on open-borders and amnesty to gain support from catholics and bleeding-heart liberals .
the pretend to be a champion of the hispanic community .
but are leaders who encourage people from other nations to cross over our borders illegally really committing an act of compassion ?
children are being moved across our borders with total strangers posing as parents or relatives and being left for our government to figure out how to care for them .
citizens from other countries infected with deadly diseases cross our borders and then move around freely in our society , infecting any legal american who comes in contact with them , including innocent school children .
and what about the illegal aliens who pay the worst kind of vermin to get them across our borders ?
how many of those illegal aliens are found dead by ranchers with property on or near our borders ?
instead of feeling compassion americans are left feeling outraged .
bob price of breitbart news shares some of the stunning consequences of open-borders here : the dead bodies of 53 illegal immigrants have been found in one texas county after crossing the border this year .
the remains of the 53 , mostly mexican and central american nationals , represent an increase over 2015 numbers despite an effort by local , state , and federal law enforcement officials.the brooks county sheriff s office informed breitbart texas on thursday night that they had recovered the remains of yet another dead illegal immigrant in the fields of a ranch located roughly 80 miles north of the mexican border .
brooks county is not a border county but is the location of a border patrol checkpoint on one of the main human smuggling routes from to inland cities like houston , san antonio , and dallas .
these cities are transportation hubs for the human smuggling networks operated mostly by mexican drug cartels .
the surge of illegal immigrants coming up from the border is once again resulting in an increase in deaths , brooks county sheriff s office chief deputy benny martinez told breitbart texas in an exclusive interview .
what is happening to these people is truly a humanitarian crisis .
the border patrol operates a checkpoint in the middle of brooks county on highway 281 .
human smugglers attempting to move their cargo northward must either smuggle the illegal immigrants through the checkpoint or , move them on foot around it through neighboring ranches .
forced marches through very hazardous conditions are what has led to the deaths in most cases .
in addition to the heat and lack of water , the smuggled aliens must also travel through terrain consisting of sand so soft that 4-wheel-drive vehicles can get stuck .
they must also avoid poisonous snakes , scorpions , cactus and thorns all of which can debilitate a hiker , causing the coyotes to abandon them .
these coyotes are ruthless , callous people who care nothing about what happens to the people they are moving through our county , martinez explained .
if you can t keep up with them on the trail because you have become injured , dehydrated , overheated , or exhausted , they just abandon you and leave you to die .
go here for entire story : breitbart news