mexico city ( reuters ) - tempers frayed in mexico city on friday as the search for survivors amidst twisted rubble of collapsed buildings began to wind down three days after the country s most deadly earthquake in a generation .
the 7.1 magnitude quake leveled 52 buildings in the sprawling mexican capital at lunchtime on tuesday , leaving thousands homeless and close to 300 people dead .
apartment blocks , offices , a school and a textile factory were among the structures that were destroyed .
across the city , thousands of rescue workers and special teams using sniffer dogs and heat sensors combed wreckage , while the massive outpouring of support from volunteers sparked global praise for mexico s spirit .
efforts were not fast enough , though , for some family members waiting outside an office building that collapsed in the fashionable roma neighborhood .
as storm clouds gathered over the city , families worried that rain could slow the pace of rescue efforts .
protesters held signs addressed to president enrique pena nieto and mexico city mayor miguel angel mancera .
mancera and epn : we demand results read one sign .
they are still alive .
don t kill them and we don t want machines read others , referring to rumors that the military would use bulldozers to hasten removal of rubble deemed unlikely to harbor survivors .
many sites had already been cleared of rubble by friday afternoon and chances were dimming of finding anyone else alive .
u.s. rescue workers went to work friday in the collapsed office building , looking for six people who were still missing .
mexican soldiers and volunteers , supported by teams from as far afield as israel and japan , have so far rescued at least 60 people from the ruins in mexico city and surrounding towns .
for many the search was highly personal .
firefighter teresa ramirez flores , 40 , was helping search an office building in mexico city s roma neighborhood where her cousin carolina muniz , a 43-year-old accountant , was on the second floor when the building collapsed .
we want to be superheroes so that our country doesn t suffer , she said at a site where volunteers brought a wheelbarrow filled with candy for the rescue teams .
after three days though , rescuers were finding more dead bodies than survivors and frustration was increasingly evident .
luis ruiz , a 39-year old carpenter , complained that the police would not let him enter the ruins where his sister and two of her children were buried in the rubble .
i felt powerless to be unable to get my family , unable to do anything , he said .
across the city of 20 million people , many whose dwellings had become uninhabitable sought a place to call home , raising the specter of a housing shortage .
senior officials said there could be 20,000 badly damaged homes in the states of morelos and puebla .
julia juarez , 56 , sat in a park where the homeless set up tents .
all the help we have received is from the civilian population .
the government has not sent anything at all , she said .
no food , no clothes , no water , not even an alka-seltzer .
other mexican volunteers complained of being displaced by foreign rescue workers who flew in to help .
oscar ruiz , a firefighter from the state of guanajuato who had raced to the capital after the quake , said he was close to a survivor under the rubble and could hear a heartbeat with a listening device when his team was pulled to make way for israeli and japanese teams .
do you think i wanted that ?
ruiz said .
it was not clear what happened after he left the site .
in the hard-hit roma neighborhood , jorge hernandez and a team of volunteers from mexico city packed up to move on to isolated villages in morelos .
he said they were doing so after military commands declined their assistance .
mexico city is over saturated with support and there are very remote communities in morelos that have not received help .
that s why we are going there .
there , they need so much help , hernandez said .
tuesday s massive quake struck on the anniversary of the deadly 1985 tremor that killed some 5,000 people in mexico city .
as the shock of this week began to subside , exhaustion crept in , along with growing discontent .
on thursday , mexico s navy apologized for communicating incorrect information in a story about a girl supposedly trapped under a collapsed school in mexico city .
a frantic effort had been made to reach the child , dubbed frida sofia by local media , but it turned out that the widely-publicized story had been false , leading to anger .
francisco ortiz questioned whether attention directed at trying to rescue the phantom girl had diverted resources from other places where they were desperately needed , like the apartment building where his sister , maria , was trapped beneath debris .
authorities had waited until thursday to begin searching the building .
the owner , juan salazar , said all the renters had been accounted for before realizing that ortiz s sister maria , a maid , had been washing clothes on the roof when the quake struck .
salazar said he called civil protection and also implored passing brigades of rescue workers to help , but it was two days before rescue efforts began .
it was negligence .
nobody wanted to take responsibility , neither the army nor civil protection , said ortiz .
on friday afternoon , after a full day s search , rescuers pulled maria s body from the rubble .
( for a graphic on 'earthquake strikes mexico ' click here )