beijing ( reuters ) - china has appointed new commanders of its army and air force in a reshuffle ahead of next month s communist party congress , as president xi jinping brings new blood into the military s top ranks amid an ambitious modernization program .
china s armed forces , the world s largest , are ramping up their capabilities with new equipment like aircraft carriers and stealth fighters as the country pursues a more assertive stance in the disputed east and south china seas and seeks to project power far from home shores .
the new army chief , han weiguo , is not a high-profile figure but has risen rapidly , with three promotions since 2015 .
he was also commanding officer in charge of a military parade in inner mongolia in july overseen by xi to mark 90 years since the founding of the people s liberation army .
han had previously served as head of the central theater command , a military district that includes beijing and a large swathe of central china .
his new position was announced by state media on friday .
the army has been less of a focus of the military modernization , with more resources poured into the air force and navy that have increasingly been carrying out drills in distant regions .
the new air force chief , ding laihang , announced by the defence ministry on the same day , is also a relatively low-profile figure , who ran air force operations for china s northern theater command before his promotion .
new navy chief shen jinlong took up his position in january .
sources with ties to the leadership say he is close to xi .
all three men could be promoted to the central military commission headed by xi , which is in overall charge of the people s liberation army , when the party holds its once-in-five-years congress in bejing next month .
another promotion was announced in august , with previous army commander li zuocheng being made the new chief of the joint staff department of the people s liberation army .
li has had a much higher profile , as one of the few senior military officers with combat experience , having fought vietnam in a brief border war in 1979 .
last year he was glowingly profiled in the official beijing daily , which described his time fighting the vietnamese , accompanied by black-and-white pictures of the then 26-year-old in a trench and pointing to a map .
it was not clear what had happened to fang fenghui , the chief of the joint staff department before li .
at a news briefing on thursday , defence ministry spokesman ren guoqiang declined to comment on fang , who turns 67 next year , usually around the age at which chinese officials retire .