beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china warned self-ruled taiwan on wednesday that it would reap the consequences of promoting formal independence , a red line for beijing which claims the island as its own .
taiwan s government hit back , saying it was a reality that the republic of china , the island s formal name , was a sovereign country and that no matter what china said it could not change this fact .
taiwan is one of china s most sensitive issues .
beijing has never renounced the use of force to bring what it considers a wayward province under its rule .
defeated nationalist forces fled to taiwan in 1949 at the end of the chinese civil war .
taiwan was a japanese colony from 1895 until 1945 .
speaking in parliament on tuesday , newly appointed taiwan premier william lai said he was a political worker who advocates taiwan independence , but that it already was an independent country called the republic of china and so had no need to declare independence .
ma xiaoguang , spokesman for china s taiwan affairs office , said in reaction that relations across the taiwan strait that separates them are not country to country relations , and there is no one china and one taiwan .
taiwan is an inseparable part of chinese territory , has never been a country and can never become a country , ma said .
the mainland side resolutely opposes any form of taiwan independence words or action , and will never allow the historical tragedy of national separation to repeat itself .
the consequences will be reaped for engaging in taiwan independence separatism , he added , without elaborating .
taiwan s mainland affairs council said it did not matter what beijing said , it was an objective reality that the republic of china was a sovereign state .
taiwan s future and the development of relations across the strait will be jointly decided by taiwan s 23 million people , it said .
taiwanese officials have said previously that there is no need to declare independence , as the republic of china is already an independent country , though its territory only covers taiwan , a few offshore islands close to china and some in the south china sea .
relations between taipei and beijing have nosedived since tsai ing-wen of the pro-independence democratic progressive party won election last year .
china suspects her of wanting independence , but she says she wants to maintain peace with china .
beijing has suspended a regular dialogue mechanism with taipei established under the previous , china-friendly government in taiwan , and there has been a dramatic reduction in the number of chinese tourists visiting taiwan .