if you weren t convinced of the fabulousness of first lady melania trump before her 9-day foreign trip , you re certainly aware now .
not only did she dress impeccably but it was obvious that this wise woman put so much thought into what she would wear on this overseas trip .
who wasn t proud to see our beautiful and smart first lady in appropriate and stylish outfits every day .
she won us over in a big way and made the designers who refused to dress her look like schmucks .
she needs no one to hold her hand to put together a wardrobe if anything , first lady melania trump proved to the naysayers that you can be beautiful and smart well done ! richard johnson of the new york post : melania trump is proving to the fashion designers who said they wouldn t help her that dressing well is the best revenge.the first lady s trip to saudi arabia , the vatican , belgium and sicily wearing mostly dolce & gabbana was a fashion tour de force that has forced many naysayers in the rag trade to rethink.the list of designers who said they wouldn t dress melania is long , led by tom ford , marc jacobs , zac posen , christian siriano and sophie theallet.but melania has managed to look smashing in dozens of different ensembles , from her white ralph lauren jumpsuit on election night to the d & g 3-d floral coat she wore in sicily on friday.defending the former model against critics who harped on the garment s $ 51,500 cost , the washington post s robin givhan opined , frankly , the floral coat is beautiful .
givhan gets that melania trump is one smart woman who coordinated her fashion according to the place she was visiting : givhan reported : clothes can be deeply symbolic .
and trump s choice of dolce & gabbana an italian brand that has been deeply inspired by sicilian culture for a trip to sicily makes sense .
gabbana also has been quite vocal and enthusiastic in his willingness to associate his brand with the first lady there is a softening , a melting , stylist phillip bloch told me .
fashion people are fickle and fake .
they are starting to see she is a beautiful woman who is married to the president , and it is an honor to dress her .
deliveries to trump tower have picked up .
most days , the lobby is brimming with wardrobe boxes delivered for melania , a source told me .
once she tries on the outfits and decides what she will keep , the boxes come back downstairs .
not since jacqueline kennedy has there been a first lady who needs less help .
she doesn t need couture .
she can buy off the rack , and it looks beautiful , bloch said .
she knows her size , and she knows what works on her .
she luxuriates in minimal .
read more nyp