it s the first week of november , so of course , it s time for the annual war on christmas idiocy to get underway .
last year , there was a massive brouhaha about starbucks holiday cups they were plain red , and of course , people were pissed .
somehow , removing images like snowflakes and what-not from the cups amounted to taking jesus out of christmas .
well , starbucks just put out a green cup with people on it , and of course , people are pissed.there s just one problem.the green cups aren t starbucks holiday cups.starbucks didn t even mention christmas or the holiday season when they released these cups ! they re actually unity cups , designed to help remind people that we re all people , all americans , during an unprecedentedly divisive election season .
starbucks holiday cups haven t even come out yet , but they will be red with what looks like white holly leaves and berries on them .
or one version is the photo was leaked and we can t see whether there are several versions or just that one.watch buzzfeed news video about the whole non-controversy below : ?
it s the most wonderful time of the year ? people are mad about starbucks holiday cups again pic.twitter.com/oxekvtwelk buzzfeed news ( @ buzzfeednews ) november 4 , 2016and here is some of the proof that the war on christmas blockheads are exactly that : oh yes .. because starbucks can single handily take jesus out of christmas with a cup macdoesit // 22 ( @ machaizelli ) november 3 , 2016starbucks is using a green cup for christmas this year because they re a bunch of cowards https : //t.co/ruofj4ed3b pic.twitter.com/4ymcjtdqbi barstool sports ( @ barstoolsports ) november 2 , 2016rt if you think @ starbucks is trying to take jesus out of christmas with the new cup .
make this go viral so starbucks makes cups red again .
pic.twitter.com/kjscsgpaxq jazmine ( @ jazzhandd ) november 1 , 2016at prince william ice center drinking my psl in my isis-loving , jesus-hating green starbucks cup # happyholidays pic.twitter.com/fb1ytfsomo kirsten burt ( @ kikirbu ) november 4 , 2016 # starbucks launches new cup bomb as # waronchristmas begins .
# starbuckschristmas https : //t.co/of583sse8e charisma news ( @ charisma_news ) november 3 , 2016all i want is red holiday cups at starbucks this green cup shit is unacceptable mary shampton ( @ youshouldmaryme ) november 3 , 2016this is the epitome of christian ignorance and privilege .
how s this : learn what you re outraged over , accept that you just made horrific fools of yourselves , and get over it , people.featured image via video screen capture