belgrade ( reuters ) - serbia has extradited to turkey a kurdish political activist who had been seeking asylum , a police official said on tuesday , defying a recommendation by the united nations committee against torture .
cevdet ayaz requested asylum in serbia earlier this year after fleeing turkey , where he had been sentenced to 15 years in prison over alleged activities against the constitution , the belgrade-based n1 tv quoted his lawyer ana trkulja as saying .
it also quoted her as saying that ayaz had been extradited to turkey on monday and that his brother had been asked to contact a police station in istanbul where he was being held .
the u.n. committee against torture ( uncat ) issued a recommendation on dec. 18 urging belgrade to refrain from extraditing ayaz .
the serbian police official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said serbian courts had ruled that all preconditions for the extradition had been met and that justice minister nela kuburovic had acted accordingly .
the motion by the u.n. came after that ( decision ) ...
the police only performed the extradition procedure , the official said .
officials at serbia s justice ministry , which approved ayaz s extradition , were not immediately available for comment on the case .
on monday uncat chairman jens modvig warned serbia , a candidate for european union membership , to adhere to its international obligations .
serbia is in the process of extraditing mr. ayaz to turkey ... serbia , please be aware of your uncat obligations , modvig wrote on his twitter account .
rights groups accuse turkish president tayyip erdogan of using a state of emergency declared after the 2016 coup attempt to quash decades-long kurdish dissent and political opposition .
turkey , which is also a candidate for eu membership , denies using torture .
serbia , the legal successor to the now-defunct yugoslavia , has ratified the u.n. convention against torture , which came into force in 1987 .
serbia s president aleksandar vucic has sought to boost trade ties with turkey , and erdogan visited belgrade in october .