nate silver is great at predicting the outcomes of political races .
he predicted all 50 states correctly in the last presidential race , which involved presumptive nominees barack obama and mitt romney .
in the race before that when john mccain unleashed sarah palin upon us , he correctly predicted the outcomes of 49 out of 50 states .
well , the legendary political analyst has now weighed in on the 2016 presidential race , and he predicts overwhelmingly that hillary clinton will be the next commader-in-chief.while appearing on good morning america with george stephanopoulos , silver said : here s how to think about it : we re kind of at halftime of the election right now , and she s taking a seven-point , maybe a 10-point lead into halftime.good morning america .
there s a lot of football left to be played , but she s ahead in almost every poll , every swing state , every national poll .
silver isn t , poll-wise , wrong , either .
according to a recent poll , clinton beats trump in iowa , michigan , florida , pennsylvania , north carolina , ohio and virginia .
these aren t small wins , either they are from 4 to 17 points .
so , in other words , the nation definitely appears to favor clinton over trump .
silver said of the numbers : it s been a crazy year , politically .
for example , arizona looks like a toss-up .
maybe georgia .
maybe missouri , north carolina again .
likewise , if trump gains ground on clinton then maybe a state like maine used to be a swing state , not so recently could be in play , too .
in other words , trump is in trouble , as he should be .
the nutjobs who are uneducated and uninformed who helped trump rise to claim the republican presidential nomination do not represent the nation .
this is where the gop messed up they lined up behind a charlatan who is running the greatest reality television show scam the american people have ever seen , and he s gon na lose.remember , if you realize how dangerous trump is , vote blue , no matter who.featured image via slaven vlasic/getty images