washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senate republican leader mitch mcconnell said on tuesday he would not support a resolution targeting myanmar leader aung san suu kyi over the treatment of the country s rohingya muslims , and said washington should not be lecturing her .
i don t favor a resolution going after her , mcconnell , who has been engaged with issues related to myanmar , also known as burma , for years .
i think she s the greatest hope that we have to move burma from where it has been , a military dictatorship , to where i hope it s going .
senators john mccain , a republican , and richard durbin , a democrat , introduced a resolution last week condemning the violence and urging suu kyi to act .
but mcconnell said he did not support the resolution .
my personal view is america kind of singling her out , and lecturing her when she s in a very challenging position is not helpful .
so ...
i don t intend to be a part of that , he said at a weekly news conference by the senate s republican leaders .
mcconnell did not respond to a question about whether there was any consideration of reconsidering democratic former president barack obama s lifting of sanctions on myanmar .
international pressure has been mounting on myanmar to end violence that has sent about 370,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh .
the trump administration has called for protection of civilians , and bangladesh has urged safe zones so refugees can return home .
while washington has been a staunch supporter of myanmar s transition from decades of harsh military rule being led by suu kyi , the nobel laureate has been criticized as doing too little to stop the violence .
in addition to co-sponsoring the resolution , mccain , the influential chairman of the senate armed services committee , said on tuesday he would seek to remove u.s. military cooperation with myanmar from a sweeping defense policy bill now making its way through congress .
the 2018 national defense authorization act , or ndaa , had called for expanded military cooperation .
while i had hoped the ndaa could contribute to positive reform in burma , i can no longer support expanding military-to-military cooperation given the worsening humanitarian crisis and human rights crackdown against the rohingya people , mccain said in a statement .