havana ( reuters ) - cuban president raul castro met with north korean foreign minister ri yong ho on friday amid hopes the communist-run island might be able to convince its asian ally to avert a showdown with the united states .
north korea is facing unprecedented pressure from the united states and the international community to cease its nuclear weapons and missile programs .
cuba has maintained close diplomatic ties with north korea since 1960 but is opposed to nuclear weapons .
in the brotherly encounter , both sides commented on the historic friendship between the two nations and talked about international topics of mutual interest , cuban state television said on its midday broadcast .
canadian prime minister justin trudeau said on thursday he had discussed with castro last year the possibility of working together to defuse global tensions with north korea .
can we pass along messages through surprising conduits ?
trudeau asked in a q & a session after a speech .
it was a topic of conversation when i met president raul castro last year .
these are the kinds of things where canada can , i think , play a role that the united states has chosen not to play , this past year .
canada had an interest in seeking solutions , not just because of regional security but also because the flight path of possible north korean missiles would pass over its territory , trudeau said .
north korea is working on developing nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the u.s. mainland , aiming to achieve what ri has called a real balance of power with the united states .
ri met his cuban counterpart bruno rodriguez this week and the ministers denounced u.s. unilateral and arbitrary lists and designations that led to coercive measures contrary to international law , according to cuba s foreign ministry .
the ministers called for respect for peoples sovereignty and the peaceful settlement of disputes , according to a ministry statement .
president donald trump has increased pressure on cuba since taking office , rolling back a detente begun by his predecessor barack obama and returning to the hostile rhetoric of the cold war .
north korea and cuba are the last countries in the world to maintain soviet-style command economies , though under raul castro , the caribbean nation has taken small steps toward the more market-oriented communism of china and vietnam .
raul took over the presidency in 2008 from his older brother and revolutionary leader fidel castro , who died on nov. 25 last year .
cuba is marking the anniversary on saturday with vigils and concerts .
[ l8n1ns6sf ] cuba maintains an embassy in north korea but trades mostly with south korea .
last year , trade with the latter was $ 67 million and just $ 9 million with the north , the government said .