something extraordinary happened that is certain to have republicans and republican voters everywhere furious fox news just admitted that the united states deficit is at its lowest level since 2008 .
that s right , since the last republican was in office .
you have to admit , this must have taken a lot of courage on the behalf of fox news to admit something like this .
it goes directly against their bash president obama for everything policy.however , there it is , in bold print on foxbusiness.com : they even published this , which will make every republican that follows fox news as a religion and believe without question , do a double take : the u.s. ran a budget surplus in january , dropping the annual deficit to its lowest level since august 2008 , the treasury department said wednesday.the u.s. deficit fell to $ 405 billion over the 12-month period ended january , or around 2.2 % of gross domestic product , boosted by a $ 55 billion surplus in january .
the deficit figure was down from the year-earlier $ 495 billion , or 2.8 % of gdp .
quite a change of heart when fox news actually sees the results of obama s actions .
unlike how they behaved years ago after the president first took office , which you can view here , when they completely ignored deficit reduction : fox business even explained how the reduction in deficit was achieved : revenues stood around 6 % above their year-earlier levels , while outlays were around 3 % higher .
receipts of $ 314 billion collected by the treasury was a record for the month of january.the latest report showed annual revenues posted their slowest rate of growth since august 2012 .
corporate tax receipts for the fiscal year , which began oct. 1. , ran around 10 % below their year-earlier level .
individual taxes withheld by employers and payroll tax revenues were up 3 % , while other individual taxes , such as capital gains , were 8 % higher .
funny how when you have a president that truly believes in math , they can actually achieve success in regards to deficit reduction , and understands that in order to pay for things , we need revenue coming in .
republicans have yet to figure that out.now , if only we could get republicans to actually look at the presidents latest budget , which as of now , they have simply refused to even entertain.the gop is literally a vomit stain on the rug of america that we can t seem to remove.featured image from flickr