baghdad ( reuters ) - the commander of iraq s biggest shi ite muslim paramilitary group told its fighters on thursday to take their orders from the national military and cut their ties with the group s political wing .
hadi al-amiri , leader of the iran-backed badr organisation , also called on the group s fighters to withdraw from the cities under their control .
the move paves the way for amiri to stand in parliamentary elections on may 12 .
participation in the election by members of iraq s iran-backed shi ite paramilitaries , collectively known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , has been hotly debated in iraq .
pmf members can not run for office unless they formally resign their posts .
amiri is the second commander to issue such a call in as many days .
he called on those in charge of his armed wing to cut their ties with the group s political party , which holds 22 seats in the iraqi parliament .
i also call on all my brothers , the commanders of various formations , to clear cities of all signs of militarisation , he said in a speech .
badr , which says it is loyal to both iraq and iran , is the biggest group within the pmf , which fought alongside security forces against islamic state .
sunni muslims and kurds have called on prime minister haider al-abadi , who declared victory over islamic state last week , to disarm the pmf , which they say are responsible for widespread abuses .
the pmf were officially made part of the iraqi security establishment by law and formally answer to abadi in his capacity as commander-in-chief of the armed forces .
abadi has said the state should have a monopoly on the legitimate use of arms .
qais al-khazali , head of asaib ahl al-haq , announced a similar move on wednesday when he said he would place his fighters under abadi s command .
the fighters and their political wing were now separate entities , he said .
powerful shi ite cleric moqtada al-sadr set out conditions on monday for his followers to give the government the weapons they used to fight islamic state .
iran-backed harakat hezbollah al nujaba , which has about 10,000 fighters and is one of the most important militias in iraq , said last month it would give any heavy weapons it had to the military once islamic state was defeated .