mogadishu ( reuters ) - two car bombs killed at least 17 people in somalia s capital mogadishu on saturday , police said , two weeks after a huge truck bomb killed hundreds of civilians in the city .
islamist group al shabaab claimed responsibility for the attacks on saturday .
a suicide car bomb was rammed into a hotel , nasahablod two , about 600 meters from the presidential palace , and then armed militants stormed the building , police said .
a few minutes later , a car bomb exploded near the former parliament house nearby .
ali nur , a police officer , told reuters 17 people , mostly policemen , had died in the blasts .
security forces have entered a small portion of the hotel building ... the exchange of gunfire is hellish , he said .
the police personnel who died had been stationed close to hotel s gate .
the dead also included a former lawmaker , he said .
fighting continued to rage inside the hotel after the blast and police said the death toll was likely to rise .
abdikadir abdirahman , director of amin ambulances , told reuters the emergency service had carried 17 people injured from the hotel bombing .
a huge cloud of smoke rose over the scene and a reuters witness saw over a dozen wrecked cars and bloodstains in front of the hotel .
sporadic gunfire could be heard .
islamist group al shabaab , responsible for scores of such attacks in the country s long civil war , said it carried out saturday s bombings .
we targeted ministers and security officials who were inside the hotel .
we are fighting inside , abdiasis abu musab , the group s military operations spokesman , told reuters .
he said the hotel belonged to somalia s internal security minister , mohamed abukar islow .
al shabaab is fighting to topple somalia s internationally-backed government and impose its strict interpretation of islam s sharia law .
bombs in mogadishu two weeks ago killed at least 358 people , the worst such attacks in the country s history , igniting nationwide outrage .
another 56 people are still missing , believed to have been burnt without a trace .
al shabaab was widely suspected , but has not claimed responsibility after thousands of somalis poured onto the streets to protest .
al shabaab s attacks are growing in frequency and size , as a 22,000-strong african union peacekeeping force prepares to begin withdrawing .
in 2016 , 723 people died in 395 bomb attacks in somalia , according to a report produced earlier this year by nairobi-based think tank sahan research .