amsterdam ( reuters ) - a spanish diplomat has been proposed to head the world s chemical weapons watchdog at a critical time for the organization s disarmament work in syria , diplomats said on wednesday .
a vote on the appointment of fernando arias , 65 , is expected to be taken by the 41-member executive council of the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons on thursday .
the change of leadership comes as the opcw and u.n. weapons inspectors investigate ongoing use of banned nerve agents , including sarin and mustard gas , in the syrian civil war .
syrian officials remain unable to explain how banned chemicals have been found in the country , meaning the new leader could face a showdown among members over whether syria should be reported to the united nations for non-compliance .
we believe that we have a strong successor in ambassador fernando arias of spain , and hope that the executive council will agree his nomination by consensus , said ambassador peter wilson , head of the british delegation at the opcw .
arias will have to overcome fundamental differences between major powers russia and the united states , which jointly drafted a deal to rid syria of its chemical weapons in 2013 after a sarin attack killed hundreds of civilians near damascus , but have since ended cooperation at the opcw .
the syrian government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons during the more than six-year civil war .
but despite a massive international mission to destroy its toxic arsenal , opcw inspectors have found use of chemical weapons is systematic and ongoing .
diplomats say arias , spain s ambassador to the opcw and the netherlands , where the organization is based , is known as a strong negotiator and mediator , making him a good match for the job .
under arias direction , the opcw adopted a contentious decision in 2016 condemning the use of chemical weapons by syrian government forces and islamic state militants .
a rare vote at the consensus-based opcw signaled the break in cooperation between the united states and russia , which back different sides in the war .
the united states had sought to impose sanctions on those responsible through the opcw s executive council , but dropped the proposal in the face of fierce russian opposition .
an alternative text drafted by spain was supported by a majority , including germany , france , the united states and britain , but opposed by russia , china , iran and sudan .
arias nomination must be formally be approved by all the opcw s member countries , represented through the conference of states parties , which is expected by december .
he will succeed ahmet uzumcu of turkey , who has headed the since july 2010 .
arias , who previously served as spain s ambassador to the united nations , will be appointed for a four-year term through july 2022 and can seek reappointment .
he was picked over candidates from denmark , hungary , lithuania , south korea , burkina faso and iraq , diplomatic sources told reuters on condition of anonymity because the process was confidential .
born in madrid , arias also held positions in mauritania , bulgaria , montenegro and was as deputy ambassador in china .