los angeles ( reuters ) - mcdonald ’ s corp quickly deleted a tweet sent from the company ’ s handle slamming president donald trump on thursday and said its official twitter account had been compromised .
the tweet , which was copied and shared widely before being deleted , came a day after the twitter accounts of a number of major news organizations , chief executives , government agencies and other high-profile users were hijacked .
“ based on our investigation , we have determined that our twitter account was hacked by an external source .
we took swift action to secure it , and we apologize this tweet was sent through our corporate mcdonald ’ s account , ” mcdonald ’ s spokeswoman terri hickey said in a statement .
corporate accounts are attractive targets due to their large followings and the media attention that errant tweets can attract .
twitter inc allows for two-factor authentication , a security feature that would deter many attempts to seize an account .
twitter declined comment on thursday citing “ privacy and security reasons ” .
the tweet sent from @ mcdonaldscorp on thursday morning read : “ @ realdonaldtrump you are actually a disgusting excuse of a president and we would love to have @ barackobama back , also you have tiny hands. ” trump did not respond to the incident on twitter .
high-profile twitter accounts were hijacked on wednesday to send anti-nazi messages in turkish in the midst of a diplomatic spat between turkey , the netherlands and germany .
twitter said on wednesday that the source of that attack was a third-party app , whose permissions have since been removed .
trump , one of the more fast-food friendly presidents in recent years , had tweeted pictures of himself eating food from mcdonald ’ s and other chains during the u.s. election campaign .
a 2002 ad campaign featured trump and the chain ’ s grimace mascot promoting an “ amazing ” $ 1 deal for mcdonald ’ s since-discontinued big n ’ tasty burger .
the incident came as mcdonald ’ s is bolstering its digital capabilities with mobile and kiosk ordering to help modernize the 60-year-old chain .
analysts said the hack raised questions about security at twitter , but was unlikely to do much damage to the restaurant chain ’ s brand .
“ as long as trump doesn ’ t tweet at them directly , which could be pretty disastrous , this will be a short-term thing for them , ” said mike froggatt , director of intelligence at l2 , which monitors the digital performance of brands .
“ twitter trending topics last for maybe 6 hours , a backlash for 10 to 12 hours and then it goes and the herd moves on , ” said froggatt .
the message from the account of the world ’ s largest restaurant chain caused a sensation on twitter , where users shared copies of the deleted tweet and offered jokes and comments .
vanessa veasley and other users speculated that trump supporters could attempt to launch a boycott of the chain , as they threatened to do when starbucks corp chief executive howard schultz vowed to hire 10,000 refugees after trump ’ s first executive order temporarily banning refugees from certain countries .
“ mcdonald ’ s already deleted the tweet ?
lol well at least trump supporters can finally boycott something they can actually afford , ” veasley ( @ vanessaveasley ) wrote .
other users praised the fast-food chain , which has been fighting to reverse two straight years of customer traffic declines .
“ suddenly i want a big mac , well done @ mcdonalds , ” tweeted shay steward bouley ( @ blackgirlinmain ) .
some trump supporters said mcdonald ’ s had not done enough to atone for the tweet and advocated for a boycott .
“ hey @ mcdonaldscorp you can ’ t just undo a tweet ! ! !
since you don ’ t support america , americans will not support you ! ! !
# boycottmcdonalds , ” wrote deborah brewer‏ ( @ debbie92083 ) .
mcdonald ’ s is not the only high-profile company to be compromised with fake tweets over the years .
brands including burger king , jeep and sony music also have been hit .