the stats don t lie on this one obama s hoping to reach the low information voter who watches letterman and will buy this bs .
the stimulus under obama gave billions for work programs and education but we still need to give more ? ? ?
as a taxpaying american i am 100 % fed up !
and ready for the black community to take responsibility for their towns and their youth .
we do not ignore pockets of poverty but i would say that we ignore the truth of what s going on in the black community and what s the real problem here .
it s just like when the main stream media ignores and covers up the bad behavior of groups of black teens .
we ve reported on numerous cases of this bad behavior that caused damage and physical harm to others .
the latest case was ironically in baltimore and the local press called the offenders kids when you can see clearly that these are teens .
downplaying and not punishing the bad behavior by these teens only makes it worse .
no consequences breeds chaos president obama said that too often we ignore pockets of poverty , lack of opportunity , lack of education on monday s late show on cbs.obama said , it s important that now that charges have been brought in baltimore , that we let due process play itself out .
those officers who have been charged , they deserve , to be represented , and to let the legal system work its way through .
we don t have all the facts yet , and that that s going to be presented in a court of law .
i think it s also really important to remember that the overwhelming number of police officers are doing an outstanding job , we re in new york , today , we re in new york today , where a young officer lost his life doing his job , and families of officers all across the country every day , they re wondering is my loved one going to come home ?
and so they ve got a really tough job .
he continued , what we also know , though , is that for far too long , for decades , you have a situation in which too many communities don t have a relationship of trust with the police , and if you just have a handful of police who are not doing the right thing , that makes the job tougher for all the other police officers out there .
it creates an environment in the community where they feel as if , rather than being protected and served , they re the targets of arbitrary arrests or stops , and so our job has to be to rebuild trust , and we put forward a task force made up of police officers , but also young activists who have been protesting in ferguson , or here in new york .
they came up with some terrific recommendations about collecting data on what happens when there s a shooting involving police , what are we doing in terms of things like body cameras , and so there s some very practical , concrete things we can do to make the system work better .
read more : breitbart