washington ( reuters ) - a former finance co-chair of chris christie ’ s presidential campaign on sunday slammed christie ’ s recent endorsement of donald trump , according to nbc , calling for the new jersey governor ’ s supporters to reject the republican front-runner .
“ chris christie ’ s endorsement of donald trump is an astonishing display of political opportunism .
donald trump is unfit to be president , ” meg whitman , chief executive officer of hewlett-packard , said in a statement reported by nbc ’ s “ meet the press ” program .
christie , appearing on abc ’ s “ this week ” program , responded by describing whitman “ a great friend ” with a different political opinion .
“ and that ’ s ok. that ’ s what makes this country great is that people can have differences of political opinion , ” he said .
just days before the super tuesday nominating contests , christie on friday became the most prominent mainstream republican to get behind the billionaire republican front-runner and former reality tv star , declaring trump to have the best chance of defeating democrat hillary clinton in the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
but whitman ’ s statement said the new jersey governor made his statement despite his own public misgivings about a trump presidency .
“ trump would take america on a dangerous journey .
christie knows all that and indicated as much many times publicly , ” whitman said .
trump ’ s unorthodox candidacy has shaken the republican party and has drawn increasingly vehement criticism from his rivals .
but a growing number of senior republicans are becoming resigned to the idea he will be their candidate in november .
christie , who withdrew his own white house bid earlier this month , denied that he reversed course on trump after promising new hampshire union leader newspaper publisher joe mcquaid that he would not endorse him after the billionaire won the state ’ s feb. 9 primary election .
“ it ’ s just not true .
he called me two days after the primary and said , i was just told that you ’ re about to endorse donald trump .
and i said to him , that ’ s absolutely untrue .
i ’ m not about to endorse anybody , ” christie told abc .
( reporting by alana wise and david morgan ; editing by ros russell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .