vienna ( reuters ) - the leader of austria s far-right freedom party ( fpo ) on thursday criticized the european union s top court for upholding brussels right to force member states to take in asylum-seekers , calling the quota system an immigration program .
heinz-christian strache , whose anti-immigrant party could become kingmaker in next month s parliamentary election , took sides with hungary s prime minister viktor orban .
it simply can not be that states lose their right to self-determination and decision-making when it comes to receiving ( asylum-seekers ) , strache said in a panel discussion in vienna .
the european court of justice ( ecj ) dismissed complaints by hungary and slovakia against the quota system on wednesday .
the european commission said it might seek fines at the ecj within weeks for hungary , poland and the czech republic unless they take people from italy and greece .
the ( eu ) program is not a refugee program but an immigration program , said strache , who has repeatedly called for zero and minus immigration .
the veteran party chief drew attention to remarks by u.n. peace talks mediator staffan de mistura .
the u.n. special representative pointed out the war in syria is over , strache said .
we all know , asylum is a temporary protection , which applies for as long as there is persecution .
but if that s no longer the case , one actually has to take care of going back home .
the freedom party s popularity rose to a high during europe s migration crisis in 2015 , when it denounced the government s decision to open austria s borders to hundreds of thousands of migrants .
it led polls for more than a year , until sebastian kurz took the helm of the conservative people s party in may .
kurz , who also has a hard stance on migration , has been leading polls ahead of the oct. 15 election with just over 30 percent .
the freedom party and center-left social democrats trail with around 25 percent each .
austria s system of proportional representation is likely to produce another coalition government , and observers say kurz s and strache s parties are likely to join forces .