vienna ( reuters ) - munich prosecutors said on friday they expect to complete their investigations into airbus s $ 2 billion sale in 2003 of eurofighter combat jets to austria .
the deal has been the subject of investigation by austrian and german prosecutors for years .
our investigation is about to come to an end .
we aim to complete the proceeding soon , a spokeswoman for munich prosecutors said , but declined to comment on a report by german weekly der spiegel that said the authority would file charges soon .
the munich authority is focusing on whether money supposedly spent on so-called offset deals , which are common in large arms deals to provide business for local firms , was instead used to influence decision-makers on the main sale .
munich prosecutors are investigating 16 people on suspicion of breach of trust , according to the spokeswoman .
airbus , which has repeatedly denied all allegations , said when asked for comment : neither the prosecutors investigations in munich and vienna nor our own extensive investigations have led to evidence suggesting bribery in connection with the sale of eurofighter jets to austria .
vienna prosecutors are pursuing a separate investigation into allegations of fraud against airbus and the eurofighter industrial consortium based on complaints from the austrian defense ministry , which is seeking up to 1.1 billion euros ( $ 1.3 billion ) in compensation .
last month airbus again denied any wrongdoing in a submission to the austrian prosecutors and threatened the country s defense minister with legal action .
the munich prosecutors are investigating where millions of euros ended up which airbus - eads at the time - paid to a now defunct company between 2005 and 2010 , the spokeswoman said .
the austrian proceedings continue independently of the german investigation , a vienna prosecutor s spokesman said , adding that he could not say when a decision might be taken on whether to file charges .
an austrian parliamentary inquiry into the eurofighter deal found no evidence of bribery or that airbus and its partners illegally influenced austrian politicians .