larry lindsey fought hard for trump in colorado during the primaries .
he passed away hours after recording his final goodbye.rip patriot .
president trump , vice president pence and general mattis , i would like to say that the greatest honor of my life has been to wage this battle with you .
i have been prouder of being a marine than anything i have ever done in my life .
having a hand in some small way in fighting for my country has meant the world to me .
there is no greater honor for me , to have great men like you leading this country back to its foundation and back to god .
president trump , i have no doubt in my heart and in my mind , that you will be perhaps the greatest president in the history of our country .
vice president pence , i am so honored to call you my vice president .
you are an incredibly good man and probably the only vice president in probably 150 years to have any brains , and i appreciate that from you .
the candor and the honesty from both of you men is much needed at this day and time .
general mattis , sir , it appears that i am now out of ammunition , but i continue to fight with my last breath .
i do not fear death , because i know where i m going and i m only going home for a rest .
it s you people here , the good people of america for whom i cry , my loved ones and my friends and the sacrifices they must continue to make in this fight to restore our country .
dying is the easy part .
dying is the comforting part if you know who your god is and you know that he holds your hand , and i do .
i praise god for a wonderful life , so many wonderful blessings that i have known and so many wonderfully kind and loving people in this country whom i have met during my fight for this country .
i want you to know , each and every one of you that we have taken on a challenge that has only just begun .
the real battle lies ahead .
and general mattis , i have only one request sir , and that is , give em hell .
semper fi.god bless .
larry lindsey fought hard for trump in colorado during the primaries .
he passed away hours after recording his final goodbye.rip patriot .
pic.twitter.com/mjb1bn1xzn alex ( @ socal4trump ) december 18 , 2016