london ( reuters ) - half of britons support a second vote on whether to leave the european union and a majority think the government may be paying too much money to the eu to open the way to trade talks , according to a new opinion poll .
the poll , published in the mail on sunday newspaper , found 50 percent of people supported another vote on the final terms of britain s exit deal , 34 percent rejected another referendum and 16 percent said they did not know .
the newspaper said it was the first major opinion poll since last week s media reports that britain is preparing to pay about 50 billion euros ( $ 59 billion ) to help to move on to talks on a future trade pact with the eu .
mike smithson , an election analyst who runs the www.politicalbetting.com website and a former liberal democrat politician , said on twitter it was the first time any pollster has recorded backing for a second brexit referendum .
since the referendum in 2016 , high profile opponents of britain s exit - from french president emmanuel macron , to former british prime minister tony blair and billionaire investor george soros - have suggested britain could change its mind and avoid what they say will be disastrous for the british economy .
blair said on sunday he was trying to reverse brexit because claims by the leave campaign , such as the national health service getting an extra 350 million pounds a week once britain leaves the eu , have been proved false .
blair told the bbc that the government aims in the brexit negotiations will fail because it wants to leave the single market , but retain all of the benefits , and voters can change their minds .
it s reversible .
it s not done until it s done , he said .
when the facts change , i think people are entitled to change their mind .
brexit supporters argue any attempt to halt the exit process would be anti-democratic .
according to the survation poll only 11 percent of voters said britain should pay 50 billion pounds to quit the eu , while 31 percent said the government should not pay anything at all .
the poll also found 35 percent of those surveyed said they would be worse off financially after brexit , while 14 percent said they would be better off .
the online poll , carried out by research firm survation , interviewed 1,003 adults in britain between 30 november and 1 december .
survation said it carries out polls for media organizations including the bbc , sky news , the daily telegraph and the guardian .
the polling agency correctly predicted a narrowing in the vote between the ruling conservative party and the opposition labour party in this summer s general election that resulted in may leading a minority government .
( $ 1 = 0.8411 euros )