while donald trump officially assumes the office of president on friday , he says he ll be leaving the oval office chair empty until monday .
according to trump , he ll spend the weekend partying instead of presidenting.in an interview with the times of london , trump said , one of the first orders i m gon na sign day one which i will consider to be monday as opposed to friday or saturday .
right ?
i mean my day one is gon na be monday because i don t want to be signing and get it mixed up with lots of celebration , but one of the first orders we re gon na be signing is gon na be strong borders .
note , this is the same man who once said about president obama , it was reported today he played 250 rounds of golf and he s going to be in hawaii , i think did they say for three weeks ?
trump said .
two hundred and fifty rounds , that s more than a guy who plays in the pga tour plays .
he played more golf last year than tiger woods .
we don t have time for this .
we have to work .
while 250 rounds might sound like a lot , over eight years , that amounts to less than one round every 10 days .
historically , though , 250 rounds is a tiny blip .
woodrow wilson played nearly 1,200 rounds during his administration and george w. bush had obama beat in vacation time.trump s announcement probably won t sit well with his sycophants whose hopes hung on the 21 things he promised he d do on day one .
day three , day four , what s one more day for the leader of the free world ? the internet , of course , exploded : the same people who spent 8 years counting potus every round of golf now have no problem w/ trump taking his first weekend off .
amazing .
april ( @ reignofapril ) january 17 , 2017he told us months ago he plans to go home for the weekends .. of course he s taking his first weekend off .
https : //t.co/0gzpoop0fs the anti-trump ( @ impl0rable ) january 17 , 2017leave it to trump to kick off mlk weekend by attacking civil rights icon john lewis , reminding us what the orange face of hate looks like .
bill madden ( @ activist360 ) january 14 , 2017somebody needs to tell the idiot in chief that the presidency isn t a part time job .
# notmypresident # theresistance https : //t.co/yx2t8kiqkg america s idiot ( @ _americasidiot ) january 17 , 2017in fairness , everything won t get * really * bad until monday because trump said he s taking the weekend off .
not even joking .
https : //t.co/xmcug6advv matt novak ( @ paleofuture ) january 17 , 2017trump is taking the weekend off.i suppose he ll need time to heal once the bible bursts into flame after places his hand on it. # resist steve marmel ( @ marmel ) january 17 , 2017after inauguration on friday , trump to take weekend off for celebrations and pony rides and face painting .
https : //t.co/fmxgezjcwg writer in residence ( @ mikecullen73 ) january 17 , 2017trump really think he gets the weekend off ?
someone please explain to him its not that type of gig https : //t.co/6nfyzwbg3b insanul ahmed ( @ incilin ) january 17 , 2017of course , there is no explaining anything to trump .
he plans to make the office of the president whatever he wants it to be , no matter how bad it is for the american people.featured image via drew angerer/getty images