mexico city ( reuters ) - mexicans packed churches on sunday to pray for the victims of the country s deadliest quake in 32 years as rescue teams searched against the odds for any survivors trapped under rubble since tuesday s tremor shook mexico city and nearby states .
as another aftershock jolted southwestern mexico on sunday , the death toll from tuesday s 7.1 magnitude earthquake climbed to 320 people .
with thousands of buildings damaged , survivors slept on the street outside their homes and estimates of the cost of the earthquake ran as high as $ 8 billion .
many have been traumatized by the second major quake to strike mexico city in their lifetime after a devastating 1985 tremor killed an estimated 10,000 people .
in the basilica of our lady of guadalupe , the national shrine of the majority roman catholic country , thousands of people gathered to pray .
i came to ask god for strength for those who lost loved ones and for the virgin to watch over us and keep us safe , said 69-year-old maria gema ortiz .
thanks to all those who came from other countries to help .
thanks to all and long live mexico !
makeshift places of worship have popped up next to the crumbling cement and mangled steel of collapsed buildings in the deeply religious country .
in upscale roma , one of the hardest-hit neighborhoods of the capital , a priest led mass for nearly two dozen people under a blue tarp while a nun handed out small cards with an image of the virgin of guadalupe , who according to the catholic faith first appeared to an aztec convert in 1531 .
more than 44,000 public schools in six states were due to reopen on monday , but only 103 of the 4,000 public schools in mexico city would open so as not to impede rescue and relief efforts .
in addition , the national autonomous university of mexico , with 350,000 students at campuses in and around mexico city , will resume classes on monday .
like many mexicans , 36-year-old claudia avila was determined to return to some semblance of normality .
we are afraid , but life must go on , said avila , whose sons are 9 and 16 .
tomorrow i will take my children back to school .
they know that if something happens , they must protect themselves .
it has been a rude awakening .
rescuers narrowed their search to a handful of buildings in the sprawling metropolitan area of 20 million people , using advanced audio equipment to detect signs of life beneath tonnes of rubble , with help from teams from as far afield as israel and japan .
the search and rescue in mexico city continues as a priority , with cooperation from national and international groups , tweeted miguel angel mancera , mexico city s mayor .
the search for survivors continued in a ruined office building in the roma neighborhood and in a five-story apartment building in historic tlalpan .
authorities called off efforts in the upper-middle class linda vista zone after pulling 10 bodies from the rubble , while work at the tlalpan building was briefly halted on saturday by a magnitude 6.2 aftershock .
roberto hernandez , 62 , leading a group of mexico s famed mole rescue workers at the collapsed office building in roma , said he believed 30 people were trapped in the rubble , though it was not clear how many were sill alive .
we can t guarantee there is life but we can guarantee we ll turn over every last stone , hernandez said .
tuesday s quake , which flattened dozens of structures in mexico city , was the second major earthquake to strike the country of 127 million people this month .
a massive 8.1 magnitude quake on sept. 7 off the southwestern coast of mexico killed around 100 people , most of them in the nearby states of oaxaca and chiapas .
a series of aftershocks since then have sown panic .
the latest tremor , of 5.7 magnitude , struck on sunday off the west coast , with its epicenter 80 km ( 50 miles ) south-southwest of tonala , in chiapas , the u.s. geological survey said .
there were no immediate reports of significant damage .
many more quakes are likely , warned xyoli perez campos , director of mexico s national seismological service .
we have already recorded more than 4,300 aftershocks , campos said .
so more aftershocks are to come .
what we don t know is if they are going to be of significant magnitude .
president enrique pena nieto visited 12 communities in mexico state , which borders the capital city , promising that aid would be directed only to those truly affected by the quake and that the government would help rebuild homes and businesses .
i am publicly promising that ... the affected homes , the families affected and the people in the whole of joquicingo and the state of mexico , get back on their feet , he said from that town .