mumbai ( reuters ) - indian police have filed a sexual assault case against an airline passenger after a 17-year-old bollywood actress said the male passenger had molested her during a new delhi-mumbai flight , police said on monday .
a special court ordered police to detain the passenger for interrogation until wednesday , when the case will be heard next .
it can take months for formal charges to be filed in india .
zaira wasim , the actress , was seen sobbing in a video she posted on instagram after getting off a vistara flight .
she alleged she was attacked by the passenger seated behind her .
he kept nudging my shoulder and continued to move his foot up and down my back and neck , wasim said in the post .
is this how we are going to take care of girls ?
the video sparked outrage on social media with fans coming out in support of wasim , who shot to fame through her role as a child wrestler in the 2016 blockbuster bollywood drama dangal .
police have registered a case against a man identified as vikas sachdeva , under section 354 - for assault or criminal force to woman with intent to outrage her modesty - and the protection of children from sexual offences act , a mumbai police control room official said .
vistara is jointly owned by tata and singapore airlines .
we are investigating fully and will support zaira in every way required , vistara chief strategy and commercial officer sanjiv kapoor said .
we have zero tolerance for this kind of thing .
neither sachdeva or his lawyers could be reached for comment .
in court , sachdeva s lawyer accused wasim of making the allegations for publicity , and asked why she had not complained to crew members during the flight .
local media quoted the suspect s wife , divya sachdeva , as saying her husband was innocent and that she was returning from a funeral and had been asleep on the flight .
she accused wasim of having made the allegations for publicity .
a spokeswoman for the airline said it had provided details to the police and aviation authorities and its senior management had flown to mumbai to assist wasim in the investigation .
we are deeply concerned and regret the unfortunate experience ms. zaira wasim had onboard our flight last night .
india s national commission for women , a government-appointed body fighting for women s rights , has asked the airline to explain why the crew did not step in to help the actress , according to local media reports .
this is not done at all , wasim , who hails from the northern indian state of jammu & kashmir , was seen saying in the video while wiping away tears .
this is not ... how people should be made to feel .