london ( reuters ) - britain s intention to avoid a hard border between ireland and northern ireland after brexit is inconsistent with its plan to withdraw from the european union s single market and customs union , a committee of lawmakers said on friday .
the irish border , which will be the only land link between the eu and britain after brexit , is proving to be one of the most problematic issues in a slow diplomatic process which is testing the patience of politicians , businesses and investors .
the eu is looking to britain to provide a solution on how to manage the flow of goods between ireland and the british province without erecting politically inflammatory border controls .
britain has said it wants to withdraw from the eu s customs union , within which goods can move freely , but will not contemplate border posts or other infrastructure that could disrupt 20 years of delicate peace in northern ireland .
we can not at present see how leaving the customs union and the single market can be reconciled with there being no border or infrastructure , said opposition lawmaker hilary benn , chair of the brexit committee which is scrutinising the negotiations .
the british government has said it is seeking a flexible and imaginative approach to the border that goes beyond existing eu precedents , and has mooted technological solutions or a new form of customs union .
but ministers have been criticised by their counterparts in ireland for a lack of detail .
progress on the border issue is crucial to britain s hopes of moving negotiations on to the subject of trade and future relations - something businesses are impatient to find out about as they contemplate the need to relocate .
deputy irish prime minister simon coveney said on thursday that significantly more clarity was needed before a dec. 14-15 summit which could agree the start of phase two talks on trade .
the committee , which based its report on evidence from brexit minister david davis , also said the government needed to publish more detail on both its short-term plans for a post-departure transition period , and its long-term vision of a future trading relationship with europe .
if phase two of the talks do start next month , then ministers need to move beyond words like bespoke and special and actually explain what it is they are seeking , benn said .