if you ve spent much time on social media , you might notice that almost regardless of the subject , a string of anti-hillary memes seems to just automatically show up .
that s not a coincidence .
it s all part of a highly coordinated shitposting designed by billionaire and oculus founder , 24-year-old palmer luckey.luckey is best known as a boy genius who invented his version of virtual reality goggles , called the oculus rift .
facebook bought luckey s company in 2014 for $ 2 billion .
forbes estimates that he s worth about $ 700 million.the epicenter of his trolling seems to come from reddit , where he uses the pseudonym nimblerichman .
luckey is a backer , likely the key backer of a pro-trump 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) charitable social welfare organization that s dedicated to backing trump .
if you think that sounds seriously sketchy , you d be right .
according to the irs , a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) is not supposed to have politics as its primary activity , and any politicking it does is not tax exempt .
the daily beast published an expose on thursday , which says in part : nimble america says it s dedicated to proving that shitposting is powerful and meme magic is real , according to the company s introductory statement , and has taken credit for a billboard its founders say was posted outside of pittsburgh with a cartoonishly large image of clinton s face alongside the words too big to jail .
we conquered reddit and drive narrative on social media , conquered the [ mainstream media ] , now it s time to get our most delicious memes in front of americans whether they like it or not , a representative for the group wrote in an introductory post on reddit.people on reddit aren t happy .
in fact , the biggest pro-trump subreddit , r/the_donald , refused to believe that luckey was nimblerichman , but luckey insisted that he s just the money behind the idea and well , he did it for a lark because , you know , screwing with the future of the free world is fun !
i ve got plenty of money , luckey added .
money is not my issue .
i thought it sounded like a real jolly good time .
he prides himself on putting out memes that are so bad that even the trump campaign wouldn t promote them.before you think he s a millennial who is still angry that bernie sanders didn t win , think again .
he has zero problems with money in politics .
the american revolution was funded by wealthy individuals , nimblerichman wrote on saturday .
luckey confirmed to the daily beast he penned the posts under his reddit pseudonym .
the same has been true of many movements for freedom in history .
you can t fight the american elite without serious firepower .
they will outspend you and destroy you by any and all means .
luckey isn t just spending money on anti-hillary memes .
he s spending money to support trump.as an early supporter of @ oculus this makes me sick to my stomach .
this is the org @ palmerluckey is backing cc @ techcrunch @ uploadvr pic.twitter.com/athqtwol7e cody brown ( @ codybrown ) september 23 , 2016this is a message from @ palmerluckey , the founder of @ oculus .
pic.twitter.com/cwlaa8ugmx cody brown ( @ codybrown ) september 23 , 2016luckey has apparently been banned from twitter , but that doesn t mean that nimble america , along with the backing of white supremacist and breitbart propagandist , milo yiannopoulos .
they plan on releasing more memes and purchasing billboards.it s not clear if luckey has maintained any sort of relationship with facebook or if he has pull with the organization .
let s hope not .
while 4chan , who is responsible for many of the anti-hillary paid trolls throughout social media , is also associated with r/the_donald , there s no evidence , at this point , that luckey is behind financing that movement .
stay tuned , though.featured image via bryan steffy/getty images .