the government-orchestrated bankruptcies of general motors and chrysler led to tens of thousands of direct factory , supplier and other related job cuts .
while government influence at decade s end helped detroit recover financially , the government-orchestrated bankruptcies of general motors and chrysler led to tens of thousands of direct factory , supplier and other related job cuts .
the primary benefit of the u.s. industry restructuring for employment has been the balance of jobs saved rather than jobs created .
( john crawley , analysis : obama seeks lift from detroit auto jobs , reuters , 1/12/12 ) tarp inspector general : tens of thousands of jobs were lost due to hasty factory closings .
the report by neil m. barofsky , the special inspector general for the troubled asset relief program of the treasury department , said both carmakers needed to shut down some underperforming dealerships .
but it questioned whether the cuts should have been made so quickly , particularly during a recession .
the report , released on sunday , estimated that tens of thousands of jobs were lost as a result .
( nick bunkley , tarp audit questions rush to close auto dealers , the new york times , 7/18/10 ) ford motor company announced tuesday it will cancel a $ 1.6 billion plant planned for mexico and will instead invest $ 700 million in a michigan assembly plant , directly tying the decision to pro-growth policies championed by president-elect donald trump.trump had previously been critical of ford s plans to build in mexico .
after the announcement , trump tweeted a link to a story about the ford decision and then added in a subsequent message : instead of driving jobs and wealth away , america will become the world s great magnet for innovation & job creation .
we re doing this decision based on what s right for our business , ford ceo mark fields told neil cavuto on fox business network .
as we think about the investments here in michigan , as you can imagine , neil , we look at a lot of factors as we make those .
one of the factors that we re looking at is a more positive u.s. manufacturing business environment under president-elect trump and some of the pro-growth policies he said he s going to pursue .
and so this is a vote of confidence .
fox news