these leftist actors are so darn funny .
you know what isn t funny ?
they never mention the 4 americans hillary left to die in benghazi .
they never mention that she has put our nation and the national security of our nation at risk with her personal unsecured email server .
you know what else isn t funny ?
that they never mention the person they re supporting , because she has a vagina and a d after her name , has been under criminal investigation for most of her adult life .
but let s hear how funny it is that some nit-wit actress who is supported by the general public ( not just democrats ) wanted to track down trump to make a video attempting to humiliate him .
i m actually sorry she never found him , it would ve been an amazing career ending move .
the 25-year-old oscar-winning actress joined fellow actors johnny depp and james mcavoy on the graham norton show friday night , where she revealed that she once attended a concert at which the republican presidential frontrunner was also present .
i was at a concert that i heard he was attending , so i had my full security , i was like , find donald trump , lawrence told norton .
because i was adamant on finding him and then making a video of me going , hey trump , f * ck you !
i wouldn t rest until he was found , the actress continued over the audience s enthusiastic applause .
he knew i was looking for him .
watch : meanwhile , depp told norton about his experience playing trump in left-wing comedy website funny or die s art of the deal movie in february , and even offered up some on-the-spot impressions of the gop candidate .
both lawrence and depp have predicted apocalyptic disaster if the republican presidential hopeful were to win in november.during a red carpet appearance at the premiere of his latest film alice through the looking glass earlier this week , depp said that a president trump would be america s last president .
if donald trump is elected president of the united states of america , in a kind of historical way it s exciting , depp said , because we will see the actual last president of the united states .
via : breitbart news