davos , switzerland ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president joe biden said on tuesday that the united states would speed up the approval of promising new drug combinations in his government ’ s newly announced drive to cure cancer “ once and for all ” .
biden , who lost his 46-year-old son beau to brain cancer last year , set out his plans at a world economic forum meeting of international cancer experts in davos , a week after being appointed to lead the initiative by president barack obama .
so-called combination therapy is increasingly seen as central to fighting tumours , as scientists unlock the different genetic factors driving cancer cell growth , but bringing such cocktails to market can be a slow and costly .
biden said he had hosted a meeting at his home with three unnamed large drug companies and the head of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) at which both sides had pledged to do more to get novel cancer drug cocktails to patients .
“ the head of the fda made a commitment that everybody would move much more rapidly in approving combinations , ” biden said .
at the same , the pharmaceutical industry executives had all said they were “ open to different way of doing business ” in order to ensure that promising drugs from different companies were tested together as early as possible , he added .
cancer experts are particularly excited by the promise of new immunotherapy medicines that help the body ’ s immune system fight tumours and which have been shown to work well when used alongside other drugs .
francis collins , director of the u.s. national institutes of health , described their potential as “ breath-taking ” .
but such immunotherapy drugs are expensive - typically costing well over $ 100,000 a year per patient - and companies have traditionally been defensive about sharing early-stage medical experiments .
obama ’ s call to “ make america the country that cures cancer once and for all ” in the last state of the union address of his presidency has led to criticism from some scientists of an over-simplified approach to the killer condition .
the latest government-led initiative has echoes of former president richard nixon ’ s unsuccessful “ war on cancer ” in the 1970s , since when scientists have discovered that cancer is hundreds of different diseases rather than one single disorder , making the notion of a single cure outdated .
biden acknowledged the complexity in davos .
“ i ’ m not naive enough to think or suggest we are going to have a cure for every cancer in the world in the near term , ” he said .