brussels ( reuters ) - british and eu negotiators talked up hopes for progress on brexit as a new round of talks began in brussels on monday , three days after prime minister theresa may tried to revive the process and improve the mood .
but neither side disguised continued frustrations : the european union s michel barnier dismissed talk of britain diverging from eu rules during any post-brexit transition 18 months from now ; brexit minister david davis urged him to stop stalling talks on future trade relations if he wants london to settle its accounts .
the uk will honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership , davis told reporters as he met barnier .
but it is obvious that reaching a conclusion on this issue can only be done in the context of and in accordance with a new deep and special partnership with the european union .
we are laying down concrete proposals and there are no excuses for standing in the way of progress , he said , echoing may s remark in florence on friday that other states would not lose out financially in the current eu budget cycle to 2020 .
barnier said he wants to know this week what firm proposal britain is making on settling its bills , one of the three main issues on which he is seeking significant progress before he will recommend that eu leaders launch talks on future relations .
barnier emphasized that a future deal and a transition to it were not foregone conclusions .
and he rejected suggestions that some eu rules might no longer apply if britain stays in the single market for a couple of years after brexit .
without exception , he said , britain would remain subject to eu budgets , judges and so on a bitter pill for many brexit supporters .
he and davis , meeting for the fourth round of talks in three months , both portrayed this week as an important moment ; as it happens , the round is likely to wind up on thursday just hours before may meets her fellow leaders at a summit in estonia .
the estonian minister who chaired a preparatory meeting on monday for that summit said during a news conference with barnier that the 27 were entirely united and insisted on the negotiations going through barnier .
however , london hopes that progress in the talks can persuade leaders when they next meet in mid-october to give a green light to talks on future trade .
sunday s german election has raised questions on whether the weakening of chancellor angela merkel , europe s power broker , may affect the eu s calculations on brexit .
but eu officials saw no indication berlin would stray from merkel s call for close ties with britain but rejection of special favors to london .
in a bid to unblock the divorce talks , along with her words on settling budget commitments , may also offered a concession to eu concerns that the rights of their 3 million citizens living in britain would be protected after brexit .
davis said those rights , set out in the uk-eu withdrawal treaty , would be fully incorporated into british law though the eu position remains that expatriates should be entitled to appeal to the eu court .
the third key issue to be settled before the eu will agree to trade talks is on handling the sensitive border on the island of ireland .
davis and barnier renewed pledges to find solutions , though little detail has emerged on where those may lie and both sides acknowledge that much will depend on future trade terms .