brasilia ( reuters ) - brazilian president michel temer will shuffle his cabinet in march and likely exclude members of his main allied party after many of its lawmakers turned against him this week , a senior government source said on friday .
the source , who asked not to be named because he was not authorized to speak on the matter , said he did not expect the brazilian social democracy party ( psdb ) to be part of the future government .
the reshuffle follows the biggest revolt yet against temer s 13-month government when the majority of psdb lower-house deputies on wednesday voted to put him on trial over corruption charges .
the psdb plans to field its own presidential candidate next year and may well quit temer s coalition of its own accord as the elections draw closer , the source said .
though the lower house voted to shelve a corruption case against temer , the upheaval in his ruling coalition is likely to derail temer s plans to plug a budget deficit to help brazil recover from its worst ever recession .
the planned cabinet changes will take place as ministers have to leave the cabinet by april to run in october elections .
smaller allied parties have asked temer to eject the psdb from his government .
it currently holds four cabinet posts .
the source said foreign minister aloysio nunes , a member of the psdb , might stay on even if his party leaves the government .
temer , whose popularity is at rock bottom , has no plans to run for re-election .
his centrist brazilian democratic movement party ( pmdb ) , brazil s largest , has generally entered governments through coalitions with other parties and rarely fielded its own presidential candidate .
government officials expect the economy to pick up and grow at 3 percent by mid-2018 , which would improve the pdmb s chances should it choose to do so .
such a candidate would likely be someone from outside the party and have to be untarnished by the corruption scandals battering brazil s political class , the source said .