baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi shi ite militias illegally detained villagers near the islamic state-held district of hawija in northern iraq and subjected them to torture and ill treatment , human rights watch said on thursday .
the leader of one of the militias , which are known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , denied the accusation and said their fighters were strictly following the law in their dealings with civilians fleeing military operations in the area .
iraq launched an offensive on september 21 to dislodge islamic state from hawija , which lies west of the oil city of kirkuk and is one of two areas of the country still under the control of the militants .
men from villages near hawija were detained by militias from the badr organisation , a pro-iran , shi ite grouping that is playing a major role in baghdad s war against islamic state , and were taken to an unknown location , the hrw report said , based on interviews with villagers evacuated to a nearby refugee camp .
the villagers told hrw they had seen militia fighters using their gun butts to beat the detained men .
during their detention the fighters brought them food only once and only a small amount of water but did not let them use a bathroom .
human rights watch has documented that pmf groups , including units affiliated with the badr organization , have screened , detained , and tortured people during the military operations , said the report.women were also detained briefly by iraqi security forces and were questioned about their male relatives activities before being transported to the refugee camp , hrw said .
while iraqi forces do need all the help they can get , the government should not allow abusive forces to use this opportunity for even more abuse , said sarah leah whitson , middle east director at human rights watch .
the iraqi government was not immediately available to comment on the hrw report , but local badr commander kareem al-mohammedawi denied that villagers rights had been abused .
we are strictly ordering our fighters to abide by the law and avoid mistreating refugees fleeing the fighting .
but when we suspect someone is a terrorist we normally arrest him and hand him over to the security forces , he said .
hawija and a stretch of land along the syrian border are the last pieces of iraq still in the hands of islamic state , which overran about a third of the country in 2014 .