geneva ( reuters ) - syria s opposition wants russia and other states to put pressure on president bashar al-assad to engage in peace talks in geneva to produce a political solution within six months , the chief of its delegation said at the start of negotiations on wednesday .
we want more pressure on the regime to engage in the negotiation and continue in the negotiation to reach a political solution in six months , as ( u.n. security council resolution ) 2254 says , nasr hariri told reuters .
just speaking about a political transition without any advancement , we will lose our trust in the process and our people will lose their trust in us and in the process itself .
hariri said syria and its ally iran wanted the fighting to continue until they could declare a military victory , and they were not abiding by agreements to de-escalate the fighting in areas such as eastern ghouta , a besieged rebel-held enclave .
if the situation continues as it is now i think there is great danger in these agreements .
russia had arranged a pause in the fighting for eastern ghouta for two or three days , which showed moscow had the power to ensure de-escalation agreements were respected , he said .
a war monitor and a witness said on wednesday that heavy shelling hit eastern ghouta in spite of the start of the russian-backed truce there .
syria s civil war is now in its seventh year and previous rounds of negotiations made virtually no progress , with no direct contact between the opposing delegations , who took turns to meet u.n. mediator staffan de mistura .
the syrian government delegation has always rejected the opposition s demand that assad leave power , calling them terrorists who lacked the legitimacy to negotiate .
the government s position on the battlefield has strengthened dramatically since russia joined the war on assad s behalf two years ago , raising speculation that the opposition could soften its negotiating stance .
however , opposition delegates meeting last week issued a statement repeating their demand that assad be excluded from any transitional government , a position which damascus and its allies say is divorced from reality on the ground .
de mistura originally planned a round of 4-5 days but was now planning to continue until dec. 15 , hariri said , adding that his team had come hoping for direct talks with the government delegation for the first time .
hariri said his opening words to government negotiator bashar al-ja afari would be : i hope despite all of the crimes which have been done in syria , i hope that the regime can come ready to put the people of syria first .
de mistura has asked both sides to come without preconditions .
hariri said the opposition had no preconditions , but planned to talk about assad s future as part of the negotiations .
the talks are meant to cover four major issues : elections , governance , the constitution and fighting terrorism .
all four would be discussed , hariri said , but it would not be possible to go straight into the core elements straightaway .
if we will speak about constitution or election under the current circumstances inside syria with this kind of regime , i think it will be impossible , he said .
among issues the opposition wanted to discuss at the outset were humanitarian aid and people detained by forces loyal to assad .
hariri said detainees number more than 200,000 .
syrian government negotiator ja afari also met de mistura on wednesday but declined to speak to reporters afterwards .