europe will never be the same .
the millions of mostly muslim men flooding their countries rich in heritage and unique cultures will not assimilate .
they come with no health checks , no passports , no id very few women and children .
these are the same men who complain about lack of sex and good bars in refugee camps this is unbelievable.a czech doctor , who works in a german hospital , is so disgusted and overwhelmed with the muslim migrant invaders that she is threatening to leave the country and go back home to the czech republic .
she explains , via an email letter ( because the press is forbidden from reporting on this ) , how horrific the conditions are in these hospitals , with the muslim invaders bringing diseases they weren t even prepared to treat .
but that s just part of it .
the superior attitudes of these muslims and their belief that they should get everything for free is wreaking havoc everywhere , from the hospitals to the pharmacies.really , you must watch this video where an independent czech television host reads the letter in full .
or , if you prefer , read the transcription i made below which matches the english captions with slight corrections.we will return to the topic of the migrants because i have another letter here regarding the effect of immigrants on the everyday flow of operations.eyewitness from a munich hospital : a friend in prague has a friend , who , as a retired physician , had returned to work at a munich area hospital where they needed an anaesthesiologist .
i correspond with her and she forwarded me her email .
yesterday , at the hospital we had a meeting about how the situation here and at the other munich hospitals is unsustainable .
clinics can not handle emergencies , so they are starting to send everything to the hospitals.many muslims are refusing treatment by female staff and , we , women , are refusing to go among those animals , especially from africa .
relations between the staff and migrants are going from bad to worse .
since last weekend , migrants going to the hospitals must be accompanied by police with k-9 units.many migrants have aids , syphilis , open tb and many exotic diseases that we , in europe , do not know how to treat them .
if they receive a prescription in the pharmacy , they learn they have to pay cash .
this leads to unbelievable outbursts , especially when it is about drugs for the children .
they abandon the children with pharmacy staff with the words : so , cure them here yourselves !
so the police are not just guarding the clinics and hospitals , but also large pharmacies.truly we said openly : where are all those who had welcomed in front of tv cameras , with signs at train stations ? !
yes , for now , the border has been closed , but a million of them are already here and we will definitely not be able to get rid of them.until now , the number of unemployed in germany was 2.2 million .
now it will be at least 3.5 million .
most of these people are completely unemployable .
a bare minimum of them have any education .
what is more , their women usually do not work at all .
i estimate that one in ten is pregnant .
hundreds of thousands of them have brought along infants and little kids under six , many emaciated and neglected .
if this continues and german re-opens its borders , i m going home to the czech republic .
nobody can keep me here in this situation , not even double the salary than at home .
i went to germany , not to africa or the middle east.even the professor who heads our department told us how sad it makes him to see the cleaning woman , who for 800 euros cleans every day for years , and then meets young men in the hallways who just wait with their hand outstretched , want everything for free , and when they don t get it they throw a fit.i really don t need this !
but i m afraid that if i return , that at some point it will be the same in the czech republic .
if the germans , with their nature can not handle this , there in czechia it would be total chaos .
nobody who has not come in contact with them has no idea what kind of animals they are , especially the ones from africa , and how muslims act superior to our staff , regarding their religious accommodation.for now , the local hospital staff has not come down with the diseases they brought here , but , with so many hundreds of patients every day this is just a question of time.in a hospital near the rhine , migrants attacked the staff with knives after they had handed over an 8-month-old on the brink of death , which they had dragged across half of europe for three months .
the child died in two days , despite having received top care at one of the best pediatric clinics in germany .
the physician had to undergo surgery and two nurses are laid up in the icu .
nobody has been punished.the local press is forbidden to write about it , so we know about it through email .
what would have happened to a german if he had stabbed a doctor and nurses with a knife ?
or if he had flung his own syphilis-infected urine into a nurse s face and so threatened her with infection ?
at a minimum he d go straight to jail and later to court .
with these people so far , nothing has happened.and so i ask , where are all those greeters and receivers from the train stations ?
sitting pretty at home , enjoying their non-profits and looking forward to more trains and their next batch of cash from acting like greeters at the stations .
if it were up to me i would round up all these greeters and bring them here first to our hospital s emergency ward , as attendants .
then , into one building with the migrants so they can look after them there themselves , without armed police , without police dogs who today are in every hospital here in bavaria , and without medical help.via : the right scoop