manchester , n.h. ( reuters ) - bernie sanders had breakfast with one of america ’ s most prominent civil rights activists , al sharpton , just hours after trouncing hillary clinton in the new hampshire democratic presidential nominating contest .
the meeting marked a recognition by sanders that his campaign must swiftly broaden its base of support if he has any chance of mounting a long-term challenge to clinton , who consistently polls better among african american voters .
they will play a crucial role in the democratic race as it moves to south carolina - where more than half of the democratic primary voters in 2008 were african american - and other states more diverse than new hampshire or iowa , which held the first contest of the 2016 election .
sanders met sharpton in the same harlem restaurant where the activist met with barack obama during his 2008 presidential campaign - an obvious bit of symbolism for the vermont senator trying to connect with minority voters .
“ my concern is that in january of next year for the first time in american history a black family will be moving out of the white house .
i do not want black concerns to be moved out with them , ” sharpton , a baptist minister and television talk show host , told reporters afterwards .
sharpton discussed a recent spate of police shootings of black males and other issues with the senator .
he said he would not endorse a candidate until he met with clinton .
even before the exit polls showing that sanders had won new hampshire , clinton ’ s campaign was already trying to highlight her double-digit lead over sanders among african american and latino voters .
“ it will be very difficult , if not impossible , for a democrat to win the nomination without strong levels of support among african american and hispanic voters , ” clinton campaign manager robby mook said in a memo sent to reporters .
he predicted the democratic race would be won in march , when it quickly expands to 22 delegate-rich states with some of the largest minority and urban populations — and that clinton would have the advantage .
clinton has a long history of support for civil rights , and she has benefited from her husband bill clinton ’ s popularity in the black community during his presidency , although that became strained during the fierce 2008 primary battle with obama .
reuters/ipsos polling nationally showed that in january , blacks backed clinton by a margin of 3 to 1 over sanders .
among hispanics , 48 percent supported clinton and 32 percent backed sanders .
but as black and hispanic voters became more familiar with sanders through televised presidential debates , they seemed to like him more , with his favorability ratings rising slightly among those groups over the last few months , the polling showed .
so far sanders ’ strong performance has been due to the mostly young white voters who have embraced his populist anti-wall street message and call for income equality .
but in the upcoming nominating contests , sanders needs to carry that message to a broader group of voters , particularly minority voters , who will help determine the democratic nominee .
african americans and hispanics comprise 35 percent of the democratic party , according to a 2013 gallup poll .
sanders already has intensified his efforts to reach black voters with more campaign stops before african-american audiences and ads on black-oriented radio stations .
rapper killer mike sometimes introduces sanders at rallies , and academic cornel west has also campaigned for him .
the senator also frequently condemns the disproportionate rate at which blacks are targeted by police and has called for increased police transparency and accountability .
sanders ’ intensified effort to appeal to minority voters follows questions about whether he has broad enough support to take the white house .
clinton herself has raised the issue of sanders ’ electability on the campaign trail and in debates .
even some sanders supporters have expressed fears that a vote for him could allow republicans to win the election .
but sanders ’ campaign shrugs off any worries about the road ahead .
“ we recognize we are moving to a bigger stage , but it ’ s another opportunity for him to spread his message .
people have responded to his message when they hear it , ” said sanders campaign spokesman michael briggs .
sanders already has begun airing ads in nevada and south carolina , has hired staff in 15 states and is prepared for a national race , briggs said .
on super tuesday , sanders will be looking to do well in several states , including his home state of vermont , as well as massachusetts , colorado and minnesota , where the grassroots enthusiasm of his supporters could be an advantage .
still irene matz , a retiree in minneapolis , minnesota , said she was worried about sanders ’ electability and had yet to make a decision on who to vote for .
“ hillary has been hit with everything for years , we know what we are getting with her .
now bernie will get his turn , and they won ’ t be kind to him , ” matz said .
“ i ’ ll vote for hillary unless i feel bernie has a good shot , ” she said .
( additional reporting by chris kahn and alana wise , editing by paul thomasch and ross colvin ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .