21st century wire says washington s russian witch hunt is now collapsing before our eyes .
as host patrick henningsen revealed last wednesday on acr radio , the supposedly damning information submitted by the fbi s private cyber security contractor crowdstrike , of which the entire russian hack conspiracy theory hinges on is fraudulent .
here is a link to their primary invented piece of evidence included in the us intelligence assessment .
this means that we were correct back on nov 1st when we said the russian hack story was a hoax designed distract from the explosive contents on the dnc and podesta email leaks , and also to bolster a failing hillary clinton campaign by discrediting donald trump as being somehow in league with the evil russians.if they keep pressing this story , it will only hurt the credibility of a democratic party that still refuses to admit the abject failures and corruption within of their political organization.now the question remains : how more millions in us taxpayer money will hollywood s congressman adam schiff , and ringleaders lindsey graham waste before they re done trying to look tough on russia and trump ?
will they be held accountable by anyone ? in the end , we discover that schiff , feinstein , graham , mccain and so many others in washington have done extreme damage to american interests , and in the long run to national security .
here s the story us congressman and neomccarthyite adam schiff has himself become a ridiculous-looking caricature as of late .
justin raimondo antiwar.comthe allegation now accepted as incontrovertible fact by the mainstream media that the russian intelligence services hacked the democratic national committee ( and john podesta s emails ) in an effort to help donald trump get elected recently suffered a blow from which it may not recover.crowdstrike is the cybersecurity company hired by the dnc to determine who hacked their accounts : it took them a single day to determine the identity of the culprits it was , they said , two groups of hackers which they named fancy bear and cozy bear , affiliated respectively with the gru , which is russian military intelligence , and the fsb , the russian security service.how did they know this ? these alleged hacker groups are not associated with any known individuals in any way connected to russian intelligence : instead , they are identified by the tools they use , the times they do their dirty work , the nature of the targets , and other characteristics based on the history of past intrusions.yet as jeffrey carr and other cyberwarfare experts have pointed out , this methodology is fatally flawed .
it s important to know that the process of attributing an attack by a cybersecurity company has nothing to do with the scientific method , writes carr : claims of attribution aren t testable or repeatable because the hypothesis is never proven right or wrong .
neither are claims of attribution admissible in any criminal case , so those who make the claim don t have to abide by any rules of evidence ( i.e. , hearsay , relevance , admissibility ) .
likening attribution claims of hacking incidents by cybersecurity companies to intelligence assessments , carr notes that , unlike government agencies such the cia , these companies are never held to account for their misses : when it comes to cybersecurity estimates of attribution , no one holds the company that makes the claim accountable because there s no way to prove whether the assignment of attribution is true or false unless ( 1 ) there is a criminal conviction , ( 2 ) the hacker is caught in the act , or ( 3 ) a government employee leaked the evidence .
this lack of accountability may be changing , however , because crowdstrike s case for attributing the hacking of the dnc to the russians is falling apart at the seams like a cheap sweater.to begin with , crowdstrike initially gauged its certainty as to the identity of the hackers with medium confidence .
however , a later development , announced in late december and touted by the washington post , boosted this to high confidence .
the reason for this newfound near-certainty was their discovery that fancy bear had also infected an application used by the ukrainian military to target separatist artillery in the ukrainian civil war .
as the post reported : while crowdstrike , which was hired by the dnc to investigate the intrusions and whose findings are described in a new report , had always suspected that one of the two hacker groups that struck the dnc was the gru , russia s military intelligence agency , it had only medium confidence .
now , said crowdstrike co-founder dmitri alperovitch , we have high confidence it was a unit of the gru .
crowdstrike had dubbed that unit fancy bear .
crowdstrike published an analysis that claimed a malware program supposedly unique to fancy bear , x-agent , had infected a ukrainian targeting application and , using gps to geo-locate ukrainian positions , had turned the application against the ukrainians , resulting in huge losses : between july and august 2014 , russian-backed forces launched some of the most-decisive attacks against ukrainian forces , resulting in significant loss of life , weaponry and territory .
ukrainian artillery forces have lost over 50 % of their weapons in the two years of conflict and over 80 % of d-30 howitzers , the highest percentage of loss of any other artillery pieces in ukraine s arsenal .
alperovitch told the pbs news hour that ukraine s artillery men were targeted by the same hackers , that we call fancy bear , that targeted dnc , but this time they were targeting cell phones to try to understand their location so that the russian artillery forces can actually target them in the open battle .
it was the same variant of the same malicious code that we had seen at the dnc .
he told nbc news that this proved the dnc hacker wasn t a 400-pound guy in his bed , as trump had opined during the first presidential debate it was the russians.the only problem with this analysis is that is wasn t true .
it turns out that crowdstrike s estimate of ukrainian losses was based on a blog post by a pro-russian blogger eager to tout ukrainian losses : the ukrainians denied it .
furthermore , the hacking attribution was based on the hackers use of a malware program called x-agent , supposedly unique to fancy bear .
since the target was the ukrainian military , crowdstrike extrapolated from this that the hackers were working for the russians.all somewhat plausible , except for two things : to begin with , as jeffrey carr pointed out in december , and now others are beginning to realize , x-agent isn t unique to fancy bear .
citing the findings of eset , another cybersecurity company , he wrote : unlike crowdstrike , eset doesn t assign apt28/fancy bear/sednit to a russian intelligence service or anyone else for a very simple reason .
once malware is deployed , it is no longer under the control of the hacker who deployed it or the developer who created it .
it can be reverse-engineered , copied , modified , shared and redeployed again and again by anyone .
in other words malware deployed is malware enjoyed !
in fact , the source code for x-agent , which was used in the dnc , bundestag , and tv5monde attacks , was obtained by eset as part of their investigation !
during our investigations , we were able to retrieve the complete xagent source code for the linux operating system .
if eset could do it , so can others .
it is both foolish and baseless to claim , as crowdstrike does , that x-agent is used solely by the russian government when the source code is there for anyone to find and use at will .
secondly , the estimate crowdstrike used to verify the ukrainian losses was supposedly based on data from the respected international institute for strategic studies ( iiss ) .
but now iiss is disavowing and debunking their claims : [ t ] he international institute for strategic studies ( iiss ) told [ voice of america ] that crowdstrike erroneously used iiss data as proof of the intrusion .
iiss disavowed any connection to the crowdstrike report .
ukraine s ministry of defense also has claimed combat losses and hacking never happened .
the crowdstrike report uses our data , but the inferences and analysis drawn from that data belong solely to the report s authors , the iiss said .
the inference they make that reductions in ukrainian d-30 artillery holdings between 2013 and 2016 were primarily the result of combat losses is not a conclusion that we have ever suggested ourselves , nor one we believe to be accurate .
one of the iiss researchers who produced the data said that while the think tank had dramatically lowered its estimates of ukrainian artillery assets and howitzers in 2013 , it did so as part of a reassessment and reallocation of units to airborne forces .
no , we have never attributed this reduction to combat losses , the iiss researcher said , explaining that most of the reallocation occurred prior to the two-year period that crowdstrike cites in its report .
the vast majority of the reduction actually occurs before crimea/donbass , he added , referring to the 2014 russian invasion of ukraine .
the definitive evidence cited by alperovitch is now effectively debunked : indeed , it was debunked by carr late last year , but that was ignored in the media s rush to prove the russians hacked the dnc in order to further trump s presidential ambitions .
the exposure by the voice of america of crowdstrike s falsification of ukrainian battlefield losses the supposedly solid proof of attributing the hack to the gru is the final nail in crowdstrike s coffin continue this story at antiwar.comread more russian hack news at : 21st century wire russian hack filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv