washington ( reuters ) - u.s. senate armed services committee chairman john mccain on thursday urged defense secretary ash carter to investigate what he called troubling remarks by a former senior united launch alliance executive about his company ’ s dealings with the pentagon .
brett tobey resigned wednesday as vice president of engineering for ula , a joint venture of lockheed martin corp and boeing co , after his comments at a colorado university were posted by space news , a trade publication .
in his remarks , tobey contradicted ula ’ s reason for skipping a competition to launch gps satellites and said the defense department “ bent over backwards to lean the field ” to ula ’ s advantage in that competition with new market entrant spacex .
he also said the pentagon was trying to figure out “ how do we silence mccain , ” who has urged the government to penalize ula for failing to bid in the competition despite receiving $ 800 million in support funding for launch services every year .
“ this committee treats with the utmost seriousness any implication that the department showed favoritism to a major defense contractor or that efforts have been made to silence members of congress , ” mccain told carter at a hearing on the u.s. defense department ’ s fiscal 2017 budget request .
ula said tobey ’ s remarks were inaccurate .
ula , the sole provider for u.s. military launches for nearly a decade , is scrambling to restructure so it can compete with space exploration technologies , or spacex .
ula last year said it had skipped the gps-3 launch competition because it lacked the required accounting systems and did not have enough russian-built rd-180 engines to power its atlas 5 rockets due to a ban imposed by congress after russia ’ s annexation of the ukraine region of crimea .
tobey said ula did not want to get into a “ price shootout ” with spacex since its launches cost $ 125 million , or close to $ 200 million including the separate launch support contract , compared to around $ 60 million for spacex .
carter did not respond to mccain ’ s request for a “ full investigation ” into the comments from the former ula executive .
winston beauchamp , deputy undersecretary of the air force for space , had no immediate comment on tobey ’ s remarks .
he said the air force had concluded it could not penalize ula for not bidding in the gps-3 launch competition since there was no requirements for companies to bid .
he also noted that the launch support contract was solely associated with launches already awarded to ula under an earlier block buy contract .