united nations ( reuters ) - syria s foreign minister said on saturday that victory was within reach in the country and that damascus hoped de-escalation zones will help reach a cessation of hostilities .
the liberation of aleppo and palmyra , the lifting of the siege of deir ezzor and the eradication of terrorism from many parts of syria prove that victory is now within reach , foreign minister walid al-moualem said in his speech to the united nations general assembly .
russia , turkey and iran have been negotiating separately for months in the kazakh capital astana to try to reduce violence on the ground by creating de-escalation zones across the country , although those talks do not cover a long-term political solution to the six-year civil war .
moualem , who praised as constructive the role of russia and iran , which back syrian president bashar al-assad , said syria was encouraged by the de-escalation zones and hoped they would lead to an actual cessation of hostilities .
nevertheless , he said : syria reserves the right to respond to any violation by the other party .
syria also stresses that these zones are a temporary arrangement that must not violate the territorial unity of syria .
earlier this month russia , iran and turkey agreed to deploy observers on the edge of a de-escalation zone in syria s idlib province , which is largely under the control of islamist insurgents .
the move falls under a broader deal in which they would set up four such zones across syria .
the de-escalation plan has eased fighting in parts of western syria between rebel factions and government forces loyal to assad .
assad has gained the military upper hand against an array of rebel groups , including some that have received backing from the united states , turkey and gulf monarchies .
critics have described the de-escalation plan as de facto partitioning of syria after years of multi-sided conflict .
moscow , tehran and ankara deny this and say the zones will be temporary , although they could extend beyond the initial six-month term .