just two years ago , the obama white house welcomed russia s top internal security official , alexander bortnikov , to washington , as the head of a kremlin delegation attending a highly publicized u.s. government summit on countering violent extremism.obama was caught on an open mic telling russian president dmitry medvedev ( on the left ) who is pictured toasting with vladimir putin and head of the federal security service alexander bortnikov , that he would have more flexibility after his second term .
of course , the mainstream media all but ignored the disturbing conversation .
they re all over the fake news story however about trump and his alleged russian ties , of which they have absolutely no evidence .
what u.s. officials did not then know is that officers of the agency that bortnikov heads , the fsb or federal security service , were at that moment directing an audacious state-sponsored cyberattack to penetrate yahoo s email network , deploying criminal hackers to steal data on 500 million email users , according to criminal charges unveiled by the justice department on wednesday .
the indictment handed up by a federal grand jury in california charged two fsb officers and two civilians one russian and one from kazakhstan , now living in canada with crimes including computer hacking and economic espionage.the fsb sponsored cyberattack , which lasted from 2014 to last september , was described by government officials today as one of the largest data breaches in history : it involved the theft of vast amounts of credit card data and other financial information , as well as personal details on individuals of high interest to the russian government : journalists , u.s. officials and u.s. and foreign corporate executives and employees , including a senior officer of a major u.s. airline and even a nevada gaming official.but what was especially galling to u.s. officials is that the two fsb officers at the center of the plot , dmitry dokuchaev and igor sushchin , were assigned to the agency s center for information security , or center 18 a cybercrime unit that was the fbi s point of contact for investigating criminal hacking operations .
what this shows is that we ve been had , said steve hall , a former cia station chief in moscow who later directed agency operations in russia .
center 18 was the part of the fsb that was supposed to be working with us .
but instead of working with the fbi and cia to catch hackers , the fsb officers were actually working with hackers themselves , according to the justice department charges .
in the yahoo attack , two alleged cybercriminals were also charged as co-conspirators in the plot .
one of them , alexsey belan , a notorious cyberthief who has been twice indicted in the united states and is on the fbi s cyber most wanted list , received sensitive law enforcement and intelligence information from the fsb that helped him avoid detection by the fbi and facilitated his theft of proprietary yahoo data including stealing the company s account management tool ( amt ) , a system that yahoo used to make and log changes to user accounts .
his purpose , a senior u.s. official said today , was to line his own pockets with money .
for entire story : yahoo news