beijing ( reuters ) - china is considering a law punishing those who slander heroes and martyrs or cause physical damage to their memorials , state news agency xinhua said on friday , the latest piece of legislation to protect the country s symbols of state .
xi jinping has ushered in new legislation aimed at securing china from threats both within and outside its borders since taking over as president in 2013 , as well as presiding over a sweeping crackdown on dissent and free speech .
china s largely rubber stamp parliament amended its criminal law last month to extend punishments for publicly desecrating the national flag and emblem to include disrespecting the national anthem .
punishments include jail terms of up to three years .
the latest proposed legislation is aimed at protecting the reputation of martyrs - those who have given their lives for china or the communist party - and who are already publicly lauded in the country .
memorials to those who fought against the japanese during world war two , or in the chinese civil war against the nationalists , and others are scattered across the country .
school children learn about the feats of the most famous .
xinhua said the new law would offer unspecified punishments to those who insult or slander heroes and martyrs or damage their memorials .
the law would also give a responsibility to the media and internet users to report any insults to the honor of martyrs , it said .
it is unclear when the proposal could be put into law , but chinese laws normally go through at least two rounds of drafting before they are passed , meaning it could be some months away .
party history is a sensitive subject in china because so much of the party s legitimacy rests on its position as claiming great historical achievements , such as leading china to victory over japan during world war two .
disputes about party history already occasionally make it to chinese courts .
a court ordered a former magazine editor to publicly apologize last year for two articles written in 2013 questioning the details of a well-known story about communist soldiers fighting the japanese in world war two .
in the story , the five soldiers jumped off a cliff so the japanese could not take them alive , although two of them survived .
the editor had expressed doubt about how many japanese the chinese soldiers killed , how the two survived and the location of the cliff .