nairobi ( reuters ) - swearing in an alternative president of kenya would be an act of treason , the country s attorney general said on thursday , days before an opposition leader expects to be inaugurated by an unofficial people s assembly .
such an inauguration would worsen the rifts opened by an acrimonious election season , when more than 70 people died in political violence .
the extended campaigns eventually led to president uhuru kenyatta s re-election .
attorney general githu muigai did not name anyone , but opposition leader raila odinga said last month that he would be inaugurated by a people s assembly on dec. 12 - kenya s independence day .
unless a candidate was declared the victor in an election by the independent electoral and boundaries commission and the swearing-in was conducted by the kenyan chief justice , muigai told a news conference , such a inauguration is a process wholly unanticipated by the constitution and is null and void .
the criminal law of the republic of kenya stipulates that sort of process is high treason , he said .
it is high treason of the persons involved , and any other person facilitating that process .
under kenyan law , treason is punishable by death .
muigai said people s assemblies proposed by the national super alliance , odinga s opposition coalition , were illegal as well .
these institutions are unconstitutional they are illegal , they are null and void .
the persons involved in their creation are involved in extra-constitutional activity and may be visited by the full force of the law , he said .
so far , 12 kenyan counties have passed motions supporting the formation of a people s assembly , most of them counties that had backed the opposition in kenya s protracted voting .
odinga and kenyatta faced off in an election in august that kenyatta won .
but the supreme court nullified the result , and a repeat election was held on oct. 26 .
odinga boycotted that vote , saying reforms needed to avoid illegalities and irregularities had not been made .
kenyatta won again , with 98 percent of the vote .
the united states had urged opposition leaders to work within the law and avoid actions like the proposed inauguration ceremony , a statement from the u.s. embassy in nairobi said on wednesday , following a visit to kenya by donald yamamoto , the acting assistant secretary of state for african affairs .
without directly mentioning the ceremony or the united states , odinga said on thursday that kenyans should be left to solve their own problems .
our friends can give us advice ... in privacy .
don t come and shout at us , and tell us that we are going to violate the constitution .
which constitution , my foot , odinga told reporters in nairobi .