there is nothing about obama s executive order gun grab .
barack hussein obama has an agenda that , for some reason , no one in america seems to be able to stop .
from the video showing fake tears flowing from obama s left eye , to every false word uttered from his mouth , it is clear he will stop at nothing to fundamentally change america , just as he promised the american voter when he campaigned back in 2007 .
the white house released a fact-sheet jan. 4 which previews the executive gun control obama will unveil tuesday and one aspect of the new controls is the inclusion of information from the social security administration in the background check system about beneficiaries who are prohibited from possessing a firearm .
on july 18 breitbart news reported on obama s push to ban gun-possession for social security beneficiaries who are believed incapable of handling their own finances.at that same time , the los angeles times reported that a ban was being put together outside of public view , so all the details were not known .
but the times did know that the ban would cover those who are unable to manage their own affairs for a multitude of reasons from subnormal intelligence or mental illness to incompetency , an unspecified condition , or disease .
the ban pertaining to social security beneficiaries is now tucked into the mental health aspects of obama s executive gun control.according to the white house executive order preview : current law prohibits individuals from buying a gun if , because of a mental health issue , they are either a danger to themselves or others or are unable to manage their own affairs .
the social security administration ( ssa ) has indicated that it will begin the rulemaking process to ensure that appropriate information in its records is reported to nics .
the reporting that ssa , in consultation with the department of justice , is expected to require will cover appropriate records of the approximately 75,000 people each year who have a documented mental health issue , receive disability benefits , and are unable to manage those benefits because of their mental impairment , or who have been found by a state or federal court to be legally incompetent .
the rulemaking will also provide a mechanism for people to seek relief from the federal prohibition on possessing a firearm for reasons related to mental health.again , the push for a ban on gun possession for certain social security beneficiaries was already in the works during the summer , but it is also incorporated into the mental health aspect of obama s executive gun control.and this means that information on beneficiaries who meet the criteria of mental impairment demonstrated in part by an inability to manage their own benefits will be added to the national instant criminal background system ( nics ) so that the beneficiaries can not buy a gun .
via : breitbart news