neil cavuto faced off with congresswoman sheila jackson lee over her call for president trump to resign after his tweets attacking mika brzezinski and joe scarborough : enough is enough !
@ realdonaldtrump you need to resign !
this woman is just hateful !
she claims to know trump is unhappy gmafb ! https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=rkppzmprrnythis woman is a perfect example of the swamp in dc .
she needs to go !
she s mooched off of the american people for way too long and is a hateful racist ! she says in the video above that she s gone through impeachments before , but said , we can t wait that long .
it is time for you to resign .
enough is enough .
i love america .
i love these people .
and we need a commander-in-chief .
cavuto confronted her about this and brought up the coarse language from presidents past .
she argued that he is incompatible with the office , and in addition to issues like russia and james comey , his continuous assault on women only adds to it.she called trump ill-suited for the office , and when cavuto pressed her further by saying let the american people decide , the congresswoman responded by pointing to the president s low poll numbers.jackson said she s going by his behavior in decrying his unfitness for office and cavuto shot back by saying she just doesn t like him.they kept going back and forth , including on the question of the 25th amendment , and cavuto asked her if she should be waiting for more evidence of something actionable.jackson lee said impeachment is a separate matter , telling cavuto , i hope he does the right thing and resigns .
and yes , she is completely standing by this : i will not back down .
the president has lost the trust of the american people and needs to resign .
wwe know this woman has a long history of bullying people .
please watch the video below of an exchange with mick mulvaney he gets into it with her : mick mulvaney is one smart cookie .
he s doing a fantastic job cutting where cuts need to be made .
congress will complain about any cut to their voter base s favorite item .
listen to the grandstanding from jackson-lee on cuts to medicaid : they are begging for their medicaid the grandstanding is so sickening ! it went downhill from there .
jackson-lee wanted to try and make mulvaney out to be an uncaring guy .
she s a total bully ! he s one smart cooke !
mulvaney just gave details of the budget cuts in a fantastic press conference .
we highly recommend the entire video below : office of management and budgets ( omb ) director mick mulvaney outlines the structure , intents and purposes of the trump administration fiscal year 2018 budget the taxpayers budget the best part of this great news conference is when a reporter asks about cuts to climate science programs : at the 17:00 mark mick mulvaney rips into the reporter and it s just awesome ! we recommend the entire video because you ll see trump hired one smart cookie !
mick mulvaney knows the budget and handles the press beautifully !