yesterday , social media was buzzing after the huffington post actually posted a story that not only backed up trump s assertion about sweden being a hot mess , but it called out journalists for lying about how the invasion of immigrants are destroying european nations .
the title of the article in and of itself , is bad enough : trump is absolutely right about sweden but the honesty with which the writer approaches the subject is even more stunning .
not surprisingly , after getting a lot of negative reaction from the left who felt the huffington post let them down by actually telling the truth , the huffington post deleted the story .
our friend @ ten_gop was kind enough to archive the story before they deleted it.https : //twitter.com/ten_gop/status/834822902495145985president trump tweeted clarification of the comments he made about sweden that the huffington post author ren zografos referenced in his article : my statement as to what 's happening in sweden was in reference to a story that was broadcast on @ foxnews concerning immigrants & sweden .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 19 , 2017after the huffington post deleted his article , ren zografos came out in defense of his words and of trump comments about sweden on twitter : trump is absolutely right about sweden https : //t.co/jyfm3bjie8 ren zografos ( @ zokrates ) february 22 , 2017here he zografos defends his article as nothing but the truth .
: thank you for all supports so far , kind people .
the story is nothing but the truth .. # truth # media # trump ren zografos ( @ zokrates ) february 23 , 2017sweden has huge problems because of liberal immigration policy many journalists around the world are eager to condemn donald trump no matter what .
when he tweeted about immigration in sweden few days ago , the social media exploded .
most of the opponent said that trump has made up the immigration problem sweden have .
they are wrong.only hours later there was a riot of violence and destructions by immigrants in the capitol of sweden , stockholm .
the police was forced to shoot with ammunition to put and end to it .
in malm , another city south in sweden they have struggle with gang violence and lawlessness for years .
so when trump talk about that sweden have an immigration problem he is actually spot on.it s well known for scandinavians and other europeans that liberal immigration comes with drugs , rapes , gang wars , robbery and violence .
additional to that we see the respective nations cultures fading away , for good and for bad.but the immigration problem is not only a swedish predicament .
the truth is , that several european cities have huge immigration problems where even the police force is afraid to interfere in some locations in these cities .
uk , france and several other european countries are changing rapidly with extreme quantity of immigration .
i m not saying immigration is only bad , but a lot of problems come with poor immigration policy , as consequences we get violence , terror and gangs .
the fact is that the press here in europe hasn t doing their job properly .
there is this fear for journalists to not report the basic truth which is that europe has enormous problems that comes from liberal immigration politics , and as we also now can see in sweden , but also here in norway .
but it s not political correct for journalists to say or write that immigration in europe is unsuccessful .
when that said , most of the people that come from other countries are behaving flawless and are a gift to our society , but then again to report that everything is all good is simply wrong and these journalists should find another job , because they do not have enough integrity that requires to be decent journalist.go here to see the actual archived article .