qamishli , syria ( reuters ) - syrians voted on friday in an election organized by the kurdish-led authorities of northern syria , the start of a three-phase process to set up new governing institutions that aim to shore up regional autonomy .
today comes as a historical day for us .
the people are choosing their way of life , politics , economy , said renas ahmed , 25 , among several dozen people casting their vote for the local community representatives being elected .
voters were picking leaders for some 3,700 communes spread across three regions of the north where kurdish groups have established autonomous rule since 2011 , when the syria s civil war erupted .
friday s election will be followed in november by elections to local councils and culminate in january with the election of an assembly that will act as a parliament for a federal system of government in northern syria .
the election points to the ambitions of kurdish groups and their allies that control close to a quarter of syria .
their stated aim is to secure autonomy as part of a decentralized syria , and insist they do not want to follow the example of the kurds of northern iraq who are due to vote in an independence referendum on monday .
but their autonomy plans are opposed by the syrian government in damascus , by neighboring turkey , and by the united states even though it is fighting alongside the syrian kurdish ypg militia in the war against islamic state ( is ) .
the government , which is winning back territory from rebel and jihadist groups with help from russia and iran , has pledged to recover all of syria .
the ypg and damascus have mostly stayed out of each other s way in the war .
but tensions between damascus and its allies on the one hand , and the ypg and its allies on the other are surfacing as they race to capture deir al-zor province in eastern syria from is .
this is the first time i vote , said mohamad murad khalil , a man in his late 50s who was one of tens of thousands of syrian kurds denied citizenship by the syrian state .
i lived 60 years without nationality .
we couldn t breathe , we were denied all civil rights .
( but ) it s not like before when they could oppress us , he said .
we have strength , will , an army - everything , thanks to god , the ypg and the ypj , he said referring to the all-female militia affiliated to the ypg , whose flag was flying at the polling station .
the political structures expected to emerge from the process are inspired by the ideas of abdullah ocalan , head of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , who is in jail in turkey for leading a three-decade insurgency .
turkey views the political rise of syria s kurds as a threat to its national security .
the dominant syrian kurdish political groups , centered around the pyd - the democratic union party - say their system embraces all ethnic and religious groups in northern syria .
but the ypg has faced hostility from the syrian arab groups that have fought president bashar al-assad in the six-year-long war .
they accuse it of working with assad against them - something the ypg denies .
the ypg is fighting islamic state as part of a u.s.-backed militia alliance known as the syrian democratic forces , which includes fighters from arab and other backgrounds .
but the elections are not going ahead in all of the territory captured from is by the sdf : the majority-arab cities of manbij and tabqa near raqqa are not part of the new political order , though they may have the option of joining it .
though the areas where the elections are taking place are predominantly kurdish , naser al-jasim , 45 , an arab from qamishli , said his village was taking part .
he said he was casting a vote to improve local services and to show that unlike what narrow-minded people think , there is no difference between a kurd and an arab .