berlin ( reuters ) - german parties exploring a coalition government agreed on tuesday to set up a mandatory registry of lobbyists and may require private firms to disclose breaches of cyber defenses , according to a draft paper on security seen by reuters .
the 3-page document , a blueprint for a new german government s stance on security , showed growing consensus on some issues among chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , the pro-business free democrats and the environmental greens .
but several issues remained unresolved , including the number of police jobs to be added , rules on storage of private data , and the future of a controversial hate speech law .
merkel is pressing party leaders to resolve their differences by thursday , with an eye to completing a detailed coalition agreement by christmas .
party negotiators made progress on boosting aid to families with children on tuesday , but remained at odds over transport and climate and put off discussing immigration until wednesday .
top party leaders will likely have to tackle the most difficult issues on thursday , sources said .
transportation minister alexander dobrindt , a member of the csu bavarian sister party to merkel s conservatives , said negotiators had been unable to bridge gaps on transportation issues despite four hours of intense discussions .
the greens have a package of demands on the table that can not be fulfilled , he told reporters , citing a push by the greens for higher taxes on diesel .
he said his party would not agree to measures that would limit individual mobility or that could jeopardize the german auto industry .
negotiators did agree to create a mandatory registry of individuals lobbying government and parliament on behalf of interest groups to ensure greater transparency .
they also said government agencies should be required to report cyber security gaps that affected relevant systems or a large number of people to the bsi federal cyber security agency .
the parties said they also planned to address dangers posed by cyber breaches of private companies .
this could include a reporting requirement , the paper said , without elaborating .
the paper showed the parties had agreed to create 2,000 new jobs in the federal and state justice systems , and pledged to add jobs federal law enforcement as quickly as possible .
but they remained at odds about the exact number of jobs .
the parties also agreed to expand control of the intelligence agencies via a special parliamentary board , according to the paper .
it said the intelligence agencies and the federal government should be required to keep parliament informed about their work .
the parties also agreed to dodge a dispute over the future of the european stability mechanism and would not include that specific issue in a paper outlining the parties stance on europe , negotiators said .