during obama s campaigning in 2008 , he spoke of his total devotion to the job as president if elected .
one of the things he said he would give up is vacations .
well , we now know that was one of many , many big lies obama s told since day one of his presidency .
not only has obama vacationed , he s vacationed in lavish style racking up huge tabs compliments of the american taxpayer .
just listen to the video below from 2008 and know that he s lying through his teeth : when he was a candidate for president in 2008 , barack obama said during an interview that as the occupant of the oval office his vacations , his leisure , even his need for sleep , would be gone in a dedication to the american people that such a position requires.then he had american taxpayers spend in excess of $ 70 million on his vacations.the comment he made came during an interview with new york times columnist bob herbert .
it was recorded in 2008 but apparently not published online until 2012.in context , obama said , you have to understand that if you seek that office , you have to be prepared to give your life to it .
essentially the burden that any president , i think , strikes , with the american people is , um , you give me this office and in turn my , fears , doubts , insecurities , foibles , need for sleep , family life , vacations , leisure is gone .
i am giving myself to you .
he continued , the american people should have no patience for whatever is going through your head because you ve got a job to do .
how i think about it is , um , that you don t make that decision unless you are prepared to make that sacrifice that bargain .
and he noted , i think what s difficult and important for somebody like myself , who has a wonderful forbearing wife , and two gorgeous young children , is that they end up having to make some of those sacrifices , too .
however , the partial expenses for taxpayers even before the obama family s extended and lavish vacation in hawaii over the 2015 christmas holiday , and the vacations for vice president joe biden and his family , totaled $ 70,563,336.75 , according the washington watchdog judicial watch , which has been keeping tabs on the president s vacationing.total costs are simply not available because some security-related expenses never are released .
but a significant part of the costs are the taxpayer-funded jet travel for the obama family.only a few weeks ago , judicial watch said , you may want to sit down for this one .
we have new records from the u.s. department of the air force revealing that barack obama and family had a busy 2015 , vacationing on the american taxpayers dime .
the unnecessary travel included an obama palm springs golf trip in june , a trip to new york city in july and a family trip to martha s vineyard in august all of which cost taxpayers $ 3,115,688.70 in travel expenses alone .
the documents regarding the obama travel expenses came in response to three freedom of information act ( foia ) requests , the first was filed on june 30 , 2015 , the second on july 23 , 2015 , and the third on august 24 , 2015 .
the report said the june 20 golf outing for obama to palm springs required 10.6 hours of flying time , costing taxpayers $ 2.1 million .
then a july 18 outing for obama and his daughters to new york cost $ 309,000 .
and the obama family s august trip to martha s vineyard cost taxpayers about $ 620,000 in flight time alone.separate security costs include the salaries and expenses of the various secret service and other teams that the government provides .
for example , during his annual hawaii getaway over christmas going on now , an ambulance remains on stand-by while obama vacations.reported judicial watch , in palm springs , obama played golf at the plush , private golf course of oracle billionaire lawrence joseph larry ellison .
the golf course is located on ellison s 249-acre porcupine creek estate , which features a golf club and course , a huge 18,400 square-foot main residence , eight guest houses , a pool , spa , gym and an amphitheater .
it was obama s fifth golf outing to palm springs in the past two years .
the west coast trip reportedly included political fundraising and one speech to the u.s. conference of mayors .
the new york trip was to allow obama some time hanging out with his girls , according to an abc report.read more : wnd