( reuters ) - hurricane irma threatens to knock out power to more than 4.1 million homes and businesses served by florida power & light ( fpl ) , affecting around nine million people based on the current storm track , the utility s chief executive said on friday .
everyone in florida will be impacted in some way by this storm , eric silagy said at a news conference , urging fpl customers to be prepared for a multiweek restoration process .
fpl is the biggest power company in florida serving almost half of the state s 20.6 million residents .
outages across the state will likely top 4.1 million customers since other utilities , including units of duke energy corp , southern co and emera inc , will also suffer outages but have not yet estimated how many .
irma poses a significantly bigger menace to power supplies in florida than hurricane harvey did in texas because irma is packing 150 mile-per-hour winds ( 240 km/h ) that could down electric lines and close nuclear and other power plants .
this storm is unprecedented as far as strength and size .
we are preparing for the worst and will likely have to rebuild parts of our service territory , silagy said , noting the kinds of winds expected could snap concrete poles .
irma s winds have rivaled the strongest for any hurricane in history in the atlantic , whereas harvey s damage came from record rainfall .
even as houston flooded , the power stayed on for most , allowing citizens to use tv and radio to stay apprised of danger , or social media to call for help .
when harvey made landfall in texas it made it fully inland and weakened pretty quickly .
irma , however , could retain much of its strength , said jason setree , a meteorologist at commodity weather group .
irma has killed several people and devastated islands in the caribbean .
current forecasts put almost the entirety of the florida peninsula in the path of the storm , which made landfall in the caribbean with wind speeds of 185 mph .
the threat of the category 4 storm , the second highest rung on the saffir-simpson hurricane wind scale , is grave enough that fpl plans to shut its two nuclear power plants in the state , and officials warned that it may have to rebuild parts of its power system , which could take weeks .
one of those nuclear plants , turkey point , is located south of miami near the southern tip of florida , putting it near where irma is expected to make landfall early sunday morning .
the other nuclear plant , st. lucie , is on a barrier island on the east coast about 120 miles ( 193 km ) north of miami .
most florida residents have not experienced a major storm since 2005 , when total outages peaked around 3.6 million during hurricane wilma .
some of those outages lasted for weeks .
setree compared the projected path of irma to hurricane matthew in 2016 , which knocked out power to about 1.2 million fpl customers in october .
fpl , a unit of florida energy company nextera energy inc , restored service to most customers affected by matthew in just two days .
in a statement this week , fpl estimated about half of its near five million customers - particularly in the trio of populous southeast counties miami-dade , palm beach and broward - had not experienced a major hurricane since 2005 .
fpl said it had invested nearly $ 3 billion since 2006 to strengthen its grid , including placing 60 main power lines underground and installing nearly five million smart meters and other devices .
other utilities in the sunshine state said in statements that they had also invested in intelligent , self-healing devices .
smart meters allow utilities to see outages as they occur , rather than waiting on customer calls , and utilities also use automated devices that can reenergize lines without damage that were taken offline because of contact with trees or other objects , said jay apt , director of the carnegie mellon electricity industry center in pittsburgh .
olivia ross , a spokeswoman for centerpoint energy , which serves the greater houston area , said these devices helped the utility keep the lights on for more people in the aftermath of harvey as some issues were resolved remotely .
but such devices can only do so much .
harvey s outages were limited to 312,000 customers , of which centerpoint was responsible for about 109,000 , as it quickly lost force after landfall and turned into a tropical storm .
by contrast , ross noted , hurricane ike in 2008 caused 2.1 million of centerpoint s customers to lose power when it hit the texas coast near houston .