washington ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders will speak at an event in the vatican next week , likely broadening his appeal to catholic voters ahead of crucial nominating contests in a series of northeastern states .
like pope francis , sanders has made economic inequality and the plight of the working class a central tenet of his message .
sanders ’ april 15 visit to vatican city , where he will give an economic address at a conference , will come just days before democrats in new york vote in their state primary .
the trip may help the u.s. senator amplify the anti-corporate line of attack he has employed against democratic rival hillary clinton as he tries to keep his insurgent campaign for the nov. 8 presidential election alive .
sanders , who would be the first jewish u.s. president if elected , described himself on msnbc as a “ big , big fan of the pope , ” who leads the world ’ s 1.2 billion catholics .
speaking to reporters in new york later , sanders said he hoped to meet with francis .
“ the pope ’ s schedule is determined by the vatican but i would certainly be enthusiastic about that , ” said sanders , 74 , the brooklyn-born son of polish-jewish immigrants .
a meeting with the argentine pontiff could provide an electoral boost to sanders , who has trailed former secretary of state clinton in support among america ’ s catholic democrats .
“ pope francis has criticized the ‘ make money at all cost ’ capitalist mentality and called for more compassion for the poor , ” said brad bannon , a democratic strategist in washington .
“ that ’ s exactly the way , bernie sanders wants to define his campaign against clinton. ” clinton has scored victories over sanders in florida , louisiana , massachusetts , and texas , all of which are more than one-quarter catholic .
a survey by the pew research center earlier this year found that while almost 70 percent of catholic democrats thought clinton would make a good president , just 46 percent thought sanders would be one .
“ this is a great play for sanders because it ties directly his messaging related to income equality , it puts him on the world stage as a leader , and it does it with an institution and leader important to a key voting bloc in a state where every vote is going to count heading into the primary , ” said virginia-based democratic strategist bud jackson .
sanders was invited to speak at the vatican event by the vatican , a senior papal official said , denying a report that sanders had invited himself .
“ i deny that .
it was not that way , ” monsignor marcelo sanchez sorondo told reuters .
sorondo , a close aide to pope francis , is chancellor of the pontifical academy of social sciences , which is hosting the event .
late april brings nominating contests in connecticut , maryland , pennsylvania , and rhode island , all states with large populations of catholic voters .
sanders ’ victory earlier this week over clinton in the wisconsin primary marked his sixth win in the past seven contests , sparking renewed talk of clinton ’ s political vulnerability despite her substantial delegate lead .
sanders this week said clinton , who is also a former first lady and former u.s. senator , was not qualified to be president .
after heavy criticism from clinton ’ s campaign and other democrats , he backed off friday morning in an interview on nbc ’ s “ today. ” “ on her worst day , she would be an infinitely better president than either of the republican candidates , ” he said , referring to new york developer donald trump and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas .
clinton has been under fire from progressives since her campaign began .
on thursday , her husband , former president bill clinton , had a testy exchange at a campaign rally in philadelphia with protestors from the black lives matter movement over the effects of an anti-crime bill passed during his presidency .
at one point , bill clinton accused the movement of “ defending the people who kill the lives you say matter. ” on friday , he seemed regretful .
“ i rather vigorously defended my wife , as i am wont to do , and i realized , finally , i was talking past her ( the protestor ) the same way she was talking past me , ” clinton said at an event in erie , pennsylvania .
“ we have got to stop that in this country .
we ’ ve got to listen to each other again. ” in the republican race , trump extended his lead nationally over cruz and ohio governor john kasich , according to the latest reuters/ipsos poll .
the national online poll showed that 42 percent of republicans support trump , compared with 32 percent for cruz and 20 percent for kasich .