paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron s government announced reforms to loosen labor regulations and drive down unemployment , drawing criticism from unions but limited support for the street protests that have hindered previous reform bids .
after weeks of negotiations with unions over the summer , the centrist government revealed measures including a cap on payouts for dismissals adjudged unfair and greater freedom to hire and fire .
the plan would also give companies more flexibility to adapt pay and working hours to market conditions .
the labor code reform is the first big test of macron s drive to re-shape the euro zone s second biggest economy with its near double-digit jobless rate , double that in britain and markedly higher than germany .
he also seeks a grand bargain with germany over broader reforms of the euro zone .
for decades , governments of the left and right have tried to reform france s strict labor rules , but have always diluted them in the face of street protests .
the reform makes no direct reference to france s 35-hour week but gives employers more flexibility to negotiate deals with employees to work around it .
labour minister muriel penicaud described the five decrees laying out the reforms as a transformation of labor rules on an unprecedented scale .
prime minister edouard philippe said they were necessary to fight france s stubbornly high unemployment .
the truth is that for bosses , especially of small companies , and foreign investors , the existing labor law is seen as a brake on hiring and investment , philippe said .
trade unions were less upbeat at what they perceived as the loss of long-cherished workers rights .
all of our fears have been confirmed , said philippe martinez , head of the hard-left cgt union , after the government presented the decrees to unions and employers .
he said the union would press ahead with its plan for a protest on sept. 12 .
but macron s assiduous courting of the unions over the summer appeared to have born fruit .
france s biggest union , the reformist cfdt , said it was disappointed with what amounted to a missed opportunity to improve labor relations .
but both the cfdt and the smaller force ouvriere , one of the spearheads of last year s anti-reform protests , said they would not be joining the cgt s protest .
this reform does not rise to the occasion , cfdt leader laurent berger told reporters , but he added : taking to the streets is not the only mode of action for unions .
it sets a cap on compensation for a dismissal judged in a labor court to be unfair .
this will be set at three months of wages for two years in the company with the amount rising progressively depending on how long a worker was with the firm .
in a concession to unions , normal severance pay would be increased from 20 percent of one month s wage for each year in a company to 25 percent .
economists drew parallels with germany and spain .
this very much resembles the labor reform carried out in germany in 2004-2005 , said florian hense , european economist at berenberg bank .
this could very well propel france to a golden decade like germany had .
dutch bank ing said : the ceiling on dismissal compensation is a milestone in labor flexibility and a real positive for permanent contract creation .
in spain , a similar reform kick-started an unprecedented labor market recovery .
pierre gattaz , the head of the medef employers federation , described the reforms as an important first step which would boost confidence within companies .
the cpme , a small business lobby , was even more positive .
at last ! , it said in a statement .
after months of negotiations , we got results .
the reform we had been waiting for so long is there .
the labor reforms comes as the 39-year-old president suffers a steep drop in popularity ratings .
early policy announcements including an overhaul of the wealth tax and cuts to housing assistance have left a swathe of voters feeling his policies favor the rich , pollsters say .
the government plans to start talks on overhauling unemployment benefits in october before tackling pension reform next year .
parliament , where macron s republic on the move party has a commanding majority , has already voted to allow the government to issue the decrees without a vote in the assembly .
the government plans to adopt the decrees on sept. 22 .