rome ( reuters ) - in a post-harvey weinstein world , logic would dictate that silvio berlusconi , who hosted wild parties with young women and brags about his sexual prowess , would not have a ghost of a chance at political resurrection .
but logic and italian politics have never been synonymous .
on monday , the four-time former prime minister s right-wing bloc relished a huge political victory in regional elections in sicily .
silvio , as his die-hard adoring acolytes simply call him , was back in the driver s seat .
berlusconi is alive , was the headline in la verita , a right-wing newspaper , on tuesday .
the mainstream corriere della sera ran a cartoon showing berlusconi , wrapped in a burial shroud , emerging from a tomb like lazarus in the new testament .
the regional sicilian ballot , in which berlusconi s candidate , nello musumeci , won big , was seen as a dry run for nationwide elections due before may .
as the 81-year-old media tycoon campaigned tirelessly for musumeci , betting that a victory in sicily would be the springboard for a national return to power of the center-right , the ex-premier s sex scandals were no issue .
unfortunately , this is a country where if one violates rules on sexual ethics , he is admired , said anna foa , a history professor who is on a team of women who write a monthly edition on women s issues of the vatican newspaper l osservatore romano .
earlier this month , british defence secretary michael fallon resigned after admitting touching a radio presenter s knee repeatedly in 2002 - relatively tame behavior compared to berlusconi s past sex scandals .
this is a country - and i am sorry to have to say this - where breaking the rules brings votes , foa said .
everyone wants to be the one who breaks the rules and gets away with it , and berlusconi did this in a sphere that people like best - the sexual sphere .
bunga bunga - the term of uncertain origin that the billionaire media magnate gave to his wild parties with young women at his plush residence near milan - is now part of the modern italian lexicon .
partly as a result of the sex scandals , berlusconi went through a very public divorce from his second wife , veronica lario , in 2014 .
his current partner , francesca pascale , is 49 years his junior .
berlusconi is due to stand trial on charges he bribed witnesses to silence them over accusations he paid for sex with young women .
in an earlier , related case , he was acquitted of having sex with one when she was still 17 .
he denies all wrongdoing .
but far from being a hindrance , commentators say that in italian politics , scandals can help , if only because voters believe there is little left to hide .
berlusconi is like a used car that comes with a guarantee .
you know what you are going to get , said giovanni orsina , professor of modern history at rome s luiss university .
even a person who is 81 years old and has gone through all these issues and scandals can seem appealing ... , not because of his own strength but because of the weaknesses of others .
for now , berlusconi can not run for office due to a 2013 tax fraud conviction .
but he hopes the european court of human rights overturns this ban in time for him to run next year .
even if the courts deny him the chance , he would still be calling the shots as leader of the center-right in the event of a victory at the national elections .
more than 50 women have accused hollywood mogul harvey weinstein of having sexually harassed or assaulted them over the past three decades .
he has denied having non-consensual sex with anyone .
the allegations against weinstein have prompted many more women as well as men to share stories in the media about improper behavior by powerful men in their countries .
not so in italy , where women have for the most part remained silent despite confidential polls showing that many were asked for sexual favors in order to keep their jobs or advance their careers .
we are still a backwards country where women who speak out about sexual abuse are accused of exaggerating , said michela marzano , an italian philosopher who teaches at paris descartes university .
there is an unconscious adoption of the concept of a patriarchal order and male superiority and there is very little solidarity among women .