madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s leader pledged to press ahead with his independence bid if spain moves to suspend the region s autonomy , a regional government source said on wednesday , hours before a deadline over keeping the euro zone s fourth-largest economy united .
prime minister mariano rajoy has given catalan president carles puigdemont until 10 a.m. ( 0800 gmt ) on thursday to renounce a secession bid which has rocked markets and rattled the euro , or face direct rule from madrid .
puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence last week and promptly suspended it to ask for talks with madrid .
the source said he would now lift that suspension if rajoy exercised so-called article 155 of the constitution to take back power .
the president said ( at ) his party s meeting that he will lift the suspension of the independence declaration if the government executes article 155 , the source said .
that article , which has never been used during spain s four decades of democracy , allows central government to take over any of its 17 autonomous communities if they break the law , which madrid says catalonia has done by holding a referendum on independence and pushing for a break-up .
even though it is not clear what direct rule will look like , the prospect has raised fears that social unrest could add to the turbulence , on the heels of an exodus of hundreds of catalan firms and cuts to economic growth forecasts .
in the latest grim prediction , spain s independent budget watchdog warned this week that continued uncertainty could wipe as much as 12 billion euros off potential economic growth next year , cutting forecasts by between 0.4 and 1.2 percentage points .
catalonia accounts for 20 percent of spain s gdp .
if rajoy triggers the article on thursday , it will take between three and five days for the government in the wealthy region to be effectively stripped of its powers .
if autonomy is suspended we will have to move in a hurry , the source said .
disappointed that last week s declaration was merely symbolic , pro-independence parties in puigdemont s ruling coalition are now pushing for a formal vote in the catalan parliament .
earlier on wednesday , rajoy urged puigdemont to act sensibly and scrap the bid or risk direct rule , a move which would need only a vote in spain s upper house , where rajoy s people s party holds an absolute majority .
the premier repeated a call for clarity on the matter .
it s not that difficult to reply to the question : has catalonia declared independence ?
because if it has , the government is obliged to act in one way , and if it has not , we can talk here , rajoy said in parliament .
a central government source later said madrid viewed a formal independence declaration as unacceptable blackmail .
since an oct. 1 independence referendum which madrid branded illegal , some 700 companies have moved their head offices from catalonia , according to spain s companies registry .
despite a violent crackdown by spanish police to thwart the vote , catalan officials say 43 percent of voters still managed to cast ballots in the referendum with 90 percent in favor of breaking away .
banco sabadell , spain s fifth-biggest bank , is considering moving its top management to madrid .
tourism , a vital part of the catalan economy centred on its seaside capital barcelona , has also taken a hit , with activity falling 15 percent so far this month , industry association exceltur said on tuesday .
the region s tourism industry could make 1.8 billion euros ( $ 2.12 billion ) less than usual in the fourth quarter if the volatility and confrontation get worse in the coming months , exceltur said in a statement .
authoritative catalan newspaper la vanguardia reported that madrid plans to appoint its own delegates to run regional government departments .
puigdemont would remain nominally in his role but stripped of all powers .
foreign minister alfonso dastis said last week that it was not clear what measures the government would take if direct rule were imposed , but said the government would work on it .
la vanguardia said puigdemont , a 54-year-old former journalist , was mulling declaring independence and calling so-called constituent elections for the newly declared republic .
but catalan foreign affairs chief raul romeva told a news conference in brussels : elections are not on the table now .
tempers have flared since the jailing on monday of two separatist leaders , pending an investigation for alleged sedition .
tens of thousands of protesters gathered along barcelona s diagonal avenue on tuesday to call for their release , whistling and shouting freedom and out with the occupying forces .