when multi-millionaire san francisco 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick decided to take a stand against an oppressive america , some very patriotic americans hit back.prior to the 49er s pre-season game against wi green bay packers , multi-millionaire quarterback colin kaeprernick , who was raised by white parents made the decision to sit out the national anthem as a form of protest : i am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color , kaepernick told nfl media in an exclusive interview after the game .
to me , this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way .
there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder .
kaepernick s decision didn t sit well with many americans , but this gold-star mom teri maxwell johnson , who lost her son in afghanistan isn t just going to sit by idly without letting this whiny , oppressed anti-american know how she feels.from gold star mom teri maxwell johnson : my heart is exploding , my lungs are without air , my blood is boiling , my body is shaking , and tears are running down my face .
colin kaepernick of the san francisco 49ers is refusing to stand for the national anthem .
his comment stated he would not stand and show pride in a flag that represents an oppressive nation while there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder .mr .
kaepernick , i am sitting in my livingroom looking outside at my american flag flying at half staff .
you see , my son s body lay in a street after an ied blew up the vehicle he was fighting in .
his blood stains the sands of afghanistan .
he died protecting the ideals of the flag you refuse to respect .
he died so that ungrateful , privileged , arrogant men like you can be just that ungrateful , privileged , and arrogant.there are brave men and women all around that stand between evil and you .
men and women willing to die to protect you because they believe in the ideals this country was founded on .
men and women of all races and all religions .
ask them , sir , about pride in the american flag .
ask them how their heart feels when they hear the national anthem being sung .
you are a public figure , someone young people look to as an example.shame on you .
shame on you for your disrepect towards those who are true examples of honesty , integrity , pride , and leadership .
shame on you for disrespecting my son and his life .
his sacrifice . * * sgt .
joseph johnson my soldier , my son , my hero * * gold star mom terri maxwell-johnson told jake tapper ( below ) how she feels about kaepernick s disrespect for our flag after he tweeted out her letter last night : whatever you may think about colin kaepernick 's decision , here 's how it impacted one gold star mom .
pic.twitter.com/3uauxnsfom jake tapper ( @ jaketapper ) august 28 , 2016here is her interview :