santiago ( reuters ) - when chile s president michelle bachelet leaves office in march , it will mark the end of a generation of women leaders in latin america , leaving the region without a female head of state as it shifts to the right politically .
at the start of this decade , women held the top jobs in argentina , brazil , costa rica and chile , collectively representing about 40 percent of the population in a region better known for its machismo .
but conservative sebastian pinera s victory in the second round of chile s presidential election on sunday drew that period to a close .
bachelet was the first of her female counterparts to rise to power in a leftist tide that swept south america during a commodities-fueled economic boom .
she served as president from 2006 to 2010 before winning re-election in 2013 .
together with brazil s dilma rousseff and argentina s cristina fernandez , bachelet embodied the major strides made by women across a region that has passed laws deterring rampant violence against women and set quotas for political participation that have given latin american women a bigger share of parliamentary seats than in europe .
but now some worry that progress on women s rights could stall .
we re seeing a shift to conservative politics that is questioning the advances of the last 15 to 20 years , said eugenia piza-lopez , who works on gender in latin america for the united nations development program .
conservative groups are targeting gender equality across the region , said piza-lopez .
protests over curriculums aimed at empowering girls to rise above traditional female duties have helped topple education ministers in peru and colombia .
during campaigning in chile , pinera voiced concerns about the country s declining birth rate as he took aim at changes to abortion laws under bachelet , who loosened a strict ban to make exemptions for rape , unviable fetuses and the risk of death during labor .
while there is no definitive study showing female leaders do more to advance women s wellbeing than men , farida jalalzai , a political scientist at oklahoma state university , said her research on latin america suggested that was the case .
dilma ( rousseff ) , for example , would take a policy that was already in existence and reframe it in ways that made it clear it was a women s issue , whether it was poverty or home ownership , jalalzai said .
piza-lopez said fernandez , who ruled argentina from 2007 to 2015 , helped narrow the gender poverty gap with her generous spending on social programs aimed at women .
stella zervoudaki , head of the european union delegation in chile , pointed to bachelet s creation of a ministry of women , her programs to finance companies led by women and work for marriage equality .
i m not sure this would have been as forceful without a woman leader , zervoudaki said .
she said bachelet had pressed for a chapter on gender in an update to an eu trade agreement that called for progress on equal pay , fair maternity leave and better access to technology for women .
in a region where corruption scandals often hurt presidencies , south america s women leaders were no honorable exception .
rousseff was removed from office in 2016 on accusations she manipulated budget laws and was later charged with graft .
a judge in argentina has charged fernandez , now a senator who is also under investigation for graft , with treason for allegedly covering up iran s possible role in a 1994 bombing .
both women deny wrongdoing .
rousseff recently visited fernandez in her apartment in buenos aires to commiserate , and has said sexism played a role in her own impeachment .
brazil s conservative president michel temer appointed an all-male cabinet after rousseff s exit .
she was voted out after lawmakers held up signs saying bye , dear !
in contrast , pinera said on monday he would announce the women and men who would form his team , a sign he would create a balanced cabinet , perhaps taking his lead from bachelet , whose first cabinet was exactly half men and half women .
bachelet s own approval ratings were hit hard after her daughter-in-law was accused of using political ties to get access to a bank loan .
although latin america is poised to hold six elections next year - in costa rica , paraguay , colombia , venezuela , mexico and brazil - the chances for another female president are slim .
in mexico , leftist frontrunner andres manuel lopez obrador has repeatedly referred to his rival margarita zavala as the wife of felipe calderon - her husband and a former president - angering her supporters , who charge it is sexist .
she is polling around 10 percent of votes .
in brazil , marina silva , who has lost the presidency twice , recently joined the race and lies third in most polls .
a number of female candidates are expected to compete in colombia s presidential race , though none is expected to win .
maria eugenia vidal , the governor of argentina s largest province of buenos aires , is the country s most popular politician , according to several polls , but is not expected to run for president in 2019 .
still-rampant sexism and sexual harassment in politics remain deterrents to women who want to rise to the top , said mercedes araoz , peru s prime minister and a former presidential candidate .
i ve been a victim ( of sexual harassment ) , araoz recently told journalists .
it s important to realize how discouraging it can be .