( story corrects date of netanyahu s u.n. address in first paragraph ) by ori lewis jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on sunday he would meet u.s. president donald trump later this month during a visit to new york , where he will address the united nations general assembly on sept. 19 .
netanyahu spoke to reporters accompanying him on a trip to latin america before his plane left tel aviv for argentina on sunday night .
he will also visit colombia and mexico before heading to new york .
in washington , the white house did not initially respond to a request for a comment on a meeting between the two leaders .
from mexico i will go to new york to speak at the united nations general assembly and there i will meet my friend , president donald trump , netanyahu said .
he added best wishes to all our friends in the u.s. to overcome these difficult hours ( during hurricane irma ) .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas is also set to address at the u.n. general assembly but there has been no word of a possible meeting between him and netanyahu .
netanyahu said he was the first incumbent israeli prime minister to visit south america and termed his visit as historic .
the trip comes as netanyahu is under investigation in two corruption cases .
one of those , known as case 1000 , involves gifts that the prime minister and his family may have received from businessmen , while case 2000 deals with alleged efforts by him to secure better coverage from an israeli newspaper publisher .
netanyahu , who has been prime minister for 11 years over four terms , has denied any wrongdoing .
netanyahu leads a relatively stable coalition government and presides over a buoyant economy .
his conservative likud party has rallied behind him in the absence of clear rivals for the leadership , rebuffing calls for his departure from the center-left opposition .
on friday , netanyahu s wife , sara , who is accompanying him on the trip was notified that israel s attorney general is considering indicting her on suspicion of using state funds for personal dining and catering services totaling some $ 100,000 .
a post on the prime minister s facebook page published last week said the claims against her were absurd and will be proven to be unfounded .
sara netanyahu also spoke before departure and thanked the many , many , many thousands of israeli citizens and people around the world who support and help me .