listen to this women speak of voting rights like it s 1960 .
we do not have a voting rights problem .
lynch then speaks about going into the schools and changing the discipline for minorities vs whites she s the one who decided the minorities needed to have less punishment simply because the color of their skin .
unreal !
a republican-controlled u.s. senate voted to confirm an attorney general today who says that illegal aliens have a right to work in the united states but that partially born babies do not have a right to life.the senate took two votes on the nomination of loretta lynch : first , a cloture vote to end debate and allow a final vote on confirmation , and , then , the final vote itself.neither of these votes would have taken place had not senate majority leader mitch mcconnell not brought her nomination to the floor for consideration .
thanks to a change in the interpretation of senate rule xxii that he democratic leadership pushed through in 2013 , only 50 votes ( as opposed the historical 60 ) was needed to invoke cloture and end debate on the nomination .
in fact , 66 senators voted for cloture including 20 republicans.lynch , who has been serving as u.s. attorney in the eastern district of new york , then won confirmation as attorney general of the united states by a vote of 56 to 43 .
nine senate republicans voted to confirm her.at a confirmation hearing in january , sen. jeff sessions ( r.-ala. ) asked lynch : who has more right to a job in this country ?
a lawful immigrant who s here , a green-card holder , or a citizen , or a person who entered this country unlawfully ?
well , senator , said lynch , i believe that the right and the obligation to work is one that s shared by everyone in this country regardless of how they came here .
and certainly , if someone s here , regardless of status , i would prefer that they be participating in the workplace than not participating in the workplace .
under the laws of the united states , which as attorney general lynch will be responsible for enforcing , foreign nationals illegally present in the united states are not permitted to work here.in 2006 , lynch joined with a group of fellow former u.s. attorneys in signing an amicus brief submitted to the supreme court in the case of gonzales v. carhart , which sought to overturn the law that congress enacted in 2003 that bans partial-birth abortion in the united states .
arguing that the ban should be overturned and partial-birth abortions permitted lynch and her fellow former u.s. attorneys said that the language of the law , including the term living fetus , was too vague to be properly understood by those responsible for obeying it and enforcing it .
furthermore , said the brief lynch signed , the ban s specific provisions , such as the phrase living fetus , are hopelessly vague as a legal proscription .
it is unclear , she and the others said , whether a living fetus must be intact .
a physician or prosecutor could not possibly know whether a given overt act kill -ed the fetus under the ban without having a clear definition of living , ' wrote lynch and her fellow defenders of legalized partial-birth abortion.in a 5-4 decision written by justice anthony kennedy , the court rejected the argument that lynch had made .
the act is not vague , said the court.in its opinion , the court quoted the description of a partial-birth abortion given by a nurse who assisted in one.the doctor , said this nurse ( according to the u.s. supreme court ) , went in with forceps and grabbed the baby s legs and pulled them down into the birth canal .
then he delivered the baby s body and the arms everything but the head .
the doctor kept the head inside the uterus .
the baby s little fingers were clasping and unclasping , and his little feet were kicking , said the nurse .
then the doctor stuck the scissors in the back of his head , and the baby s arms jerked out , like a startle reaction , like a flinch , like a baby does when he thinks he is going to fall .
the doctor opened up the scissors , stuck a high-powered suction tube into the opening , and sucked the baby s brains out , said the nurse .
not the baby went completely limp .
he cut the umbilical cord , the nurse said of the doctor who had just sucked out the baby s brains .
he threw the baby in a pan , along with the placenta and the instruments he had just used .
at her confirmation hearing , lynch affirmed that she had signed on to the amicus brief opposing the ban on partial-birth abortion , and sen. lindsey graham ( r.-s.c. ) told her that that did not disqualify her from serving as attorney general .
in 2006 , you signed an amicus brief supporting planned parenthood s opposition to [ the ] partial-birth abortion ban .
is that correct ?
asked graham .
yes , said lynch .
i was one of a number of former justice department officials [ who signed it ] .
although , the amicus brief that we signed was focused on the issue of the facial issues of the law , and how it might impact the perception of law enforcement s discretion and independence , she said .
the only reason i mentioned that , said graham , is that if there s a republican president in the future , an attorney general nominee takes an opposite view on an issue like abortion , i hope our friends on the other side will acknowledge it s ok to be an advocate for a cause , as their lawyer .
that doesn t disqualify you from serving .
the 20 republicans who voted to move forward on a vote with lynch s nomination by voting for cloture included : lamar alexander of tennessee , kelly ayotte of new hampshire , richard burr of north carolina , shelley moore capito of west virginia , thad cochran of mississippi , susan collins of maine , bob corker of tennessee , john cornyn of texas , jeff flake of arizona , cory gardner of colorado , lindsey graham of south carolina , orrin hatch of utah , ron johnson of wisconsin , mark kirk of illinois , mitch mcconnell of kentucky , rob portman of ohio , pat roberts of kansas , rounds of kansas , john thune of south dakota , and thom tillis of north carolina.in the 56 to 43 confirmation vote , 10 republicans voted for lynch .
they included : kelly ayotte of new hampshire , thad cochran of mississippi , susan collins of maine , jeff flake of arizona , lindsey graham of south carolina , orrin hatch of utah , ron johnson of wisconsin , mark kirk of illinois , mitch mcconnell of kentucky , and rob portman of ohio.sen .
ted cruz of texas opposed the confirmation of lynch , spoke against her confirmation on the senate floor , and voted against cloture .
but then he did not cast a vote on her final confirmation .
his office did not immediately respond to inquiries about why he did not vote.via : cns