mexico city ( reuters ) - a newly unveiled presidential contender for mexico s ruling party attacked his main leftist rival on tuesday , accusing him of being obsessed by power , afraid of debate and unable to tackle corruption when he held public office .
jose antonio meade , who resigned as finance minister on monday to run for the institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , sought to discredit former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador , the early front-runner in the july 2018 election .
i m not afraid of andres manuel , i m sure i m going to beat him ... because there s a fundamental difference , meade told mexican radio .
what he s about is hunger for power , and with me it s about wanting to serve and construct .
graft scandals have battered the pri s credibility under president enrique pena nieto , and senior officials regard meade as a strong candidate because he has avoided the taint of corruption in office - and does not belong to the party .
the pri does not begin registering candidates until dec. 3 and will not elect its contender until feb. 18 .
however , all the indications are that meade will run to replace pena nieto , who is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election .
lopez obrador , runner-up in the past two elections , has spent years railing against graft , which promises to be a key campaign issue .
right after meade signaled his intention to run , lopez obrador branded the pri as corrupt and predictable .
meade offered little detail of how he planned to root out corruption beyond pledging to strengthen institutions , echoing the rhetoric of pena nieto , whose approval ratings plumbed multi-year lows , partly due to failure to tackle the issue .
instead meade , 48 , accused lopez obrador of seeking to avoid debate , and argued that his rival failed to root out corruption when he had the chance , as mayor of the capital .
whoever thinks that the answers to mexico s problems are about one person ... ( or ) are about being messianic ... is simplifying the complexity of building institutions that give us a nation of laws , he said in another radio interview .
meade , who has held most of the top cabinet jobs across two rival administrations , was at pains to stress his honesty , and said he had no skeletons in his closet .
that s why i feel very proud to look my children in the eyes , with them knowing that their dad has worked for mexico with integrity and honor , he said .