brussels ( reuters ) - the european commission on wednesday voiced fresh concerns over poland s plans to reform its courts and eu lawmakers accused warsaw of promoting intolerance , reflecting deep fears for the rule of law in the country .
poland s nationalist , socially conservative ruling party , law and justice ( pis ) , in power since late 2015 , is at loggerheads with the eu over its push to bring the courts and state media under more direct government control , as well as over migration and the logging of a primeval forest .
pis says the court reforms are needed for poland s moral renewal and accuses the eu of heavy-handed meddling in the country s affairs .
critics say the changes threaten judicial independence and spell an erosion of democratic standards .
pis-allied president andrzej duda unexpectedly vetoed two of the government s judicial reforms in july and presented his own version of these draft laws , infuriating pis leader jaroslaw kaczynski and precipitating a power struggle in the ruling camp .
the european commission s deputy head , frans timmermans , told the european parliament on wednesday that even the draft laws proposed by duda - which would row back somewhat from the options for direct government interference in the judiciary envisaged in the original pis bills - were not acceptable .
at this preliminary stage of our assessment , the commission already notes that certain issues in these draft laws could raise serious concerns , timmermans told eu lawmakers in their fifth debate on concerns about the rule of law in poland .
timmermans urged warsaw to align the drafts with eu democratic on judicial independence .
eu concerns about developments in poland escalated after a nationalist rally in warsaw at the weekend that saw participants , their faces covered , waving banners bearing anti-semitic , racist and xenophobic slogans such as pure blood , clear mind and europe will be white or uninhabited .
both duda and kaczynski condemned the racist banners but the government defended the march itself , held to mark the 99th anniversary of polish independence .
on wednesday , foreign minister witold waszczykowski said the march , an annual occurrence since 2010 , was valuable and important for stirring patriotism and love for polish history .
there were incidents , it is true , there were banners and slogans that should not be there ( ... ) .
the incidents are of course , reprehensible , waszczykowski told reporters .
but , he added , the reaction of some politicians and some global media had been manipulated and extremely exaggerated .
it is not based on facts , it is based on fake news .
i did not see any banners condemning the jews , for example ( ... ) there were references to migrants or refugees , but i did not hear of any anti-semitic behavior .
interior minister mariusz blaszczak , who ordered no detentions or arrests of nationalists who displayed white supremacy slogans , though some counterprotesters were detained , said he didn t see any racist banners and thought the independence day rally had passed in a very good atmosphere .
prime minister beata szydlo told the conservative wpolityce.pl news portal on wednesday that poland is free of anti-semitism and racism .
marginal incidents should not be identified with the whole nation , she said .
but the international auschwitz council , an advisory body to szydlo s office , said it was alarmed about the resurgence of racist and anti-semitic attitudes and public hate speech .
knowing the tragic history of auschwitz-birkenau , there is no doubt where it can lead , it said in a statement .
we therefore appeal to european governments for a strong response and effective countermeasures .
many members of the european parliament on wednesday joined jewish and human rights groups in expressing alarm at the attitudes on display during the nov. 11 rally .
this was happening in warsaw , in poland , at less than 350 kilometers from auschwitz and birkenau , said guy verhofstadt , head of the eu parliament s liberal group , referring to the nazi death camp set up in occupied poland where more than a million people , mostly jews , were killed during world war two .
poland could still be a leader in europe , but has degraded itself ... by politicizing the constitutional court , curtailing civil society , muzzling the free media , he said .
amnesty international echoed that criticism .
the polish government is ... increasingly restricting the freedom of assembly and expression , while peddling dangerously xenophobic rhetoric , ai researcher barbora cernusakova said .
eu lawmakers voted by 438 to 152 against to demand that the 28 member states punish warsaw by triggering article 7 of the eu treaty , a procedure that could lead to warsaw losing its voting rights in the bloc .
such a move is highly unlikely as it requires unanimity and poland s ally hungary , whose right-wing government is also under fire from brussels , has promised to block any sanctions .
a more likely punishment would be reducing the generous development funds poland receives from the eu .
the polish foreign ministry rejected the criticism from timmermans and the european parliament , accusing them of stigmatizing an eu member state .
there is nothing happening in poland that would demand a debate by 700 members of the european parliament , waszczykowski told reporters .