baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi forces launched a final assault on wednesday to capture the town of hawija , one of two pockets of territory in iraq still under islamic state control , the country s military said in a statement .
iraqi state tv broadcast live footage showing the area covered by thick black smoke , rising from oil wells torched by the militants as a tactic to prevent air detection .
hawija is located near the oil city of kirkuk , in northern iraq .
the offensive on hawija is being carried out by u.s.-backed iraqi government troops and iranian-trained and armed shi ite paramilitary groups known as popular mobilisation.they began moving on the town of hawija two days after capturing the rashad air base , 30 km ( 20 miles ) to the south and used by the militants as a training and logistics site .
iraq launched an offensive on sept. 21 to dislodge islamic state from hawija and surrounding areas where up to 78,000 people could be trapped , according to the united nations .
iraqi security officials say the militants are preventing some residents from leaving , while others are afraid of escaping towards government forces because of explosives that might have been laid by islamic state around the town .
the other area of the country still under the control of the militant group is a stretch of land along the syrian border , in western iraq , including the border town of al-qaim .
the militants also hold the syrian side of the border at al-qaim , but the area under their control is shrinking as they retreat in the face of two different sets of hostile forces a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led coalition , and syrian government troops with foreign shi ite militias backed by iran and russia .
islamic state s cross-border caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , in a grueling battle which lasted nine months .
the militants leader abu bakr al-baghdadi , who declared the caliphate from mosul in mid-2014 , released an audio recording last week that indicated he was still alive .
he called on his followers to keep up the fight despite the setbacks .