samarkand , uzbekistan ( reuters ) - senior officials from the european union and iran spoke up on friday in defense of the agreement limiting tehran s nuclear program , as the pact comes under heavy pressure from u.s. president donald trump .
the nuclear deal was a major achievement of european and international multilateral diplomacy , eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini told a conference in uzbekistan .
the european union will make sure it will continue to be fully implemented by all , in all its parts , she said .
trump on oct. 13 dealt a blow to the pact by refusing to certify that tehran was complying with the accord , under which iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in return for relief from economic sanctions .
international inspectors said it was complying .
the u.s. congress has until mid-december to decide whether to reimpose sanctions lifted by the deal .
iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif also spoke on friday at the united nations-sponsored conference on central asian security and development in samarkand .
by clinching the nuclear deal and fulfilling all our commitments under the joint comprehensive plan of action , we have in action proved our compliance with the principle of non-proliferation and nuclear disarmament , he said , without mentioning trump directly .
mogherini said the eu s ties with ex-soviet central asia were at an all-time high following moves by uzbekistan s new government to open up the previously isolated nation .
mogherini , the first eu foreign policy chief to visit uzbekistan in four years , met president shavkat mirziyoyev as well as foreign ministers of all five central asian nations .
mirziyoyev was elected president last december after the death of his authoritarian predecessor islam karimov , who was accused of systematic human rights abuses and whose relations with the west were poor .
seeking to modernize uzbekistan s economy , mirziyoyev has moved to mend those relations and announced an ambitious reform program at home .
after a very long and fruitful meeting with mirziyoyev , mogherini said the reforms had the full support of brussels .
mirziyoyev has also improved ties with neighboring kazakhstan , kyrgyzstan , tajikistan and turkmenistan after years of bitter standoffs over matters such as borders and water use , winning further praise from mogherini .
i would say that we are at the top of our historical experience of cooperation , but we want to use it not as a target point , but as a starting point , she said .