jamestown , st. helena ( reuters ) - one of humanity s most isolated outposts joined the 21st century on saturday when the british island of st. helena , home to the world s most useless airport , welcomed its first commercial flight .
as the inaugural plane from johannesburg touched down on the forbidding volcanic outcrop in the middle of the south atlantic , the travel and history buffs on board clapped and cheered .
i ve never felt so emotional in all my life , said libby weir-breen , a british travel operator who has been bringing tourists to the island , 1,200 miles ( 1,900 km ) west of the african nation of angola , for the last 12 years .
she had flown in specially from scotland to be on the plane , and dabbed away tears as it touched down on the spectacular cliff-side runway .
i never thought i d see this day , she said .
the 4,500 people living on st. helena , a british colony since 1658 - most famous as the windswept outpost where french emperor napoleon bonaparte breathed his last - might also be forgiven for thinking the day would never come .
there has been talk of building an airport on st. helena since the 1930s .
the best site one of the few flat spaces on the notoriously craggy island was ruled out because of a nearby breeding ground for the wirebird , an endangered species of plover .
an airport at the new site , on top of a valley filled in with 8 million cubic meters of rock , suffered numerous setbacks and delays as costs ballooned to 285 million pounds , to the horror of the british government .
the runway and terminal were completed in 2016 but the official opening was pushed back another year after test flights were buffeted by wicked cross-winds , making it unsafe for large aircraft to use .
with britain mired in financial austerity , the london media were quick to condemn it as a white elephant , or the world s most useless airport , with a price tag of more than 60,000 pounds for every saint , as the island s residents are known .
before the opening of the airport , which will receive weekly flights to and from the south african commercial capital , the only way to st. helena was a five-night voyage from cape town aboard the rms st. helena , a british postal ship .
with the risk of wind-shear limiting the size of planes and numbers of passengers saturday s flight had room for 100 but only 68 on board due to weight restrictions the hoped-for tourist boom is unlikely to materialize .
hotel capacity has jumped in the last few years from just a few dozen rooms to more than 100 , but , with a maximum of 3,500 visitors a year , the island is unlikely to be weaned off the 53 million pounds it receives in aid every year from london .
besides napoleon s old house , longwood , and a cemetery holding some of the 6,000 afrikaner prisoners sent there by the british during the anglo-boer wars in south africa , st. helena offers scuba diving and walking in pristine natural wildernesses .
governor lisa phillips dismissed the critics and said that even before it accepted its first commercial flight , the airport had proved its worth in the last 18 months by enabling several life-saving emergency medical evacuations , including a newborn child .
i ve seen the headlines about the world s most useless airport , but for st. helenans this has already been the most useful airport , she told reporters after greeting them on the tarmac .
it s priceless .