london ( reuters ) - an aardvark was killed and four meerkats are missing believed dead after a blaze tore through part of london zoo early on saturday , destroying a cafe and gift shop .
the fire broke out shortly after 0600 gmt at the zoo s animal adventure section before spreading to the shop and cafe , near to an area where visitors can handle and feed animals , the zoo and london fire brigade said .
more than 70 firefighters took three hours to bring the fire under control while desperate keepers who live on the site in regent s park in central london moved animals to safety .
some of the staff needed treatment for smoke inhalation and shock .
ten-year-old misha the aardvark , one of the zoo s best-loved animals , perished in the fire and four of the meerkats were unaccounted for and are also presumed to have died .
taking their name from the afrikaans word for earth-pig , aardvarks are large burrowing mammals found across much of africa .
we re absolutely devastated that misha the aardvark has been killed and we re still trying to find out what happened to the meerkats , but at the moment the site where this fire took place is closed down , dominic jermey , the zoo s director general , told bbc tv .
at the moment we re not certain what has happened to the meerkats but i m not optimistic at this stage , unfortunately .
other animals nearby are being monitored by vets , but the zoo said indications were that they were unaffected .
it said it hoped to reopen on sunday .
it is the world s oldest scientific zoo , dating from 1826 , and houses 20,166 animals , according to its inventory for 2017 .
the fire brigade said it had sent 10 fire engines and 72 firefighters to the scene and added that the cause of the blaze was under investigation .
the fire mainly involved the cafe and shop but part of a nearby animal petting area was also affected , said station manager david george .
when they arrived our crews were faced with a very well developed fire .
they worked incredibly hard in arduous conditions to bring it under control as quickly as possible and to stop it from spreading to neighboring animal enclosures .