mexico city ( reuters ) - the powerful earthquake that rocked mexico city last week had terrifying echoes of a more deadly 1985 shock in one housing project , raising tough questions about how ready one of the world s largest cities is for a major catastrophe .
at its epicenter , thursday s 8.1 magnitude quake was stronger than the disaster three decades ago that killed at least 5,000 people in mexico city , toppling two tower blocks in the historic central neighborhood of tlatelolco .
mexico city has made major advances since then , with regular earthquake simulations , improved building regulations , and seismic alarms designed to sound long enough before the shock to give residents time to flee .
nearly 100 people are known to have died in the latest quake , none of them in the capital .
yet experts noted the tremor s epicenter was further from mexico city and two times deeper than in 1985 , and warned it would be wrong to assume the capital could now rest easy .
such caution was palpable in tlatelolco .
antonio fonseca , 66 , a longtime resident who witnessed the 1985 collapse of the tower blocks in the nuevo leon housing complex that killed at least 200 people , said memories of the event sparked panic attacks in the neighborhood when the quake rolled through the city on thursday .
i m quite sure that these buildings are very well reinforced , said fonseca , a local history expert .
but there are many people who are still wary .
when the ground began shaking in september 1985 , local workers laughed it off at first , continuing with breakfast .
nobody believed fonseca when he told them nuevo leon had fallen , he recalled .
later , fonseca saw a group of children in the neighborhood s central plaza de las tres culturas who had been waiting for the school bus , their uniforms caked in white dust from the building s collapse .
this time around , residents feared the worst .
streets filled across the city when the quake hit near midnight .
crying and praying , hundreds descended onto the plaza and some stayed for hours , questioning whether it was safe to return home .
minerva de la paz uribe , a retiree living on the plaza , was unable to evacuate with her father , who turned 104 the next day .
she watched from her window as neighbors scrambled to escape .
people leave running with their dogs .
they leave screaming .
are we prepared ?
no , no , we re not prepared , she said , as a group of friends on the plaza murmured in agreement .
some 30 buildings in tlatelolco were rebuilt after the 1985 disaster and a dozen were demolished .
mexico s new skyscrapers include hydraulic shock absorbers and deep foundations .
but such safety features are less prevalent in much of the sprawling periphery , which is filled with cheap cinderblock homes like the buildings that collapsed on thursday in the southern states of oaxaca and chiapas near the epicenter .
situated at the intersection of three tectonic plates , mexico is one of the world s most earthquake-prone countries , and the capital is particularly vulnerable due to its location on top of an ancient lake bed .
the government s widely panned response to the 1985 quake caused upheaval in mexico , which some credited with weakening the one-party rule of the institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) .
after 71 years , the pri was finally voted out in 2000 .
signs of government incompetence , or worse , persist .
mexican news website animal politico on monday reported that thousands of seismic alarms acquired by the government of oaxaca five years ago were never distributed , with some appearing for sale on online auction sites .
a spokesman for oaxaca s civil protection authorities did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
mistrust of government has spurred some to form community groups .
among the most famous are the tlatelolco topos , or moles , formed from rescue squads that dug survivors and corpses out of the rubble in 1985 , and have since traveled the world offering assistance in quakes and landslides .
but disasters have a habit of catching people off guard .
georgina mendez de schaafsma was returning from taking children to school when the 1985 temblor struck tlatelolco .
to her horror , she realized her six-year-old daughter was home alone .
racing back , mendez retrieved the girl .
but three other relatives died in the nuevo leon collapses .
now 70 , mendez still lives in the same building , which had a number of floors removed after the 1985 quake .
she stayed indoors when the tremors began on thursday night and believes mexico city is better equipped today - up to a point .
in a catastrophe , i think we re never prepared , she said .
nature is stronger .