tokyo ( reuters ) - japan said on monday it will help the philippines rebuild conflict-torn southern marawi city as well as other infrastructure in a deepening of ties to counter china s regional influence .
japanese prime minister shinzo abe made the pledges in a joint statement with philippine president rodrigo duterte following talks in tokyo .
duterte on oct 23 announced the end of five months of military operations in marawi held by islamic state rebels in a conflict that destroyed much of the city s center and displaced some 300,000 people .
the government of japan recognizes that rehabilitation and reconstruction of the city of marawi and is extremely important , the statement said .
japan also offered to help with other projects ranging from rail infrastructure to river defenses including a possible 600 billion yen loan to help fund development of a subway in manila .
the meeting was an opportunity for abe to discuss security in asia ahead of key regional meetings beginning with the asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) gathering in vietnam in november .
i confirmed with president duterte that we are both maritime nations sharing basic values and strategic interests , abe said during his joint announcement with duterte .
the two countries , he added , would address common issues including north korea and a free and open indo-pacific .
japan is concerned about china s growing power in the south china sea and sees cooperation with the philippines , which lies on the waterway s eastern side , as key ally in helping prevent beijing s influence spreading into the western pacific .
duterte , unlike his predecessor , benigno aquino , has been less critical of beijing s island building in the south china sea .
the philippine leader will return home on tuesday after an audience with the japanese emperor .
abe and duterte will travel to vietnam for the two-day apec meeting from nov 11 , which u.s. president donald trump and chinese president xi jinping will attend .
leaders from the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) and other countries in the region will meet again in the philippines after the apec gathering for the east asia summit and a gathering of asean that will be chaired by philippine s president .
duterte in his statement in tokyo did not mention china , instead calling north korea to halt its ballistic missile and nuclear test and return to talks with the u.s. japan and other countries .