budapest ( reuters ) - hungary s main opposition party would be unable to compete at an election next april if state auditors impose a heavy fine in a campaign finance case , a vice chairman for the nationalist jobbik party told reuters on thursday .
the party , which was once on the far right but has moved toward the center in recent years , lags far behind the ruling party fidesz , according to opinion polls .
the case could hurt jobbik s bid to take the political center ground from the populist and nativist fidesz party of prime minister viktor orban , who has ruled hungary since 2010 .
jobbik should pay a fine of 331 million forints ( $ 1.24 million ) , equal to a price advantage it received illegally for a billboard campaign .
its annual state subsidy should also be cut by the same sum as a penalty , the auditors said on wednesday in a preliminary finding .
jobbik denies wrongdoing and has 15 days to respond to the findings .
the auditor , called asz , will deliver a final ruling in a few weeks and jobbik would then have to pay the fine even if it challenges the decision in court .
the penalties are more than jobbik s 476 million forint annual state subsidy , which is the party s largest source of funding as it receives only small contributions from donors , jobbik vice chairman janos volner said .
this case has been so absurd that anything is possible , he said , adding that the inquiry could be a pretext to try to dissolve the party .
they will shake us down for every last penny we have , he told reuters by phone .
the auditor is independent and non-political , said its spokesman balint nemeth .
asz chairman laszlo domokos is a former fidesz lawmaker while chief prosecutor peter polt is a former fidesz member twice appointed to his post by fidesz-dominated parliaments .
on wednesday , prosecutors also pressed espionage charges against jobbik european parliament member bela kovacs , who subsequently quit the party .
in its ad campaign jobbik accused orban and some of his associates of corruption .
the party used billboards owned by a tycoon named lajos simicska for the campaign .
simicska was once a key ally of orban who has since become a supporter of jobbik .
in stormy debates with jobbik party leader gabor vona in parliament , orban has repeatedly said jobbik has been hijacked by simicska and accused it of doing his bidding .
jobbik and simicska deny this .
fidesz restricted the use of privately-owned billboards by political parties in a recent law .
jobbik then bought more than 1,000 billboards outright .
the party has declined to detail the sources it used for that deal .
( $ 1 = 266.53 forints )