washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump welcomed malaysian prime minister najib razak to the white house on tuesday , praising his country for investing in the united states while steering clear of an american investigation into a malaysian corruption scandal .
the visit is important for najib , who faces elections next year and wants to signal he is still welcome at the white house despite a criminal probe by the u.s. justice department into a state fund called 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) .
flanked by top advisers in the cabinet room , najib told trump that malaysia airlines would buy 25 boeing 737 jets and eight 787 dreamliners , and would probably add another 25 737s in the near future - a deal he said would be worth more than $ 10 billion within five years .
najib said malaysia s employees provident fund , a major pension fund , wanted to spend $ 3 billion to $ 4 billion on u.s. infrastructure development .
najib enjoyed close ties with trump s predecessor , barack obama , playing golf in hawaii in 2014 , but relations cooled over human rights issues as well as the 1mdb scandal .
najib founded the fund , which is facing money laundering probes in at least six countries including the united states , switzerland and singapore .
he denies wrongdoing .
the u.s. justice department has said more than $ 4.5 billion was misappropriated from 1mdb by high-level officials of the fund and their associates , according to dozens of civil lawsuits it filed last year .
the justice department sued to seize some $ 1.7 billion in assets it said were bought with misappropriated 1mdb funds , but asked for a stay on its civil lawsuits in august because it was conducting a related criminal probe .
the white house had said it would not comment on the justice department investigation but a senior u.s. official acknowledged it was unusual to meet with najib while 1mdb was under regulatory scrutiny .
it s a weird situation , no doubt , the official said , explaining that the administration has prioritized developing relations with southeast asia to counter huge gains china has made in the region .
najib and his delegation stayed at the trump international hotel , according to several u.s. media reports , but the white house dismissed questions about the stay .
we certainly don t book their hotel accommodations , so i couldn t speak to the personal decision they made about where to stay here in d.c. , white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders said .
in a speech to u.s. business leaders , najib said opposition politicians had blown the 1mdb scandal out of proportion in a failed attempt to topple his government .
i know that some of you will have heard some less positive stories about the malaysian economy , particularly about 1mdb , najib said .
indeed , there was a campaign to deliberately sabotage the company and undermine investor confidence in our economy in a failed attempt to topple the government in-between election cycles .
he also said malaysia s investigations into 1mdb revealed there had been some failings .
the u.s. lawsuits had alleged $ 681 million of the misappropriated funds from 1mdb was transferred to the account of malaysian official 1 , which u.s. and malaysian sources have previously identified as najib .
a malaysian government investigation has cleared him of any wrongdoing .
najib s invitation to the white house was slammed by several rights groups who had urged the trump administration to bring up najib s record of cracking down on the media and others critics .
trump sees malaysia , a majority muslim nation , as an ally in its fight against islamic militancy .
it is also wants it to cut ties with north korea .
he does not do business with north korea any longer , and we find that to be very important , trump said referring to najib .
ties between malaysia and north korea soured after north korean leader kim jong un s half brother was assassinated in kuala lumpur this year .
it was also discovered that north korea was using malaysia as a base for its arms export and other businesses , that funneled money to pyongyang .
before their meeting , trump praised najib for his tough stand on islamic state .
he s been very , very strong on terrorism in malaysia , and a great supporter from that standpoint .
for a graphic on malaysia 's 1mdb scandal , click : here