caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s leftist government prepared to release some 80 jailed anti-government activists on saturday , and threatened to expel envoys from canada and brazil after criticism over rights .
delcy rodriguez , head of the pro-government constituent assembly , told reporters the legislative superbody was recommending the detainees be given alternative punishments such as community service and compensation for victims .
thirteen activists were later paraded in front of state tv cameras during a meeting with rodriguez , a hardline ally of president nicolas maduro .
they looked stony-faced as they sat listening to her admonishments in the formal surroundings of venezuela s colonial-era foreign ministry .
rights groups and foes of maduro say authorities are unfairly holding 268 political prisoners for protesting against dictatorship .
maduro , the 55-year-old successor to hugo chavez , says all jailed activists are there on legitimate charges of violence and subversion .
let it be understood that the events promoted by the extremist venezuelan opposition , which caused venezuelans deaths , must not be repeated , rodriguez said .
some 170 people died in violence around two bouts of anti-maduro street protests in 2014 and earlier this year .
the assembly president told the detainees at the meeting they would return to their detention centers for medical tests then be freed to spend christmas with loved ones .
the releases , albeit with alternative sentences , could inject life into stuttering political talks between the government and opposition due to resume in the dominican republic in early january .
western nations and latin american neighbors have been increasingly critical of maduro this year , accusing him of stamping on democracy and human rights .
the government says foreign nations are trying to encourage a right-wing coup .
rodriguez said the constituent assembly - which various foreign countries refuse to accept - was also recommending brazil s ambassador ruy pereira and canada s charge d affaires craig kowalik both be declared persona non grata .
the canadian government , which has imposed sanctions on maduro s administration , said it would not be cowed into easing pressure on the anti-democratic maduro regime in venezuela .
canadians will not stand by silently as the government of venezuela robs its people of their fundamental democratic and human rights , and denies them access to basic humanitarian needs , said global affairs canada , the government department that manages its foreign and trade relations .
brazil s foreign ministry also responded sternly .
if confirmed , the venezuelan government s decision to declare brazil s ambassador persona non grata shows once more the authoritarian stance of nicolas maduro s administration and its lack of willingness to engage in any dialogue , it said , promising reciprocal measures .
u.s. president donald trump s administration has been especially critical of maduro , also imposing sanctions on him and other senior venezuelan officials this year .
under new stewardship with the arrival of charge d affaires todd robinson last week , washington s embassy in caracas called on saturday for the freedom of all jailed activists .
we urge maduro s regime to respect human rights , it tweeted .
free them during this holiday time .