hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong s leader urged an immediate end to independence debates in the chinese-ruled global financial hub on tuesday , warning that the issue was harming the city s relationship with beijing s communist party leaders .
insisting that the government did not want to intervene on university campuses , chief executive carrie lam said the campaign was organized and systematic rather than simply an issue of freedom of speech .
this has already deviated from the so-called , why aren t we able to talk about this ?
point of view .
it is clearly attacking one country , two systems ... and destroying the relationship between beijing and hong kong , lam said .
it is not in the interests of hong kong s development and must stop .
lam said the calls violated the basic law , the constitutional document securing hong kong s broad freedoms of speech and assembly after britain returned its former colony to chinese sovereignty in 1997 under the one country , two systems banner .
while the basic law enshrines far broader civil and commercial freedoms than exist in mainland china , some legal experts warn that a sustained independence campaign could break laws against sedition .
chinese leaders , including president xi jinping , have warned that independence discussions are a red line that can t be crossed , saying the city is an inalienable part of china .
some students have placed banners on democracy walls on campuses in recent days , sparking anger and counter campaigns from hong kong-based mainland students .
some mainland chinese students and pro-china patriotic groups have since sought to rip down some posters , sparking heated exchanges with hong kong students and free speech advocates .
pro-independence activists should be killed and treated without mercy , junius ho , a pro-beijing lawmaker , said during a rally on sunday , sparking outrage and calls for police to act .
the widening controversy sparked criticism from chinese state media , as well as a rare joint statement from the heads of hong kong universities , declaring that the universities did not support hong kong independence .
lam said she believed university management would be able to handle the issue without government action .
asked about lam s warnings , chris patten , britain s last governor of hong kong , urged greater efforts to engage hong kong s restive young people .
it s unwise to think that you can simply shut it down by , and i m sure carrie lam wouldn t suggest this , by locking students up , patten told reuters .
these aren t people to be frightened of .
they are the future .
and you ve got to persuade them why they re wrong .
while the students should back off counterproductive independence debates , he said , they should continue to push for democracy and the rule of law to secure their freedoms .
this is an extremely moderate community , patten later told a meeting at the foreign correspondents club .
if you give hong kong a bit more democracy , you ve got to recognize that it s a moderate place and people will behave responsibly .
patten was critical , however , of the hong kong government s decision to seek a resentencing of democracy activist joshua wong and others , calling it a political decision that should have been better thought out , given the criticism it provoked .
he also mentioned a reuters report that hong kong s justice secretary rimsky yuen had overruled department colleagues in pursuing prison sentences for the democracy activists .
he s a grown-up , he must know that actions have consequences , patten added .
not to understand what signal that would send to the rest of the world strikes me as being , to be frank , a little na ve .