denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - airlines canceled more flights departing the indonesian holiday island of bali on saturday , citing forecasts of deteriorating flying conditions due to a risk of volcanic ash from the erupting mount agung volcano .
a bali airport spokesman said the airport was still operating normally , but airlines such as jetstar and virgin australia had opted to cancel some flights bali flying conditions expected to be clear throughout the day , but forecast for tonight has deteriorated so several flights have been canceled , australian budget airline jetstar said on its twitter account .
the erupting volcano had closed the airport for much of this week , stranding thousands of visitors from australia , china and other countries , before the winds changed and flights resumed twenty flights were canceled on friday evening due to concerns over ash .
some airlines including malaysia s airasia bhd have said they would only operate out of bali during the day , as the ash could impair visibility at night and wind conditions in the area were unpredictable .
airlines avoid flying through volcanic ash as it can damage aircraft engines , clogging fuel and cooling systems , hampering pilot visibility and even causing engine failure .
there are also concerns over changing weather conditions with a tropical cyclone south of java island impacting weather and wind in the area , including for bali , the indonesian meteorological , climatological and geophysics agency said with some airlines continuing to fly normally on saturday , there was frustration among passengers .
australian couple justine and greg hill were on holiday with their two teenage children and had been due to fly out today but their flight later this evening was canceled .
it s more an inconvenience than anything .
don t understand why if other airlines are flying , some others aren t. obviously there must be safety protocols but there s no detailed explanation , said greg hill , 46 , who was waiting at the airport .
several foreign consulates have set up booths in the international departures area to assist stranded passengers .
subrata sarkar , india s vice consul in bali , told reuters at the airport s international departure area that they had helped around 500 passengers so far this week .
we have advised citizens the volcano may erupt .
we never say please don t come .
but we have issued travel advisories .
if it s urgent business , then ok , but if it s only tourism , then plans should be reconsidered , said sarkar .
for an interactive graphic on mount agung volcano , click - tmsnrt.rs/2hydhiq for a graphic on the pacific `` ring of fire , '' click - tmsnrt.rs/2bjth6l