cox s bazar/yangon ( reuters ) - hungry , destitute and scared , thousands of new rohingya refugees crossed the border into bangladesh from myanmar early on monday , reuters witnesses said , fleeing hunger and attacks by buddhist mobs that the united nations has called ethnic cleansing .
wading through waist-deep water with children strapped to their sides , the refugees told reuters they had walked through bushes and forded monsoon-swollen streams for days .
a seemingly never-ending flow entered bangladesh near the village of palongkhali .
many were injured , with the elderly carried on makeshift stretchers , while women balanced household items , such as pots , rice sacks and clothing , on their heads .
we couldn t step out of the house for the last month because the military were looting people , said mohammad shoaib , 29 , who wore a yellow vest and balanced jute bags of food and aluminum pots on a bamboo pole .
they started firing on the village .
so we escaped into another .
day by day , things kept getting worse , so we started moving towards bangladesh .
before we left , i went back near my village to see my house , and the entire village was burnt down , shoaib added .
they joined about 536,000 rohingya muslims who have fled myanmar since aug. 25 , when coordinated rohingya insurgent attacks sparked a ferocious military response , with the fleeing people accusing security forces of arson , killings and rape .
myanmar rejects accusations of ethnic cleansing and has labeled the militants from the arakan rohingya salvation army who launched the attacks as terrorists , who have killed civilians and burnt villages .
the european union said on monday it would suspend invitations to myanmar s army commander-in-chief and other senior generals in the light of the disproportionate use of force carried out by the security forces .
a statement issued after a meeting of eu foreign ministers also called for thorough investigation of credible allegations of serious human rights violations and abuses .
not everyone made it to bangladesh alive on monday .
several kilometers ( miles ) to the south of palongkhali , a boat carrying scores of refugees sank at dawn , killing at least 12 and leaving 35 missing .
there were 21 survivors , bangladesh authorities said .
so far 12 bodies , including six children and four women , have been recovered , said police official moinuddin khan .
bangladesh border guards told reuters the boat sank because it was overloaded with refugees , who pay exorbitant fees to cross the naf river , a natural border with myanmar in the cox s bazar region of bangladesh .
the sinking came about a week after another boat capsized in the estuary on the river , which has become a graveyard for dozens of muslim refugees .
refugees who survived the perilous journey said they were driven out by hunger because food markets in myanmar s western rakhine state have been shut and aid deliveries restricted .
they also reported attacks by the military and rakhine buddhist mobs .
the influx will worsen the unprecedented humanitarian emergency unfolding in cox s bazar , where aid workers are battling to provide refugees with food , clean water and shelter .
on monday , the red cross opened a field hospital as big as two football fields , with 60 beds , three wards , an operating theater , a delivery suite with maternity ward and a psychosocial support unit .
hundreds of thousands of rohingya had already been in bangladesh after fleeing previous spasms of violence in myanmar , where they have long been denied citizenship and faced curbs on their movements and access to basic services .
monday s eu move to shun further contacts with myanmar s army top brass comes after officials told reuters the european bloc and the united states were considering targeted sanctions against military leaders .
the action announced by brussels is largely symbolic , though the eu said it may consider further measures .
western governments , who have invested politically in myanmar s democratic transition , are wary of doing anything that would hurt the wider economy or destabilize already tense ties between civilian leader aung san suu kyi and the military .
the powerful army chief , min aung hlaing , told the united states ambassador in myanmar last week that the exodus of rohingya , whom he called non-native bengalis , was exaggerated .
but despite myanmar s denials and assurances that aid was on its way to the north of violence-torn rakhine state , thousands more starving people were desperate to leave .
we fled from our home because we had nothing to eat in my village , said jarhni ahlong , a 28-year-old rohingya man from the southern region of buthidaung , who had been stranded on the myanmar side of the naf for a week , waiting to cross .
from the thousands gathered there awaiting an opportunity to escape , about 400 paid roughly $ 50 each to flee on nine or 10 boats on monday morning , he added .
i think if we go to bangladesh we can get food , he said .