lima ( reuters ) - peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski acknowledged that he worked as a financial adviser for an irrigation project owned by the brazilian builder odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] on saturday , contradicting his previous denials of having any links to the company .
odebrecht is at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal and has admitted to paying about $ 30 million in bribes to secure contracts in peru over a decade .
kuczynski worked in the cabinet of former president alejandro toledo , who prosecutors say took a $ 20 million bribe from odebrecht during his 2001-2006 term .
however , kuczynski has not been named as a suspect in the far-reaching graft probe by the attorney general s office .
in a televised interview with local broadcaster rpp , kuczynski denied being a partner in an investment fund that allegedly had links to odebrecht .
however , he said he had worked as a financial adviser for several companies that needed to raise funds for big projects , including an odebrecht firm .
they use bankers , said kuczynski , a 79-year-old former wall street banker elected president in 2016 .
i ve been a banker , in new york , for a very prestigious bank .
i ve been one of the founders of what s called project financing .
so sometimes , i was hired .
for h2olmos , an irrigation project .
odebrecht owns h2olmos sa , which was formed in 2009 to build and operate one of its landmark projects in peru - carving a 20-kilometer ( 12-mile ) tunnel through the andes to transport water to irrigate agricultural fields in the desert .
kuczynski s comments could provide more ammunition for the opposition-controlled congress as it targets him in its probe into odebrecht s links to politicians .
kuczynski had previously denied reports in local media that odebrecht hired him as an adviser a decade ago to mend ties with him after he opposed highway contracts awarded to the company in toledo s government .
kuczynski did not provide additional details about his work for h2olmos , and his office did not respond to requests for comment .
however , he stressed in the interview that the advising work was done when he was a private citizen and denied favoring any company while in public office .
odebrecht reached a deal to sell h2olmos to brookfield infrastructure partners lp and suez sa a year ago .
however , the sale has not closed .
while the attorney general s office reopened a preliminary probe related to odebrecht and kuczynski a year ago , it has not accused kuczynski of wrongdoing .