if you want to know just how bad donald trump s healthcare bill would be for this country , just ask ali chandra.thanks to the affordable care act , chandra was able to get health insurance for her three-year-old son , who has a pre-existing condition known as heterotaxy syndrome , a defect he was born with .
heterotaxy syndrome literally means different arrangements , chandra explained to cnn on sunday .
ethan was born with nine heart defects nine congenital heart defects .
he has two left lungs , five or so spleens of dubious function , and his liver and his gallbladder are down the middle of his body along with his heart , and then his stomach is on the right side instead of the left side .
here s the video via youtube.any human being , especially parents , should sympathize with chandra and what she and her family are going through.but their situation would be much worse if the trumpcare bill passes congress and is signed into law .
the protections guaranteed by the affordable care act , also known as obamacare , would vanish .
and that could mean financial ruin for chandra and her family , and the loss of the care ethan needs.you see , without insurance and the protections obamacare provides , chandra would have to pay $ 231,000 instead of just $ 500 for the medical care ethan has received .
she even posted the bill on twitter and proceeded to explain what s at stake.it seems fitting that , with the # trumpcare debate raging , i got this bill in the mail today from ethan s most recent open heart surgery .
pic.twitter.com/pyue2uxbww ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017i ll save you some math ; without insurance we would owe $ 231,115 for 10 hours in the or , 1 week in the cicu and 1 week on the cardiac floor .
pic.twitter.com/cq9ojosfx8 ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017he s had four of these surgeries , some more involved than others .
the one before this had him in the cicu for three weeks .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017so far , ethan s care has gone over the $ 1 million mark .
trump s healthcare bill would put lifetime caps on benefits , which means insurance companies would be able to deny coverage to ethan after reaching a fixed dollar amount .
that means no healthcare for ethan unless his family goes broke to save him.that s not only cruel , it s inhumane , especially since republicans claim to be pro-life .
and ethan s medical care is not done yet.we re hopeful that going forwards he ll need fewer and smaller surgeries , but this was not the last time they ll open his chest .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017the surgeon who created what we call ethan s picasso heart , shaping 4 chambers from the 2 he was born with , is several states away .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017we also regularly see a local cardiologist , and electrophysiologist for his pacemaker , a pediatrician , & immunology for his polysplenia .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017he takes 5 different prescription medications multiple times a day .
all of this adds up .
none of this would be possible without insurance .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017and i want you to go look at that number again .
nearly a quarter million dollars for one surgery .
reinstate lifetime caps and he s out .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017he blew past the million dollar mark long ago ; i haven t even mentioned the er trips for sepsis workups every time his temp goes above 100.4 ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017or the surprise admissions that sometimes follow those er visits when his body just isn t strong enough to fight a common virus at home .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017donald trump and the republican party should be fighting to save this boy s life , not trying to kill him by taking away his healthcare.furthermore , the astronomical price of ethan s healthcare is morally wrong considering what similar medical care costs in other developed nations , especially those with socialized systems .
according to twitter users who commented on chandra s post , ethan s medical bills in nations such as sweden and england would be far less.in sweden max $ 130/year for healthcare and another $ 260/year for meds .
my breast cancer costed me about $ 700 incl hysterektomi op annika dahlberg ( @ lovemylotus ) june 24 , 2017nhs has huge problems but it does work .
i have three 1st hand examples of how serious , prolonged , excellent care costs zero .
richard ingham evans ( @ ringham7 ) june 24 , 2017indeed , in 2015 , a british couple unexpectedly had to have their baby delivered in an american hospital and end up being slapped with a $ 200,000 medical bill for something that would have been free at a national health service hospital or only $ 15,000 at a private facility in the uk.so whether provided by the government or by private hospitals , healthcare is far less expensive in other nations and is provided to all.that s what we need in america .
instead , republicans are working on stripping healthcare away from millions of people.but chandra is determined to fight for her son s life even if republicans wont.a lifetime cap on benefits is the same as saying , sorry , you re not worth keeping alive anymore .
you re just too expensive .
ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017look my son in the eyes and tell him that he s fought so hard to be here but sorry , you re just not worth it anymore .
i dare you .
pic.twitter.com/igdqoounyb ali ( @ aliranger29 ) june 24 , 2017featured image : screenshot