these last several weeks , the american people have gotten a taste of what they d be getting with a clinton or a trump presidency .
and , not surprisingly , they overwhelmingly prefer a clinton presidency.according to a new poll released from bloomberg , hillary clinton crushes right-wing blowhard donald trump by a whopping 12 points , 49-37 percent.not only does the poll show clinton with a commanding lead , 55 percent of respondents said they could never vote for donald trump .
astoundingly , 63 percent of women polled said they could never vote for him .
republicans need to figure out their next move quickly , because there is no way in hell their candidate can win if more than half of the country refuses to vote for him .
seeing that the poll was conducted when the shooting in florida happened , trump , hoping to cash in on a wave of fear , has a rude awakening.and the new poll shows trump s biggest area of support , white men , may not be enough : for his part , trump is winning 50 percent support from white men , compared to 33 percent for clinton and 13 percent for johnson .
he s getting 54 percent support among evangelical christians , while clinton gets 36 percent from that group.white men are among trump s strongest demographics .
but even there he s not showing as much strength as the party s last nominee , mitt romney , who beat obama in 2012 by 62 percent to 35 percent among white men , according to exit pollslibertarian candidate gary johnson takes a commanding 9 percent of the vote , while 4 percent remain unsure and 1 percent said they will not be voting .
it s no secret that johnson s lead can be attributed to trump s alienation of non-crazy republicans.ann selzer , who oversaw the poll , said : clinton has a number of advantages in this poll , in addition to her lead .
her supporters are more enthusiastic than trump s and more voters overall see her becoming a more appealing candidate than say that for trump .
and what s even better : americans aren t buying into trump s racism and bigotry : trump s suggestions that obama hasn t taken forceful enough action to stop domestic terrorism because he sides with muslims landed with a thud for the majority of americans , with 61 percent disagreeing with the suggestion .
a strong majority 69 percent also disagree that law enforcement agencies should increase surveillance of all american muslims , even if it conflicts with civil liberties.while trump is only slightly favored to handle issues of terrorism and violence , clinton isn t far behind .
and as the nation continues to be exposed to trump s extremist policies on how to handle such situations , clinton s numbers could rise.trump is in trouble , and republicans know it .
if he keeps this up , he may very well end up being the next barry goldwater.featured image via justin sullivan/getty images