shawn helton 21st century wireyears before allegedly carrying out a truck rampage on halloween , the man named in new york s most recent act of terror was already well-known to the united states department of homeland security .
this latest supposedly homegrown isis-inspired attack produces yet another known wolf with ties to suspected terrorists as well as authorities .
according to officials , 29 year-old sayfullo saipov , the man charged in a deadly manhattan vehicular assault on october 31st , was previously questioned over suspected ties to terrorism in 2015 by the us department of homeland security .
saipov reportedly became a permanent legal resident upon arriving in the us on a diversity lottery visa in 2010 .
since that time , the suspected terrorist moved from ohio , florida , and most recently to new jersey , where he was interviewed by dhs in 2015.as media attention on this case is focused on immigration laws , terror propaganda and security protocols america s latest terror tragedy reveals much more below the surface known wolf there s a distinct pattern with acts of terror committed on western soil .
( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) another american known wolf suspected terrorist sayfullo ( habibullaevic ) saipov , who bounced across america , committed only minor traffic violations before his alleged involvement in the new york truck attack.over the past 24 hours , the suspected truck attacker saipov , was said to have driven a home depot rental truck from new jersey to the manhattan area , where it is believed he deliberately targeted pedestrians and cyclists on a bike path alongside the hudson river according to police reports .
shortly after the vehicular attack authorities state that siapov brandished a pellet gun and paintball gun prior to being shot by nypd and taken into custody .
all told , at least eight people were said to have been killed , while nearly a dozen others were injured in the high-profile terror incident.reports state that saipov became radicalized in america , allegedly taking ques from isis terror propaganda .
however , saipov , originally from tashkent , the capital city of uzbekistan , was supposedly from a modest and secular family that did not go to mosques , making this yet another suspicious terror-related case that paints a murky portrait on the way towards extremism .
suspect the alleged new york truck attacker was apparently a registered driver for popular car services uber and lyft .
( image source : twitter ) rather intriguingly , in a published report at abc news we re told saipov , had been the subject of a deeper counter-terror investigation back in 2015 : sayfullo saipov , who has been charged with killing eight people in a vehicle attack on the west side of manhattan on tuesday , was interviewed in 2015 by federal agents about possible ties to suspected terrorists but a case was never opened against him , law enforcement officials tell abc news .
continuing , the article outlined the following : saipov was listed as a point of contact for two men who were listed in a department of homeland security counterterrorism database and later overstayed their tourist visas , a federal official told abc news .
one was flagged after arriving from a so-called threat country , while the other vanished and was being actively sought by federal agents as a suspected terrorist .
incredibly , in less than 24 hours after the deadly vehicular assault in new york , fbi authorities have located the suspected terrorist who supposedly vanished from the gaze of authorities said to be linked to saipov.today fbi investigators released an alert regarding 32 year-old mukhammadzoir kadirov , a person of interest , who authorities also believe is linked to the recent attack.cnn reported the following background information regarding siapov : in a recently published report from the ny times , elements of a recent fbi probe into a suspected terror cell charged in brooklyn over the past two years was revealed : over the last two years , a terrorism investigation by the f.b.i. , the department of homeland security , the new york police department and federal prosecutors in brooklyn resulted in charges against five men from uzbekistan and one from kazakhstan of providing material support to isis .
several of the men have pleaded guilty .
it is unclear whether mr. saipov was connected with that investigation .
question : will the fbi eventually reveal that saipov and kadirov were on their radar prior to the new york truck attack ?
only time will tell this latest act of terror in america may well prove to be similar in scope to many other known wolf cases in recent history , as readers might recall the alleged new york bombing suspect 28 year-old ahmad khan rahami , had been known to the fbi for years prior to supposedly carrying out plots in new york and new jersey in the fall of 2016.according to the washington post , the fbi had already known rahami since 2014 , which only added to the strongly suspicious event : the fbi s probe into ahmad khan rahami , the 28-year-old named as the only suspect in the bombings , was launched based on comments his father had made .
an official said his father later recanted his comments .
agents conducted interviews , checked with other agencies and looked at internal databases , none of which revealed ties to terrorism , the bureau said in a statement .
dark days the crime scene of the recent new york truck attack .
( image source : twitter ) hand in hand : terror & security question : is it possible the fbi or any intelligence agency played some part in the latest new york city attack plot whether inadvertently or otherwise ? in the search for answers regarding the investigative tactics of various intelligence agencies that have come into question , there s none perhaps more dubious than the fbi s newburgh sting operation that resulted in the entrapment four men who participated in a fabricated event created by the bureau.here s a 2011 passage from the guardian describing how a fbi informant named shahed hussain coerced four others into a fake terror plot : the newburgh four now languish in jail .
hussain does not .
for hussain was a fake .
in fact , hussain worked for the fbi as an informant trawling mosques in hope of picking up radicals.yet far from being active militants , the four men he attracted were impoverished individuals struggling with newburgh s grim epidemic of crack , drug crime and poverty .
one had mental issues so severe his apartment contained bottles of his own urine .
he also believed florida was a foreign country.hussain offered the men huge financial inducements to carry out the plot including $ 250,000 to one man and free holidays and expensive cars.as defence lawyers poured through the evidence , the newburgh four came to represent the most extreme form of a controversial fbi policy to use invented terrorist plots to lure targets .
there has been no case as egregious as this .
it is unique in the incentive the government provided .
a quarter million dollars ?
said professor karen greenberg , a terrorism expert at fordham university .
the reputation of the fbi has suffered greatly in the recent past as well as over the past couple of decades .
following the 1993 wtc bombing , the fbi was revealed to have been handling emad a. salem , a former egyptian army officer who was a prized undercover operative thrust into confidential informant status and person who played a key role in the bomb plot.question : will authorities reveal that siapov may have also had ties to informants or other known wolves ? here at 21wire , we ve kept a running report on known wolf actors involved in many attacks on western soil .
take a look below at an updated version that includes other suspicious intelligence informant and terror cases that have held that distinction over the years : tamerlan tsarnaev ( see his story here ) buford rogers ( see his story here ) jerad miller ( see his story here ) naji mansour ( see his story here ) quazi mohammad nafis ( see his story here ) mohamed osman mohamud ( see his story here ) timothy mcveigh ( see his story here ) salim benghalem ( see his story here ) michael adebolajo ( see his story here ) daba deng ( see his story here ) elton simpson ( see his story here ) man haron monis ( see his story here ) abu hamza ( see his story here ) haroon rashid aswat ( see his story here ) mark vicars ( see his story here ) glen rodgers ( see his story here ) omar mateen ( see his story here ) tashfeen malik ( see her story here ) djamel beghal ( see his story here ) anjem choudary ( see his story here ) cherif kouachi ( see his story here ) said kouachi ( see his story here ) amedy coulibaly ( see his story here ) hayat boumeddiene ( see her story here ) salah abdeslam ( see his story here ) michael zehaf-bibeau ( see his story here ) nidal malik hassan ( see his story here ) abdelhakim dekhar ( see his story here ) abdelhamid abaaoud ( see his story here ) samy amimour ( see his story here ) isma l omar mostefa ( see his story here ) mohamed lahouij bouhlel ( see his story here ) anis amri ( see his story here ) esteban santiago-ruiz ( see his story here ) abdulkadir masharipov ( see his story here ) khalid masood ( see his story here ) khuram butt ( see his story here ) youssef zaghba ( see his story here ) since 9/11 , the city of new york has dedicated a massive amount of resources to anti-terror training , with a police department larger than the standing armies of 84 countries .
it is a city that has done more than any other american city as far as terror readiness yet , it continues to be plagued by a series of plots and attacks over the last 16 years.following america s previous most deadly mass shooting in orlando were reports revealing that the fbi had a close relationship with the suspected attacker through the use of a well-known confidential informant .
similarly , recent reports state that fbi , court filings have revealed how the agency allowed an alleged home grown isis attack to take place in garland , texas .
21wire previously uncovered suspicious elements regarding the cartoon event in garland when the attack occurred.question : how is it that federal agencies continue to let known wolves slip through the cracks ? as we ve stated before , mass media injects their own formula for laying out a familiar series of polarizing political points in the aftermath of any tragic event .
appearing to purposefully redirect the public to look at a ready-made laundry list of hateful rhetoric , social media declarations and random writings as an ironclad motive for a crime .
the aftermath in the recent terror case of new york is no different , as it has already rapidly descended into a barrage of politically motivated theorizing.the story of a uzbekistan truck attacker also recalls the the suspicious terror case involving the turkish nightclub shooting at the start of the year on new year s eve.to unravel future cases , it s important to keep a watchful eye on any links to past plots 21wire associate editor shawn helton is a researcher and writer , specializing in forensic analysis of high-profile crime scene and counter terrorism investigations , and the deconstruction and analysis of the mass-media coverage surrounding those cases .
he has compiled an extensive body of work covering a number of high-profile events since 2012.read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport our work by subscribing and become a member @ 21wire.tv