vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis welcomed the poor , homeless and unemployed as guests of honor for a mass and gourmet meal in the vatican on sunday , saying that helping the needy was one way of obtaining a passport to paradise .
francis celebrated a mass marking the roman catholic church s first yearly world day of the poor , which the pope established to draw the attention of the world s 1.2 billion catholics to the neediest .
volunteers from charity organizations brought about 7,000 needy people to st peter s basilica for a special mass celebrated by the pope , who has made defense of the poor , immigrants and downtrodden a major plank of his papacy .
about 1,500 of them were having lunch with the pope in the vatican s large audience hall and others were being taken to eat as guests in nearby pontifical colleges .
most of the needy people were from rome and other parts of italy but charity groups also brought groups from france , spain , germany and poland .
if in the eyes of the world they ( the poor ) have little value , they are the ones who open to us the way to heaven ; they are our passport to paradise .
for us it is an evangelical duty to care for them ... , he said in his homily .
god will not ask us if we felt righteous indignation , but whether we did some good , he said , labeling indifference as a sin of omission .
the pope said this is when we say , that doesn t concern me ; it s not my business , it s society s problem .
it is when we turn away from a brother or sister in need , when we change channels as soon as a disturbing question comes up , when we grow indignant at evil but do nothing about it .
the menu for the poor was selected by sergio dussin , the same chef who prepares meals for visiting dignitaries at vatican conferences .
it consisted of dishes the poor can only dream of : mini gnocchi , fish with tomatoes , olives , venetian cheese , veal with vegetables and venetian-style tiramisu for dessert .
three days after his election in 2013 , francis said : oh , how i would like a poor church , and for the poor .
he since given up some of the trappings of the papacy , shunning the spacious papal apartments in the vatican s apostolic palace for a modest residence in a guest house .
he also has put aside the papal limousine and is driven around rome in a simple blue ford focus .