baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq s prime minister demanded on thursday that kurds declare their independence referendum void , rejecting the kurdish autonomous region s offer to suspend its independence push to resolve a crisis through talks .
we won t accept anything but its cancellation and the respect of the constitution , haider al-abadi said in a statement during a visit to tehran .
the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) proposed on wednesday an immediate ceasefire , a suspension of the referendum result and starting an open dialogue with the federal government based on the iraqi constitution .
the kurds have been swiftly making concessions to baghdad since last week , when abadi sent his forces to seize all kurdish-held territory outside of three autonomous provinces .
a startlingly rapid advance by government troops transformed the balance of power in northern iraq within a matter of days and has wrecked decades-old dreams of kurdish independence that had come to a head last month with a referendum on secession .
baghdad has always considered the kurdish secession referendum illegal .
abadi s visit to iran on thursday follows a trip to turkey on wednesday , a diplomatic offensive that has shored up support from iraq s neighbors for his hard line .
turkey s foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said on thursday the kurdish offer to suspend the push for independence was a step in the right direction but did not go far enough .
abadi has ordered his army to recapture all disputed territory and has demanded central control of iraq s border crossings with turkey , including the oil export pipeline hub at fish-khabur , located just inside the kurdish autonomous region .
a media assistant to kurdish leader masoud barzani said kurdish security forces , known as peshmerga , had repelled three attacks by iraqi forces , two in the direction of fish-khabur , and one in perde , on the road linking kirkuk to the krg capital erbil , destroying several tanks and armored vehicles .
iraqi authorities did not confirm this account of fighting .
both contested areas have important oil assets .
the fighting between the central government and the kurds is particularly tricky for the united states which is a close ally of both sides , arming and training both the kurds and the central government s army to fight islamic state .
iraq is one of the only countries in the world that is closely allied to both the united states and iran , and tehran has used the kurdish separatism bid as a way to drive a wedge between washington and baghdad .
iran s supreme leader , ayatollah ali khamenei told abadi in tehran that he should not rely on the united states in the fight against islamic state .
unity was the most important factor in your gains against terrorists and their supporters , khamenei said , according to state tv .
don t trust america ...
it will harm you in the future .
last week , abadi spurned a call from u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson to send home iranian-backed paramilitary fighters .
abadi s office called paramilitaries patriots .
the kurdish crisis has broken out even as iraq is about to finally defeat islamic state , also known as isil , isis or daesh , after a three-year war in which it received strong backing from a u.s.-led coalition , the kurds and iran .
iraqi forces launched an offensive on thursday to recapture the last patch of iraqi territory still in the hands of islamic state , on the border area with syria .
daesh members have to choose between death and surrender , abadi said in a statement announcing the offensive on region of al-qaim and rawa .
islamic state s self-declared cross-border caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , in a grueling battle which lasted nine months .
the militant group still holds parts of the syrian side of the border , but the area under its control has rapidly shrunk there too , with its de facto syrian capital falling to a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led force last week .
regular iraqi army units , sunni tribal forces and iranian-backed popular mobilisation are taking part in the offensive toward the syrian border , iraq s joint operations command said .