america s village idiot got her ass handed to her for applauding donald trump s effort to destroy our free press.when trump held his first press conference in six months on wednesday and used it to declare that cnn and buzzfeed are fake news sources that will suffer consequences under his tyrannical rule , palin crowed about it on facebook .
thank god really , literally thank god we re not facing a third obama term .
if you caught pe-trump s first presser today , you saw it , she began.palin went on to accuse the media of lying and even accused them of disrespecting our veterans before bragging about how trump is decimating the press.for one , when pe-trump takes on corrupt lying lapdog media it is vindication and validation for those without a microphone who ve been shot by reporters engaged in politics of personal destruction.these journalists bad characters that they are hurt our nation tremendously ; they disrespect those who fought and died to protect america s freedom of the press ; they spit upon the graves of our veterans .
we deem those reporters and their publications irrelevant now.hope in this arena soars upon seeing a fearless leader take on injustice.appreciation fills our heart when our new president exudes our collective red , white and blue courage in the face of purveyors of yellow journalism .
press members have worked as a herd of lost little lazy sheep .
the herd is now decimated.america s challenges can now be tackled with seriousness.the impossible burden of dealing with unethical mediums is off our shoulder and that s one less excuse leaders will have as we ask them to finally do the job we send them to do in washington.here s the full post via facebook.of course sarah palin would cheer on the persecution of the press , because answering questions is hard for her .
we re talking about a woman who couldn t even answer a simple question about what newspaper she reads .
apparently , she still blames the media for her inability to give a simple answer.but americans did not appreciate palin s attack on our free press and promptly humiliated her for it on twitter .
@ sarahpalinusa i can pee russia from your house !
i m president trump ( @ darthtaxevader ) january 11 , 2017 .
@ sarahpalinusa in fact , we are thanking god that you have not been appointed to any position in the new administration .
a silver lining .
john zimmer ( @ zimmerjohn ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa his two terms have come to an end .
and now we re faced with someone as stupid as you .
desiree ( @ dwatson904 ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa thank jesus , buddha , and sponge bob you didn t get into office dredstone ( @ davidredstone2 ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa remember in the bible when god said , and be sure to grab them by the pussy .
you aren t a christian ; you re a hypocrite .
trumpmares ( @ trumpmares ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa you re the worst .
don t you have some snowmobiling to do ?
my cuckabee ( @ mycuckabee ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa yep no obama 3rd term .
just a putin 1st term .
you are such a fake patriot .
you are dividing america .
put country over party davy ( @ realusapatriot2 ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa # obama and biden whipped your sorry ass obviously america wanted them more than your hillbilly style assandelephant ( @ assandelephant ) january 11 , 2017 @ sarahpalinusa u mad ?
you lost to obama hard , and are now a national monument to backwards gop ignorance and hypocrisy my cuckabee ( @ mycuckabee ) january 11 , 2017featured image via malia litman s blog