chicago ( reuters ) - a democratic plan to end illinois ’ crippling two-year budget stalemate is poised to be enacted by the state house of representatives on thursday , but the nearly 2,000-page package leaves gaping financial holes unresolved .
the fiscal 2018 budget plan , which has drawn both democratic and republican support in the legislature , does not guarantee funding for public schools to open on time next month .
the plan identifies only enough funding to pay down roughly a third of the state ’ s record $ 15 billion unpaid bill backlog .
in addition , no substantial progress was made to reduce illinois ’ paralyzing $ 130 billion unfunded pension liability .
the state ’ s pension contribution is set to consume more than $ 7.8 billion of the state ’ s $ 36 billion budget in the fiscal year that began july 1 .
illinois on thursday could end its dubious status as the only state to ever go multiple years without a full operating budget if the democratic-led legislative chamber overturns the vetoes from republican governor bruce rauner .
one of the bills increases the state ’ s personal income tax from 3.75 percent to 4.95 percent and corporate income tax from 5.25 percent to 7 percent .
moody ’ s investors service issued a warning on wednesday that even if the house follows identical senate action monday and overrides rauner ’ s vetoes , the nation ’ s fifth-largest state risks a credit rating downgrade to junk because of unaddressed fiscal woes .
moody ’ s said the budget plan falls short of adequately addressing pensions and the backlog of unpaid bills .
“ it ’ s not clear to me that they won ’ t quickly find themselves with a comparable backlog and more long-term bonded debt , ” said moody ’ s analyst ted hampton .
laurence msall , president of the civic federation , a chicago-based government finance watchdog , said the bill does not provide stability .
“ what rating agencies are pointing to , even with the tax increase if the general assembly overrides the governor and with the spending plan as approved , the state still has severe financial challenges going forward , ” he said .
drafters of the budget package inserted language that ties release of billions of dollars for k-12 education to enactment of a school-funding overhaul that rauner has called a “ bailout ” for chicago ’ s cash-strapped school system .
the house and senate have passed the funding revamp , but rauner has threatened to veto it .
if republicans and democrats do not reconcile their differences before the first state payment goes to schools in august , about a dozen financially struggling public school systems might not open for classes next month , said roger eddy , executive director of the illinois association of school boards .
“ we ’ re talking about children that are going to be affected by this stalemate at this point .
that is absolutely not an exaggeration .
this is real , and it ’ s going to happen , ” eddy told reuters .
the budget impasse also resulted in a halt of construction projects and illinois suspended sales of powerball and mega millions tickets .
in another key area—the state ’ s $ 14.7 billion backlog of unpaid bills—the plan authorizes only $ 6 billion of general obligation bonds , as well as $ 1.5 billion in borrowings and transfers from other state funds for that purpose .
sufficient money exists only to support $ 3 billion of $ 6 billion in authorized bonding , which in turn would generate $ 2 billion in federal matching medicaid dollars for unpaid bills .
the budget also purports to save $ 500 million from pension changes , although there were slim details on how those savings would be realized .
“ the pension reform in ( the legislation ) doesn ’ t look like it ’ s really revolutionary or will move the needle in any big way , ” hampton said .
( this story corrects fourth paragraph to indicate house will only undertake veto override votes )