jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu offered to play tour guide to christian pilgrims on sunday in a message relayed from jerusalem , whose recognition as israel s capital by u.s. president donald trump has split global christian opinion .
a christmas eve video on twitter showed netanyahu against the backdrop of east jerusalem , an area laden with jewish , christian and muslim shrines that israel captured in a 1967 war and which palestinians want as their own future capital .
in the message , titled merry christmas from jerusalem , the capital of israel !
he described israel as a haven for its 2 percent christian minority because , he said , we protect the rights of everyone to worship in the holy sites behind me .
netanyahu named several christian pilgrimage sites in israel - including the church of the holy sepulchre in east jerusalem s old city - which would take visitors in the footsteps of jesus and the origin of our judeo-christian heritage .
for those of you who come to israel , i m going to take a guided tour .
in fact , i ll be your guide on this guided tour , netanyahu said .
this would happen christmas next year he said , without going into the logistics .
trump s dec. 6 announcement on jerusalem reversed decades of u.s. policy on leaving the city s status to israeli-palestinian negotiation .
the move angered muslims and was rejected by most world powers .
u.s. evangelicals who see god s hand in the modern-day return of jews to a biblical homeland were buoyed .
but pope francis called for the status quo in the city to be respected , and several other christian denominations were opposed .
the international consensus strengthens our cause and imbues our people with steadfastness , palestinian prime minister rami al-hamdallah said at a ceremony in the occupied west bank city of bethlehem , traditional site of jesus birth .
east jerusalem , hamdallah said , is a palestinian , arab , muslim and christian city , and there will be no palestinian state without jerusalem as its capital , and without this there will be no peace in the region nor in the whole world .