shocking fact : one-fifth of the entire population of el salvador currently resides in america , according to the migration policy institute .
oh and trump s a racist for wanting to build a wall < sarcasm > ! an illegal alien from el salvador , mauricio morales-caceres , faces life in prison without parole after being convicted of stabbing acquaintance oscar navarro , father of two , at least 89 times with a 15-inch butcher knife and tearing out his liver with his bare hands but no comments on this shocking murder by a foreign national , who smiled cheerfully in his mugshot , are allowed , according to the washington post.illegal alien morales-caceres , 24 , started by stabbing navarro in the back before stabbing him in the face , then his head , and then his chest , according to prosecutors.standing before an image of the extremely gruesome murder scene , prosecutor douglas wink said morales-caceres sawed through his victim s body to tear out his liver and place it on his chest .
the defendant took the knife and sawed , he said .
this man reached in with his bare hands and took out his liver .
he probably thought it was his heart .
he ripped out his liver and left it on his chest for the police to see .
the washington post buried the fact that morales-caceresis is an illegal alien.nelson navarro , oscar s brother , said he has turned his attention to oscar s 12-year-old son and 8-year-old daughter .
they know their dad was killed , but so far the family had been able to spare them details of how he died .
during the trial , they came to the courthouse on one day but stayed in the prosecutor s offices .
their mother watched the trial in the courtroom.they also shut down the comments section , explaining : we turn off the comments on stories dealing with personal loss , tragedies or other sensitive topics .
the murder took place in december 2014 .
should morales-caceres ever get out of prison , every indication is that he would be deported to his native el salvador , the washington post reports in an aside .
prosecutors earlier said he entered the united states illegally .
and since his stay at the montgomery county jail , immigration officials have lodged a detainer on him , an indication they would move to have him deported at the end of a prison sentence .
if el salvador decides they won t take morales-caceres back , should he ever be released , the u.s. would likely turn him loose onto american streets thanks to the overreaching supreme court ruling , zadvydas v. davis ( 2001 ) .
as the center for immigration studies writes : in order to eliminate what it considered the constitutional threat of the potentially indefinite detention of deportable aliens , the court held that once removal is no longer reasonably foreseeable , continued detention is no longer authorized by statute .
the court then arbitrarily decided that six months was all that was necessary for determining an alien s deportability put simply , a reviewing court s definition of reasonably foreseeable now determines the release of deportable aliens back onto the streets.so , should morales-caceres be freed from prison before his life sentence concludes and el salvador refuses to welcome him back , it s only six months until he s free to haunt american neighborhoods once more .