the big question in all this corruption is why these people aren t in jail !
the collusion between cheryl mills and hillary clinton had to be there .
is there anyone out there who really believes that clinton isn t culpable in all this ?
this entire thing is sickening ! remember the accountability review board , appointed in the wake of the benghazi attack that killed four americans in september 2012 ?
the arb , headed by former ambassador thomas pickering , provided the first attempt at oversight over the state department s actions in benghazi and libya following the sacking of the american consulate .
pickering s probe didn t bother to interview state officials of higher rank , such as hillary clinton , and tried to lay the responsibility on low-level staffers instead.according to the new majority report from the house select committee on benghazi , that may not have been a coincidence .
the report accuses longtime hillary aide cheryl mills of undue influence over the arb , from the composition of the committee to access to information and witnesses , politico reports : cheryl mills , the longtime attorney , friend and former chief of staff for hillary clinton , influenced the findings of an internal state department review of the 2012 benghazi terrorist attack , according to a draft of the final house benghazi committee report.a section of the report obtained by politico says the so-called accountability review board did not act independently , as it was supposed to do , and was consistently influenced by mills .
mills , the report says , helped select members of the panel , gave at least one other state department official permission to talk to the reviewers , oversaw the production of some documents reviewed by the board and helped edit the final report .
the decisions to deviate from longstanding processes raise questions about the board s independence , thoroughness and therefore the fullness of their findings of accountability , the report reads .
recall pickering s response to bob schieffer three years ago , when asked about the arb s decision to skip interviewing higher-ranking officials , and his attempts to let kennedy off the hook .
we knew where the responsibility rested , he insisted .
i wonder who made that clear to him ?
hmmm :