brigitte macron is 24 years older than her husband .
she is 64-years old and is in great shape for a woman of her age .
as a female , who is younger than mrs. macron , i would be thrilled if the most powerful man in the world shook my hand and offered me a sincere compliment about what great shape i was in .
mrs. macron didn t likely wake up one morning and decide she wanted to be a stunning 64-year old woman .
she likely had to work at it .
being a 64-year old woman who is married to a charismatic 39-year old man , who is also the newly elected leader of france is probably not that easy .
she likely has a rigorous workout schedule , and if she is like most women , she appreciates it when someone notices how hard she works to stay in great shape .
it is possible that macron has simply been gifted with great genes and does nothing at all to stay in great shape , but either way , a compliment about her appearance was likely appreciated by the 64-year old stunner .
the daily mail ran a wildly popular article in may about brigitte macron titled : how does macron s wife defy her age ?
experts claim hair extensions , veneers , designer style and some very subtle cosmetic surgery keep brigitte trogneux , 64 , looking so youthfulhmmm we don t remember the outrage from the media over the daily mail article that explored every possibility that could explain macron s age-defying look , that ran just prior to france s election .
there will , of course , always be critics .
after all , the compliment didn t just come from any man , it came from the man who was not supposed to defeat the media s candidate , hillary clinton.many on social media have criticized the macron couple s difference in age .
macron s campaign was very aware that the age difference could be a turn off to some voters , as the media was quick to dispel any thoughts that brigitte was some sort of pedophile or cougar .
they shared the macron s unusual story of how emmanuel macron fell in love with his wife brigitte while she was his high school drama teacher .
they talked about how he pledged his love to her early on , promising he would come back some day and marry her .
( how quickly everyone forgets the criticism donald trump got on social media for marrying the much younger melania .
) in case the world hasn t noticed , president trump doesn t play the same game as other politicians .
he s genuine and honest .
he says what he feels and most importantly , he says what s in his heart .
he s not a career politician , and for that , most of us are grateful .
when president trump greeted brigitte macron for the first time , he shook her hand , looked her straight in the eye , and complimented her on how great she looked .
trump simply told her , you re in such great shape and then followed it up by telling her she was beautiful .
the media and those on the left went nuts .
it wasn t just individuals on social media and leftist journalists who attacked donald trump .
one major athletic apparel and accessory company took to twitter to mock our sitting president.for some reason , someone at reebok thought it would be a good idea to tweet a chart to president trump to let him know whether or not he should compliment the 64-year old macron .
when did reebok become the arbiter of free-speech ?
who , at reebok decided it would be a good idea to mock our president on social media ?
is reebok really such a powerful athletic wear company that they can afford to lose half of their customer base over a stupid tweet ?
in case you were wondering when it is appropriate to say , `` you 're in such good shape beautiful , '' this : pic.twitter.com/z1cnnrd8ut reebok ( @ reebok ) july 14 , 2017note to reebok : we don t care that president trump offended french liberals and leftist american journalists .
we don t care that he offended democrat lawmakers , who are constantly looking for a reason to discredit our president .
we care that president trump loves america , and that he wakes up every day thinking about how he ll continue to bring more jobs back to americans .
we admire him for his commitment to putting america first and for his dedication to keeping our nation safe .
we don t give a damn if you re offended over president trump s compliments to brigitte macron.the macron s spent several hours with the trump s , after president trump offered his sincere compliments to brigitte .
many of the photos taken after the first meeting with the macron s and trump s defy what the media would like you to believe about trump s relationship with the french president and his wife .
in fact , quite to the contrary , mr. and mrs. macron appeared to be enjoying their visit with america s first couple quite a bit .