subic , philippines ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump is no stranger to controversy and he has often come in for sharp criticism both at home and overseas , but in the town of subic in the philippines , he s a hero .
once home to one of the biggest u.s. naval facilities in the world , subic is a haven for retired servicemen who seem thrilled that trump is visiting the philippines , and convinced the divisive tycoon can do no wrong .
trump , i back him big time , said mike mccarthy , a former master chief with the u.s. 7th fleet , drinking in one of the american-themed bars that line subic s main street , with names like alaska , crazy horse and rolling stone .
they won t allow him to govern , but he s smarter than them , always a step ahead , he said of opponents of trump .
the u.s. president arrives in the capital manila on sunday for a summit of asian leaders , on the last leg of a tour that has taken him to japan , south korea , china and vietnam .
he s just doing things a different way , his tweeting , his strong words .
but where has he made a wrong call yet ?
said mccarthy .
a native of florida who has lived in subic for a decade , mccarthy said trump s respect for veterans meant he s a big hit with them and among the military .
if he asked me to come and meet him in manila , i d be there in a shot , he added .
trump is set to meet philippine president rodrigo duterte and will try to shore up relations strained by the mercurial duterte s notorious anti-u.s. sentiment and his enthusiasm for better ties with russia and china .
others who will be in manila for the summit meetings include chinese premier li keqiang , russian premier dmitry medvedev and leaders from japan , south korea , india , australia , new zealand and member-states of the association of southeast asian nations .
the philippines will deploy nearly 60,000 police and army personnel to provide security .
the philippines has for decades been a key u.s. defense ally and although the base was closed in 1992 , subic has since received a regular flow of retirees and visits by u.s. warships for repairs , resupply and exercises .
about 220,000 americans , many of them military veterans , live in the philippines .
an additional 650,000 visit each year , according to u.s. state department figures .
subic has maintained its american feel , with bars offering military discounts and restaurants serving anything from baby-back ribs , buffalo wings and steaks to burgers named shotgun and an omelette called the sheriff .
it has tattoo parlors , liquor stores with signs advertising bourbon whiskey and a harley davidson repair shop servicing the easy-rider motorcycles that have long been a fixture in the town of 100,000 people , about a three-hour drive north from manila .
veteran james goodman , 51 , has owned six bars during his 13 years in subic .
his latest venture , sit-n-bull , has bar games , live sports and rock music that competes with the lively chatter of tattoo-clad patrons in tank tops .
the walls are adorned with vehicle license plates from florida , ohio , california and nevada , next to a neon-lit usa sign in red , white and blue .
a guitar hangs next to a wood carving of a native indian and an american football playoff schedule offering hot dog promotions .
i m very glad donald trump is coming here , i believe he and president duterte will get along , said goodman , from new jersey .
he s for the american people ...
i look forward to his leadership , i look forward to his re-election .
i d love to meet trump , i d love to buy him a beer .
his business partner ronn oliver , 54 , who runs a nearby restaurant of the same name , says veterans appreciate trump and recognize his shrewdness .
he knows what he s doing , he shocks , but he sets up his opponents , he plays them , he knows what reaction he s gon na get , said oliver , a former serviceman and commercial fisherman from seattle , washington .
he needs to build more support , so people can catch up with what he s doing .
they ve got ta give him a couple of years to get into it .
christopher lamb , 48 , a fisherman who said he is from florida , says he shook trump s hand four decades ago .
wearing a baseball cap and white vest , he offers a few slurred words that show his pride in trump s rise to the presidency .
i met this man , he was nothing then , and now he s the most powerful man in the world , said lamb .
retiree mike allen , 66 , from ohio , has lived in subic for a year and recognizes he might be the lone dissenter when it comes to trump .
the military guys here , they love him , he said , with a shake of the head .
he says one thing one day and another thing the next .
he s isolating us and he loves white supremacists .
an american president can t be like that .