beirut ( reuters ) - russia s planned peace talks among syrian groups will only succeed if the opposition ends its fight against the government , a senior adviser to president bashar al-assad said on thursday .
the success of the congress depends on the various opposition groups realizing that the time has come to stop the violence , lay down their weapons and engage in a national dialogue , said bouthaina shaaban in comments to a russian news agency carried by syrian state media .
russian president vladimir putin met assad as well as the leaders of iran and turkey in the black sea resort of sochi this week in a diplomatic push to prepare for a congress between syria s government and opposition .
for years , western and arab countries backed the opposition demand that assad quit power , but since russia s 2015 entry into the war , his government has won back major cities and now looks militarily unassailable .
large parts of northwest and southwest syria remain in rebel hands as well as a pocket near damascus , and kurdish-led groups hold much of the northeast .
opposition groups who met in saudi arabia on wednesday will stick to their demand that assad leave power as part of any political transition , the saudi-owned al-arabiya channel reported .
but after the syrian army and its allies recaptured albu kamal , islamic state s last syrian town , putin said the military campaign in syria was winding down .
russia has not said when the syrian congress , also planned to take place in sochi , will take place or who will be invited .
the congress will involve drawing up a framework for the future structure of the syrian state , adopting a new constitution and holding elections under united nations supervision , putin said .
after their meeting on wednesday , putin , turkish president tayyip erdogan and iranian president hassan rouhani called on the syrian government and moderate opposition to participate constructively .
shaaban said the government is ready for dialogue with those who believe in a political solution , adding that the opposition s desire - or even ability - to engage in a real political operation has not yet been made clear .
syria s six-year-old civil war has killed hundreds of thousands , pushed millions to flee in the worst refugee crisis since world war two and embroiled regional and world powers .