tallinn ( reuters ) - european union states will this month debate increasing pressure on poland to uphold the rule of law , sources said , as the next stage in a process that could see its government formally denounced as anti-democratic .
the nationalist law and justice ( pis ) government in warsaw has pushed through reforms to the judiciary and media that critics within the eu say have weakened the democratic order .
pis rejects the criticism , accuses brussels of overstepping its mandate and says it has broad backing for its reforms within poland , a country of 38 million and formerly communist eastern europe s dominant economy .
after more than a year of growing pressure from the european commission , the executive on wednesday asked the bloc s 28 eu affairs ministers to discuss its concerns on sept. 25 , the day after national elections in germany .
the commission s deputy head frans timmermans will brief the ministers on his so far futile efforts to persuade warsaw to shift its position , the sources said .
german chancellor angela merkel has joined the growing chorus of those calling for firmer action on poland and discussed the matter with the commission s chief , jean-claude juncker .
should warsaw remain adamant , it eventually risks losing generous eu handouts if it continues to upset its wealthier peers that chip in for the funds , a debate gradually heating up in the bloc .
for now , the eu has limited firepower at its disposal .
but it could trigger article 7 proceedings under which it would ask the other 27 eu states to formally state that the rule of law was under threat in poland - an action unprecedented in eu history .
timmermans has set a clear red line by saying that article 7 would be opened should warsaw start to fire the country s supreme court judges under the judicial overhaul .
the dispute highlights warsaw s growing isolation in the eu since the eurosceptic pis won power there in 2015 , but also a growing east-west divide within the bloc .
launching article 7 would be a major embarrassment for poland , but its regional ally hungary - whose leader viktor orban also has a track record of crossing swords with brussels - has made clear it would block any sanctions against it under the punitive procedure .
in the west , increasingly frustrated with multiplying feuds with warsaw that also touch on migration and environmental issues , some express renewed doubts about the 2004 eu enlargement that added eight ex-communist countries to the bloc .
in poland , opposition parties sound alarm that pis is reneging on fundamental eu values and could eventually risk sabotaging poland s eu membership , which gave the country billions of euros and anchored it in the western world after decades of the moscow-imposed communism after world war two .
but pis has largely been successful in rallying its supporters around what it presents as standing up for poland s national interests against the eu dictate , just as orban has portrayed his own feuds with the bloc to his voters .
the more immediate effect is that warsaw is hemorrhaging political influence in the eu and has less capacity to shape the bloc s policies despite being the sixth largest state by population , and the fifth one after britain leaves .