washington ( reuters ) - the republican-led u.s. senate on tuesday ruled out taking action on any nominee put forth by president barack obama to the supreme court in a political power move intended to thwart his ability to change the court ’ s ideological balance .
majority leader mitch mcconnell said the senate will not hold hearings or vote on any nominee to replace long-serving conservative justice antonin scalia until after the next president takes office next january .
scalia died on feb. 13 .
mcconnell , a republican nemesis of obama during the president ’ s seven years in office , said he even would refuse the standard courtesy of meeting with whomever obama chooses .
under the u.s. constitution , the senate has the power to confirm or reject a president ’ s supreme court selection .
with the u.s. presidential election looming on nov. 8 , republicans were aiming to allow the next president to fill scalia ’ s vacancy , hoping a republican will be elected .
“ this nomination will be determined by whoever wins the presidency in the fall , ” mcconnell said , adding that the overwhelming view of senate republicans was that “ this vacancy should not be filled by this lame-duck president. ” obama ’ s nominee could tip the court to the left for the first time in decades .
scalia ’ s death left the court with four liberal and four conservatives .
not since the contentious nominations by republican presidents of robert bork in 1987 and clarence thomas in 1991 has there been such an intense fight over a supreme court vacancy - and obama has yet to announce his pick .
the white house and senate democrats condemned mcconnell ’ s stance .
senate democratic leader harry reid called it “ obstruction on steroids , ” adding : “ gone are the days of levelheadedness and compromise. ” mcconnell and other congressional republicans have sought to block numerous obama initiatives , including his signature healthcare law , the iran nuclear deal , immigration policy and efforts to battle climate change .
mcconnell invoked a past statement by obama ’ s vice president , joe biden , to help justify supreme court inaction .
mcconnell noted that biden , as senate judiciary committee chairman in 1992 , argued for postponing action on supreme court nominees during an election year .
biden has since said he was speaking hypothetically because there was no supreme court vacancy at the time .
mcconnell made his announcement after chairman chuck grassley and the other republican members of the judiciary committee sent him a letter saying the panel would not hold confirmation hearings .
grassley had previously left open the possibility of convening hearings .
alluding to the nov. 8 presidential election , republican senators told mcconnell in the letter they wanted “ to ensure the american people are not deprived of the opportunity to engage in a full and robust debate over the type of jurist they wish to decide some of the most critical issues of our time. ” if the senate does not consider a nominee until after a new president takes office , it would be unlikely that the supreme court would have its full complement of nine justices any sooner than early 2017 .
that would mean the court would be shorthanded for more than a year , hampering its ability to decide cases .
in cases that end in 4-4 rulings , lower-court decisions stand and no national precedent is set .
reid said the republican strategy was driven by the republican party ’ s right wing .
“ it ’ s what donald trump and ted cruz want , ” reid said , referring to two of the republican presidential candidates .
but reid said senate democrats would not become “ the obstruct caucus ” and block legislation such as appropriations bills in retaliation for the republican inaction .
white house spokesman josh earnest said blocking a hearing for obama ’ s nominee would be unprecedented and would “ subject the supreme court to the kind of politics that they ’ ve been insulated from for more than two centuries. ” “ since 1875 , a president ’ s nominee has never been denied a hearing unless that president later withdrew that nomination , ” earnest said .
in remarks on the senate floor , mcconnell said , “ presidents have a right to nominate , just as the senate has its constitutional right to provide or withhold consent .
in this case , the senate will withhold it. ” chuck schumer , a member of the senate democratic leadership , predicted that the republican position would crumble as voters put pressure on vulnerable republican senate incumbents seeking re-election to consider obama ’ s nominee .
“ it ’ s not just a risky strategy , it ’ s the wrong strategy and it ’ s going to fail , ” schumer said of the senate republicans .
but senator orrin hatch , a republican judiciary committee member , countered , “ i ’ m not concerned about that ( public pressure ) .
we ’ re standing for a principle that the next president ought to resolve this problem. ” democrats are badly outnumbered in the 100-member senate , falling far short of the 60 votes needed to advance controversial legislation much less a supreme court nomination .
counting the two independents who caucus with them , democrats control 46 seats , with the remaining 54 held by republicans .