amman/ankara ( reuters ) - a turkish army reconnaissance team scouted out syria s idlib province on sunday , a senior syrian rebel said , before an expected military operation to impose peace in the bitterly contested syrian northwest .
when we don t go to syria , syria comes to us , turkish president tayyip erdogan told members of his ruling ak party .
if we didn t take our measures , bombs would fall on our cities .
turkey says it will provide assistance to rebels it has long backed , aiming to implement a de-escalation agreement designed to reduce fighting with pro-government forces in the area , the most populous pocket of syria still in rebel hands .
although turkish officials say they are helping the rebels from within turkey , in past interventions they have also sent troops across the frontier .
any incursion could bring them into conflict with powerful jihadists from al qaeda s former syrian branch , although there were signs on sunday that they were working to avoid a confrontation .
local sources said the turkish military vehicles were escorted into idlib by a convoy of fighters from the group , which has joined a jihadist alliance called tahrir al-sham and disavowed links to the network founded by osama bin laden .
nonetheless , the jihadists and the turkish military earlier exchanged fire nearby , underscoring the tension as turkey builds up its forces and the rebel groups it backs prepare to enter idlib .
we will never allow a terror corridor that begins in afrin and goes to the mediterranean , erdogan said , referring to the stretch of turkey s southern border which is controlled on the syrian side by kurdish fighters and tahrir al-sham .
turkey has been one of the biggest supporters of rebels fighting syrian president bashar al-assad during the six-and-a-half-year war , but its focus has moved from ousting him to securing its own border against jihadist and kurdish groups .
prime minister binali yildirim stressed the importance of ensuring de-escalation near the border , following an agreement reached in astana , kazakhstan last month that was backed both by the turks and by russia , which supports assad .
we will ensure safety in idlib , and will cooperate with russia , yildirim said .
tahrir al-sham , spearheaded by the former nusra front , which was al qaeda s syrian branch until last year when it changed its name and broke allegiance to the global network , has been a formidable military force since early in the conflict .
since early this year it has battled other rebel groups as it tried to gain control over areas including idlib .
idlib and neighboring parts of northwest syria are now home to more than 2 million people , many of them refugees from other formerly rebel-held regions that fell to pro-government forces .
a local resident and another local rebel said they had seen turkish military vehicles enter idlib and then travel under tahrir al-sham escort along a road .
the senior syrian rebel said the reconnaissance team went to sheikh barakat , a location that overlooks both rebel-held areas of aleppo province , adjacent to idlib , and the kurdish-controlled area of afrin .
erdogan gave no details of the operation , but said it was going ahead without problems at the moment .
turkey s biggest security concern on the frontier is the kurdish ypg militia , which as part of a u.s.-backed alliance is fighting against islamic state in eastern syria .
ankara regards the ypg as an extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has fought a three-decade insurgency inside turkey .
mortars were fired from the area under ypg control near to the location where the turkish reconnaissance team was operating , the senior rebel said .
the turkish team is on its way back .
its mission has been accomplished .
they visited areas of disengagement and locations where the turkish army would be positioned , the rebel said .
reuters witnesses , local people , and the syrian observatory for human rights , a britain-based war monitor , said earlier on sunday the turkish military and tahrir al-sham had clashed near the village of kafr lusin in idlib .
tahrir al-sham began the exchange by firing on a turkish bulldozer removing sections of a border wall and turkish artillery returned fire , they said .
the area was later quiet .
rebel groups that will take part - drawn from the euphrates shield campaign that turkey backed with armor and troops in another part of syria to the east since last year - said on saturday they expected the idlib operation to start very soon .
tahrir al-sham said the lions of jihad and martyrdom will be waiting to pounce against any incursion into idlib .
the syrian civil defence , better known as the white helmets rescue workers , said on its twitter account that jets it believed to be from the syrian military had struck a marketplace in maarat al-numan in idlib on sunday , killing at least six .