erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - masoud barzani , who spent decades leading the long-oppressed kurds , confirmed on sunday he was stepping down as president of the kurdistan regional government after his drive for independence backfired .
after decades of struggle , critics say barzani made one of his biggest mistakes by pushing hard for a sept. 25 referendum .
kurds voted overwhelmingly for independence , but won little sympathy outside their region .
as well as the iraqi government , turkey and iran threatened to take tough action against any move towards secession , fearing it would encourage their own restive kurdish populations to follow suit .
the united states and other western powers joined the chorus of opposition to the vote .
the baghdad government rejected it as illegal and sent troops to seize the oil city of kirkuk , which the kurds regard as the heart of any future homeland .
in just a few hours , the city the kurds regard as sacred was gone , along with other kurdish-held territory across the north .
some accused barzani of having led his people to disaster .
for many years , he had used cunning and patience to help the kurds survive long years of brutality under saddam hussein .
after the u.s.-led invasion that toppled saddam in 2003 , barzani became a central figure in the drive to create an autonomous kurdish state in northern iraq .
kurdish leaders kept their territory relatively free of the sectarian bloodshed that plagued most of iraq .
western oil executives flocked to the region seeking deals .
kurds showed their military capability by joining iraqi government troops and iranian-backed paramilitary forces to drive islamic state militants out of mosul .
confident that the time was right for an independent homeland , barzani pursued the referendum .
it resulted in overwhelming support for secession .
but the joy was short-lived as iraqi government forces and shi ite paramilitaries shattered the kurds dreams with a series of lightning military advances .
barzani was born in 1946 , soon after his legendary father founded a party to fight for the rights of iraqi kurds .
deeply influenced by his father , mulla mustafa barzani , known as the lion of kurdistan , masoud barzani joined the kurdish guerrilla forces known as the peshmerga at the age of 16 and gained fighting experience in the mountains .
the younger barzani would become familiar with one of the popular themes in kurdish history - betrayal by regional and western powers .
exiled and dying of cancer in a washington hospital in 1976 , mulla mustafa lamented that he had ever trusted the united states .
a year earlier , mulla mustafa had been fighting a guerrilla war against baghdad backed by iran s pro-western shah , but he was left high and dry when then-u.s. secretary of state henry kissinger brokered a deal that allowed saddam to crush the kurds .
during the 1980-88 iran-iraq war , masoud barzani allied the kurdistan democratic party that he had inherited from his father with tehran once more .
it did not go well .
some 8,000 barzani tribesmen were rounded up and paraded through baghdad before being executed .
in saddam s words : they went to hell .
despite the massacres , and iraqi chemical attacks , barzani retained enough of a fighting force to respond to president george bush s appeal for an uprising during the 1991 gulf war .
taking bush at his word , the kurds rose up against saddam , and barzani and his peshmerga - known as those who face death - came down from the mountains to join the uprising and capture several cities in the north .
but the victorious allies balked at the prospect of a kurdish split from baghdad and did nothing to stop saddam s troops and helicopter gunships from crushing the rebellion .
while more than a million kurds fled to turkey and iran , many dying of hunger and exposure on the way , barzani stayed to fight on .
he was saved by a u.s. and british no-fly zone established over the north in 1991 which allowed him and his kurdish rival , jalal talabani , to retake the area .
this was followed by the longest period of kurdish autonomy in modern history , but it was scarred by civil war between barzani and talabani s patriotic union of kurdistan in the mid-1990s .
barzani invited iraqi government tanks into the region in 1996 to seize the regional capital erbil , sending not only talabani , but dozens of cia personnel and their local employees fleeing before them .
talabani died barely a week after last month s referendum .
barzani s exit will leave the kurds lacking direction , with their two main leaders gone .