a former it aide suspected of stealing equipment and data from congress still has an active , secret email account on the house computer system , even though he has been banned from the congressional network because of a criminal investigation into the alleged cybersecurity violations , the daily caller news foundation investigative group has learned.imran awan s still-active email address is linked to the name of a house staffer who specializes in intelligence and homeland security matters for indiana democratic rep. andr carson .
court documents and emails obtained by thedcnf show awan used the address 123 @ mail.house.gov in addition to his standard imran.awan @ mail.house.gov account.he and two of his pakistani-born brothers , as well as his wife , are at the center of an fbi investigation over their it work with dozens of democratic congressional offices .
authorities shut down awan s standard email account feb. 2 , and he was arrested by the fbi at dulles international airport trying to board a flight to his native pakistan on july 25.authorities apparently did not realize awan has a second account that is not linked to his identity .
while his main email address began rejecting mail after it was shut down , the 123 address was still accepting mail tuesday.mail sent via gmail fills in the name of the account-holder of 123 as nathan bennett , whose linkedin profile says his individual legislative portfolio covers national security and foreign affairs and includes work on the house permanent select committee on intelligence.the member bennett works for , andre carson is a member of both the house intelligence and house homeland security committees , and previously employed awan.carson is ranking member of the house intelligence subcommittee on emerging threats , which oversees the office of the director of national intelligence .
the subcommittee oversight extends to the national counterterrorism center and information-sharing programs .
for entire story : daily caller so who is us rep. andre carson , and why should we be concerned about the pakistani born muslim it aide hired by the former dnc chair debbie wasserman-schultz ?
andre carson is one of only two muslims serving in congress .
the other is rep. keith ellison , d-minn. , who became the first muslim elected to congress in 2006 .
andre carson has openly stated that american schools should be modeled after islamic madrassas .
america will never tap into educational innovation and ingenuity without looking at the model that we have in our madrassas , in our schools , where innovation is encouraged , where the foundation is the quran .
and that model that we are pushing in some of our schools meets the multiple needs of students .
watch at the 6:25 mark : shoebat- the next time the american people are told by a u.s. member of congress that they can t know something because it is classified or still under investigation , they should point their collective finger directly at one man andre carson .
the reason is that carson is not just one of the only two muslim members of congress ; he is now a member of the house permanent select committee on intelligence ( hpsci ) , appointed by house minority leader nancy pelosi ( d-ca ) .if ever there was a committee that has been able to hide behind the claim that it can t answer a question because that answer would reveal classified information , hpsci is such a committee.the problem isn t solely that carson is a muslim .
it s also that he s accepted contributions from the council on american-islamic relations ( cair ) and is tied to other muslim brotherhood front groups .
cair was an unindicted co-conspirator in the holy land foundation ( hlf ) trial , which actually represents an additional problem .
that problem is that it reveals another extremely fundamental flaw in the bill clinton strategy of treating acts of terrorism as criminal acts instead of as acts of war .