( reuters ) - a mississippi measure that would allow people with religious objections to deny wedding services to same-sex couples and provide wide protections for actions decried as discriminatory by gay rights advocates passed the state legislature on friday .
opponents plan a last-ditch attempt to stop the legislation on monday before it heads to mississippi republican governor phil bryant , whose spokesman said he would decide whether to sign or veto it after a thorough review .
bryant previously said he did not consider the bill discriminatory , according to wlox television in mississippi .
the fight comes after a u.s. supreme court ruling last year legalizing same-sex marriage .
in a wave of state-level legislation , social conservatives have pushed measures seen as harmful to lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender men and women .
a new law barring transgender people in north carolina from choosing bathrooms consistent with their gender identity has drawn wide protest , while the governors of georgia and virginia vetoed similar “ religious liberty ” bills this week .
representative andy gipson , a republican sponsor of the mississippi measure , urged his colleagues on friday not to be intimidated by national media criticism .
he highlighted a poll that showed wide support for the measure in the state .
“ it ’ s time that we stand up and do the work of the people and protect the freedoms that they enjoy , ” he said .
the bill includes provisions that go beyond same-sex marriages , according to the human rights campaign , a national gay rights advocacy group that has labeled the act appalling .
“ we urge governor bryant to do the right thing - reject discrimination , and veto this harmful measure when it reaches his desk , ” said hrc president chad griffin earlier this week .
the legislation would allow employers to cite religious conviction in determining workplace policies on dress code , grooming and bathroom and locker access .
foster parents would be protected in placing lesbian , gay or transgender children into controversial programs seeking to change their sexual orientation , said ben needham , director of hrc ’ s “ project one america ” to expand lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender rights in the u.s. south .
he said the legislation could also permit discrimination against single mothers , for example , by religious-affiliated organizations such as homeless shelters and food pantries .
additionally , state court clerks could seek to be recused from providing marriage licenses to same-sex couples .
some of mississippi ’ s large employers , such as nissan north america and mgm resorts international , have spoken out against legislation that would discriminate .