this story will fade quickly to back page news in the mainstream media .
two black officers supposedly physically abused a 16 year old black boy .
yawn if these police officers were white you d be seeing this story ad nauseum until those officers lives were threatened , they lost their jobs and were behind bars .
black lives matter terrorists and obama s race war czar , al sharpton wouldn t be satisfied until a city was burned to the ground , the entire police force was called out for being racists and someone ( preferably a white person ) in the police department was fired for not preventing this from happening .
ap two officers who police baltimore s public schools walked out of jail wednesday pending trial for assault and misconduct after their violent confrontation with a student was recorded by another teenager.both have checkered records , prompting parents and authorities alike to question whether enough is being done to prevent violent people from being hired to keep schoolchildren peaceful and safe.here s the assault caught on tape : https : //youtu.be/zzpx_bzka40police said wednesday that saverna bias allegedly told her fellow officer , anthony spence , to use force against the teen.according to a witness , she said , you need to smack him because he s got too much mouth , police said .
the video shows spence shouting profanities as he repeatedly slaps and kicks the boy , telling him to leave the school and go home.spence was not trying to arrest the 10th grader , neither was he acting in reasonable self-defense , city police said.in the cellphone video , spence is heard shouting while he repeatedly slaps the 16-year-old student and kicks him at reach partnership school , while bias looks on.spence s attorney mike davey told the baltimore sun on thursday that his client believed the 16-year-old and his friend was trespassing on school grounds .
both said they were students at reach , but davey said they were not wearing uniforms and could not provide the principal s name when questioned.the 16-year-old was later confirmed as a student at reach , his attorney told the newspaper .
buzzfeedat a packed school board meeting tuesday night , some parents and principals implored officials to keep officers in the schools for everyone s safety .
students and their advocates countered that having armed police with insufficient oversight in schools can be damaging and dangerous.tim martin , an administrator at the new hope academy , said he understands the frustration , but believes most officers show enough patience to therapeutically de-escalate students in crisis and help school personnel maintain a safe school environment .
spence , 44 , and bias , 53 , turned themselves in tuesday night and were released on bond on charges of second-degree assault and misconduct in office .
spence also is charged with second-degree child abuse .
both officers have been suspended , and spence is being denied pay , since he faces a felony.baltimore school police chief marshall goodwin , whose department is separate from the city s police force , also went on leave , for personal reasons , as the video began circulating a day after the march 1 confrontation .
a week later , as city police and prosecutors continue investigating , baltimore city schools ceo gregory thornton has refused to explain his absence .