kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian police recaptured the former president of georgia mikheil saakashvili on friday , prompting further protests in central kiev by his supporters who freed him from police custody earlier this week .
the development is the latest twist in a long feud between ukrainian authorities and saakashvili , who has turned on his one-time patron president petro poroshenko , accusing him of corruption and calling for his removal from office .
general prosecutor yuriy lutsenko , who says saakashvili is suspected of assisting a criminal organization , said the opposition leader had been detained by police and was in a temporary detention facility .
as promised , security officers did everything to avoid extreme violence and bloodshed , he said in a post on facebook .
saakashvili s recapture follows a surreal game of hide-and-seek that saw him clamber on a roof to avoid law enforcement , before being broken out of a police van by protesters amid clashes with hundreds of riot police on tuesday .
ally and fellow georgian , davit sakvarelidze , who was fired in march from his post as a senior prosecutor for ukraine , called on kiev residents to take to the streets to protest saakashvili s recapture .
today poroshenko broke all records and went down in history as a dictator who does this to political opponents , he told channel newsone near the detention centre in central kiev .
as of 2200 gmt , a few hundred protesters had gathered near the facility not far from the parliament , shouting shame !
and kiev , get up !
while a large number of police in riot gear stood guard .
saakashvili became a regional governor in ukraine in 2015 at poroshenko s invitation but they later fell out .
saakashvili denies the allegations against him .
the saga threatens to embarrass the pro-western authorities at a time when they face a chorus of criticism from reformers and foreign donors over perceived backtracking on reforms and attacks on anti-corruption institutions .
on friday , poroshenko said the case against saakashvili was legitimate and that he should cooperate with investigators .
if he flees from the investigation , this undermines his credibility , he said .
after escaping police custody , saakashvili called for a rally against poroshenko in kiev to be held on sunday , although he has kept a low profile in recent days after reportedly catching a cold while sleeping in makeshift protest camp outside parliament .
the politician s latest detention followed a failed attempt by police to recapture him in a raid on the camp on wednesday , which led to violent clashes with protesters .
while saakashvili has a core base of supporters , he enjoys limited support across ukraine .
only 1.7 percent of voters would support his party , the movement of new forces , in elections , according to an october survey by the kiev-based razumkov centre think-tank .
his backers see him as a fearless crusader against corruption but critics have said that there is little substance behind his rhetoric .