seoul ( reuters ) - wearing a pink korean dress and flashing a wide smile , television presenter ri chun hee delivered the news of pyongyang s sixth nuclear test with her usual gusto .
using her trademark bombastic delivery , ri announced on state television on sunday the hydrogen bomb test was a perfect success !
and a key step in completing the state nuclear force .
the 74-year-old grandmother is considered a national hero who first took to the airwaves in 1971 , leaving a career in acting for the broadcaster korean central television ( kctv ) ri s dramatic flare set her apart from other announcers - whether she was angrily denouncing the west or boasting of the regime s achievements and the strength of its leaders .
she s the perfect person to voice north korea s hard-line stance , said ahn chan-il , a high-ranking north korean defector who now lives in south korea .
there is no one else who has that power in her voice as she does .
it s just right for talking about nuclear weapons or missiles , ahn said .
ri , who usually wears a traditional korean dress known as a hanbok , has also shown a softer side .
she famously wept on air when announcing north korea s founder kim il sung s death in 1994 .
when his son kim jong il died in 2011 , it was ri - clad in black funeral clothes and her voice trembling - who delivered the news to north koreans .
despite officially retiring in 2012 , ri has been brought back for major announcements .
sunday s broadcast underscored her longevity at a time when current leader kim jong un has purged some party and military officials from his father s era .
outside north korea , the pink lady is a familiar face of the regime during the latest tensions over pyongyang s weapons programs .
i know that if something happens , she will talk , said tokyo resident masashi sakota .
matt walker , a credit manager in sydney , said ri was very expressive and excited on the news item he watched this week .
i don t know how you can get excited about bombs going off .
it just seems very odd , he said .
in a rare 2012 interview with china s state-run cctv , ri said she wanted to help train the next generation of north korean broadcasters , who she said were younger and better suited for today s television audience .
she said she saved her gentler side for the north korean public .
when we read to people in the dprk , you shouldn t shout but speak gently to viewers , ri said .
( this version of the story corrects order of name in paragraph 13 to masashi sakota )