new york ( reuters ) - new york governor andrew cuomo on monday signed into law a minimum wage increase that takes a two-tier approach , setting a higher $ 15 per hour minimum for new york city and its environs and a lower legal minimum for less-costly areas .
cuomo held a rally celebrating the event with hilary clinton , who is campaigning for the democratic presidential nomination in her home state before its april 19 primary .
democrats have rallied behind the $ 15 minimum wage ahead of the presidential election in november .
“ this new economy is not a fair economy for the middle class and the working families of this country , ” cuomo said at the signing in a new york city convention center .
“ they feel that the american dream is slipping away. ” states and cities have moved to surpass the federal minimum wage , which has remained at $ 7.25 an hour since 2009 .
california governor jerry brown on monday also signed into law a plan to raise the minimum wage from $ 10 to $ 15 an hour by the year 2023 , making the nation ’ s most-populous state among the first to boost pay to that level for the working poor .
clinton ’ s democratic opponent for the nomination , u.s .
senator bernie sanders , issued a statement from the campaign trail in wisconsin praising both new york and california for pushing through the legislation .
in new york , the minimum wage rises to $ 15 per hour from its current $ 9 by the end of 2018 for most businesses in new york city .
commuter counties of nassau , suffolk and westchester will reach $ 15 by the end of 2021 , while the rest of the state will reach $ 12.50 by the end of 2020 .
the two-tier approach was a compromise deal reached with the state ’ s republican lawmakers , who said an increase to $ 15 in the poorer upstate areas in the north of the state would be unfair to business owners .
after 2020 the $ 12.50 minimum wage upstate has the potential to rise by an amount determined by the state labor commissioner and the director of the budget .
any increase would be indexed to inflation and wage growth .
new york ’ s law also carves out a slow-lane for new york city business with up to 10 employees , giving them four years instead of three to implement $ 15 per hour .
the law also contains a “ safety valve. ” from 2019 , state budget officials will look at the effects of the wage increases on regional economies and determine whether they should continue or be suspended .
in addition to the minimum wage law , cuomo also signed a bill granting 12-week paid family leave that will phase in by 2021 .