sooo when terrorists attack je suis charlie , a french newspaper ( who makes a living mocking religion ) and kills innocent people working for the publication , the world stands tall in support of free speech .
when an american hosts a draw muhammed contest in texas and two terrorists ( who were plotting to kill innocent americans ) are killed just before their plot to kill innocent americans exercising their free speech rights , the organizer and attendants are criticized for inciting and even inviting violence .
can someone explain how this is not hypocrisy ? in truth perhaps i was not charlie .
after all , i wasn t a religion-attacking atheist .
truth to tell , in the story of charlie hebdo , many left out that the cartoon magazine was something that we might call a liberal rag .
it was often offensive and frequently unfunny with attacks on religion , and it didn t limit its criticism to islam , actually attacking christianity more .
some even believed it anti-semitic .
deliberately , purposely provocative.and yet , even though i was none of those things , i was charlie .
not because i agreed with any of it .
but precisely because i didn t. because even the provocative offensive speech by assholes , to paraphrase jeffrey goldberg of the atlantic , is protected .
especially the provocative speech , the minority speech , that which offends , that which many may not like .
because the government doesn t have the right to shut down offensive speech for being offensive and neither do terrorists with ak-47s .
you do not have the right to kill over a cartoon.much of the world seemed to agree , leaders linking arms in paris , being charlie .
media in the u.s was also generally sympathetic , many pieces running je suis charlie in headers.yet here we are today , a few months later .
a similar situation , where americans exercise their first amendment right to draw offensive cartoons of muhammad .
yet where are the crowds of media saying je suis garland ?
where are the crowds of media condemning the attack on free speech ?
where are the crowds of media , highlighting even just the fact that this was immediately apparent isis-endorsed attack on the united states ? watch fox news martha maccallum attack event organizer pamela gellar for organizing an event that may have been controversial : https : //youtu.be/mnmrfsg8i2sinstead , what we have is some , like ny times reporter rukmini callamachi and even mcclatchy news , in scary fashion , asking when is provocative speech too much and attacking the people who held the event in garland , more than calling out the terrorists.mcclatchy even discusses whether charges should be brought against the organizers of the garland event.so why the difference here for media ?
because the group was one they didn t like in a state for which they didn t care with a better result than paris because of , well , guns ? and where has the federal government s response been to an isis-claimed attack on american soil ?
president obama hasn t even mentioned it .
the press secretary made a fairly perfunctory comment about violence not being the proper response to expression even if offensive .
one might have thought he was speaking of a video , rather than an islamist terror attack on the united states .
again , no mention of isis , islamists or terrorism .
meanwhile the president has managed to go on letterman , to golf and to attend democratic fundraisers.in the words of mr. goldberg , who gets to define what is provocative ? i don t know if i would agree with everything mr. goldberg writes , but i would defend his right to say it , even if he were provocative .
vox calls the garland event hate speech .
i think much of what vox says is hate speech .
who gets to decide ?
i have multiple options to object to the content by protest and by pen , that is the benefit of being an american .
as mr. goldberg notes , iran has a holocaust cartoon contest every year , basically catering to holocaust deniers .
are they attacked ?
no , they are laughed at , they are belittled.either we are all in or we are not .
either we believe in what we say we do , or we do not .
but if we do not , if we allow offense or political difference to limit that protected speech , if we start to suggest as some of these writers do , what speech should or should not be allowed , we move down the slippery slope to the rule of the mob , to the rule of the despot .
in an ever-growing media state , where already , even the slightest offense is often seized on and may result in the prevailing view hounding a person from his/her job for differing , this is a frightening thought.via : weasel zippers