washington ( reuters ) - the white house has received an updated proposal from the pentagon to close the guantanamo prison for foreign terrorism suspects , and is in the “ final stages ” of reviewing it before releasing it to congress , an administration official said on friday .
the administration has been trying for years to make good on a pledge obama made at the beginning of his presidency in 2009 to close down the military prison at guantanamo bay , cuba , but has faced stiff political opposition .
its latest plan , which includes a recommendation that prisoners who can not be prosecuted or transferred to other countries be sent to a u.s.-based prison , has been delayed for several months .
obama told the pentagon to reduce the cost in its latest draft , which is now at the white house .
“ the president ’ s national security team is in the final stages of reviewing the proposal recently submitted by the pentagon , ” said the senior administration official .
the white house declined to say when the plan would be released .
lawmakers , especially republican senator john mccain of arizona , have been calling for the plan for some time .
the prison was opened in 2002 by obama ’ s predecessor , george w. bush , to house foreign terrorism suspects but quickly drew international criticism from human rights activists and many foreign governments .
there are 93 prisoners still housed there .
republicans and some democrats in congress largely oppose proposals to move any of the prisoners to u.s. soil , an option currently prohibited by law .
u.s. defense secretary ash carter said on thursday he had proposed to obama bringing some detainees to a secure location in the united states , adding congress had indicated a willingness to consider such a proposal .
senator kelly ayotte , an ally of mccain ’ s , said the administration ’ s plan should involve keeping the prison open .
“ if the obama administration were to move guantanamo detainees to the united states , that would ignore the will of the majority of americans , make all of our citizens less safe , and represent a blatant and serious violation of the plain language of the law , ” she said in a statement .
the plan was not filled with surprises and would be presented to congress and the public when it was ready , white house spokesman josh earnest told reporters .
echoing an argument the administration has made frequently , he said it cost $ 4 million a year per prisoner to keep the prison open .
the white house believes closing it would reduce costs and take away a recruiting tool for militant islamist groups overseas .