yaounde ( reuters ) - an improvised bomb wounded three policemen in the main city of cameroon s minority english-speaking region on thursday , the regional governor said , in an attack a senior security source blamed on separatist militants .
speaking on state tv , adolphe lele lafrique , governor of the north west region , referred to a terrorist attack in the city of bamenda , in the western part of the country .
a senior security source told reuters by telephone the attack was the work of extremists who want independence for the anglophone part of mostly french-speaking cameroon .
if true , it would represent a dangerous escalation of a conflict that had thus far pitted only unarmed demonstrators against the security forces .
the security source said the separatists had also launched other attacks in the past three weeks , including burning down several schools .
today , police working in the service of the nation were targeted in a terrorist attack , lafrique said .
this is a new stage in the situation we have been dealing with up until now .
cameroonians in the english-speaking west of the country have over the past year sporadically protested against what they describe as discrimination by the overwhelmingly francophone government of president paul biya .
a small minority want an independent state , which they call ambazonia .
they have their own flag and a banned tv station , but none had yet been implicated in militant attacks .
in response to protests , security forces last year shot dead six protesters , arrested hundreds and charged their leaders with crimes , some of which carry the death penalty .
authorities also unplugged the region s internet for three months .
[ l8n1fy27s ] biya this month ordered a military court to drop its prosecution against several of the detainees , but his apparent gesture of reconciliation did little to calm tensions .
days later , anglophone cameroonians boarded up their shops , stayed home from work and boycotted the start of the school term .
the linguistic division harks back to the end of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun , in central africa , between allied victors , leaving most of cameroon french-administered but a small part run by britain .