washington ( reuters ) - thousands of demonstrators are expected to turn out in washington next week for protests aiming to “ shut down ” the inauguration of donald trump as the next u.s. president , organizers said on thursday .
protesters will attempt to close down 12 security checkpoints at the u.s. capitol , where trump will take the oath of office on jan. 20 , and along the 2.5-mile ( 4-km ) parade route down pennsylvania avenue , according to leaders of a group called disruptj20 .
“ we want to shut down the inauguration , ” organizer david thurston told a news conference .
“ we want to see a seething rebellion develop in this city and across the country. ” a representative of the trump transition team could not be immediately reached for comment , nor could a spokesman for the district of columbia police .
after a deeply polarizing campaign , trump ’ s surprise victory in the nov. 8 election has inflamed passions across the political spectrum .
the republican president-elect ’ s supporters embrace his brash , no-nonsense style and image as an astute problem-solver .
his detractors are dismayed by what they see as an authoritarian bent and an array of provocative policy pronouncements .
disruptj20 , which is working with black lives matter and other protest groups , said it also planned predawn blockades and disruptive demonstrations during inaugural balls in the evening .
some 300 disruptj20 volunteers will work to mobilize demonstrators for a series of protests the group has dubbed the “ festival of resistance. ” “ we are not in favor of a peaceful transition of power , and we need to stop it , ” organizer legba carrefour said .
the group has three protest permits and “ promises other surprises , ” said spokeswoman samantha miller .
all told , 27 protest groups have been granted permits , more than four times the average number for past inaugurations , according to the national park service .
the women ’ s march , on the day after the inauguration , is expected to attract 200,000 people , said the park service , which issues permits .
the inauguration is expected to draw 800,000 spectators , according to officials .
that compares with some 1.8 million attending barack obama ’ s 2009 inauguration as america ’ s first black president , one of the largest crowds ever to gather in the u.s. capital for such an event .
protest organizers said they were concerned with the potential for violent clashes with trump supporters .
“ we are definitely worried about our safety , so we ’ ll be training to help keep people safe , ” miller said .
the group will have to navigate tight security provided by three dozen law enforcement agencies , including the capitol police , fbi , secret service , national park service and national guard .
security will include more than 3,200 police officers from departments across the country , 8,000 members of the national guard and an additional 5,000 active-duty military members .
security costs have exceeded $ 100 million , officials said .
last week , interim d.c. police chief peter newsham told reporters that authorities were ready for any attempt to disrupt the festivities .
“ the fact that you have some folks that are indicating on social media that they ’ re coming to shut down the inauguration events is something that we will be prepared for , ” newsham said .