donald trump spent his week on twitter blasting mika brzezinski and joe scarborough , hosts of msnbc s morning joe .
rather than focus on something important , like the fact that his party is trying to kick millions of people off of their health care and leave them to die , he would rather spout off about the host of a cable news show bleeding badly from a facelift .
i heard poorly rated @ morning_joe speaks badly of me ( don t watch anymore ) .
then how come low i.q .
crazy mika , along with psycho joe , came .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017 to mar-a-lago 3 nights in a row around new year s eve , and insisted on joining me .
she was bleeding badly from a face-lift .
i said no !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 29 , 2017he continued his attack , tweeting about morning joe being low-rated fake news .
refusing to let it drop , he attacked again on saturday , writing that scarborough is crazy and brzezinski is as dumb as a rock .
watched low rated @ morning_joe for first time in long time .
fake news .
he called me to stop a national enquirer article .
i said no !
bad show donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 30 , 2017crazy joe scarborough and dumb as a rock mika are not bad people , but their low rated show is dominated by their nbc bosses .
too bad !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 1 , 2017but msnbc producer jesse rodriguez decided to set the record straight and remind trump that morning joes is currently experiencing record high ratings .
apparently , our tweeter-in-chief missed the memo that the show had msnbc s highest rating ever in the time period in the key demographic last quarter.just a reminder about the @ morning_joe ratings https : //t.co/n6gth99siw jesse rodriguez ( @ jesserodriguez ) july 1 , 2017thanks to our viewers : morning joe had msnbc s highest rating ever in the time period in the key demographic last quarter .
pic.twitter.com/hl2j1scibv jesse rodriguez ( @ jesserodriguez ) june 27 , 2017ironically , trump s own ratings have been sinking lower by the day .
maybe instead of attacking women on twitter because he thinks are mean to him on tv , he should focus on doing his job and maybe try to not embarrass himself , the office of the presidency , and our entire country on a daily basis .
just a thought.featured image via getty/olivier douliery