washington ( reuters ) - baltimore library chief carla hayden , a defender of library users ’ freedom from surveillance , was nominated by president barack obama on wednesday to be librarian of congress , the first african-american and first woman in the post .
hayden , who since 1993 has served as chief executive of the enoch pratt free library , baltimore ’ s public library system , is renowned for modernizing libraries so that users can take part in the digital culture , obama said in a statement .
“ she has the proven experience , dedication and deep knowledge of our nation ’ s libraries to serve our country well , ” obama said in a statement .
hayden would replace acting librarian david mao , who stepped in after james billington retired in october after 28 years running the world ’ s largest library .
if confirmed by congress , hayden would be the 14th librarian of congress .
american library association president sari felman praised the nomination , saying in a statement : “ the president could not have made a better choice. ” as president of the american library association in 2003 to 2004 , hayden publicly opposed part of the patriot act , controversial legislation aimed at fighting extremism after the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks .
she objected in particular to a section of the act that gave the u.s. justice department and the federal bureau of investigation the power to access library user records .
when then-attorney general john ashcroft said that the library association had been misled into opposing that part of the law , hayden said the group was “ deeply concerned that the attorney general should be so openly contemptuous ” of librarians , the library journal reported .
after the criticism from hayden , ashcroft dropped his refusal to make public any information about the use of that section and said it had not been employed to get access to library records , the journal said .
hayden is the former chief librarian of the chicago public library , and was an assistant professor for library science at the university of pittsburgh .
obama named her to the national museum and library services board in 2010 .
the library of congress is the u.s. ’ oldest federal institution and has more than 158 million items .
they include 36 million books and other print materials in 460 languages .
congress established the library in 1800 , but british troops burned the collection in 1814 .
president thomas jefferson offered his personal library of 6,500 books as a replacement and it is the foundation of the current collection .