supporters of the rule of law crashed a pro-illegal rally on august 4 , 2017 at san bernardino city hall .
this was a reaction to san bernardino getting a letter from jeff sessions threatening to withhold their federal funds .
using the left s tactics on them is pretty great : did you listen to the rhetoric coming from the speakers who were pushing open borders ?
shame on them for using religion to break the law !
the seiu has been called obama s purple army so they bussed in protesters for the protest they are usually paid to attend protests .
they are more like obama s useful idiots because they lose if more illegals come to take their jobs.the press enterprise reported : attorney general jeff sessions announcement that san bernardino would not be eligible for crime-reduction funding spurred a demonstration outside san bernardino city hall on friday , aug. 4.on thursday , aug. 3 , sessions sent letters to four cities struggling with gun violence , including san bernardino , telling them they would not be eligible for a program that provides money to combat drug trafficking and gang crime unless they confirm their cooperation with immigration officials.the letter asks if correctional and detention facilities will honor a written request from the department of homeland security to hold a foreign national for up to 48 hours beyond the scheduled release date.in san bernardino , that s up to the san bernardino county sheriff s department , not the city .
regardless , the sheriff s department , in a statement , said it can t comply because it would be unconstitutional .
san bernardino is not going to be bullied , said kesha mcgee , a lead organizer with inland congregations united for change , at the planned demonstration.mcgee said the interfaith group wanted to show support for the san bernardino immigrant community .
we are a community of unity , she said .
we all deserve to be here .
religious leaders from tinland congregations united for change and immigrant rights activists from the inland area planned the friday press conference outside city hall to condemn sessions announcement .
assemblywoman eloise reyes , d-san bernardino , was at the event .