riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia has invited u.s. firms to take part in developing its civilian nuclear power program , energy minister khalid al-falih said on monday , adding the kingdom was not interested in diverting nuclear technology to military use .
reuters has reported that westinghouse is in talks with other u.s.-based companies to form a consortium for a multi-billion-dollar project to build two reactors and that those firms are pushing washington to restart talks with riyadh on a civil nuclear cooperation pact .
falih said saudi arabia was committed to restricting nuclear technology to civilian use .
not only are we not interested in any way to diverting nuclear technology to military use , we are very active in non-proliferation by others , he said at a joint news conference with u.s. energy secretary rick perry .
kacare , the king abdullah city for atomic and renewable energy , is the saudi government agency tasked with the nuclear plans .
it said last month on its website that it was in talks with toshiba-owned westinghouse and france s edf .
we hope that the two paths will converge - the commercial , technical discussions between kacare and the american companies , while we work with our counterparts on the american side to address the regulatory and policy issues , falih said .
perry , who is on his first official visit to saudi arabia and will go on to the united arab emirates and qatar this week , said it was a bit premature to comment on the negotiations .
we are in the early stages of it but i think we both are working from the position of getting to yes , he said .
washington usually requires a country to sign a peaceful nuclear cooperation pact - known as a 123 agreement - that blocks steps in fuel production with potential bomb-making uses .
in previous talks , saudi arabia has refused to sign up to any agreement that would deprive it of the possibility of one day enriching uranium .
the world s top oil exporter says it wants nuclear power to diversify its energy mix allowing it to export more crude rather than burning it to generate electricity .
it has not yet acquired nuclear power or enrichment technology .
reactors need uranium enriched to around 5 percent purity but the same technology in this process can also be used to enrich the heavy metal to a higher , weapons-grade level .
this has been at the heart of western and regional concerns over the nuclear work of iran , saudi arabia s arch-rival which enriches uranium domestically .
riyadh has said it wants to tap its own uranium resources for self-sufficiency in producing nuclear fuel .
the kingdom sent a request for information to nuclear reactor suppliers in october , and plans to award the first construction contract in 2018 .
its nuclear plans have gained momentum as part of a reform plan led by crown prince mohammed bin salman to reduce the economy s dependence on oil .
riyadh wants eventually to install up to 17.6 gigawatts of atomic capacity by 2032 - or up to 17 reactors .
this is a promising prospect for the struggling global nuclear industry and the united states is expected to face competition from south korea , russia , france and china for the initial tender .