new york ( reuters ) - the political alliance sealed on friday between republican presidential candidate donald trump and new jersey governor chris christie was more than a decade in the making , the culmination of the two men ’ s repeatedly crossing paths .
christie , a former rival for the republican nomination for president , endorsed trump at a surprise news conference in fort worth , texas , giving the front-runner a lift ahead of the march 1 super tuesday nominating contests .
christie , a former federal prosecutor , told reporters his endorsement was not part of any deal that would land him a position , such as u.s. attorney general , in a possible trump administration .
trump , 69 , and christie , 53 , have been friendly dinner companions and have operated professionally in the same state .
christie has been one of new jersey ’ s top political figures since 2001 and trump has been a major employer and real-estate developer in the state beginning in the 1980s when he began to run casinos in atlantic city , the new jersey seaside resort that had fallen on hard times and was being remade as a sort of las vegas of the east coast .
the close geographic ties differentiate christie from politicians who operate farther from trump ’ s base in new york city , said ben dworkin , director of the rebovich institute for new jersey politics at rider university .
“ they were bound to cross paths and come to know each other , ” dworkin said .
trump sat in the front pew at a catholic mass celebrating christie ’ s swearing-in for his first term as new jersey ’ s governor in january 2010 .
“ he ’ s going to be a great governor , which new jersey could use .
he will go down as the best governor there is , ” trump told reporters , according to the press of atlantic city .
trump ’ s sister , maryanne trump barry , a federal appeals court judge , introduced the two in 2002 , according to the record of bergen county .
christie was named the state ’ s chief federal prosecutor in 2001 by president george w. bush .
the trumps and the christies have often had dinner together , where trump would do all the talking , according to “ american governor , ” a christie biography written by matt katz and published in january .
christie attended trump ’ s 2005 wedding , to his current wife , melania , where christie met bill and hillary clinton , according to the book .
the christie-trump relationship , “ if anything , would be socializing with big important people .
they ’ re both collectors , ” said rutgers university senior policy fellow marc pfeiffer .
as christie sought to build his national profile , trump helped .
trump gave $ 250,000 to the republican governors association in 2014 when christie was its head , according to the center for responsive politics , a nonprofit that maintains a database of political donations .
representatives of trump ’ s casinos lobbied christie as early as 1996 when christie was a little-own local officeholder in morris county , according to the star-ledger .
the newspaper reported at the time that the county board of freeholders was considering a highway project that would affect trump ’ s casinos in atlantic city .
trump founded trump entertainment resorts inc and ran casinos in atlantic city beginning in the 1980s .
he resigned as chairman before the company filed for bankruptcy protection in 2009 , about a year before christie became governor and took on a larger role in the city ’ s struggles .
trump entertainment resorts emerged from chapter 11 reorganization in july 2010 , with trump acquiring a smaller stake in the company .
it now runs one atlantic city casino , the trump taj mahal .
christie ’ s biggest push for development in atlantic city was to support the revel casino project .
the revel opened in 2012 , well after trump had reduced his holdings in atlantic city .
it closed in 2014 .
trump ’ s presence in new jersey could extend well beyond his career or friendship with christie .
according to media reports , he plans to be buried in the state at a private cemetery at one of his golf courses after he dies .
( reporting by david ingram and hilary russ in new york ; additional reporting by megan davies and jarrett renshaw in new york and tom hals in wilmington , delaware ; editing by leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .