buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s lower house on thursday suspended a vote on president mauricio macri s pension reform plan , after the debate became a shouting match and protesters and police clashed violently outside congress .
the bill , which passed the senate last month , is crucial for macri s efforts to cut the fiscal deficit but has drawn criticism from opposition politicians and labor unions , who say it will hurt retirees and welfare recipients .
before thursday s scheduled vote , the country s top union called a general strike for the following day .
demonstrators threw stones at metal barriers set up outside parliament , and security forces responded with rubber bullets and tear gas .
the incident showed strong obstacles remain for macri s pro-business agenda , which includes tax and labor reforms .
while his let s change coalition swept october s legislative midterm vote , he lacks a majority in either chamber .
we will not back down , opposition lawmaker mirta tundis told local television .
it is outrageous that year after year , those who have less are affected most .
the pension reform would change the formula used to calculate benefits .
payments would adjust every quarter based on inflation , rather than the current system of twice-yearly adjustments linked to wage rises and tax revenue .
economists say the current formula means benefits go up in line with past inflation .
left unchanged , that could harm macri s efforts to cut the fiscal deficit .
under the new formula , benefits would increase by 5 percentage points above inflation , according to cabinet chief marcos pena .
the plan would take effect at a time of lower inflation expectations , hence slowing the pace of pension benefit increases .
this formula guarantees the sustainability of the system and that retirees will not lose to inflation , macri-allied lawmaker luciano laspina told reporters .
macri is aiming to cut the fiscal deficit to 3.2 percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.2 percent this year , and to reduce inflation to 8-12 percent from above 20 percent this year .
( $ 1 = 17.4300 argentine pesos )