melbourne ( reuters ) - australian police said on sunday they had arrested a man accused of working on the black market to sell missile components and coal on behalf of north korea , the first charges ever brought in australia over the sale of weapons of mass destruction .
the man had been charged with two counts under an act preventing the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , police said , and with another four under legislation enforcing united nations and australian sanctions against north korea .
the sydney man was identified by the australian broadcasting corporation and other media as 59-year-old chan han choi , who they said had been living in australia for more than 30 years and was of korean descent .
he was arrested in the sydney suburb of eastwood on saturday and was due to face court later on sunday , police said .
he came to the attention of authorities earlier this year , the australian federal police ( afp ) said .
this man was a loyal agent of north korea , who believed he was acting to serve some higher patriotic purpose , afp assistant commissioner neil gaughan told reporters .
this case is like nothing we have ever seen on australian soil , he said .
police will allege the man tried to broker the sale of missile components , including software for the guidance systems of ballistic missiles , as well as trying to sell coal to third parties in indonesia and vietnam .
gaughan said the trade could have been worth tens of millions of dollars if successful .
cash-strapped north korea has come under a new round of stricter united nations sanctions this year after pressing ahead with its missile and nuclear programmes in defiance of international pressure .
tensions have risen dramatically on the korean peninsula because of the north s ballistic missile launches and its sixth and most powerful nuclear test , as well as joint military drills between south korea and the united states that the north describes as preparation for war .
pyongyang claimed that its latest intercontinental ballistic missile launch in november had the range to reach all of the united states .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson urged north korea on friday to carry out a sustained cessation of its weapons testing to allow talks about its missile and nuclear programmes .
however , the north has shown little interest in talks until it has the ability to hit the u.s. mainland with a nuclear-tipped missile , which many experts say it has yet to prove .
gaughan said the man had been in touch with high-ranking north korean officials but no missile components ever made it to australia .
he also said there was no indication officials in indonesia or vietnam had been involved in the attempted coal sales .
this is black market 101 , gaughan said .
we are alleging that all the activity occurred offshore , and was purely another attempt for this man to trade goods and services as a way to raise revenue for the government of north korea , he said .
the man faces up to 18 years in jail if convicted .
he did not apply for bail and will next face court on wednesday .