omaha , neb .
( reuters ) - president barack obama visited a young family in their suburban nebraska living room on wednesday , the first stop on what the white house said will be a year-long tour to talk before he leaves office about fixing the country ’ s polarized politics .
his trip to nebraska , a republican “ red state , ” is meant to help promote the big-picture ideas he laid out in his final state of the union speech on tuesday , where he said he regretted american politics had become more rancorous .
obama spent about 40 minutes visiting with lisa martin , who sent him a letter last year she wrote at 4 a.m. when she was awake feeding her son cooper .
in the letter she described her “ overwhelming sense of dread ” about climate change .
“ will he be able to experience the small things , such as winter in nebraska , where he has snow days and sledding ? ” martin wrote in the letter , expressing feelings of powerlessness .
“ call it sleep deprivation or desperation , but something made me want to email the president that night , so i did , ” martin said on wednesday .
afterwards , obama reprised his address to a packed-to-the-rafters crowd of 11,000 at a hockey rink at the university of nebraska , a state where he acknowledged he got “ whupped ” in his 2012 re-election campaign .
obama said that american economic and foreign policy is stronger than described by “ a bunch of folks right across the river ” - a jab at republican presidential candidates campaigning for the party ’ s nomination in the early voting state of iowa .
“ that ’ s just hot air .
that ’ s bluster .
that ’ s not serious , ” obama said .
“ there ’ s another word for it that starts with a ‘ b ’ - it ’ s baloney , ” he said .
obama has said he hopes to work with the republican-led congress on a few issues where there is common ground in his final year : criminal justice reform , passing a sweeping asian trade deal , and addressing heroin addiction and poverty .
but on a host of issues congress does not support him , such as curbing climate change , and the race to win the nov. 8 election to succeed him overshadows obama ’ s push to cement his legacy .
obama was due to fly on wednesday to baton rouge , louisiana - another red state - where he will take questions from residents at a town-hall meeting on thursday .