donald trump s campaign manager kellyanne conway and hillary clinton campaign communications director jennifer palmieri got in a very heated argument at a forum hosted by harvard university s kennedy school of government on december 1st where they talked about the aftermath of the election .
there were many fiery exchanges.the conversation quickly devolved into palmieri accusing the trump campaign of running on a platform of white supremacy and catering to the alt-right .
conway called the clinton campaign bitter and that their candidate just couldn t connect with people is the reason why they lost.here is the exchange : .
@ kellyannepolls talks to @ hardballchris about receiving death threats and the need to end incendiary rhetoric https : //t.co/wf6jv1b8nl hardball ( @ hardball ) december 9 , 2016here is the op-ed written by sore loser and closet catholic-basher jen palmieri who clearly can t get over the fact that a woman helped trump win the presidency .
it s also the op-ed that according to conway caused her to receive death threats : jennifer palmieri was communications director for hillary clinton s presidential campaign.i know how to be a gracious loser.i could have let it go last week when kellyanne conway , donald trump s campaign manager , challenged me to look her in the eye and say she ran a campaign that gave white supremacists a platform .
i considered for a split second .
i knew you were supposed to be gracious when you come for the post-election forum at harvard s kennedy school of government .
but i decided this was a year where normal rules don t apply .
speaking the truth was more important .
it did .
kellyanne , it did , i told her .
it s just a fact .
trump winning the election doesn t change that .
to my mind , his win makes it all the more important that the truth be acknowledged.my colleagues and i from the hillary clinton campaign knew what we were likely to face from the trump side at the harvard university event and thought hard about our obligations as representatives of the losing side in this most unconventional of years particularly when our candidate actually won the popular vote by a large margin .
as i like to note , clinton received more votes for president than any white man in u.s. history.our candidate gave us a good model to follow .
she had the grace to call trump on election night to congratulate him and concede .
but in her concession speech she also challenged all of us to defend our rights and principles under the constitution rights and principles that she and many of the people who voted for her feared could be under threat in a trump presidency .
the campaign has ended , and we accept that trump won .
but we are not laying down our principles or abandoning our supporters .
that s the frame of mind i brought to harvard.a good bit of the post-election analysis has centered on what our campaign should have done differently .
that s appropriate .
we should think long and hard about why we lost .
trust me , we have.but it s also important for the winners of this campaign to think long and hard about the voters who rejected them .
i haven t seen much evidence of such introspection from the trump side .
that s concerning.i don t know whether the trump campaign needed to give a platform to white supremacists to win .
but the campaign clearly did , and it had the effect of empowering the white-nationalist movement.trump provided a platform by retweeting white nationalists giving their views an audience of millions .
views previously relegated to the darkest corners of the internet also had a platform on breitbart , the website of trump campaign chief executive stephen k. bannon .
before trump , our identity ideas , national ideas , they had no place to go , said richard spencer , president of a white-nationalist think tank that held a post-election conference in washington .
former ku klux klan leader david duke said this fall , the fact that donald trump s doing so well , it proves that i m winning .
so one person who is tied to a white nationalist think tank says he supports trump on twitter and that somehow confirms that trump s campaign was built around a white nationalist movement ? if you want to waste more time reading this sore loser s false and unfounded accusations , the entire op-ed can be found here : washington post