charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidates marco rubio and jeb bush are locked in a bare-knuckled fight for third place in a south carolina primary vote on saturday , afraid that anything less could blunt their white house hopes .
with front-runner donald trump fighting to hold off u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and win his second straight early nominating contest , rubio and bush are battling to become the main anti-trump alternative from among establishment republicans seeking the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 election .
an nbc news-wall street journal/marist poll released on friday showed trump in the lead with support from 28 percent of likely republican primary voters , followed by cruz at 23 percent .
rubio led bush narrowly , 15 percent to 13 percent .
the bush-rubio competition is layered with home-state drama : bush , 63 , is the elder statesman of florida politics having served as governor .
rubio , 44 , is the upstart understudy , a first-term u.s. senator who served in florida ’ s legislature .
rubio supporters were offended by the millions of dollars in attack ads spent by bush ’ s super pac , right to rise , believing that the money would have been better spent attacking trump rather than trying to undermine a like-minded republican .
“ people are going to do whatever they think they need to do to win .
but it ’ s notable they spent far more money attacking marco than they have the front-runner donald trump , ” said rubio spokesman alex conant .
the bush team dismissed the complaints .
“ i don ’ t think there ’ s anything personal about it from jeb ’ s side , ” said jim dyke , bush ’ s campaign chief in south carolina .
“ jeb for good reason feels like he ’ s much more qualified to be president of the united states .
that ’ s what this is all about. ” bush has a key backer in south carolina ’ s republican u.s. senator , lindsey graham , but rubio upped the ante by winning the support of popular governor nikki haley .
her endorsement gave rubio momentum at just the right time and the two have campaigned together around the state .
rubio is treading carefully around whether bush should exit the race if he performs poorly in south carolina , saying bush has worked hard and “ has a right to be in this race as long as he wants to be. ” “ i mean , he ’ s spent $ 50 million attacking me .
if there are differences in policy we ’ ll talk about it .
what i ’ ve said about governor bush is he doesn ’ t have any foreign policy experience , which is true .
but i don ’ t view that as an attack .
i view that as a fact , ” rubio told reporters on wednesday .
bush has bristled at the charge , telling supporters he has visited 89 countries and seen his brother and father develop foreign policy as u.s. presidents .
his team has made much of rubio ’ s having missed many hearings and votes as a member of the senate foreign relations committee .
“ it ’ s hard for me to be lectured to by a gifted young guy who thinks going to committee hearings means you know something about the world , ” bush said .
rubio forces had wanted to knock bush out of the race in new hampshire , the last nominating contest held on feb. 9 , but a bad rubio debate performance and a strong campaign trail performance by bush thwarted those hopes with bush edging his rival for a fourth-place finish .