beijing ( reuters ) - a senior chinese diplomat will visit north korea from friday as a special envoy of chinese president xi jinping , beijing said , although it did not say he was planning to discuss north korea s nuclear and ballistic programs .
china has repeatedly pushed for a diplomatic solution to the crisis , but in recent months has had only limited high-level exchanges with north korea .
the last time china s special envoy for north korea visited the country was in february last year .
in a brief dispatch , the official xinhua news agency said song tao , who heads the ruling communist party s external affairs department , would leave for north korea on friday .
he will inform the dprk of the 19th cpc national congress and visit the dprk , xinhua said on wednesday , using the north s official name and referring to china s recently concluded communist party congress at which xi further cemented his power .
north korea s kcna news agency confirmed the visit , but said only that it would take place soon .
the trip will come just a week after u.s. president donald trump visited beijing as part of a lengthy asia tour , where he pressed for greater action to rein in north korea , especially from china , with which north korea does 90 percent of its trade .
it is not clear how long song could stay , but he has already visited vietnam and laos to inform them of the results of the congress , a typical courtesy china extends other communist countries after such important meetings .
it is also unclear whether song will meet north korea s youthful leader kim jong un .
song s main objective in going to north korea was to report on the 19th party congress , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang told a daily news briefing , adding that it was routine for china and other socialist countries to have such exchanges after important party meetings .
the two countries would also exchange opinions on matters of mutual concern during the visit , geng added .
he reiterated that china was committed to resolving the korean nuclear issue peacefully through consultation .
kim and xi exchanged messages of congratulations and thanks over the chinese party congress , but neither leader has visited the other s country since assuming power .
song s department is in charge of the party s relations with foreign political parties , and has traditionally served as a conduit for chinese diplomacy with north korea .
a department official said last month that china s communist party continues to hold talks and maintain contacts with its north korean counterpart , describing the two countries friendship as important for regional stability .
china s new special envoy for north korea , kong xuanyou , who took up his position in august , is not believed to have yet visited the country since assuming the job .