florence , italy ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may set out a plan on friday to retain full access to the eu s single market for two years after brexit to try to reassure business and reset the tone of stalled negotiations with brussels .
but her proposals for such a transition , for meeting britain s financial obligations and for protecting eu citizens rights fell short of what the eu wanted .
eu brexit negotiator michel barnier praised the speech for its constructive spirit but asked for more detail .
another official said it had left him even more concerned .
in a speech at a 14th-century church in florence , italy , may appealed directly to eu leaders to unlock the talks , which have stalled over a series of issues , including the size of the bill britain should pay as part of its divorce settlement .
she spent much of her 30-minute speech describing the similarities between britain and the eu , saying that if the complicated talks to unravel more than 40 years of union should fail , the only beneficiaries would be those who oppose democracy , liberalism and free trade .
sterling fell against both the dollar gbp= and the euro eurgbp= during may 's speech , weakening by more than half a cent against the u.s. currency .
late on friday ratings agency moody s downgraded its assessment of britain s creditworthiness , saying brexit was damaging the country s medium-term growth prospects .
the government said moody s view was outdated and did not consider may s most recent comments .
clearly people , businesses and public services should only have to plan for one set of changes in the relationship between the uk and the eu , may told an audience of italian business leaders and diplomats .
so during the implementation period , access to one another s markets should continue on current terms , and britain also should continue to take part in existing security measures .
britain wants to move the talks forward and start addressing how a future relationship with the eu would work , a move may s government says is vital if they want to find agreement on the divorce bill .
but the eu has stood firm , refusing to discuss trading arrangements until sufficient progress is made on the first three issues - the financial settlement , the land border with eu member ireland and the protection of expatriates rights .
beyond her vision for a transition , involving around two years of trading on the same terms , but no payments for access to the eu single market , may pledged to protect eu citizens rights in britain after brexit , saying that decisions by the european court of justice would be taken into account by british courts .
on the financial settlement , she also said britain would honor commitments we have made during the period of our membership .
i do not want our partners to fear that they will need to pay more or receive less over the remainder of the current budget plan as a result of our decision to leave , she said .
may has long said britain will honor its financial obligations , but she did not mention the 20 billion euro figure reported in local media in the days running up to the speech .
she said little on ireland , beyond noting that no one wanted a return to a hard border with british-ruled northern ireland that could reignite tensions on the island .
barnier said her words showed a willingness to move forward , as time is of the essence , but that they needed to be translated into a precise negotiating position of the uk government .
but the head of the european parliament s biggest group , the center-right european people s party , manfred weber , said may s speech had brought no more clarity .
i am even more concerned now , he added .
british opposition lawmakers were not impressed , with the labour party saying the government was no clearer about what our long-term relationship with the eu will look like .
trade union leader frances o grady said the prime minister was pretending that we can have our cake and eat it , while a business lobby , the british chambers of commerce , underlined its desire to get trade talks moving .
it was never going to be an easy speech , with may struggling to appeal simultaneously to the eu , to business and to the supporters of brexit in her own party who want to hold her to her pledge of a clean break with the bloc .
it s clear that we re out , one senior conservative source said , adding that he was pleased to hear may agree that no deal was better than a bad deal .
the speech comes at the start of a crucial week for europe .
on sunday , german voters are expected to return conservative chancellor angela merkel to power but also vault euroskeptic parties into parliament , including the alternative for germany ( afd ) , whose nationalist , anti-immigrant ideas echo those of britain s ukip party , a driving force behind brexit .
two days later , french president emmanuel macron is expected to flesh out his ideas for a relaunch of the eu and euro zone , underscoring the bloc s determination to press ahead with a closer union that excludes the uk .
britain and the eu do agree on one thing : the clock is ticking , with barnier saying there is only a year left to find an agreement to give britain a controlled exit .
may s ill-fated decision to have an election in june not only used up time but also sapped her authority and gave a stronger hand to pro-brexit lawmakers who want a total break with the bloc and to reduce any divorce bill to zero .
may s top team of ministers put on a show of unity in florence - with foreign minister boris johnson , one of britain s most prominent hardline brexit politicians and a one-time leadership contender , sitting in the front row .
i think what was so uplifting about this speech was it was positive ; it was confident about what britain can do but also about our relations with the rest of the eu , johnson said .