london ( reuters ) - britain s democracy is one of the most secure in the world and will remain so , a spokesman for prime minister theresa may said on monday in response to a question about a suggestion that there may have been foreign interference in the brexit vote .
opposition lawmaker ben bradshaw last week urged the government to look into reports by advocacy group open democracy suggesting that the origin of some brexit campaign funds was unclear .
bradshaw said in parliament the issue should be investigated given the widespread concern over foreign and particularly russian interference in western democracies .
at a briefing with reporters , may s spokesman was asked if the prime minister was concerned about the reports .
i am not aware of those concerns , he said .
more broadly , as we ve always said , the uk democratic system is amongst one of the most secure in the world and will continue to be so .
open democracy , which describes itself as an independent media platform aiming to challenge power and encourage debate , had raised questions about the finances of businessman arron banks , one of the main financial backers of the brexit cause .
the only people concerned are those that still can t come to terms with the fact that they lost the referendum so will come up with more and more ludicrous excuses , banks said in a statement texted to reuters by a spokesman .
banks dismissed open democracy s report without addressing it in detail and accused bradshaw of peddling a tedious myth about russian meddling in the brexit debate .
the electoral commission , which regulates political finance in britain , said in april it was investigating campaign spending by leave.eu , one of the pro-brexit organizations funded by banks .
it gave no details of what its probe was about .
i m not remotely worried .
we did nothing wrong , banks said in the text .
a spokeswoman for the electoral commission said the investigation was still going on and it would not provide any further information until it was complete .
open democracy had also raised concerns about a large donation to northern ireland s democratic unionist party ( dup ) , which is now propping up may s minority conservative government .
open democracy said the origin of the money , which was spent on campaigning for brexit , was unclear .
the dup , which was earlier reported to have said the funds came from an organization in england that wants to see the union ( between the uk s constituent parts ) kept , did not respond to repeated requests for comment .
during a debate in parliament later on monday , may was asked whether eu leaders had discussed the issue of russian interference at a summit last week .
she said it had not come up .