erbil ( reuters ) - the kurdish independence vote championed by their leader masoud barzani was a gamble that may have made his quest for a homeland more elusive than ever .
the sept 25 vote won overwhelming backing for secession but has raised the possibility of a new civil war in iraq that could draw in regional powers .
baghdad says the vote is illegal .
just a few months ago , the iraqi army , kurdish fighters , known as the peshmerga , and iranian-backed shi ite paramilitary forces worked together to defeat islamic state in mosul .
but that cooperation was short-lived and on monday iraqi forces seized kirkuk an important oil town for the opec producer that is also considered by the kurds to be the heart of their homeland .
iran and turkey oppose kurdish independence and shi ite militias funded by tehran are gaining influence across iraq .
meanwhile divisions between the two parties in the ruling kurdish coalition have deepened .
kurds have been managing these areas since the fall of ( iraqi president ) saddam ( hussein ) in 2003 and to change the situation in an instant will make the whole situation as if it is sinking into quicksand , said baghdad-based analyst jasim al-bahadli , an expert on shi ite armed groups .
he said the shi ite paramilitary groups presence in areas that used to be controlled by kurds will help create tensions that could lead to a long-term conflict .
sensitivities could develop into hostilities that could spark a civil war , he said .
barzani and his kurdistan democratic party ( kdp ) have defended the referendum .
it was the right move .
no one will stop us from achieving independence , his spokesman vahal ali said .
but not all of iraq s kurds , who fought a bloody civil war amongst themselves in the 1990s , supported the idea , raising doubts over the management of any independent state .
the patriotic union of kurdistan ( puk ) said the kdp , who make up the coalition , were putting kurds at risk because of strong opposition to the vote , including from key ally the united states .
the peshmerga general command in the kdp stronghold of erbil accused iran , a historical ally of the puk , of helping iraqi forces launch the offensive in the kirkuk area .
unfortunately some of the puk officials betrayed kurdistan by being part of the plan by abandoning key fronts and leaving , said the peshmerga statement .
this plot will fail and the will of our people will prevail .
ali akbar velayati - a top adviser to iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei - was quoted in a report by tasnim news agency as saying iran had no role in the kirkuk operations .
a senior western diplomat also denied that iran had played a role .
this is mythology .
barzani has in the past blamed others for his mistakes including the puk .
but this is mythology designed to get support from the americans , he said .
puk leader jalal talabani died barely a week after the vote , adding more uncertainty for the kurds .
shuras sherko jdy , an official in the main opposition kurdish gorran movement , said the kurds , who gradually built an autonomous region in the north after the 2003 u.s.-led invasion , were facing a leadership crisis .
civil war could take place over kirkuk .
i hope it does not .
if it does it will encourage the intervention of iran and turkey , he said .
but iran , like turkey , worries the vote will encourage their own kurdish populations to push for homelands and has made no secret of its growing ambitions in iraq .
the most prominent iranian figure in iraq is major general qassem soleimani , the commander of foreign operations for iran s elite revolutionary guards , a military corp providing training and weapons to iraqi paramilitary groups backing the shi ite-led government in baghdad .
ali said soleimani appeared in kirkuk two nights before iraqi security forces attacked .
that account was confirmed by an iranian source in iraq who said he appeared for a couple of hours there to give military guidance .
tehran s military help is not a secret anymore .
you can find general soleimani s pictures in iraq everywhere , said an official close to iranian president hassan rouhani .
now , beside political issues , kirkuk s oil is a very key element for iran , which is an opec member .
control of those oil fields by iran s enemies , would be disastrous for us .
why should we let them enter the oil market ? .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east after the collapse of the multi-ethnic ottoman empire and left kurdish-populated territory split between turkey , iran , iraq and syria .
they have often accused the west of not helping them during times of trouble .
president donald trump has said the united states would not take sides in the clash .
some fear the referendum , which gave iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi a chance to assert his authority , has put independence further out of reach .
baghdad has also banned international flights to kurdish airports and imposed punitive financial measures .
we used to control our own airports .
we used to control our own borders .
we were running our own autonomous region ... now we have nothing .
barzani is responsible for this , said jdy .