dubai ( reuters ) - the detention of saudi arabia s prince alwaleed bin talal , known for his big bets on citigroup ( c.n ) and other top western companies , could have an impact on billions of dollars of investments around the world .
for many foreigners , prince alwaleed - whose net worth has been estimated by forbes magazine at $ 17 billion - is the face of saudi business , appearing frequently on international television and in articles on his investments and lifestyle .
a 2013 forbes magazine profile described his marble-filled , 420-room riyadh palace , a private boeing 747 equipped with a throne , and his 120-acre resort on the edge of the saudi capital with five homes , five artificial lakes and a mini-grand canyon .
he is also known for his outspoken views on politics - making headlines in 2015 when he called donald trump a disgrace on twitter during the u.s. election campaign .
prince alwaleed s investments , current and future , may now be in doubt after he was detained in an investigation by a new saudi anti-corruption body .
there will be questions on what this all means , said a senior executive at a european financial institution , who visited riyadh late last month to attend a big international conference promoting saudi arabia as an investment destination .
people will be looking at any kind of international holdings of the people who have been arrested , to see what will be the impact .
aside from a stake in citigroup , prince alwaleed , 62 , owns significant stakes in twitter ( twtr.n ) , ride-hailing firm lyft and time warner ( twx.n ) .
his investment firm kingdom holding 4280.se - whose share price plunged 10 percent on sunday in response to news of his detention - recently bought about half of a 31.1 percent stake in saudi lender banque saudi fransi 1050.se from france s credit agricole ( cagr.pa ) .
prince alwaleed s father was the kingdom s finance minister during the 1960s .
prince alwaleed formed kingdom holding in 1979 , initially pouring money into real estate in riyadh ; in the 1990s he ventured into wall street , investing heavily in citigroup .
he had a close relationship with former citigroup chief executive sanford sandy weill , and has nurtured close ties with other wall street leaders including goldman sachs ( gs.n ) ceo lloyd blankfein .
prince alwaleed increased his stake in citigroup at the height of the global financial crisis a decade ago and he has held on to the stake , saying as recently as last month that he was very happy with the investment .
he s always been a colorful and unofficial public face of saudi arabia , though he has never been a key decision-maker in the kingdom , a gulf-based businessman said .
during the u.s. election campaign , prince alwaleed demanded that trump withdraw from the election campaign after the candidate pledged to ban muslims entry into the united states .
trump responded by tweeting that the saudi prince wanted to control our politicians with daddy s money .
can t do it after i get elected .
after trump s election victory , prince alwaleed said whatever their past differences , america had spoken , and he congratulated trump on his victory .
prince alwaleed was an early advocate of women s employment in saudi arabia and a lifting of the ban on women driving .
in september , king salman ordered that the ban should be lifted next year .