wukan , china ( reuters ) - surveillance cameras peer at residents from every major street corner .
informants are everywhere , villagers say .
and more than a dozen villagers are languishing in prison or detention .
the southern chinese village of wukan was once a symbol of grassroots democracy in china .
now , a year after the authorities quelled protests over land grabs and the jailing of a local leader , wukan is locked in a stifling security squeeze .
a rare visit to wukan by a reuters team and interviews with half a dozen villagers and sources familiar with the situation revealed that the village and surrounding area remain tightly policed as the government tries to maintain security at all costs .
villagers in wukan once warmly welcomed the media , but many are now afraid of speaking for fear of reprisals .
there s nothing left here , said one young man in wukan who was edgy and wouldn t talk for long .
you know what happened , he added before moving quickly away .
the sources said that a provincial-level wukan mass working group had been set up with about 100 full-time personnel and charged with ensuring stability by marshalling a network of informers , security patrols , surveillance systems and floodlights in the village .
in the 1980s , the chinese government began allowing elections in villages nationwide , although democracy activists say the votes for village committees were rarely free from official influence .
but after a series of protests against local officials in wukan in 2011 , when government offices were ransacked , authorities eventually backed down , allowing the village to hold open elections that became a beacon for democratic hope in china .
but now , wukan , once famous in china as the democracy village , has succumbed to china s tightening grip over civil society and individual rights , said zhuang liehong , a former wukan protest leader who helped lead an uprising against local authorities in 2011 .
what is happening in wukan is what is happening in china , said zhuang .
it s a dark reflection of china , with no freedom of expression .
no individual rights .
there was no immediate response from the guangdong provincial government to faxed questions from reuters seeking comment .
under president xi jinping , the government has intensified efforts to deepen the reach of the communist party into all aspects of life in china .
critics say it brooks no dissent , and has been cracking down on civil society , which it sees as a challenge to central authority .
when xi took the reins in 2013 , repressing boundary-pushers in civil society was a cornerstone of his political campaign to consolidate power , diana fu of the university of toronto and greg distelhorst of the massachusetts institute of technology wrote in an academic paper on grassroots participation and repression in contemporary china .
with china s recent leadership transition further consolidating xi s power , the next five years will likely see a continuation of tough social stability policies that will have an impact on places like wukan , some analysts say .
the party has decided to double down on authoritarianism after the problems they ve faced , said nicolas bequelin , amnesty international s director for east asia .
during the 2011 protests , zhuang helped barricade the coastal hamlet of 15,000 people against battalions of riot police .
he spoke by telephone with reuters from new york , where he is now in exile after leaving wukan in 2014 .
wukan sits in a picturesque region flanked by hills and a deep water harbor , with lush farmland , ponds teeming with fish and shrimp , and the occasional flash of kingfishers .
its troubles began in the 1990s when swathes of farmland began being sold off to property developers by the village leadership in a series of opaque deals .
in 2011 , these problems came to a head , when many villagers began demanding that the land be returned .
a months-long insurrection against local authorities and riot police put a global media spotlight on wukan , leading to a rare populist victory in communist china when the provincial authorities eventually backed down .
the village committee at the center of the land deals was removed and a free election was allowed that saw all seven of the protest leaders voted into public office .
this village committee soon came under pressure from allies of the old leadership seeking retribution , they said .
over the course of the next few years most of the protest organizers left public office , including their leader , lin zuluan , who was jailed for corruption last summer .
the protests last year erupted after villagers demanded lin s release .
many villagers say the charges were concocted and that a confession by lin on state television was forced .
the protests ran for several months and were quelled by hundreds of riot police firing rubber bullets , hurling tear gas and beating up villagers with batons , victims and witnesses told reuters at the time .
last december , the people s court of nearby haifeng town , which oversees wukan , sentenced nine villagers to jail terms ranging from two to nine years for a number of charges including illegal assembly , disrupting traffic and spreading false information , according to a notice on its website .
there was no immediate response to a reuters request for comment from the lufeng government , which has jurisdiction over haifeng and wukan .
one villager , zhang bingchai , was jailed for two years for allegedly spreading false information , the court said .
two acquaintances who knew him said he had spoken about the situation in wukan , to outsiders on his mobile phone and had posted some images of the crackdown .
zhuang said his 67-year-old father , zhuang songkun , was jailed for three years on a charge of gathering a crowd to block traffic during the protests .
the hard line against the protests reflects the government s desire to ensure stability , said xiong wei , the founder of new enlightenment , a village advocacy organization in beijing who has visited wukan on numerous occasions .
and they ve been very successful , said xiong .
no one dares raise their head .
but the problems haven t been resolved , he added , referring to the land seizures .
beyond a checkpoint manned by paramilitary police with guns , the main road into wukan is now lined with giant billboards and colorful flags projecting a new narrative of stability and peace .
propaganda billboards and posters were also displayed around town .
advance solidly to execute the strategy of loving the people , read one , illustrated with a flock of doves flying over uniformed officers clutching rifles as they look across toward a portrait of mao in beijing s tiananmen square .
police and the people build a harmonious and civilized wukan together , it read .
another sign urged a new ethos .
beneath the surface , however , resentment lingers amongst those who spoke to reuters .
wukan has reached a dead end now , said one villager .
people won t do anything .
back in new york , zhuang , the exiled former wukan protest leader , said he ll keep speaking out .
he said his mother has been harassed and his house surveilled with cameras .
visitors to his house have been questioned and several detained , he said .
his assertions could not be independently confirmed .
all of the other former wukan protest leaders have since quit their posts , been jailed , or harassed , he said .
besides me , there are no voices left .
it is silent now .