new york ( reuters ) - as the youngest members of the millennial generation became old enough to vote in this year ’ s u.s. presidential election , states and social media platforms poured efforts into online registration , hoping to attract these tech savvy voters who now rival baby boomers as the country ’ s largest demographic .
with election day just two days away , political experts are skeptical that a record number of millennials who signed up to vote will actually result in the 18-34 year-old age group turning out at the polls in proportion to their relative size of the u.s. population .
millennials make up approximately 31 percent of u.s. citizens eligible to vote , according to the pew research center , on par for the first time with baby boomers , who are typically aged 52-70 years old .
there are an estimated 225.8 million eligible u.s. voters .
millennials have so far , however , turned out in much lower numbers in elections than baby boomers .
in 2008 , a record year for millennial turnout , just 50 per cent of those eligible to vote did so , the national census bureau said .
that compared with turnout rates of 69 per cent for baby boomers and 61 percent for people aged 36 to 51 , also known as generation x .
this year , a number of efforts on social media by states and non-profits aimed to change that , including facebook reminders on users ’ accounts , twitter hashtag campaigns , celebrities creating snapchat and an instagram post urging people to vote .
according to a survey of state electoral officials and voter non-profits around the united states , these social media campaigns have paid off , at least when it came to getting young voters registered .
a survey of 2,000 millennials conducted by social media platform yik yak , which is known for its popularity among college students and teens , showed that 62 percent registered to vote for the first time this year and , of those , 9 percent registered online following a social media prompt .
in california , roughly 31 per cent of all registered voters are now aged 18-35 .
a facebook reminder on may 16 coincided with 143,255 people registering or updating their registrations online that day in the state , compared to an average of 23,166 per day that month , said california secretary of state spokesman sam mahood .
other states reported similar spikes .
in oregon , more than 420,000 people registered to vote online in 2016 , up from 2012 when 163,545 used the online system .
digital voter enrollments in washington jumped by roughly 135,000 in 2016 , compared to 2012 .
from january through mid-october this year , 381,318 people used the online system in indiana , nearly three times as many as in 2012 .
“ let ’ s face it - that ’ s where [ younger voters ] are ; they ’ re on social media , ” said denise merrill , the secretary of state for connecticut , which used social media campaigns , including a dedicated hashtag and facebook ’ s banner ads , to drive registrations .
“ whatever we ’ re doing , we ’ re having pretty dramatic results. ” like a lot of experts , donald green , a professor of political science at columbia university , is skeptical that an increase in young voter registration will correspond with millennials unseating the baby boomers as the most active voting bloc .
green conceded that there was “ change afoot , ” but said he thought it would far more gradual .
by his estimate , it would be 25 years before millennials overtake baby boomers , or what he dubbed “ generational replacement. ” “ in presidential elections the translation of new registration to votes is more like one half or one third , ” he said .
michael cornfield , an associate professor of political management at george washington university , agreed that registering someone to vote does not guarantee they ’ ll show up on election day .
“ it ’ s up to the campaigns to do the last bit , which is to say make sure the right millennials in the right battleground states are being targeted , ” said cornfield .
some political experts said that , in general , millennials tend to vote more for democratic party candidates than republicans .
laura wray-lake , an assistant professor at the university of california-los angeles , said the increase in millennial registration could be a boon for democrats if they could harness some of the social media techniques used to register voters to get them to the polls .
with many political experts expecting overall voter turnout to be lower this year , millennial voters in swing states are a bloc that democratic candidate hillary clinton could hope to turn out .
clinton leads republican candidate donald trump by 27 percentage points among likely voters ages 18-34 , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
“ young people have huge potential for political impact ” wray-lake said .
“ i think eventually these millennials will be deciding the future of the country. ” for a graphic on online voter registration , click tmsnrt.rs/2fjdh4j