dhaka ( reuters ) - hard-pressed to find space for a massive influx of rohingya muslim refugees , bangladesh plans to chop down forest trees to extend a tent city sheltering destitute families fleeing ethnic violence in neighboring myanmar .
more than half a million rohingya have arrived from myanmar s western state of rakhine since the end of august in what the united nations has called the world s fastest-developing refugee emergency .
the exodus began after myanmar security forces responded to rohingya militants attacks on aug. 25 by launching a brutal crackdown that the united nations has denounced as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar has rejected that accusation , insisting that the military action was needed to combat terrorists who had killed civilians and burnt villages .
but it has left bangladesh and international humanitarian organizations counting the cost as they race to provide life-saving food , water and medical care for the displaced rohingya .
simply finding enough empty ground to accommodate the refugees is a huge problem .
the government allocated 2,000 acres when the number of refugees was nearly 400,000 , mohammad shah kamal , bangladesh s secretary of disaster management and relief , told reuters on thursday .
now that the numbers have gone up by more than 100,000 and people are still coming .
so , the government has to allocate 1,000 acres ( 400 hectares ) of forest land .
once all the trees are felled , aid workers plan to put up 150,000 tarpaulin shelters in their place .
swamped by refugees , poor bangladeshi villagers are faced with mounting hardships and worries , including the trafficking of illegal drugs , particularly methamphetamines , from myanmar .
the situation is very bad , said kazi abdur rahman , a senior official in the bangladesh border district of cox s bazar , where most of the rohingya are settled .
people in cox s bazar are concerned , we are also concerned , but there s nothing we can do but accommodate them .
the pressure on the land is creating another conflict , this time environmental rather than ethnic .
last month , wild elephants trampled two refugees to death and rahman said more such encounters appeared inevitable as more forest is destroyed .
u.n. agencies coordinating aid appealed on wednesday for $ 434 million to help up to 1.2 million people , most of them children , for six months .
their figure includes the 515,000 who have arrived since august , more than 300,000 rohingya who were already in bangladesh , having fled earlier suppression , a contingency for another 91,000 and 300,000 bangladesh villagers in so-called host communities who also need help .
the save the children aid group warned of a malnutrition crisis with some 281,000 people in need of urgent nutrition support , including 145,000 children under five and more than 50,000 pregnant and breastfeeding women .
in over 20 years as a humanitarian worker , i ve never seen a situation like this , where people are so desperate for basic assistance and conditions so dire , unni krishnan , director of save the children s emergency health unit , said in a statement .
u.n. agencies are wary of planning beyond six months for fear or creating a self-perpetuating crisis .
myanmar has promised to take back anyone verified as a refugee but there s little hope for speedy repatriation .
there is long-simmering communal tension and animosity toward the rohingya in myanmar , most of whom are stateless and derided as illegal immigrants .
this crisis isn t going to end soon , said a bangladeshi interior ministry official who declined to be identified .