last night president donald trump caved into the pentagon , the political left , the neoconservative pro-war lobby and mainstream media pressure to act after the release of youtube videos produced by the us and uk-funded ngo the white helmets of an alleged chemical weapons attack by the syrian airforce in the al qaeda stronghold of idlib in syria .
following the us missile strike , al qaeda leaders in syria have hailed the move by trump , expressing their gratitude for the us president s knee-jerk military action.al qaeda and isis supporters saudi arabia , qatar and turkey have also expressed thanks to trump for helping to degrade the syrian military who have been fighting and winning against al qaeda in syria , isis and a host of other gulf-sponsored terrorist groups operating in syria.salafist jihadist group ahrar al-sham welcoming the strikes .
thanks america .
pic.twitter.com/4pqzv1pvjw ali ( @ ali_kourani ) april 7 , 2017trump s strike on syria also helped isis who have been losing to the syrian army recently in the area of homs and palmyra.the guardian confirms : tonight i ordered a targeted military strike on the airfield in syria from where the chemical attack was launched.it is in this vital national security interest of the united states to prevent and deter the spread and use of deadly chemical weapons.there can be no dispute that syria used banned chemical weapons , violated its obligations under the chemical weapons convention , and ignored the urging of the un security council.years of previous attempts at changing assad s behaviour have all failed and failed very dramatically .
there was an angry response in russia , where the kremlin warned that the strikes would cause significant damage to us-russia ties .note : tillerson has now gone so far as to blame russia for allowing syria to mount this attack they would act as the guarantor that these weapons would no longer be present in syria .
clearly russia has failed in its responsibility to deliver on that commitment from 2013 .
either russia has been complicit or russia has been simply incompetent in its ability to deliver on its end of that agreement .
see also : reviving the chemical weapons lie : new us-uk calls for regime change , military attack against syriadespite the fact that no evidence , other than youtube videos , that the syrian government launched a chemical airstrikes in idlib , the us government and the mainstream media are ignoring multiple evidential reports of rebels ( terrorists ) holding and using chemical weapons in syria.what was these saudi dangerous chemicals doing in qaeda depos in e aleppo last year ? !
let 's ask cnn or bbc ! !
pic.twitter.com/g6wtwtgpl4 fares shehabi ( @ shehabifares ) april 6 , 2017three years ago the same chemical rebels bombed the akrama school in homs !
45 kids were killed .
no nato barking at the un !
hypocrisy !
pic.twitter.com/uxzhbreotc fares shehabi ( @ shehabifares ) april 5 , 2017stay tuned for updatesread more syria news at : 21st century wire syria filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv