lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - a new pakistani political party controlled by an islamist with a $ 10 million u.s. bounty on his head is backing a candidate in a by-election on sunday , in what a former senior army officer says is a key step in a military-proposed plan to mainstream militant groups .
the milli muslim league party loyal to hafiz saeed - who the united states and india accuse of masterminding the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people - has little chance of seeing its favored candidate win the seat vacated when prime minister nawaz sharif was removed from office by the supreme court in july .
but the foray into politics by saeed s islamist charity is following a blueprint that sharif himself rejected when the military proposed it last year , retired lieutenant general amjad shuaib told reuters .
three close sharif confidants with knowledge of the discussions confirmed that sharif had opposed the mainstreaming plan , which senior military figures and some analysts see as a way of steering ultra-religious groups away from violent jihad .
we have to separate those elements who are peaceful from the elements who are picking up weapons , shuaib said .
pakistan s powerful military has long been accused of fostering militant groups as proxy fighters opposing neighboring arch-enemy india , a charge the army denies .
saeed s religious charity launched the milli muslim league party within two weeks after the court ousted sharif over corruption allegations .
yaqoob sheikh , the lahore candidate for milli muslim league , is standing as an independent after the electoral commission said the party was not yet legally registered .
but saeed s lieutenants , jud workers and milli muslim league officials are running his campaign and portraits of saeed adorn every poster promoting sheikh .
another islamist designated a terrorist by the united states , fazlur rehman khalil , has told reuters he too plans to soon form his own party to advocate strict islamic law .
god willing , we will come into the mainstream - our country right now needs patriotic people , khalil said , vowing to turn pakistan into a state government by strict islamic law .
saeed s charity and khalil s ansar ul-umma organization are both seen by the united states as fronts for militant groups the army has been accused of sponsoring .
the military denies any policy of encouraging radical groups .
both islamist groups deny their political ambitions were engineered by the military .
the official army spokesman was not available for comment after queries were sent to the press wing .
still , hundreds of mml supporters , waving posters of saeed and demanding his release from house arrest , chanted long live hafiz saeed !
long live the pakistan army !
at political rallies during the past week .
anyone who is india s friend is a traitor , a traitor , went another campaign slogan , a reference to sharif s attempts to improve relations with long-time foe india that was a source of tension with the military .
both saeed and khalil are proponents of a strict interpretation of islam and have a history of supporting violence - each man was reportedly a signatory to al qaeda leader osama bin laden s 1998 fatwa declaring war on the united states .
they have since established religious groups that they say are unconnected to violence , though the united states maintains those groups are fronts for funnelling money and fighters to militants targeting india .
analyst khaled ahmed , who has researched saeed s jamaat-ud-dawa charity and its connections to the military , says the new political party is clearly an attempt by the generals to pursue an alternative to dismantling its militant proxies .
one thing is the army wants these guys to survive , ahmed said .
the other thing is that they want to also balance the politicians who are more and more inclined to normalize relations with india .
the military s inter-services intelligence agency first began pushing the political mainstreaming plan in april 2016 , according to retired general shuaib , a former director of the army s military intelligence wing that is separate from the isi .
he said the proposal was shared with him in writing by the then-isi chief , adding that he himself had spoken with khalil as well as saeed in an unofficial capacity about the plan .
fazlur rehman khalil was very positive .
hafiz saeed was very positive , shuaib said .
my conversation with them was just to confirm those things which i had been told by the isi and other people .
saeed has been under house arrest since january at his house in the eastern city of lahore .
the united states has offered a $ 10 million reward for information leading to his conviction over the mumbai attacks .
then-prime minister sharif , however , was strongly against the military s mainstreaming plan , according to shuaib and three members of sharif s inner circle , including one who was in some of the tense meetings over the issue .
sharif wanted to completely dismantle groups like jud .
disagreement on what to do about anti-india proxy fighters was a major source of rancour with the military , according to one of the close sharif confidants .
in recent weeks several senior figures from the ruling pml-n party have publicly implied that elements of the military - which has run pakistan for almost half its modern history and previously ousted sharif in a 1999 coup - had a hand in the court ouster of sharif , a charge both the army and the court reject .
a representative of the pml-n , which last month replaced him as prime minister with close ally shahid khaqi abbasi , said the party was not aware of any mainstreaming plan being brought to the table .
some analysts worry that mainstreaming such controversial groups would be a risky strategy for pakistan .
u.s. president donald trump s administration has threatened sanctions against members of pakistan s military and even raised the specter of declaring pakistan a state sponsor of terrorism .
it will send a wrong message , said analyst zahid hussain , who nevertheless thought that saeed s new party would have a negligible effect on pakistani elections because religious parties have never won more than a few seats in parliament .
others are not so sure .
sheikh , the mml candidate in sunday s by-election who says he was handpicked by hafiz saeed , vowed to establish strict islamic rule and break liberalism and secularism .
analyst ahmed warned that few existing religious parties have a charismatic leader like saeed , and pakistan may find itself unable to control a rising tide of islamist sentiment .
if hafiz saeed comes into the mainstream , it s not that he is going to be politicized , he added .
it s that he is going to make politics more religious .