london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may said on friday it was not helpful for anyone to speculate on investigations after u.s. president donald trump tweeted that the culprits behind a train bombing had been in the sights of the police .
soon after 22 people were injured in the attack on a busy underground train in west london , trump tweeted : another attack in london by a loser terrorist .
these are sick and demented people who were in the sights of scotland yard .
must be proactive !
his comments appeared to point the finger at british police .
asked whether trump knew something britain did not , may said : i never think it s helpful for anybody to speculate on what is an ongoing investigation .
others chimed in , with may s former chief of staff , nick timothy , saying trump s comment was so unhelpful from leader of our ally and intelligence partner .
london and washington have long boasted of their special relationship , close ties that were strained earlier this year when the united states leaked information on an investigation into a bomber who killed 22 at a manchester pop concert .
trump told reporters after his tweet that he had been briefed on the london incident , and he also said he would be speaking with may , although it was not clear whether his reference to scotland yard came up on the call .
a senior u.s. government official cast doubt on whether trump was privy to information over whether the bomber in the west london attack was known or not .
the official said that at this point , u.s. agencies had no information to back up any suggestion by trump that britain had advance warning or specific intelligence on the attack .
at a white house briefing ahead of next week s u.n. general assembly meeting , trump s national security adviser , h.r .
mcmaster , said the president was referring generically to british efforts to combat terrorism and was not making a reference to any specific knowledge authorities in london may have had .
i think he means generally that this kind of activity is what we re trying to prevent , and so these organizations that are responsible for it , whatever comes out of this investigation , that remains to be seen , mcmaster said .
hours after trump s tweet , sky news cited security sources as saying they had identified a suspect in the attack , with the help of surveillance footage .