this is what it looks like when the tolerant left uses violence to promote their phony tolerance for others .a loser in the seattle seahawks t-shirt really hates donald trump .
because he s too stupid to verbalize his position and too cowardly to take on anyone his own size or gender , he decided to express his displeasure with the gop frontrunner by pepper spraying some women and children at a pro-trump rally.here s the deal : anaheim , ca city councilwoman kris murray introduced a resolution denouncing donald trump , which reads in part , the divisive rhetoric of presidential candidate donald trump as contrary to the fundamental principles of the constitutions of california and the united states and as not reflecting anaheim s guiding principles of inclusiveness and kindness .
the la daily news reports that more than 50 pro-trump supporters showed up at the anaheim city hall to protest this ridiculous resolution on tuesday .
as you know , wherever there are trump supporters , there are anti-trump agitators looking to start a violent confrontation .
there s no word on the anti-trump numbers , but there were enough to be noticed .
the news notes that most of these anti-trump forces were angry young men.as the anti-trump thugs were yelling at the pro-trump supporters , one asshole decided to attack a group of women and children , including a 53-year-old grandmother .
all i remember is a young man jumped on one of my friends and i told him to get off .
then i got pepper sprayed , said linda reedy.that pepper spray was wielded by the latino in the seahawks shirt .
not only did he hit reedy but also her two young grandchildren and another woman.paramedics were seen pouring water on their eyes to try and remove the stinging spray .
a young girl about 8 years old cried hysterically.it would appear as if someone , possibly seahawks guy , also punched reedy in the face as paramedics gave her an icepack for an unspecified facial injury.to recap : one guy attacked a woman and then the latino pepper sprayed her , a grandmother , and two young children all because they support donald trump .
if there are a bigger couple of pussies i d like to know who they are because these guys have the # 1 and # 2 spots locked up in my opinion.despite the fact that the news was able to capture a very clear picture of the chickenshit pepper sprayer , the dozens of police on the scene were unable to identify or arrest him .
no seriously , there were a dozen cops in riot gear , plus many more guarding city hall , as well as police helicopters overhead and they couldn t apprehend this coward ? let s remember that the reason why everyone was at anaheim city hall was because some uppity leftist councilwoman was denouncing trump for being intolerant .
somehow i think attacking and pepper spraying old women and young children for their beliefs is a million times less tolerant than anything donald trump has ever said .
will anaheim also denounce this latino asshole and his cohort for what they did ?
i doubt it.a better question is : will the national media report this assault with the same vigor that they do any time a disruptive idiot gets thrown out of a trump rally ?
again , i doubt it .
the official media narrative is that donald trump supporters are the violent ones and anti-trump protesters are peaceful victims of their hate.via : downtrend