kisumu , kenya ( reuters ) - as kenya prepared to hold a repeat presidential poll on thursday despite an opposition boycott , a handful of scared election officials huddled by an echoing hall in kisumu , a stronghold of opposition leader raila odinga .
going out of that gate with this ballot box is like a suicide mission , 26-year-old evans said on wednesday .
the young man , too frightened to give his last name , is meant to be in charge of one of the constituency s polling stations .
but only 19 of his 400 colleagues reported for duty at the lions club high school .
drivers meant to transport them to polling stations were too scared to show up .
kisumu is the heartland of support for odinga , who is boycotting thursday s vote because he said the election board has failed to push through reforms .
the repeat vote , meant to pit odinga against president uhuru kenyatta , was ordered by the supreme court after it nullified kenyatta s win in an aug. 8 presidential poll on procedural grounds .
odinga s boycott leaves kenyatta as the only serious contender .
none of the other five candidates gained more than one percent in august , virtually guaranteeing kenyatta a second five-year term .
at a rally on wednesday , odinga dismissed the five as flower girls at kenyatta s wedding .
on wednesday , the supreme court was due to hear a petition seeking to delay the poll , but was unable to do so after five out of seven judges failed to show up .
minutes after the court announced it could not hear the case , hundreds of odinga supporters poured onto kisumu streets , blocking roads with logs and stones and lighting tyres .
most election staff decided to stay home .
i m afraid because it s getting late , returning officer john ngutai told reuters late on wednesday afternoon .
my staff fear to come .
the officials sitting with ngutai said they had been attacked twice by odinga supporters , who targeted training sessions by election officials last week .
police struggled to save presiding officer diana odhiambo , 44 , from a stick-wielding crowd of men .
ngutai played video of the incident on his phone , as odhiambo said : i love my job , but my family is very nervous .
ngutai said preparations were far behind schedule , and it wasn t clear if the election could be held .
polling stations are supposed to open at 6 a.m .
the roads are blocked , we can t access the polling stations , the owners of the vehicles to transport my staff are scared , he sighed , as his phone rang incessantly .
but 26-year-old evans , burrowed into a deep blue hooded sweater , said he would stick around a little longer because he still believed in the elections .
our lives are in danger , he said .
but i m determined to make kenya better .
i believe that following a constitutional process is better .