boston ( reuters ) - americans blame political gridlock in washington for the country ’ s declining economic competitiveness and hold both democrats and republicans responsible , a harvard business school study released on wednesday found .
the study noted that u.s. gross domestic product grew at a rate of about 2 percent since 2000 , well below the 3 to 4 percent average in the prior half-century .
it said a range of factors including a complicated corporate tax code , tangled immigration system and aging roads contribute to the slow growth .
the study contends that factors including a growing wealth gap , declines in productivity growth and a rise in the number of working-age people neither employed nor seeking jobs show that the u.s. economy is becoming less competitive .
a majority of the school ’ s alumni surveyed said they believed the u.s. political system was hurting the economy .
that view crossed party lines , with 82 percent of republicans , 74 percent of independents and 56 percent of democrats agreeing .
“ only a minority of members of either party felt that their own party was acting in a way that supported economic growth , ” said jan rivkin , a professor at harvard business school and co-author of the report .
the survey did not ask whether respondents preferred republican presidential candidate donald trump or democratic candidate hillary clinton .
some respondents worry that neither candidate for the white house could overcome gridlock in washington , rivkin said , adding “ anyone elected into the current system would face pressure toward paralysis. ” a concurrent survey of the general public found smaller , but still significant , numbers blaming the political system for a languishing u.s. economy .
some 49 percent of republicans , 38 percent of independents and 26 percent of democrats at large said politics were hurting growth .
the study contends partisan gridlock is preventing the federal government from tackling structural problems facing the u.s. economy , and suggested steps to address that gridlock .
among them : changing rules that allow lawmakers to “ gerrymander ” districts to ensure one party ’ s dominance ; reforming campaign finance ; setting term limits in the house and senate , and eliminating party control of the federal legislative process .
the study comes a day after the census bureau reported median household income surged 5.2 percent last year to $ 56,500 , its highest since 2007 .
the surveys included responses from 4,807 alumni of harvard business school from may 3 through june 6 and 1,048 members of the general public polled june 10-26 .
the public survey had a margin of error of 3.3 percentage points , margin of error does not apply to the alumni survey as it was not a random sample .