amsterdam ( reuters ) - at least 1,320 underage dutch girls between the ages of 12 and 17 fall victim to sexual exploitation in the netherlands each year , a report on human trafficking published on wednesday showed .
that group makes up nearly half of female trafficking victims in the dutch sex industry , corinne dettmeijer , national rapporteur on trafficking in human beings and sexual violence against children , said in the study .
dettmeijer said the report contained the first reliable statistics on human trafficking in the netherlands and the first of their kind in europe , but was concerned by a decline in cases indicating that fewer were being reported .
the 108-page report compiled both domestic and united nations figures from 2012-2016 .
the united nations office on drugs and crime , which cooperated on the report , is encouraging other countries to produce similar data , to help create a clearer international picture of the scale of the crimes .
the total number of human trafficking victims in the netherlands is roughly five times higher than reported figures indicated , at about 6,250 cases per year , it said , meaning that many victims stay out of sight of authorities and support agencies .
roughly half of about 3,000 cases of sexual exploitation , predominantly woman , involved underage girls .
the number is high , but what makes these statistics unique is that they show us what specific groups are falling prey to human trafficking , national rapporteur corinne dettmeijer said in an interview .
it has exposed our blind spots .
in a report published in 2015 , the european commission said there had been over 30,000 victims of human trafficking between 2010-2012 across all eu member states , of which around 1,000 were child victims were trafficked for sexual exploitation .
dettmeijer said it was known that a relatively high number of women from central and eastern europe were being forced into the sex industry , but the number of underage dutch girls was surprising .
the figures were also remarkable because the number of reported cases of trafficking has fallen sharply over the past five years , from nearly 1,300 in 2012 to below a thousand last year .
i am very concerned about the falling number of reported cases , dettmeijer said .
this means that an increasingly larger portion of trafficking of humans is going unreported .