riyadh ( reuters ) - senior saudi arabian prince miteb bin abdullah , once seen as a leading contender to the throne , has been freed after agreeing to pay over $ 1 billion to settle corruption allegations against him , a saudi official said on wednesday .
miteb , 65 , son of the late king abdullah and former head of the elite national guard , was among dozens of royal family members , high officials and senior businessmen rounded up this month in a crackdown on graft that has strengthened the power of crown prince mohammed bin salman .
the official , who is involved in the crackdown and spoke on condition of anonymity , said miteb was released on tuesday after reaching an acceptable settlement agreement .
the official said he believed the agreed sum to be the equivalent of over $ 1 billion .
it is understood that the settlement included admitting corruption involving known cases , the official said , without giving details .
according to the official , prince miteb was accused of embezzlement , hiring ghost employees and awarding contracts to his own firms , including a deal for walkie talkies and bulletproof military gear .
prince miteb is the first senior figure known to be released among those detained .
around 200 people in total have been questioned in the crackdown , authorities said earlier this month .
the allegations , which include kickbacks , inflating government contracts , extortion and bribery , could not be independently verified .
saudi authorities , who estimate they could eventually recover around $ 100 billion of illicit funds , have been working on reaching agreements with suspects detained at riyadh s luxurious ritz carlton hotel , asking them to hand over assets and cash in return for their freedom .
apart from miteb , the saudi official said that at least three other suspects had finalised settlement agreements and that the public prosecutor had decided to release several individuals .
the prosecutor has decided to put at least five people on trial , the official said without disclosing their identities .
the fate of billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal , chairman of investment firm kingdom holding 4280.se and one of saudi arabia s most prominent international businessmen , was not known .
kingdom issued a statement earlier this month saying it was continuing to operate normally but has not responded to queries about his status since he was detained early this month .
two saudi sources told reuters that prince alwaleed has so far refused to reach a settlement and had asked for access to his lawyer in order to fight allegations against him .
relatives , his lawyer and officials in his office could not be contacted to comment .
saudi arabia s stock market .tasi , where many investors have been alarmed by the corruption probe , rose after news of the settlements by prince miteb and others .
the main index was trading 0.4 percent higher around midday on wednesday .
the settlements may mean authorities can soon wind down parts of the probe , reducing the risk of damage to the economy through the freezing of hundreds of bank accounts , and easing the danger that firms linked to detainees could be affected .
officials from prince miteb s office could not be reached for comment about his release , and it was unclear if he was able to move freely or whether he would be put under house arrest .
an acquaintance of the family said earlier on his twitter account that prince miteb was receiving brothers and sons at his palace in riyadh .
the arrests of royals and top businessmen have been welcomed by many saudis who are frustrated by corruption , but the crackdown is also seen by many people as a pre-emptive step by prince mohammed to remove any possible challenge to his control over the world s top oil exporting country .
the round-up follows a meticulously planned palace coup in june through which prince mohammed ousted his elder cousin prince mohammed bin nayef as heir to the throne .
prince miteb , as overlord of the 100,000-strong national guard , represented the last great competing power center left after the toppling of prince mohammed bin nayef .
in september , religious and intellectual critics of the government were jailed .