chicago ( reuters ) - illinois governor bruce rauner said on monday the state has the power to block any debt offerings by financially distressed school districts , including the cash-strapped chicago public schools ( cps ) , which has been dependent on borrowing to fund operations .
the republican governor last week launched a financial probe of the nation ’ s third-largest public school system through the illinois state board of education .
rauner , who has called for a state takeover of the school district , said the board has the legal authority to block borrowings by districts found to be in financial duress .
“ the state board has never chosen to do that for the city of chicago .
i hope that never becomes necessary .
but we ’ ve got to be ready to take action , ” rauner told reporters .
rauner ’ s office pointed to a provision of the school code that it says applies to cps .
the provision prohibits the sale of bonds , notes or other debt by a district certified to be in financial difficulty until a financial plan is approved by the state board of education .
cps chief executive forrest claypool contended that the authority rauner seeks to exercise does not apply to cps , according to a school district spokeswoman .
cps is struggling with a $ 1.1 billion structural budget deficit , caused largely by escalating annual pension payments that will reach $ 676 million this fiscal year .
the district ’ s efforts to gain an additional $ 480 million in state dollars to pay its pension bill have become entangled in an ongoing impasse between rauner and democrats who control the legislature .
to keep operating in anticipation of $ 1 billion in property tax revenue next month , cps turned to short-term borrowing and a $ 725 million bond sale earlier this month for cash flow .
the district said it plans to seek additional short-term borrowing authority from its governing board in the future .
rauner said accusations by chicago officials that he attempted to derail the feb. 3 bond sale by pushing for a state takeover or possible bankruptcy for cps were “ completely false. ” skittish investors demanded hefty yields for the “ junk ” -rated bonds , which will cost the district nearly $ 1.9 billion to pay off by 2044 .