washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. secret service will not allow people to carry guns into the july republican national convention in cleveland , quashing the hopes of more than 45,000 people who have signed a petition saying attendees should be allowed to bring firearms .
the secret service said on monday it has the authority to preclude guns from sites visited by the people it protects such as u.s. presidential candidates , presidents and former presidents .
“ only authorized law enforcement personnel working in conjunction with the secret service for a particular event may carry a firearm inside of the protected site , ” agency spokesman robert hoback said in a statement .
“ individuals determined to be carrying firearms will not be allowed past a predetermined outer perimeter checkpoint , regardless of whether they possess a ticket to the event , ” he said .
a petition on change.org called for firearms to be allowed into the quicken loans arena during the convention in ohio , a state that allows guns to be carried openly in public .
it had drawn 45,811 supporters by monday afternoon .
the arena ’ s rules forbid firearms or other weapons , which the petition says is a “ direct affront ” to the u.s. constitution ’ s second amendment right to bear arms .
it called cleveland one of the most dangerous u.s. cities .
“ with this irresponsible and hypocritical act of selecting a ‘ gun-free zone ’ for the convention , the rnc has placed its members , delegates , candidates and all u.s. citizens in grave danger , ” it said .
the petition called for five actions to enable gun owners to carry their weapons into the venue .
one of those recommendations was for ohio governor john kasich , a republican presidential candidate , to use his executive authority to override the arena ’ s decision to be a “ gun-free zone. ” but rob nichols , a spokesman for the kasich campaign , said the secret service had made its decision .
“ at this point the secret service has already weighed in and whoever is the force behind this petition probably should have gone to the secret service from the get-go , ” he said .
the republican convention may be contested if front-runner donald trump does not receive enough delegates to clinch his party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election .
trump ’ s rallies have been punctuated by protesters , and sometimes clashes .
he has warned there would be “ riots ” if he is denied the nomination .