kris kobach for years , the mainstream media has ignored the problem of voter fraud and belittled those of us who are trying to do something about it .
and when secretaries of state like me identify cases of fraud , we are told that the number of incidents of voter fraud is too insignificant to matter.new hampshire was a must win for hillary .
watch cnn explain the significance of winning the state of new hampshire for hillary : new hampshire is one of fifteen states that allow same-day voter registration .
the benefit of same-day registration is that it allows a person who has procrastinated or has forgotten to register to nonetheless cast a ballot on election day .
the downside of same-day registration is that it does not allow the state time to assess the eligibility of the voter .
a volunteer poll worker simply accepts a modicum of identification and takes the voter at his word that he s a u.s. citizen resident of the state who is eligible to vote.new hampshire is also a battleground state .
unlike neighboring massachusetts and vermont , which reliably vote for the democrat in presidential elections , new hampshire can swing either way .
it has long been reported , anecdotally , that out-of-staters take advantage of new hampshire s same-day registration and head to the granite state to cast fraudulent votes.now there s proof.according to statistics released by the speaker of the new hampshire house of representatives , on the date of the general election in november 2016 , there were 6,540 same-day registrants who registered to vote in new hampshire using an out-of-state driver s license to prove their identity .
in and of itself , that doesn t prove that any fraud occurred theoretically , each of those individuals could have been someone who recently moved to the state and had not yet had time to get a new hampshire driver s license .
according to new hampshire law , a new resident has 60 days to obtain a new hampshire driver s license.so if those 6,540 voters were bona fide new hampshire residents , they would get their driver s license no later than january 7 , 2017 .
however , the numbers tell a very different story .
it turns out that , as of august 30 , 2017 nearly ten months after the election only 1,014 of the 6,540 same-day registrants who registered with an out-of-state license had obtained a new hampshire driver s license .
the other 5,526 individuals never obtained a new hampshire driver s license .
and , of those 5,526 , only 213 registered a vehicle in new hampshire.so 5,313 of those voters neither obtained a new hampshire driver s license nor registered a vehicle in new hampshire .
they have not followed the legal requirements for residents regarding driver s licenses , and it appears that they are not actually residing in new hampshire .
it seems that they never were bona fide residents of the state.5,513 is a big number more than enough to swing two very important elections .
the closest major election was the contest between incumbent republican u.s .
senator kelly ayotte and challenger maggie hassan ( d ) .
hassan won the election by a razor-thin margin of 1,017 votes .
those 5,313 fraudulent votes were more than enough to swing the election .
if 59.2 percent or more of them went for hassan , then the election was stolen through voter fraud .
that s likely , since the surrounding states are democrat strongholds.it s also possible that new hampshire s four electoral college votes were swung to hillary clinton through illegal voting by nonresidents .
clinton won new hampshire by only 2,732 votes .
if 74.8 percent of the 5,513 fraudulent votes were cast for clinton , then the presidential election in new hampshire was tipped as well.if the presidential contest had been closer and had come down to a margin of three or four electoral college votes , then this voter fraud might have had extraordinary consequences .
regardless , in the senate contest , it is highly likely that voting by nonresidents changed the result .
breitbart