hillary gives pay-to-play a whole new meaning lady gaga , katy perry and tony bennett all have one thing in common every one of them got paid after performing to raise money for hillary .
so are they with her or are they only with her if she pays up ?
of course , this begs the question , besides chelsea , is anybody really with hillary ?
pop star lady gaga cashed a $ 21,000 check from hillary clinton s presidential campaign , campaign finance records show.gaga is a public backer of clinton , and performed at a fundraiser for the former secretary of state at manhattan s luxurious plaza hotel in june 2015 , an event that carried a price tag of $ 2,700 per head.during the fundraiser , clinton snapped a picture alongside gaga and singer tony bennett , who also performed at the event .
the picture shows gaga holding up a shirt that read , yaaas hillary !
hillary posted the photo to her instagram account.two months after the event , on aug. 25 , 2015 , hillary for american made a $ 21,088 payment to mermaid touring inc. for event production in los angeles , california .
the company is registered in the state of new york and lists stefani germanotta , the birth name of lady gaga , as its chief executive officer.gaga urged her new york-based fans on twitter to get out and vote for clinton in the democratic primaries .
hillary for america s new york primary day blog highlighted the tweet on its website.tony bennett , also an open clinton backer , called the democratic candidate the most qualified person to ever run for president shortly before the new york primaries .
he has received two separate payments from the clinton campaign , federal election commission records show.the first check to bennett was dated for july 17 , 2015 in the amount of $ 2,052 for event production purposes and came one month after the fundraiser.on jan. 7 , 2016 nearly seven months after the fundraiser another check was cut to bennett in the amount of $ 4,421 , also for event production .
this is not the first time that a celebrity who publicly backs clinton has received payments from her campaign.the washington free beacon previously reported that pop star katy perry s company , kitty purry , inc. , was given $ 70,000 from hillary for america.in total , $ 97,561 in payments was dished out between gaga , bennett , and perry from the campaign.clinton s campaign did not return a request for comment on why the payment was issued to gaga by press time .
wfb