milan , italy ( reuters ) - as nervous investors retreat from catalonia , afraid the wealthy region may secede from spain , another european region whose politicians once campaigned for independence is looking to attract some of them by talking of autonomy , not secession .
the italian region of lombardy , the country s industrial engine and home to its financial capital milan , is holding a referendum on sunday for more autonomy , an outcome its once-proudly secessionist leader hopes will lure more investment .
that could come at the expense of catalonia , which is a rival to lombardy in the race to attract employers fleeing another painful european divorce , brexit .
the two regions are competing to host europe s drugs regulator which must leave the uk and find a new home inside the european union .
we are not catalonia , said lombardy president roberto maroni , overlooking milan from his glass-walled office on the 36th floor of the region s recently built headquarters .
we remain inside the italian nation with more autonomy while catalonia wants to become the 29th state of the european union .
we , no .
not for now .
he speaks of catalonia as a competitor in some respects but says he is not deliberately courting its firms .
we are not cheering because firms are fleeing catalonia .
we will see what happens but i haven t had any requests yet from catalan firms .
maroni is a leading member of lega nord , which began in the 1990s to campaign for an independent state of padania , stretching across italy s north , roughly following the po river from around lombardy in the west to venice in the east .
lega nord no longer actively campaigns for secession but as the ruling party in lombardy and in the veneto region around venice , it is holding referendums in both for greater autonomy , including a better financial deal from the central government .
a yes vote would not be binding on rome , but maroni said it would give him a strong mandate to negotiate a better deal .
it s obvious that the more negotiating power i have , the more money i can manage to bring home , he said .
rome says the referendum is unnecessary , though permitted under italy s constitution , which allows regions to open talks for more autonomy .
italy s ruling democratic party is also neutral on the issue , though at least one of the party s mayors in lombardy is calling for a yes vote .
like catalonia , lombardy makes up a fifth of the national economy and complains that the center is draining its finances .
but unlike catalonia , where hundreds of firms have shifted headquarters to other regions of spain since an oct. 1 independence referendum there , lombardy s boss is taking a softer line and using his autonomy push as an investment pitch .
maroni says lombardy pays 54 billion euros ( $ 64 billion ) more in taxes to rome each year than it receives from the center .
he wants to reduce that difference by half .
maroni says he would spend some of that money on research and development , nurturing family-owned businesses and start-ups and tax holidays to attract big international firms .
for example , he said , he could tell big multinationals looking to invest in europe : you know that if you come to milan , for two or three years i won t make you pay taxes .
rome , though , is in no position to allow its most economically powerful region such a windfall without risking economic collapse in the already-poor south , experts say .
it s a zero-sum game , said professor luca ricolfi , an expert on federalism at the university of turin .
gian claudio bressa , junior minister for regional affairs in rome , said it was not a matter of just handing back money .
regions must show they can take over public services from the national government and do a better job at providing them .
only then are more funds allocated to a newly autonomous region , to help it fund those additional services .
italy is a unitary state based on mutual fiscal solidarity among regions , bressa said .
in order to get more money from the central state , lombardy should demonstrate that the services offered are better if compared to those provided by the state itself .
if 27 billion euros were to be used to fund something different from services , italy could not survive of course .
even if there is a large yes vote in sunday s referendums , experts do not expect quick or dramatic change .
lombardy would consider it a victory if it managed to pick up a few more responsibilities and around 1-2 billion euros in additional funds , said the university of turin s ricolfi .
politically , though , it could inflame tensions between the rich north and poor south , and weaken the seams of a nation that was a collection of small regional states , speaking a variety of dialects , until unification in the 19th century .
once you open up the issue of what the northern regions pay , then i expect a backlash in southern italy , said giovanni orsina , history professor at rome s luiss-guido carli university .
( $ 1 = 0.8504 euros )