abidjan ( reuters ) - ivory coast will pay thousands of soldiers 15 million cfa francs ( $ 25,782 ) each as part of buy-outs aimed at reducing the size of its unruly and mutiny-prone military , documents showed on monday .
africa s fastest growing economy in 2016 , ivory coast was hit earlier this year by successive uprisings by low-ranking troops .
the costly bonuses paid to end the unrest helped balloon the budget deficit this year , and the episode tarnished its image as one of the continent s rising economic stars .
the government said last week that it would retire around 1,000 soldiers by the end of the year as part of efforts to bring the force - estimated at about 25,000 troops - in line with accepted standards .
a spokesman did not say last week how much the soldiers would receive under the voluntary scheme .
however , a document obtained by reuters outlining the plan stated that each retired soldier would receive a payment of 15 million cfa francs .
neither the spokesman nor ivory coast s defense minister were available to comment on monday .
diplomats said the move signaled that the government was beginning to implement a military reform law .
according to a copy of the law seen by reuters , 4,400 troops are to leave the army over four years .
it was not immediately clear if that figure includes soldiers already scheduled to retire during the period .
ivory coast s army was thrown together from rival loyalist and rebel factions at the end of a 2011 civil war that brought president alassane ouattara to power after his predecessor laurent gbagbo rejected his defeat in a 2010 run-off election .
it remains plagued by internal divisions .
diplomats and analysts say the force is bloated with unqualified personnel and vulnerable to political manipulation .
an adviser to parliament speaker guillaume soro , considered a leading candidate to replace term-limited president ouattara in 2020 , was arrested in october after a secret arms cache at his home helped mutinying soldiers halt a loyalist advance .
soro and his supporters say the charges were politically motivated .
( $ 1 = 581.8000 cfa francs )