manila ( reuters ) - thousands of assault rifles and helmets were among the military gear russia donated to the philippines in a bid to widen its arms market in southeast asia at a time when manila is seeking to diversify weapons systems , officials said on wednesday .
manila received about 5,000 kalashnikov rifles , 5,000 steel helmets , about a million rounds of ammunition for the rifles and 20 army trucks in a ceremony attended by president rodrigo duterte , who also toured one of five visiting russian warships .
the gift came a day after russia and the philippines signed two military pacts , including a sales contract with rosoboronexport , a state-owned vendor of russian defense equipment .
we are looking at acquiring some equipment for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations , but there are no specifics yet , defense secretary delfin lorenzana told reuters .
we are still discussing .
lorenzana said the rosoboronexport contract was not a sales deal but signaled the philippines intention to acquire small arms , vehicles and special equipment for disaster operations .
but the philippines biggest source of arms , the united states , was not worried at the prospect of equipment donated by its rivals china and russia .
i don t attach very much significance to it , some trucks or guns being dropped off to a country that s fighting terrorists right now , u.s. defense secretary jim mattis told reporters on the plane to bangkok .
it s a sovereign decision by the philippines , he added .
so it s not a big issue ... other nations are coming to their help .
the united states and china dominate regional arms trade .
since 2000 , the united states has donated close to $ 1 billion worth of military equipment to the philippines , ranging from surveillance planes , drones and boats to small arms .
china , which promised to donate a third shipment of small arms after a meeting on wednesday between lorenzana and his chinese counterpart , general chang wanquan , has already given the philippines about $ 7 million in small arms .
the deals with the philippines will allow russia to expand its arms market in the region , said another senior philippine official , who declined to be named because he was not authorized to speak to media .
the philippines is now open to buying russian arms as manila cultivates closer ties with moscow , he added , particularly as the military looks to diversify its equipment , reining in costs while maintaining quality .
moscow has been offering to sell arms to us since the mid-1990s and they are willing to barter guns for bananas , he said , adding that russia was selling fighters , helicopters and submarines to the philippines .