beijing ( reuters ) - china will push for greater international cooperation in the fight against corruption and terrorism when it hosts interpol s general assembly next week , according to diplomatic sources familiar with the matter , against a backdrop of concerns china is using the body for its own goals .
last year , the global police cooperation agency elected a senior chinese public security official , vice public security minister meng hongwei , as its president , prompting rights groups to ask whether beijing could try and use the position to go after dissidents abroad .
beijing has tried for many years to enlist the help of foreign countries to arrest and deport back to china citizens it accuses of crimes including corruption and terrorism .
the three beijing-based sources , who are familiar with the planning for the interpol meeting , said china is likely to make these two areas its focus for the general assembly .
beijing has faced reluctance , in western countries in particular , when it asks for the repatriation of those wanted for alleged crimes in china .
governments and judiciary in these countries have been concerned that the chinese don t produce evidence acceptable for western courts , and that defendants might be mistreated and won t get a fair trial in china amid concerns that allegations can be politically motivated .
western diplomats familiar with chinese requests say china sometimes misunderstands that in western countries it needs to process its demands through the courts .
they re often quite surprised to hear that we can t simply hand them over , said one diplomat , declining to be named given the sensitivity of the matter .
but china s security officials have been working to understand the legal requirements of developed countries and international bodies so their requests for expedition become more palatable .
beijing has also been attempting to build intelligence sharing relationships with western countries in the fight against islamist militants , diplomats say .
china is itself battling what it says are uighur extremists operating in its far western region of xinjiang .
speaking last week , li shulei , who leads china s efforts to find and return those suspected of corruption who live abroad , called for a strengthened international anti-graft cooperation framework .
we must build a new order to fight international corruption ... cut off escape routes for corrupt elements , he told a meeting in beijing .
china has given few details about interpol s general assembly , which opens in beijing on tuesday with a speech by chinese president xi jinping .
on the question of meng s influence in interpol , the diplomats say that the position is largely ceremonial .
the lyon , france-based interpol says its secretary general j rgen stock , a german national , is the organization s full-time chief official overseeing the day-to-day work of international police cooperation .
in 2014 , china issued interpol red notices for its 100 most-wanted corruption suspects who have fled overseas as part of xi s sweeping campaign against corruption .
almost half have come back to china to date , some voluntarily , according to the government .
interpol says red notices are requests to provisionally arrest suspects pending extradition , and are not international arrest warrants .
it is up to a member state to act upon an interpol red notice .
they can be ignored if a government decides there is insufficient evidence to act upon them , diplomats say .
there are no figures for how many red notices are ignored .
red notices themselves are often not made publicly available and it is up to the country issuing them to decide if they are publicized or not .
requests are carefully examined to ensure they comply with interpol s constitution , which bans any intervention or activities of a political , military , religious or racial character , interpol said in a statement to reuters .
interpol can not insist or compel any member country to arrest an individual who is the subject of a red notice .
nor can interpol require any member country to take any action in response to another member country s request , it said .
china has attracted criticism from rights groups for targeting in particular exiled uighurs from xinjiang , and accusing them of terrorism , including dolkun isa , the general secretary of the munich-based world uyghur congress .
china s ministry of public security , which is helping to organise the beijing meeting , did not respond to requests for comment on concerns about china s role in interpol .
foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said interpol operated under the principles of professionalism and neutrality to jointly fight and prevent crime and china respected that .
in april , interpol issued a global red notice at beijing s request for guo wengui , a billionaire currently exiled in manhattan , who has made claims of high-level corruption within the communist party .
guo has said the red notice showed china was exerting its influence , given it had the head of interpol , to prevent ordinary chinese people from blowing the whistle on official corruption while overseas .
maya wang , hong kong-based china researcher for human rights watch , said that china s vice police chief heading interpol can be seen as part of an overall push by beijing to flex its international muscle .
we have reason to worry that the internal information being shared by interpol with the police chief may impact on particularly vulnerable minorities like the uighurs , who have sometimes been involved in terrorism but often are targeted for political disloyalty , said wang , who acknowledged that so far there is little concrete evidence that this has happened .