remember the hope poster that became a huge hit ?
well , the artist responsible for it is speaking out on the past two obama presidencies .
some might say that shepard fairey is partly responsible for the election of obama .
who didn t want some hope and change in 2008 ?
now we know the rest of the story we got no hope and the change is a disaster !
so you would think that shepard fairey has seen the light and is voting like many democrats are for trump .
no , he hasn t learned anything after all .
as much as he says obama s agenda was a disaster , he s going to vote for bernie .
liberal lunacy for sure ! shepard fairey , who s now a bernie sanders supporter , says that after obama won the presidency , he went quiet on a lot of things he promised while running for office .
i think history will be fairly kind of his presidency but i want things to move further in the direction that he promised as a campaigner , he said .
he s been more outspoken in the last 18 months .
i think he s going out having done some good things and said some good things , but there were about six years there where i think he could have done more .
fairey said he had high hopes for obama and that the president couldn t blame his failures entirely on congressional gridlock .
if he had been as outspoken as he was as a campaigner , i would give him a pass on not being able to push through some of the progressive things i hoped he would , but he was quiet on a lot of things , he added .
that to me was unfortunate .
similarly , german journalist klaus faissner pointed out that obama transformed from an electrifying candidate into a bush on steroids who promoted drone strikes , mass surveillance , and a totalitarian relationship with the media .
obama signed more orders for drone assaults than bush jr. had done in the entire eight years of his presidency , he said .
these were drone strikes which caused catastrophic levels of non-combatant casualties , which america simply wrote-off under the euphemism of collateral damage .
via : progressives today