i guess we re not the only ones who are 100 % fed up with our marxist president following the influx of illegal immigrant minors from central america , an official at the federal agency charged with protecting public health describes barack obama as the worst pres we have ever had , an amateur and marxist , according to internal emails obtained by judicial watch.jw got the records as part of an investigation into the center for disease control s ( cdc ) activation of an emergency operations center ( eoc ) to deal with the barrage of illegal alien minors last summer .
tens of thousands of central americans came into the united states through the mexican border and contagious diseases many considered to be eradicated in the u.s. became a tremendous concern .
the cdc , which operates under the department of health and human services ( hhs ) , responded by opening an emergency facility designed to monitor and coordinate response activities to eminent public health threats .
this special emergency division was created after the 2001 terrorist attacks and has responded to more than 50 public health threats , including hurricanes , food borne disease outbreaks , the 2009 h1n1 influenza pandemic and the haiti cholera outbreak .
scientists from across the cdc are brought together to analyze , validate , and efficiently exchange information during a public health emergency and connect with response partners .
the eoc also coordinates the deployment of cdc staff and the procurement and management of all equipment and supplies that agency responders may need during their deployment .
[ ] it s a major and costly operation that can stick american taxpayers with a huge tab .
that s why jw launched a probe when the obama administration took in the illegal immigrants , initially coined unaccompanied alien children ( uac ) , with open arms last summer .
jw has sued the department of homeland security ( dhs ) for planning records involving the border crisis as well as information relating to the solicitation of on-demand escort services for the 65,000 uacs that remain in the u.s. last year jw also reported that the illegal immigrant minors have brought in serious diseases , including swine flu , dengue fever , possibly ebola virus and tuberculosis.the cdc records obtained by jw this week include email exchanges between agency officials directly involved in the activation of the eoc to handle the health threats created by the influx of illegal alien minors last summer .
in an email dated june 9 , 2014 , cdc logistics management specialist george roark wrote to cdc public health advisor william adams that no country in the world would allow the influx .
adams replies that in ten years or less , they ll all be voting commander s intent roark fires back by describing obama as the worst pres we have ever had he truly is the amateur but a marxist too .
via : judicial watch