of course , there s no official word from the white house yet .
typically the obama administration keeps a tight lid on celebration details until the 11th hour .
but the big names thought to be on the guest list have been slowly trickling out this week.old standbys such as singer usher and actor samuel l. jackson will most likely be there , according to another person with knowledge of the invitees .
also currently practicing their sweet moves are media titan oprah winfrey , who snagged an exit interview with the first lady last month on her fellow invitee and bestie gayle king s network cbs ; actor bradley cooper , who showed up to the french state dinner sans underpants ; beyonc , who sang at both of obama s inaugurations , and her husband , rapper jay z .
we re also hearing that stevie wonder , who has performed at the white house , director j.j. abrams and director george lucas make the list.if this star-studded shindig follows the traditional obama script , cellphones will be confiscated at the white house security gate and social media crumbs will be few .
but afterward , tales of the president s dance moves and sore feet will make the late-night talk show rounds.the white house party will act as the kickoff of a goodbye tour of sorts for president obama , who will head to chicago to deliver a farewell address jan. 10th.please check out the hysterical comments at the washington post that will make your night : wapothe petulant narcissist just doesn t get it .
his legacy and his party were defeated .
his audacity of arrogance could not save them .
head high and nostrils flared , he continues to ignore the obvious .
he is a classic liberal socialist who insists he knows better than everyone , that he is gifted with superior intellect and understanding .
therefore , his robes are immaculate .
we should do as he says .
the media cheers , the nations rejoice and the sycophants swoon .
he believes in his destiny.then , from a corner comes a small voice , the emperor has no clothes .