bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand is putting the finishing touches this month to a lavish five-day funeral ceremony in a final goodbye to its late king bhumibol adulyadej , who helped shape the southeast asian nation for decades after world war two .
many of the hundreds of thousands of black-clad mourners are expected to camp for days near bangkok s grand palace to capture a good view of the ceremonies , which will be guarded by 78,000 police officers and culminate in the cremation on oct. 26 .
october is a sad period , prime minister prayuth chan-ocha , who announced plans for a national election next year , told reporters in the capital on tuesday .
i ask that politicians and political parties be peaceful and orderly .
artisans have worked for ten months in bangkok s ancient quarter to build an elaborate cremation site fashioned after a vision of heaven , where thais believe dead royals return to live above mount meru , a golden mountain in hindu mythology .
the funeral of king bhumibol , who died on oct. 13 last year after seven decades on the throne , is also a time of uncertainty for some thais , said a thailand-based analyst , who declined to be identified because of sensitivities around the monarchy .
in many ways the king was thailand and his death has left a huge vacuum in the thai psyche , said the analyst , pointing to social and political upheavals in recent decades .
what happens after his funeral ?
where will thailand head next ?
these are profound questions that must be answered .
the late king was succeeded by his son , king maha vajiralongkorn , or rama x , who has overseen sweeping changes to the royal household , including the running of palace finances .
though steeped in ancient traditions , the funeral of king bhumibol will permit more public participation than those of previous kings , said thai monarchy expert tongthong chandransu .
a strong bond has been formed between the people and the monarchy the strongest compared to past reigns , tongthong told reuters .
so we can see more people participation in the royal funeral of this king .
among the many royal objects restored for the funeral is a golden chariot that will carry the king s body in a giant ornate urn to the cremation site .
the urn will move to the royal crematorium before the cremation on the night of oct. 26 , which has been declared a national holiday .
more than 3,000 performers will join in a nightlong final tribute of music and puppet shows to end a year of mourning .
thais devoted to the memory of the king have folded paper flowers for his cremation , making 10 million in bangkok alone , city authorities said .
this is our mandela , or our princess diana , moment , said graphic designer and self-proclaimed royalist apichai klapiput .
what the world will see is rivers of tears that show how much thais love king bhumibol adulyadej .
he was the people s king .