boston-based entrepreneur and inventor of email v.a .
shiva ayyadurai announced his candidacy for the us senate seat currently occupied by elizabeth warren.today , shivaratri , when light overcame darkness , we launched my campaign for us senate against @ senwarren .
defend the american dream !
dr. shiva ayyadurai ( @ va_shiva ) february 25 , 2017ayyadurai is a graduate of the massachusetts institute of technology , and is best known for his claim to have invented email.v.a .
shiva ayyadurai , an indian-american , will take on the only fake indian in the us senate , elizabeth warren.shiva announced his candidacy last night at a private event hosted by mike cernovich and jeff giesea in suburban maryland.folks , this is the guy who is going to beat @ senwarren .
he is the real indian .
@ va_shiva .
@ cernovich # bullmoose pic.twitter.com/6z5bdwpkpy lynni megginson ( @ lynnimegginson ) february 25 , 2017elizabeth warren lied to jump over other candidates and land a position at harvard .
elizabeth warren was listed as the harvard law s first woman of color in 1997 law review piece on diversity and affirmative action ! elizabeth warren pushed back hard on questions about a harvard crimson piece in 1996 that described her as native american , saying she had no idea the school where she taught law was billing her that way and saying it never came up during her hiring a year earlier , which others have backed up.but a 1997 fordham law review piece described her as harvard law school s first woman of color , based , according to the notes at the bottom of the story , on a telephone interview with michael chmura , news director , harvard law ( aug. 6 , 1996 ) .
warren was listed as a woman of color in the 1993 harvard student journal .
gptime to take fight right into the belly of the beast in ma , the epi-center of fake news , fake history & fake science !
@ nntaleb @ cernovich dr. shiva ayyadurai ( @ va_shiva ) february 25 , 2017honored to be with real patriots # bullmoose who are uniting as one force to bring truth and freedom , exposing the fake news !
@ cernovich dr. shiva ayyadurai ( @ va_shiva ) february 25 , 2017he s the inventor of email and polymath , holds four degrees from mit , is a world-renowned systems scientist , inventor and entrepreneur.his love of medicine and complex systems began in india when he became intrigued with medicine at the age of five as he observed his grandmother , a farmer and healer in the small village of muhavur in south india , apply siddha , india s oldest system of traditional medicine , to heal and support local villagers .
these early experiences inspired him to pursue the study of modern systems science , information technology and eastern and traditional systems of medicine to develop an integrative framework linking eastern and western systems of medicine.in 1978 , as a precocious 14-year-old , after completing a special program in computer science at the courant institute of mathematical science at nyu , ayyadurai was recruited by the university of medicine and dentistry of new jersey ( umdnj ) as a research fellow , where he developed the first electronic emulation of the entire interoffice mail system ( inbox , outbox , folders , address book , memo , etc .
) , which he named email , to invent the world s first email system , resulting in him being awarded the first united states copyright for email , computer program for electronic mail system , at a time when copyright was the only protection for software inventions.ayyadurai went on to receive four degrees from mit , including a bachelors in electrical engineering and computer science , and a dual master s degree in mechanical engineering and visual studies from the mit media laboratory .