beirut ( reuters ) - from the moment saad al-hariri s plane touched down in saudi arabia on friday nov. 3 , he was in for a surprise .
there was no line-up of saudi princes or ministry officials , as would typically greet a prime minister on an official visit to king salman , senior sources close to hariri and top lebanese political and security officials said .
his phone was confiscated , and the next day he was forced to resign as prime minister in a statement broadcast by a saudi-owned tv channel .
the move thrust lebanon back to the forefront of a struggle that is reshaping the middle east , between the conservative sunni monarchy of saudi arabia and shi ite revolutionary iran .
their rivalry has fueled conflicts in iraq , syria and yemen , where they back opposing sides , and now risks destabilizing lebanon , where saudi has long tried to weaken the iran-backed hezbollah group , lebanon s main political power and part of the ruling coalition .
sources close to hariri say saudi arabia has concluded that the prime minister - a long-time saudi ally and son of late prime minister rafik al-hariri , who was assassinated in 2005 - had to go because he was unwilling to confront hezbollah .
multiple lebanese sources say riyadh hopes to replace saad hariri with his older brother bahaa as lebanon s top sunni politician .
bahaa is believed to be in saudi arabia and members of the hariri family have been asked to travel there to pledge allegiance to him , but have refused , the sources say .
when hariri s plane landed in riyadh , he got the message immediately that something was wrong , a hariri source told reuters .
there was no one was waiting for him .
saudi arabia has dismissed suggestions it forced hariri to resign and says he is a free man .
saudi officials could not immediately be reached for comment on the circumstances of his arrival , whether his phone had been taken , or whether the kingdom was planning to replace him with his brother .
hariri has given no public remarks since he resigned and no indication of when he might return to lebanon .
hariri was summoned to the kingdom to meet saudi king salman in a phone call on thursday night , nov. 2 .
before departing , he told his officials they would resume their discussions on monday .
he told his media team he would see them at the weekend in the red sea resort of sharm al-sheikh , where he was due to meet egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi on the sidelines of the world youth forum .
hariri went to his riyadh home .
his family made their fortune in saudi arabia and have long had properties there .
the source close to hariri said the lebanese leader received a call from a saudi protocol official on saturday morning , who asked him to attend a meeting with crown prince mohammed bin salman .
he waited for about four hours before being presented with his resignation speech to read on television , the source said .
from the moment he arrived they ( saudis ) showed no respect for the man , another senior lebanese political source said .
hariri frequently visits saudi arabia .
on a trip a few days earlier , prince mohammed bin salman had arranged for him to see senior intelligence officials and gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan , the saudi point man on lebanon .
hariri came back from that trip to beirut pleased and relaxed , sources in his entourage said .
he posted a selfie with sabhan , both of them smiling .
he told aides he had heard encouraging statements from the crown prince , including a promise to revive a saudi aid package for the lebanese army .
the hariri sources say hariri believed he had convinced saudi officials of the need to maintain an entente with hezbollah for the sake of lebanon s stability .
hezbollah has a heavily armed fighting force , in addition to seats in parliament and government .
saudi-backed efforts to weaken the group in lebanon a decade ago led to sunni-shi ite clashes and a hezbollah takeover of beirut .
what happened in those meetings , i believe , is that ( hariri ) revealed his position on how to deal with hezbollah in lebanon : that confrontation would destabilize the country .
i think they didn t like what they heard , said one of the sources , who was briefed on the meetings .
the source said hariri told sabhan not to hold us responsible for something that is beyond my control or that of lebanon .
but hariri underestimated the saudi position on hezbollah , the source said .
for the saudis it is an existential battle .
it s black and white .
we in lebanon are used to gray , the source said .
sabhan could not immediately be reached for comment .
hariri s resignation speech shocked his team .
lebanese president michel aoun , a hezbollah ally , told ambassadors to lebanon that saudi arabia had kidnapped hariri , a senior lebanese official said .
on friday , france said it wanted hariri to have all his freedom of movement .
in his speech , hariri said he feared assassination and accused iran and hezbollah of sowing strife in the region .
he said the arab world would cut off the hands that wickedly extend to it , language which one source close to him said was not typical of the lebanese leader .
hariri s resignation came as more than 200 people , including 11 saudi princes , current and former ministers and tycoons , were arrested in an anti-corruption purge in saudi arabia .
initially there was speculation hariri was a target of that campaign because of his family s business interests .
but sources close to the lebanese leader said his forced resignation was motivated by saudi efforts to counter iran .
hariri was taken to meet the saudi king after his resignation .
footage was aired on saudi tv .
he was then flown to abu dhabi to meet crown prince mohammed bin zayed , the saudi crown prince s main regional ally .
he returned to riyadh and has since received western ambassadors .
sources close to hariri said the saudis , while keeping hariri under house arrest , were trying to orchestrate a change of leadership in hariri s future movement by installing his elder brother bahaa , who was overlooked for the top job when their father was killed .
the two have been at odds for years .
in a statement , the future movement said it stood fully behind hariri as its leader .
hariri aide and interior minister nohad machnouk dismissed the idea bahaa was being positioned to replace his brother : we are not herds of sheep or a plot of land whose ownership can be moved from one person to another .
in lebanon things happen though elections not pledges of allegiances .
family members , aides and politicians who have contacted hariri in riyadh say he is apprehensive and reluctant to say anything beyond i am fine .
asked if he is coming back , they say his normal answer is : inshallah ( god willing ) .