san francisco ( reuters ) - when more than a dozen north korean economic officials visited california and new york in 2011 , u.s. organizers hoped the tour would give the delegation ideas for market reforms and business innovations .
the north koreans quickly made clear that was not why they had come : they wanted to secure u.s. investment , particularly from restaurant giant yum !
brands inc ( yum.n ) , said susan shirk , a university of california at san diego professor who helped organize the visit .
they really wanted to get kfc to north korea , shirk said , referring to the fried chicken chain .
she added that yum did not reciprocate their interest .
in recent years , a handful of visits from official delegations and athletes have provided rare opportunities for ordinary americans and north koreans to come together .
those exchanges are now in jeopardy after president donald trump included north korea in a group of nations that will face travel restrictions to the united states because they do not share enough information about visa applicants .
the new policy comes at a time of heightened tensions between the united states and north korea over pyongyang s nuclear weapons and ballistic missile tests , as well as escalating verbal threats from the country s leader kim jong un .
while the travel restrictions are unlikely to have a broad impact - the number of non-diplomatic travelers from north korea per year rarely tops 50 , according to u.s. state department data - human rights activists worry it has severed one of the few human bonds between the isolated country and the west .
the main point in inviting these people here is to give them exposure to the u.s. , and see if one can open the door a bit , said roberta cohen , co-chair emeritus for the committee for human rights in north korea .
a state department official said the restrictions were necessary because north korea does not cooperate with the united states government in any respect and fails to satisfy all information-sharing requirements on visa applicants .
north koreans wishing to visit the united states must first obtain permission from their own government , then apply for a visa in person at a u.s. embassy , typically in beijing , said robert king , former u.s. special envoy for north korea human rights issues .
when north koreans arrive in the united states they never go anywhere alone , king said , and are chaperoned by north korean government minders .
in 2015 , 15 north korean weightlifters along with coaches , reserves and officials traveled to houston for the international weightlifting federation world championships , said phil andrews , chief executive officer of usa weightlifting .
north korea was planning earlier this year to take part in the 2017 world championships in anaheim , california , in november , andrews said .
however , he does not know whether they will be allowed to come .
the new travel restrictions do not affect people who already have visas , and they include waivers for people with certain ties to the united states .
the state department declined to comment on individual visa applications .
c. jerry nelson , professor emeritus at the university of missouri , said some visits serve humanitarian purposes .
in 2011 , four north korean scientists traveled to missouri to collaborate with their u.s. counterparts on soil quality testing methods , he said , in order to boost food production .
referring to the economic officials trip in 2011 , shirk said they seemed reluctant to express opinions but enjoyed their snapshot of american life , which included visits to a mushroom farm , department store and new york s carnegie deli .
we arranged for people to go to families for dinner in san diego , she said .
they really liked that a lot .