nairobi ( reuters ) - burundi plans to raise money for an election in 2020 by deducting part of civil servants salaries and taking contributions directly from citizens , a government minister said on monday , as it seeks to replace dwindling external funding .
until 2015 , burundi used external aid to pay for elections , but donors have suspended their assistance since a political crisis erupted when president pierre nkurunziza sought and won a third term .
pascal barandagiye , the minister for interior , said the government will also be seek contributions from every household , which will pay up to 2000 francs ( $ 1.14 ) a year .
gross national income per capita stood at $ 280 in 2016 , and close to 65 percent of the population live below the poverty line , according to world bank data .
the total amount of the election cost is not yet known ...
but as soon as the needed fund is got the fundraising campaign will be halted , barandagiye told a news conference .
that contribution should be given voluntarily , it shouldn t be seen as a head tax .
students of voting age will contribute 1000 francs annually .
civil servants will contribute at least a tenth of their monthly salaries , barandagiye said .
foreign help would also be accepted , he said .
burundi has been gripped by a political crisis since april 2015 , when nkurunziza announced he would stand for a third term , which the opposition said violated the constitution as well as a 2005 peace deal that ended a 12-year civil war .
he won a vote largely boycotted by the opposition , but protests sparked a government crackdown .
more than 700 people have been killed and 400,000 displaced to neighbouring countries .
the economy has stagnated .
the aid-dependent nation now has to rely on domestic tax collection and modest revenue from coffee and tea exports .
key donors , such as the european union , cut direct financial support to the government over accusations of human rights violations and the crackdown on opponents , which burundi rejects .
at the end of october , burundi s cabinet adopted draft legislation seeking to change the current constitution to allow nkurunziza to run for a fourth term in the 2020 election .
the proposed amendments , which are likely to go to a referendum by next year , seek to abolish the two-term limit and lengthen the presidential terms to seven years .
( $ 1 = 1,750.4900 burundi francs )