vienna ( reuters ) - austria is set to become the only western european country with a far-right party in government after the anti-immigration freedom party and sebastian kurz s conservatives struck a coalition deal to share power almost equally .
in an early policy pronouncement , kurz , the future chancellor , said the new government would not hold a referendum on european union membership .
kurz , who is just 31 , and freedom party ( fpo ) leader heinz-christian strache announced their deal on friday night , handing the far right a share of power for the third time in the alpine republic , after more than a decade in opposition .
the fpo will take control of much of austria s security apparatus , in charge of the foreign , interior and defense ministries .
the people s party ( ovp ) led by kurz will control the powerful finance ministry as well the justice and agriculture portfolios .
no one need be afraid , austrian news agency apa quoted the incoming interior minister and chairman of the fpo , herbert kickl , as saying .
kickl began his career as a speechwriter for the late joerg haider , who praised adolf hitler s employment policies and led the party to its first mainstream electoral success .
kurz will head the government as chancellor and the ovp will have eight ministries including his office .
the fpo will have six , including strache s office as vice chancellor .
kurz has repeatedly said his government will be pro-european despite including the fpo , which was founded by former nazis and campaigned against austria joining the bloc when it was put to a referendum in 1994 .
the coalition plans to make referendums more widely available .
unlike france s national front , the fpo has backed away from calling for a referendum on leaving the european union but kurz obtained a guarantee that a brexit-style vote will not be held .
there will be no votes on our membership of international organizations , including the european union , kurz told a joint news conference with strache .
kurz s office will also take over some european departments from the fpo-run foreign ministry to give him greater control over eu matters .
the 180-page coalition agreement listed plans such as sinking taxes and cutting public spending through streamlined administration though it often did not say how such goals would be achieved .
austria s parliamentary election two months ago was dominated by europe s migration crisis , in which the affluent country took in a large number of asylum seekers .
kurz s party won with a hard line on immigration that often overlapped with the fpo s , pledging to cut benefits for refugees and never to allow a repeat of 2015 s wave of arrivals .
the fpo came third in the election with 26 percent of the vote .
kurz and strache held their news conference outlining the agreement on the kahlenberg , a hill on the outskirts of the capital famed as the site of the 1683 battle of vienna , which ended a siege of the city by ottoman turks .
while there was no specific mention of repelling that muslim invasion , the symbolism is clear for two parties that have warned muslim parallel societies are emerging in austria .
kurz , however , told reporters : i did not take the decision on where the press conference should be held ....
i would not read too much symbolism into it .
strache and kurz oppose turkish membership of the eu , a position that polls regularly show most austrians support .
we both recognize about 75 percent of ourselves in the program , said strache , who accused kurz during the campaign of stealing his party s ideas .
that might have something to do with the fact that one or the other maybe took on the other s policy points before the election .
anti-establishment parties have been winning over more voters in europe , capitalizing on dissatisfaction with mainstream politicians handling of the economy , security and immigration .
while other far-right parties have gained ground this year , entering parliament in germany and making france s presidential run-off , the fpo is going further by entering government and securing key ministries .
it is excellent news for europe , marine le pen said of the coalition deal at a prague meeting of her national front party s european grouping , which includes the fpo .
these successes show that the nation states are the future , that the europe of tomorrow is a europe of the people .
both the ovp and fpo believe the eu should focus on fewer tasks , like securing its external borders , and hand more power back to member states .
when the fpo last entered government in 2000 other eu countries imposed sanctions on vienna in protest .
there is unlikely to be a similar outcry this time , given the rise of anti-establishment parties across the continent .