bratislava ( reuters ) - slovakia will postpone a planned fighter jet purchase pending a broader upgrade of its armed forces , the defense minister said on wednesday , following warnings that such a move could prolong its dependence on russia .
the central european nato member state has been in talks with several firms about replacing its aging russian-made mig-29s .
peter gajdos mentioned u.s. f-16 fighter jets from lockheed martin and gripen jets made by sweden s saab as options .
neighboring hungary and the czech republic already operate the latter .
slovakia was expected to make decision by the end of this month , but gajdos said this would be delayed .
we need to modernize the ground forces which are the backbone of our military .
while we have been replacing some parts of the air force , the ground forces have not been renewed for decades , he said .
slovakia is due to spend about 6.5 billion euros ( $ 7.80 billion ) by 2030 to modernize its army , the defense ministry said in a strategy document , released last week and to be debated in the first half of 2018 .
its spending on defense is due to rise from 1.1 percent of gdp to 1.6 percent in 2020 and 2.0 percent by 2024 .
prime minister robert fico said last month slovakia should pick european solutions for the army if it wanted to be part of a more deeply integrated core european union .
gajdos , from the nationalist , eurosceptic sns party that forms part of the governing coalition , has faced criticism from both its partners fico s leftist smer and the centrist most party that delays in closing the fighter deal could prolong slovakia s dependence on russia .
if the finance ministry and government earmark money for all projects , we are ready to finalize the ongoing negotiations and close the deal on new jets , gajdos said .
in 2015 , slovakia made a deal to buy nine u.s.-made black hawk helicopters to replace its russian mi-17 fleet , and signed with italy s alenia aermacchi for two spartan c-27j transport aircraft to replace russian antonovs the year before .
the government already approved a plan to spend 1.2 billion euros ( $ 1.44 billion ) to replace its outdated armored personnel carriers in may .
slovakia has a maintenance contract with russia for its 12 mig-29s until autumn 2019 .
if it does not order new jets soon it would need to prolong that , as they would typically take 18-24 months to deliver .
prolongation of the mig-29s contract is the plan b , the plan a is the purchase of new jets .
i won t accept any other than a pro-european and pro-atlantic solution ( for their replacement ) , gajdos said .