( reuters ) - saudi arabia has detained more clerics and intellectuals , activists said on social media on tuesday , widening an apparent crackdown on potential opponents of the conservative kingdom s absolute rulers .
the crackdown comes amid widespread speculation , denied by officials , that king salman intends to abdicate in favor of his son , crown prince mohammed bin salman , who already dominates economic , diplomatic and domestic policy .
it also comes amid a deepening rift between saudi arabia and its allies on one side and qatar on the other .
exiled saudi opposition activists have called for protests on friday to galvanize resistance to the royal family .
the al-saud family has always regarded islamist groups as the biggest internal threat to its rule over a country in which appeals to religious sentiment can not be lightly dismissed and an al qaeda campaign a decade ago killed hundreds .
prominent islamist clerics salman al-awdah , awad al-qarni and ali al-omary were detained over the weekend , according to saudi sources .
on tuesday , activists dedicated to monitoring and documenting what they describe as prisoners of conscience reported that at least eight other prominent figures , including clerics , academics , television anchors and a poet , had been confirmed detained since monday .
alqst , a london-based saudi rights group , also reported more arrests , including several of the same people , although it gave no specific figure .
al-awdah , al-qarni , farhan al-malki and mostafa hassan ( are confirmed ) , said yahya al-assiri , the center s head , referring to four of those reported to have been arrested .
the rest are also correct , but i don t have any specific information , he added .
saudi officials could not be reached for comment .
state news agency spa said earlier on tuesday that authorities had uncovered intelligence activities for the benefit of foreign parties by a group of people it did not identify .
a saudi security source told reuters the suspects were accused of espionage activities and having contacts with external entities including the muslim brotherhood , which riyadh has classified as a terrorist organization .
the government toughened its stance on dissent following the arab spring in 2011 after it averted unrest by offering billions of dollars in handouts and state spending .
but the brotherhood , which represents an ideological threat to riyadh s dynastic system of rule , has gained power elsewhere in the region .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt cut diplomatic and transport links with qatar in june over its alleged support for islamists including the brotherhood a charge that doha denies .
awdah reportedly was detained after he posted a message on his twitter account welcoming a possible end to the rift between qatar and other arab countries which began in egypt .
activists also suggested that poet ziad bin neheet may have been detained for posting a video in which he chastised journalists who had exploited the row with qatar to heap abuse on each other .
what is happening between qatar and the kingdom of saudi arabia is a normal thing in a political dispute , but the role which the media carried out was very , very negative , he said .
activists have published a list of eight other people they fear may be arrested next .