the cleansing of our history continues what the heck is wrong with the city of memphis ? ?
? late tuesday , the memphis , tennessee , city council voted unanimously to dig up the remains of confederate general nathan bedford forrest and his wife , talking points memo reported wednesday .
the council also voted to remove a statue placed in forrest s honor .
the move came after mayor a.c. wharton called for the bodies to be dug up and relocated.tuesday s vote is not the end of the story , however .
according to wreg , the chancery court would also have to approve the removal of the remains and forrest s family would also be involved in the decision.forrest and his wife are currently buried beneath a statute honoring the general in a park which had been named after him until two years ago .
the park is now known as memphis health sciences park.officials with elmwood cemetery the location of forrest s original resting place said they would be willing to help move the remains but said they did not want to become the new home of the statue .
it is not known where the statue would go if the tennessee historic commission approves its removal .
the commission is not set to meet before october .
it is no longer politically correct to glorify someone who was a slave trader , someone who was a racist , on public property , said city council member myron lowery .
wreg said lowery spearheaded the effort to remove forrest , his wife and the statue .
the move to relocate forrest is part of what many now see as a stalinist effort to purge u.s. history after the tragic shooting in a charleston , south carolina church that left nine dead.not everyone is celebrating the vote , however .
lee millar , a spokesperson for the sons of the confederate veterans , said the shooting proves the need for the statue to remain .
i think it s disgusting that people use the shooting in charleston and use those victims to forward their own agenda and join this anti-confederate hysteria that s going on , he said .
to attack something like that now i feel is just really misguided , he added , calling the response in memphis and other places a knee-jerk reaction.katherine blalock , an area resident whose great grandfather served with forrest in the confederate army , agreed .
we need to have a coming together of people , not a divide and conquer , she said.but it seems that dividing the country is exactly what some want .
not content with removing the confederate battle flag from the national memory , some now want to see the jefferson memorial taken down .
retail stores have yanked the battle flag and the house has voted to forbid sales of the battle flag at national parks .
as we reported wednesday , one former academic called the u.s. constitution a confederate symbol and said it should be edited.via : examiner