brussels ( reuters ) - european union leaders welcomed a proposal by british prime minister theresa may aimed at unblocking brexit talks , but said concessions to ease the fears of eu citizens living in britain were not enough .
arriving at a two-day summit in brussels on thursday with other eu leaders , may sought to shift the focus away from a failure to push the talks beyond a discussion of a divorce settlement and onto trade talks just 17 months before britain is due to leave .
instead the prime minister , weakened after losing her conservative party s majority in a june election , put renewed emphasis on settling citizens rights , one of three issues that must be solved to break the deadlock in talks .
but eu leaders said there was more work to be done , with german chancellor angela merkel describing some encouraging signs that could help pave the way for a discussion on future trade ties at the next eu summit in december .
may said the leaders assess the progress that has been made so far in the brexit talks and set out ambitious plans for the weeks ahead .
i particularly , for example , want to see an urgency in reaching an agreement on citizens rights , may told reporters .
but she avoided questions about increasing the amount britain is willing to pay when it leaves , instead referring back to a speech last month in italy when she outlined an offer of around 20 billion euros ( $ 24 billion ) .
may will discuss her brexit strategy over dinner .
on friday morning , once she has left , other eu leaders are expected to say the talks have not yet made enough progress for them to open the trade negotiations .
weakened after losing her conservative party s majority in a june election and failing to rally support at an ill-fated party conference , may is constrained in her ability to address eu demands that she increase her pay offer for the divorce agreement .
some members of her own party would prefer to see her walk away if the eu does not agree to move the talks forward to discuss trade .
germany and its allies do not want to be left with a large bill when britain leaves the bloc in march 2019 .
merkel said eu leaders would listen to the report from their chief negotiator michel barnier , but that sufficient progress had not yet been made .
we will continue the talks with a view to reaching the second phase in december .
irish prime minister leo varadkar urged may to come up with more clarity not only on guarantees on citizens rights , but also on her plans to avoid a return of a hard border with northern ireland .
these are still difficult issues , but particularly the question of the exit bill , he told reporters .
may tried to shift the focus away from how much britain should pay .
on her facebook page , she wrote that we are in touching distance of agreement for protecting the rights of around 3 million eu citizens living in britain and promised to make it as easy as possible for them to stay .
luxembourg s prime minister xavier bettel told reporters the facebook post went in the right direction and that every movement in the right direction is important , noting a change in tone in the british government over the past six months .
but finland s leader , juha sipila , said the eu was a little bit frustrated about the progress .
the lack of movement has increased the pressure on may from inside her own party .
in an open letter on thursday , pro-brexit lawmakers and business people said that unless the deadlock was broken , britain should signal it is ready to be subject to world trade organization ( wto ) rules from march 30 , 2019 , when brexit takes effect .
owen paterson , a lawmaker and former minister from may s conservative party , said it looked inevitable that the trade relationship between britain and the eu would end up being governed by wto rules , meaning no special deal .
so what we re saying is it would be much better to state that now , give business and all our administrative organisations certainty so they can begin to prepare , he said .