washington ( reuters ) - just as fears of nuclear terrorism are rising , u.s. president barack obama ’ s drive to lock down vulnerable atomic materials worldwide seems to have lost momentum and could slow further .
with less than 10 months left in office to follow through on one of his signature foreign policy initiatives , obama will convene leaders from more than 50 countries in washington this week for his fourth and final nuclear security summit , a high-level diplomatic process that started and will end on his watch .
a boycott by russian president vladimir putin , apparently unwilling to join in a u.s.-dominated gathering at a time of increased tensions between washington and moscow , adds to doubts that the meeting will yield major results .
the recent deadly militant attacks in brussels have fueled concern that islamic state could eventually target nuclear plants and develop radioactive “ dirty bombs , ” a topic that may well be uppermost in leaders ’ minds as they meet .
despite significant progress by obama in persuading dozens of countries to rid themselves of bomb-making materials or reduce and safeguard stockpiles , much of the world ’ s plutonium and enriched uranium remains vulnerable to theft .
the absence of russia , one of the biggest atomic powers , could detract from decisions reached in washington this week .
obama , in an opinion piece in the washington post , said , “ our massive cold war nuclear arsenal is poorly suited to today ’ s threats .
the united states and russia - which together hold more than 90 percent of the world ’ s nuclear weapons - should negotiate to reduce our stockpiles further. ” kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said on wednesday russia was skipping the summit because of a “ shortage of mutual cooperation ” in working out the agenda .
while noting that moscow had continued joint work on nuclear security , white house spokesman josh earnest said russia was going to “ miss out on an opportunity ” and that its no-show illustrated the “ degree to which russia is isolated. ” russia has chafed over u.s.-led sanctions over the ukraine conflict .
efforts to make the world safer have also been complicated by north korea ’ s nuclear weapons advance and pakistan ’ s move toward smaller , tactical nuclear weapons , which washington fears may further destabilize an already volatile region .
all of this weighs on obama ’ s agenda as he prepares to host world leaders on thursday and friday .
he inaugurated the event nearly six years ago , after using a landmark speech in prague in 2009 to lay out the goal of ridding the world of nuclear weapons as a central theme of his presidency .
there is no guarantee that once obama , the driving force behind the initiative , leaves office in january his successor will keep the issue a high priority .
the white house previewed the summit by touting a list of achievements in the u.s.-led effort to tie down loose bomb-grade materials , and arms control advocates commend obama for galvanizing an international response to the problem .
however , many say progress has slowed since the last summit in 2014 and countries such as japan , india and pakistan are preparing activities that could increase stockpiles of nuclear materials .
“ the nuclear security summits have had a positive effect , but the strategic goal of developing an effective global nuclear security system remains unachieved , ” the nuclear threat initiative , an anti-proliferation watchdog , said in a report this month .
according to the group ’ s nuclear security index , which tracks the safety of weapons-usable nuclear materials , the past two years have brought no improvement in a range of measures , including on-site physical protection , security during transport and the ability to recover lost radioactive materials .
the report also said many countries ’ nuclear reactors were vulnerable to online attacks .
seven of 24 countries with weapons-grade material , including china and belgium , received the lowest possible score for their facilities ’ cyber security .
other critics point to a lack of an agreed-upon set of international standards for nuclear security or a mechanism for keeping tabs on common sources of radioactive material often found in hospitals and medical labs .
however , laura holgate , obama ’ s adviser on weapons of mass destruction , cited commitments from 30 countries at the 2014 summit to secure their most dangerous material .
“ the international community has made it harder than ever for terrorists to acquire nuclear weapons , and that has made us all more secure , ” she told reporters before the summit .
two of the brussels suicide bombers secretly filmed the daily routine of the head of belgium ’ s nuclear research and development program and considered an attack on a nuclear site in the country , according to belgian media .
u.s. experts are less concerned about militants obtaining nuclear weapon components than about thefts of ingredients for a low-tech dirty bomb that would use conventional explosives to disperse radioactive material and sow panic .
u.s. officials said they had no doubt that islamic state , which controls swaths of syria and iraq , was interested in obtaining such materials , but holgate said u.s. authorities had no “ explicit indications ” that the group had tried to do so .
more commitments from world leaders to enhance nuclear security are expected at the summit but anti-proliferation groups worry that without further meetings at the highest levels , interest could wane and improvements could backslide .