nothing to see here .
hillary was likely just fulfilling a promise to a foreign muslim donor .
it wasn t the first time she gave a stand down order and if the democrat party can help it , it won t be the last hillary clinton s state dept .
shut down an investigation into the mosque orlando killer omar mir siddique mateen attended because it unfairly singled out muslims .
the fort pierce islamic center , where mateen worshipped several times a week , was under investigation by both the fbi and dhs as early as 2011 for ties to a worldwide islamic movement known as tablighi jamaal which was linked to several terrorist organizations.but the investigation was shut down under pressure from the clinton-ran state dept .
and dhs s civil rights and civil liberties office out of fear of offending muslims , according to recently retired dhs agent philip haney .
the fbi had opened cases twice on him , and yet they found no evidence to charge him ; it means they didn t go through the same basic , analytical process that i went through over a three- or four-hour period in which i was able to link the mosque to my previous cases , he told wnd on sunday.in other words , the fbi had limited options at stopping mateen because it was ordered to back off its investigation into his mosque.both clinton and the obama administration have a history of enabling islamic terrorism.in 2012 , clinton s state dept .
was backing al-qaeda in iraq , which morphed into isis , and other islamic extremist groups as a proxy army to topple syrian president bashir al-assad .
the salafist [ sic ] , the muslim brotherhood and aqi [ al-qaeda in iraq ] are the major forces driving the insurgency in syria , a leaked memo between her state dept .
and the pentagon stated .
the west , gulf countries , and turkey support [ this ] opposition , while russia , china and iran support the [ assad ] regime .
the fbi had opened cases twice on him , and yet they found no evidence to charge him ; it means they didn t go through the same basic , analytical process that i went through over a three- or four-hour period in which i was able to link the mosque to my previous cases , he told wnd on sunday .
this secret document confirms that clinton s state dept .
and the obama administration in general were directly responsible for the rise of isis , which is now targeting the west .
the former head of the defense intelligence agency , lieutenant general michael flynn , confirmed the document s importance .
i don t know that [ the obama administration ] turned a blind eye [ to isis ] , i think it was a decision ; i think it was a willful decision , he said.clinton even admitted some responsibility .
the united states had to be fair we had helped create the problem we re now fighting , she said in an interview with fox anchor greta van susteren .
when the soviet union invaded afghanistan , we had this brilliant idea we were going to come to pakistan and create a force on mujahideen , equip them with stinger missiles and everything else to go after the soviets inside afghanistan .
for entire story : infowars