hong kong ( reuters ) - for anyone digging into hong kong s history , the official archives might not be the place to look .
the office of the chief executive , hong kong s leader , failed to hand over any official records at all for eight of the 20 years since it came under chinese rule in 1997 , according to the government department that manages the archives .
the security bureau only did it for 10 .
researchers say the problem is that hong kong , under roughly 150 years of british colonial rule and the first 20 years of chinese rule , has never had a law regulating how government records should be kept or destroyed .
as a result , the document retention that researchers see as necessary for keeping a record of the past has been somewhat spotty within hong kong .
under british rule , the archiving of documents in hong kong was also lax .
in 1994 and 1995 , for example , the government house gave nothing to the archives .
but thanks to a constant flow of correspondence between the colonial government and london , britain would have stored a copy of most official records , according to researchers .
after the handover of hong kong to china in 1997 , that back-up mechanism disappeared , leading to concerns that fragments of hong kong s history might slip away for good .
unlike hong kong , china has a set of archive laws , under which officials failing to file records can face administrative sanctions , or face charges if the case constitutes a crime .
but researchers say that for any hong kong-related documents kept by china , access would be difficult .
simon chu , the former head of the government records service who has been advocating for an archives law , said that prior to 1997 researchers could count on finding records in britain , even if they were lost in hong kong .
after 1997 , you don t have this kind of luxury , he said .
connie lo , a documentary director digging into the 1967 communist-led riots in hong kong , found almost nothing on the subject in the government archives .
she was , however , able to find material in britain s national archives for her film vanished archives , which premiered in hong kong this year .
fears over record retention were highlighted last year when the government of former chief executive leung chun-ying said it had kept no records of informal meetings with local groups over a controversial land development project .
hong kong s current leader , carrie lam , has said she places great importance on the integrity of government records , and that she supports passing an archives law .
she said she would pursue a law after receiving a report from the law reform commission , which is studying the issue .
the commission , however , has been considering the issue for four years and only expects to start consultations on the subject next year .
activists like chu are anxious that records of sensitive information , such as government decisions during the 2014 pro-democracy street protests could be destroyed with impunity .
i m very pessimistic about that , chu said .
one former senior government official , speaking on condition of anonymity , also admitted to throwing out some documents in order to protect a former top official .
he declined to say what the documents contained .
but he suggested the practice might be widespread in the civil service .
for some of the most sensitive issues , there would not even be a record , he said .
the government records service said it received 25 reports of unauthorized destruction of records in the past six years , and disciplinary actions were taken against four officers in four cases .