washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. house of representatives on tuesday failed to override president barack obama ’ s veto of legislation that would have dismantled his signature healthcare law , the affordable care act .
at least a two-thirds vote of the house was needed to knock down obama ’ s veto ; the republican-majority house fell short by more than three dozen votes .
the vote was 241-186 , and ends consideration of the bill ; the senate will not take it up .
the widely expected outcome was the latest chapter in the lengthy clash between republicans and democrats over the affordable care act , also known as “ obamacare. ” republicans have been vowing to gut the law since 2010 , when the then democratic-majority congress passed the landmark program designed to provide healthcare for millions of uninsured americans .
the house has voted to dismantle obamacare dozens of times , but republicans could not get a repeal through the senate until late last year , when they used a procedural maneuver denying democrats ’ ability to block the legislation .
obama vetoed the bill last month ; it was the eighth veto of his presidency , and none have been overridden .
republicans were anxious to show they had done everything they could to take down obamacare , which they say has raised insurance costs and reduced health care choices .
they said tuesday that this was not the end of the story .
“ the end of obamacare is coming , ” predicted republican house majority leader kevin mccarthy .
“ when a republican president takes office next year , we know we can get this passed ... obamacare can be gone once and for all. ” such a scenario assumes , however , that the republicans capture the white house in november elections , and maintain their majorities in the senate and house as well .
democrats mocked republicans , saying they were proposing to deprive millions of their health insurance without a replacement .
about 11.3 americans have signed up this year for insurance on the obamacare exchanges .
“ while we have voted as of today 63 times to dismantle it , how many times have we voted to replace it ?
zero !
zero times to replace it ! ” declared representative chris van hollen , a democrat .
the bill also would have taken funds away from planned parenthood , another target of republican criticism after undercover videos showed the women ’ s healthcare provider discussing the use of fetus parts for research .
two anti-abortion activists behind the filming of the videos were indicted by a texas grand jury last month , while the jury cleared planned parenthood of wrongdoing .