yaounde ( reuters ) - more than 500 people have been swept up in mass arrests following violent demonstrations in cameroon s english-speaking regions earlier this month , amnesty international said on friday .
troops and attack helicopters opened fire on protesters calling for independence at rallies on oct. 1 , killing more than 20 people and escalating a long-simmering conflict with the francophone-dominated central government .
a central government spokesman was not available for comment on friday , but authorities have repeatedly denied that soldiers use disproportionate force against protesters .
english-speaking communities in the northwest and southwest regions say they suffer economic and social discrimination at the hands of the government of long-time leader president paul biya .
amnesty said in a statement that hundreds of people have been arbitrarily detained since the protests in buea , the capital of southwest region , including as many as 100 as they walked to church the following week in the mile 16 area of the city .
some have been charged with secession , others with not possessing identity papers , destruction of public property or failing to respect an order by the governor banning protests and other public activities .
this mass arrest of protesters , most of whom were acting peacefully , is not only a violation of human rights , but is also likely to be counter-productive , said ilaria allegrozzi , amnesty s lake chad region researcher .
the protests have rallied opposition against biya , who has ruled for the last 35 years , and given momentum to the more radical separatist activists , some of them armed , among cameroon s 5 million english speakers .
amnesty also said local prisons have become overcrowded because of the mass arrests , and some wounded protesters have fled hospitals out of fear of arrest .
demonstrations in the english-speaking regions began nearly a year ago when anglophone lawyers and teachers protested against having to work in french , saying it showed the wider marginalization of the english-speaking minority .
cameroon s linguistic divide is a legacy of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between allied french and british victors .