lahore/islamabad ( reuters ) - a newly freed pakistani islamist accused of masterminding a bloody 2008 assault in the indian city of mumbai called ousted former prime minister nawaz sharif a traitor on friday for seeking peace with neighbor and arch-foe india .
the release of hafiz saeed from house arrest raised fresh questions as to whether saeed might enter politics to run a new , unregistered political party founded by his supporters .
india and the united states expressed concern at his release , calling for saeed to be prosecuted over the mumbai attack that killed 166 people , including americans .
saeed , who has a $ 10 million u.s. bounty on his head , spoke at friday prayers in a mosque in the city of lahore after being freed from house arrest by a court that said there was no evidence to hold him .
saeed was placed under house arrest in january while sharif was still prime minister , a move that drew praise from india , long furious at saeed s continued freedom in pakistan .
in july , a supreme court ruling disqualified sharif from office over a corruption investigation , though his party still runs the government with a close ally as prime minister .
saeed , however , said sharif deserved to be removed for his peace overtures with indian prime minister narendra modi .
nawaz sharif asks why he was ousted ?
i tell him he was ousted , because he committed treason against pakistan by developing friendship with modi , killers of thousands of muslims , saeed said .
india s ministry of external affairs condemned saeed s release , saying it showed pakistan was not serious about prosecuting terrorists .
a u.s. official said washington was deeply concerned about the release .
the pakistani government should make sure that he is arrested and charged for his crimes , u.s. state department spokeswoman heather nauert said .
saeed has repeatedly denied involvement in the 2008 mumbai violence in which 10 gunmen attacked targets in india s largest city , including two luxury hotels , a jewish center and a railway station .
the assault brought nuclear-armed neighbors pakistan and india to the brink of war .
i m happy that no allegation against me was proved , saeed told supporters after his release , according to a video released by the jamaat-ud-dawa ( jud ) islamist charity , which he heads .
the united states says the jud is a front for the lashkar-e-taiba ( let ) militant group , which saeed founded and which has been blamed for a string of high-profile attacks in india .
pakistan officially banned the lashkar-e-taiba in 2002 .
saeed blamed india for his incarceration in pakistan , saying pakistan s rulers detained me on the aspiration of modi because of their friendship with him .
saeed has long campaigned in support of muslim separatists in the indian-ruled portion of the divided himalayan region of kashmir , which pakistan also claims .
india accuses pakistan of supporting the let and other separatists battling in the indian part of kashmir .
pakistan denies that .
while saeed was under house arrest , his jud charity launched a political party , the milli muslim league ( mml ) , which has won thousands of votes in by-elections .
senior government and retired military figures say the party has the backing of pakistan s powerful military .
the military denies any direct involvement in civilian politics .
mml officials have privately said that the party is controlled by saeed , but it is not clear if saeed will seek to contest elections or launch a political career .