tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc could come close to keeping its two-thirds super majority in an oct. 22 lower house election , defying some predictions of substantial losses and solidifying his grip on power , a survey published by the nikkei business daily on wednesday showed .
abe s conservative liberal democratic party ( ldp ) and its more dovish junior partner , the komeito , are likely to secure more than 290 seats in the 465-seat chamber , the nikkei said .
the ruling bloc had a two-thirds super majority in the lower house before the chamber was dissolved .
the number of seats has been cut from 475 as part of electoral reforms .
the nikkei forecast was broadly in line with a kyodo news agency forecast released on thursday that saw abe s coalition winning more than 300 seats .
however , kyodo said 54.4 percent of voters were still undecided .
a survey by the yomiuri newspaper showed the ldp and komeito winning close to 300 seats .
a strong showing by abe s coalition would boost his chances of winning a third term as ldp leader from next september , putting him on track to become japan s longest-serving premier .
abe called the snap election amid confusion in the opposition camp and after an uptick in his ratings , which had been hurt earlier this year by suspected cronyism scandals , in hopes of gaining a fresh mandate after nearly five years in power .
but the outlook has been clouded by the emergence of popular tokyo governor yuriko koike s party of hope , a fledgling party that the former ldp lawmaker and defense minister calls a reformist , conservative alternative to abe s ldp .
the nikkei said koike s party was on track to get around 69 seats , with a forecast range of 46-110 .
another new party , the constitutional democratic party of japan , formed from the liberal wing of the failed opposition democratic party , was set to win more than 40 seats , it said .
the democrats , faced with rock-bottom ratings and internal dissension , have said they would run no candidates of their own , freeing many to run on the party of hope ticket .
pro-constitution revision forces the asahi newspaper also forecast a strong showing by the ruling bloc , with the ldp set to win well over the 233 seats needed to have a simple majority on its own .
it said koike s party of hope was struggling but was likely to get more than 57 seats .
about 40 percent of voters were undecided , the asahi said .
the nikkei also forecast that parties in favor of revising the post-war , pacifist constitution - abe s long-held goal - were on track to win more than two-thirds .
that includes the ldp and koike s party of hope as well as another smaller right-leaning party , the japan innovation party .
amending the constitution , a politically controversial move never yet taken , requires a two-thirds majority in both chambers and a majority in a public referendum .
koike s party had raised expectations that it would cut into the ldp s conservative base .
but her decision not to run for a lower house seat herself and refusal to say whom her party would support for premier after the election appears to have eroded the party s momentum .
competition among a fragmented opposition , which also includes the japanese communist party , in many districts means the anti-ldp vote could be split , a plus for abe s party .
abe has led the ldp to four landslide wins since he took the helm of the party in 2012 , but turnout has been low and the ldp has typically won with about 25 percent of eligible votes .
the others either stayed home or backed opposition parties .
the premier has been touting the success of his abenomics recipe of hyper-easy monetary policy , fiscal spending and promised structural reforms , while koike argues that reforms have been too slow in a fast-changing global economy .
the world s third-largest economy is on track for its longest expansion since world war two , and the jobless rate was at a 23-year low of 2.8 percent in august while wages are starting to rise a bit .
but abe s reflationary policies have not yet sparked a sustainable recovery led by the private sector .