judicial watch has released documents obtained in response to a court order including emails that show a pay to play game going on between the clintons and donors : a number of emails show the free flow of information and requests for favors between clinton s state department and the clinton foundation .
what s even more disturbing is the lack of concern for national security in the heavily redacted emails : the heavily redacted documents from abedin s non-government account include an email from hillary clinton s brother , tony rodham , to abedin revealing that he acted as a go-between for a clinton foundation donor , richard park .
and they reveal clinton foundation executive doug band instructing abedin to show love to clinton donor andrew liveris.the documents included six clinton email exchanges not previously turned over to the state department , bringing the known total to date to at least 439 emails that were not part of the 55,000 pages of emails that clinton turned over to the state department , and further contradicting a statement by clinton that , as far as she knew , all of her government emails had been turned over to the state department.the documents are in response to a court order from a may 5 , 2015 , lawsuit filed against the state department ( judicial watch , inc. v. u.s. department of state ( no .
1:15-cv-00684 ) ) for : all emails of official state department business received or sent by former deputy chief of staff huma abedin from january 1 , 2009 through february 1 , 2013 using a non- state.gov email address .
a number of emails show the free flow of information and requests for favors between clinton s state department and the clinton foundation.in july 2009 , in reference to the us-china strategic and economic dialogue , clinton global initiative head doug band told abedin that she need [ s ] to show love to andrew liveris , the ceo of dow chemical .
band also asked for liveris to be introduced to hillary , and have her mention both me and wjc .
dow gave between $ 1 million and $ 5 million to the clinton foundation and clinton global initiative .
band also pushes for clinton to do a favor for karlheinz koegel , a major clinton foundation contributor , who wanted hillary clinton to give the honor speech for his media prize to merkel .
the emails reveal that on june 19 , 2009 , clinton s brother , tony rodham , passed a long a letter for hillary clinton for clinton donor richard park .
park donated $ 100,000 to bill clinton as far back as 1993 and is listed by the clinton foundation as a $ 100,000 to $ 250,000 donor read more : judicial watch