28 year old abdullah faris freatekh , aka feras mohamed freitekh was a muslim with a palestinian backgroundthe national transportation safety board s initial investigation of a tuesday s aircraft crash in east hartford , connecticut should be a serious concern as it was a possible attempt to destroy one major us military defense contractor .
as it seems , muslims are possibly attempting to carry out an attack by using airplanes again.the investigation by the national transportation safety board also indicates the crash is the result of an intentional act , which means the likelihood this involves an act of terrorism .
fbi and police have also raided the pilot s apartment and are questioning three of the associates of feras m. freitekh , the pilot .
the jordanian students were also studying to become pilots.freitekh who was killed on impact is a 28-year-old jordanian national from a palestinian background who was studying to become a pilot died after crashing a small plane tuesday afternoon in connecticut , and the instructor pilot who survived the crash said it was intentional .
family and friends of freitekh are already writing about him on facebook with oodles of praises from good man hero to allah be with him in arabic .
click and check it out for yourself .
rafeek zabian comments our old friend , feras freitekh , is with allah , after he fulfilled his dream to fly , he died as a pilot , yes , and he accomplished his dream , may allah be with you .here are pictures from the facebook page of in what appears to be mecca .
the pictures appear to be very recent , as they are dated june 3 , 2016 .
people see him kissing the tip of the propeller and they do not think .
the kiss is a kiss for the tip of his missile he is using .
he and the muslims and relatives commenting know why he came to the u.s .
the argument with the co-pilot that he does not want to fly anymore is an excuse to land early because his intention is likely to swerve at the us defense contractor facility .
it would take hours to include all the other praises from folks who would seem normal to the naked eye , yet they harbor ill for the united states.what is alarming about this crash is that the crash occurred near pratt & whitney , a defense contractor that makes jet engines for the military .
pratt & whitney is a major defense contractor which manufactures military and commercial jet engines .
east hartford police chief called the company s plant critical infrastructure , the hartford courant reports .
police said the fbi was contacted because of the proximity to pratt & whitney.a high-ranking law enforcement source told the hartford courant there was an argument between the student pilot and the instructor prior to the crash .
terrorism is a criminal act , east hartford police spokesman lieutenant joshua litwin said at a press conference .
there is a lot of criminal investigators on scene .
nothing has been ruled out .
the surviving flight instructor , identified by the courant as arian prevalla , was able to get out of the plane after the crash and is expected to survive .
freitekh came to the united states from jordan in 2012 on a temporary m-1 visa for flight school .
the fbi and local police raided an apartment on annawan street as part of the investigation , wvit-tv reports .
neighbors told wtic-tv that four men lived together in the apartment targeted by police .
sources told the hartford courant the three other men who lived there were also foreign nationals studying to become pilots .
and don t be fooled , the pilot , feras m. freitekh also has another facebook as rafael majdi freitekh and he is gay with all the rainbow flags .
he was not a peaceful muslim and neither was he a peaceful gay after all , as society tries to arm-twist us to believe about muslims and gays .
he stops writing anything on his timeline for a year is perhaps the man decided to go dark becoming a lone-wolf.the instructor pilot who survived the crash was hospitalized with serious burns , cbs news reports .
he was identified as adrian prevalla by the hartford courant .
officials say he is cooperating with the investigation .
he runs the hartford jet center , according to his linkedin profile .
the flight school is based at hartford-brainard airport , where the plane took off from on tuesday.via : shoebat