beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s president called on saudi arabia on saturday to clarify why lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri could not return home , a week after he stunned his country by resigning while in the kingdom .
a senior lebanese official said president michel aoun had told foreign ambassadors hariri had been kidnapped and should have immunity .
hariri s shock resignation has thrust lebanon back into the frontline of a power struggle between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran - a rivalry that has wrought upheaval in syria , iraq , yemen , and bahrain .
lebanon does not accept its prime minister being in a situation at odds with international treaties , aoun said in a statement .
he said any comment or move by hariri does not reflect reality due to the questions over his status following his resignation in a broadcast from saudi arabia .
lebanese authorities believe riyadh is detaining hariri who flew to saudi arabia on nov. 3 , two top lebanese government officials , a senior politician close to hariri and a fourth source have said .
french president emmanuel macron echoed similar concerns , saying in a call with aoun on saturday that lebanese political leaders should enjoy freedom of movement .
macron , who made an unscheduled visit to riyadh earlier this week , will receive the lebanese foreign minister in paris on tuesday , the elysee statement said .
riyadh says hariri is free and decided to resign because iran s lebanese ally , hezbollah , was calling the shots in his coalition government .
hariri has made no public remarks since quitting last week , when he said he feared assassination and accused iran along with hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
hariri , whose family made its fortune in the saudi construction industry , has also given no sign of when he might return to beirut .
the lebanese premier took part in a ceremony in riyadh on saturday welcoming saudi king salman from medina , his media office said .
hariri met with the turkish and british ambassadors at his riyadh home in the afternoon , it said .
sources close to hariri say saudi arabia has concluded that the prime minister - a long-time saudi ally - had to go because he was unwilling to confront hezbollah .
his phone was confiscated after he arrived in riyadh , and the next day he was forced to resign on a saudi tv channel , senior sources close to hariri and top lebanese political and security officials said .
aoun wants saudi arabia , with which we have brotherly ties and deeply rooted friendship , to clarify the reasons preventing prime minister hariri s return , his office said .
france and other western countries have looked on with alarm at the rising tensions in the region .
we would like saad al-hariri to have all his freedom of movement and be fully able to play the essential role that is his in lebanon , a french foreign ministry spokesman said on friday .
hariri s resignation unraveled a political deal among lebanon s rival factions that made him prime minister and aoun , a hezbollah ally , president last year .
the coalition government included shi ite hezbollah , a heavily armed military and political organization .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah said on friday that saudi had declared war on lebanon and his group , accusing riyadh of forcing hariri to resign to destabilize lebanon .
the comments mirrored an accusation by riyadh earlier this week that lebanon and hezbollah had declared war on the gulf arab kingdom .
hariri s political party denounced on saturday iranian intervention in arab countries and attacks against saudi arabia .
the future movement party said it stands by the premier and was waiting impatiently for his return to lebanon to handle his national responsibilities in leading this stage .
in a statement , the united states called hariri a trusted partner and referred to him as prime minister .
the white house rejects any efforts by militias within lebanon or by any foreign forces to threaten lebanon s stability ... or use lebanon as a base from which to threaten others in the region , it said .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson had told reporters on friday there was no indication hariri was being held against his will but that the united states was monitoring the situation .
the resignation of hariri comes amid an anti-corruption purge in riyadh in which dozens of senior princes and businessmen have been rounded up .