political activist and hillary supporter amal clooney traveled to texas to warn americans about our elected president donald j. trump and his tough immigration policies .
maybe she didn t get the memo trump s tough immigration stance is what catapulted him to the top of the heap in the crowded pack of gop primary contenders .
it wasn t too long ago that her arrogant liberal husband announced with great confidence , there will never be a president trump .
perhaps amal should ve traveled to some of the border towns if she wanted to get a clear picture of how illegal immigration is affecting our nation .
aliens crossing our borders illegally have destroyed the property of american ranchers , and threatened the safety and security of american citizens living in homes in or near the us -mexican border towns amal clooney has warned that many of president-elect trump s proposals would be violations of international law .
speaking at the texas conference for women at the austin convention center on tuesday , the international human rights lawyer , and wife of george clooney , said she had concerns about america s reputation under the real estate mogul s plans.she noted that trump s comments during his campaign , that there should be a religious test imposed on entering the u.s. or the fact that there should be state-sponsored torture or that families of suspected terrorists should all be killed all of those things are violations of international human rights law and the values that underlie that .
the 38-year-old wife said america s reputation as a country with a strong human rights record and high moral standing was at risk .
i think there s some concern from abroad as to , are these things actually going to happen ?
, or is the u.s. going to lose some of the moral standing that it has internationally , according to the hollywood reporter.perhaps its time to put our nation s security and sovereignty before we worry about what people in other countries around the world think of us both amal and her hollywood actor husband george , a staunch hillary clinton supporter , have spoken out against trump in the past.earlier this year , amal clooney called for trump to be challenged on his extreme views.watch george clooney here whine about press giving trump too much favorable press : when you listen to what the leading candidate on the republican side has been saying about building walls , about excluding mexicans and a complete shutdown of all muslims entering in , and if you actually look at what he specifically said in that now infamous speech about muslims , he kept saying , they only want jihad .
they don t believe in our way of life .
they don t respect our system , clooney said .
via : daily mail