yaounde ( reuters ) - the government of one of cameroon s anglophone regions ordered its border with nigeria closed this weekend in response to calls by activists for protests to demand more rights for the country s english-speaking minority .
the move on thursday represents an escalation in a crackdown on months of protest spurred by complaints about political and economic discrimination in the anglophone regions of the predominantly francophone country .
security forces killed six protesters and arrested hundreds of others following calls for reforms by lawyers and teachers last year , and the internet was shut down in anglophone regions from january to april .
the anglophone regions have strong ties to eastern nigeria , and authorities may fear that allowing the border to remain open during protests offers the demonstrators a rear base and makes it harder to maintain order .
anglophone activists have called for renewed protest on sunday after thousands took to the streets last week , with some hoisting separatist flags .
in a statement , southwest region s governor , bernard okalia bilai , said the border would be closed from 9 p.m. ( 2000 gmt ) friday until 7 a.m. monday following persistent threats of destabilization through manipulation by individuals acting from outside the national territory .
the order also banned inter-city transportation , gatherings of more than four people in public locations and all port activity during that same period .
it was not clear whether similar restrictions would be imposed in northwest , cameroon s other anglophone region .
the unrest has presented a fresh challenge to the government of president paul biya , which has faced international criticism for its response to the demonstrations .
in a statement on thursday , a u.n. spokesman said secretary-general antonio guterres was deeply concerned about tensions ahead of sunday s demonstrations and urged the government to address the grievances of english speakers .
the secretary-general supports upholding the unity and territorial integrity of cameroon and urges all parties to refrain from acts that could lead to an escalation of tension and violence , the statement said .
the country s linguistic divide harks back to the end of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors .
after independence in 1960 , the english-speaking part opted to join french cameroon instead of nigeria .