washington ( reuters ) - republicans in the house of representatives are preparing legal action in case president barack obama tries to transfer detainees at the military prison at guantanamo bay to the united states , house speaker paul ryan said on wednesday .
ryan told reporters it would be against the law for obama to bring detainees from the prison in cuba to the united states , because it would violate a ban on such transfers passed by congress in 2015 .
he was speaking a day after the president , seeking to make good on a pledge he made in 2008 before he was first elected to the white house , launched a final push to persuade congress to close the military prison for foreign terrorism suspects .
the pentagon-authored plan proposes 13 potential sites on u.s. soil to hold some 30 to 60 detainees in maximum-security prisons .
obama is also considering taking executive action to close guantanamo , situated at a u.s. naval station in southeast cuba , if congress does not drop its opposition .
“ our law is really clear , ” ryan told reporters after a meeting of house republicans .
“ these detainees can not come to american soil. ” “ we are making legal preparations if the president tries to break the law , ” ryan said .
“ and what boggles my mind is that the president is contemplating directing the military to knowingly break the law. ” the speaker said that obama is trying to extend the president ’ s executive authority beyond its limits of the u.s. constitution .
ryan added that not only republicans but also many in obama ’ s own democratic party oppose detainee transfers to u.s. soil .
democrats accused house republicans of wasting taxpayer dollars on litigation .
in recent years the house republican majority has spent nearly $ 3 million in this way , said drew hammill , a spokesman for house democratic leader nancy pelosi .
house republicans have spent $ 189,498 since november 2014 on litigation challenging the administration ’ s obamacare healthcare program , and recently agreed to spend up to $ 150,000 on legal advice on the possible guantanamo litigation , pelosi ’ s office said .
a spokesman for ryan , brendan buck , defended the spending , saying “ we wouldn ’ t have to spend so much money if the president wasn ’ t overreaching. ” pelosi ’ s office said that under former house speaker john boehner , house republicans spent $ 2.5 million defending a law that denied federal benefits to same-sex couples , before the language was struck down by the supreme court .