beijing ( reuters ) - china expressed strong dissatisfaction with india on thursday over the recent crash of an indian drone in chinese territory , an incident that could cause more friction along their disputed border .
indian and chinese troops confronted each other between june and august this year - at one stage even resorting to scuffling and throwing stones - on a remote plateau near the borders of india , its ally bhutan , and china , in the most serious and prolonged standoff in decades .
the nuclear-armed asian giants have tried to develop their ties in recent years but there is still deep distrust over their disputed border , which triggered war in 1962 .
china s defence ministry said in a statement the indian drone had crashed in recent days but it did not give a location .
this action by india violated china s territorial sovereignty .
we express strong dissatisfaction and opposition , zhang shuili , a military official in china s western battle zone command , was quoted as saying in a ministry statement .
china s border defence forces took a professional and responsible attitude in conducting an inspection of the device , zhang said , adding that the military would resolutely defend china s sovereignty and security .
the indian army said an unmanned aerial vehicle was on a training mission over indian territory when it developed technical problems and crossed a so-called line of actual control separating the countries militaries .
indian border guards alerted their chinese counterparts about the drone soon afterwards , an indian army spokesman said .
china had provided the indian army with details about where the drone came down and indian authorities were investigating , colonel aman anand said in a statement .
the matter is being dealt with in accordance with the established protocols , anand said .
china also lodged diplomatic representations with india , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang told a regular briefing .
china asks india to immediately stop its activities of using unmanned aircraft near the border , and to work alongside china to maintain the border area s peace and tranquillity , he said .
after the weeks of confrontation on the wind-swept doklam plateau this year , the two sides agreed to an expeditious disengagement of troops about a week before chinese president xi jinping and indian prime minister narendra modi met in an effort to mend ties at a summit in china in september .
but the mountainous border remains sensitive for both sides .
in november , china criticised a visit by indian president ram nath kovind to the remote state of arunachal pradesh , which china claims , saying china opposed any activities by indian leaders in disputed areas .