beijing ( reuters ) - a fringe group of hard-line conservatives who long for the way things were under communist china s founding leader , mao zedong , have welcomed president xi jinping s new era of socialism and its renewed emphasis on equality .
their enthusiasm only goes so far , though .
they don t want to put xi on the same pedestal as mao .
at the ruling communist party s leadership conclave that wrapped up this week , xi laid out a confident vision for a proud and prosperous china , with the party firmly in control , and cemented his authority as the country s most powerful leader since mao took power in 1949 and declared the founding of modern china .
delegates praised xi using mao-era honorifics , and he became the first serving chinese leader since mao to have a named ideology written into the party charter , signaling that it will be in effect beyond his second five-year term , which began this week .
their similarity is that they both want to rejuvenate the chinese nation , they both want an independent , powerful , new china , song yangbiao , a beijing-based neo-maoist freelance journalist , told reuters .
chairman mao freed the chinese people from the oppression of the west , while xi jinping has dedicated himself to giving new china a greater voice on the global stage , he said .
but song said that it was not realistic to revive mao s party chairman title and confer it on xi .
that elevation is a possibility that has been floated , according to some sources with ties to the leadership .
chairman mao s authority was built from a long and arduous struggle .
xi s power came from the bureaucracy in a time of peace .
the history is totally different , he said .
some mainstream party cadres at the congress did not have such reservations .
many called xi a wise and great lingxiu , or leader , an honorific only used for mao zedong and his short-lived successor hua guofeng .
bayanqolu , party chief of northeastern china s jilin province , went so far as to call xi party helmsman , a term not in general use in senior communist party circles since mao , who was called the great helmsman .
accepting xi as a powerful leader , accepting him as the most powerful leader since mao , is a necessary trait of xi s new era , said sima nan , a television pundit , blogger and defender of mao and the communist party .
look at how much he has said , how much he has written , how many people he has met - when does he have time to sleep ?
he said in reference to xi .
china has an awkward relationship with mao s legacy .
mao is still officially venerated by the party as the founder , with a huge portrait overlooking tiananmen square and his face on every yuan banknote .
but he is disliked by many intellectuals and others in china , who consider him personally responsible for the tumultuous decade-long cultural revolution and economic policies that caused famine and killed millions .
state media sometimes say that what mao did was 30 percent negative and 70 percent positive .
neo-maoists dismiss criticisms of mao as smears by westerners and revisionists , and the group vociferously defends mao and his policies in articles online , with occasional public shaming of those who slight his legacy .
in january , a professor in central china was sacked from a university after maoists protested a social media post in which he said mao was responsible for millions of deaths .
while xi has not lavished praise on mao or his policies , he has defended his mistakes and has drawn a line against attempts to revise the party s official history , pleasing the neo-maoists .
he has also borrowed from maoist imagery , rhetoric and campaigns to enforce discipline on cadres , garner public support and strengthen the party s leading role in society .
party , government , military , civilian and academic , east , west , south , north and center , the party leads everything , xi said during his speech to open congress .