cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - for 28-year-old rohingya muslim shopkeeper mohammed rashid , the evening phone call from organizers of the fledgling insurgent movement came as a surprise .
be ready , was the message .
a few hours later , after meeting in the darkness in an open field , he was one of 150 men who attacked a myanmar border guard police post armed with swords , homemade explosives and a few handguns .
at the end of a short battle , half a dozen men he had grown up with in his village were dead .
we had no training , no weapons , said rashid , from the buthidaung area of myanmar s rakhine state , who had joined the group just two months earlier .
accounts from some of those , like rashid , who took part in attacks by the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) on dozens of police posts early on aug. 25 paint a picture of a rag-tag band of hopeless , angry villagers , who were promised ak-47 rifles but ended up fighting with sticks and knives .
hundreds joined as recently as june , according to the accounts , and membership meant little more than a knife and messages from leaders on the popular mobile messaging app whatsapp .
reuters interviewed half a dozen fighters and members of the group now sheltering in bangladesh , as well as dozens of others among the more than half a million rohingya refugees who have fled across the border to escape a myanmar army counteroffensive that the united nations has branded ethnic cleansing .
arsa , which emerged in 2016 , says in press releases and video messages from its leader , ata ullah , that it is fighting for the rights of the rohingya , a stateless muslim minority that has long complained of persecution in mainly buddhist myanmar .
myanmar says arsa is a ruthless islamist extremist movement that wants to create an islamic republic in northern rakhine .
despite the massive suffering inflicted on their communities in the weeks since the august attacks , most of the fighters now stuck in dirt-poor camps said they were determined to continue their fight and some refugees voiced support for the insurgency .
other refugees reuters spoke to criticized the insurgents for bringing more misery upon them .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi s spokesman , zaw htay , said arsa had killed many muslims who had cooperated with the authorities and so people have felt threatened and terrorized into supporting it .
he added that myanmar s intelligence showed that religious scholars were prominent in recruiting followers .
arsa denies killing civilians , and did not respond to a request for comment this week .
analysts say the violence could galvanize arsa members and supporters huddled in the refugee camps and among those rohingya still in myanmar , as people feel they have even less to lose .
a militancy like this finds fertile ground because of the desperation of the community , said richard horsey , a yangon-based analyst and former u.n. official .
they are willing to take suicidal steps because they don t see any other choice .
transnational islamist groups could also try to exploit the desperation in the camps to radicalize people , horsey added .
al qaeda last month called for support for the rohingya .
reuters could not independently verify the individual insurgents stories , but there were broad similarities in all of their accounts .
one fighter , 35-year-old kamal hussain from a village in rathedaung in myanmar s rakhine state , said he joined arsa when a religious teacher stood in his village square in june , during the muslim holy month of ramadan , and implored a crowd of hundreds to fight .
he said we have no choice but to attack myanmar because our brothers and sisters are being killed day by day .
i think everyone joined that day , hussain said , as he sat under a tarpaulin in a bangladesh refugee camp .
we should attack again and again .
i would go back to fight if i had the chance .
unlike longer-serving fighters , most new joiners had little or no training or contact with the group s leaders , who communicated using whatsapp and delivered rudimentary homemade explosives ahead of the assaults .
a third fighter , his account supported by comments from two elders from his village interviewed separately , said he and about 60 men from myin hlut signed up three months ago .
the 26-year-old , who asked not to be named because he feared arrest by bangladeshi authorities , said he was among 200 men who attacked another police checkpost in the early hours of aug. 25 .
we had only knives and sticks , no guns , he said .
they promised us ak-47s but we got nothing .
the explosives didn t work .
we had two of them for the whole group , but when we threw them nothing happened .
about 40 fighters were killed , he said , but added that he would do it again if called on .
i still support arsa , he said .
if my leaders call me to go again and fight , i will go back .
according to two village-level commanders , there were whatsapp groups restricted to leaders and others to members .
bigger groups , administered from overseas , were used to build broader community support for arsa and the rohingya cause .
on his phone , shoket ullah , an uncle of the 26-year-old fighter , scrolled through messages posted in the whatsapp group arsa.g1 , administered through a saudi phone number , where arsa press releases , videos of alleged myanmar military violence and messages of support for rohingyas were shared .
another whatsapp group on ullah s phone , rohingya desh arakan , is administered by someone using a number from malaysia .
tens of thousands of rohingya live in both saudi arabia and malaysia .
rohingya anger at myanmar has long existed , but this is the first serious armed resistance in decades .
in the crowded bangladeshi camps , several refugees voice support for arsa .
i am disappointed and regret what happened but this was pre-planned by the myanmar government , said shafi rahman , a 45-year-old burmese teacher whose village was burned to the ground the day after the attacks .
if arsa didn t attack , they would have done this to us anyway .
several refugees said some people had begun to sell cattle , vegetables and rice to raise funds for arsa .
not everyone was supportive , however .
when kamal hussain , the fighter , argued that arsa needed to keep fighting , his neighbors in the camp shouted him down .
we have lost everything .
violence is not the answer , shouted one elderly man , as muddy water spilled into the tent he now calls home .
it is not obvious how fighters would regroup and rebuild after so many have fled across the border or disappeared .
three of the fighters who spoke to reuters said they had been surprised by the ferocity of the myanmar military s response , and within weeks commanders had told their men to put down their weapons and abandon their villages .
several said whatsapp groups where regional and field commanders from arsa , which before a rebranding this year called itself al-yakin , or faith movement , would post updates had gone quiet .
people who blame this on al-yakin need to realize my people had to flee in 1978 and in the 1990s when there was no arsa , said one of the two village-level commanders , who grew up in bangladesh after his family fled an earlier outbreak of violence , but returned to myanmar in the 1990s .
we should continue to attack .
even women can join .