every american needs to consider this new evidence about hillary and how her campaign is helping to hide her poor health from voters unless of course , the only reason you re planning to vote for hillary is because you like her vp candidate , tim kaine why does hillary reject a bottle of water for a glass of water during her coughing fit in front of press on her new campaign plane ?
why does hillary have a stool and glass of water next to her at all times during public appearances ?
why does hillary tell press she s suffering from allergies when allergens aren t even high in the specific region where she s speaking ?
why is hillary resting while donald trump is out running circles around her on the campaign trail ?
why does the media cover for her lies and most importantly , why is anyone supporting this woman who is clearly not well enough to even campaign for the highest office in our nation ? ?
? during the republican national convention last june , two secret service agents approached infowars and asked to speak to them about hillary s health .
the secret service contacted me .
they said that hillary clinton has parkinson s disease .
they [ hillary s people ] spent over a quarter million dollars on these stairs to allow her to step down from the vehicle to the ground because she has trouble walking .
they [ secret service ] said that any kind of flashes or strobes will set her off into a seizure , and that s why they wanted to come us.they wanted to contact us and give us information because they knew we [ inforwars ] would be able to get this out .
[ unlike the msm , ] we wouldn t be scared to do it .
and you know it really makes a lot of sense when you watch all these videos .
the fact that she s refusing to do these news conferences .
hillary had not done a press conference for 8 months .
her last press conference was on december 4 , 2015.does hillary have parkinson s disease ? as a neurological disorder , parkinson s disease ( pd ) has been shown to affect motor skills in the limbs , inhibit muscle coordination , and sometimes contribute to dysphagia.1 dysphagia is the medical term for difficulty swallowing .
thickened liquids are often used in the management of dysphagia to improve bolus control and to help prevent aspiration .
a range of starches and gums has historically been used to thicken liquids .
although thickened liquids improve swallow safety , they appear to have a great potential for unintended physiological consequences.like this unintended physiological consequence maybe ?
why does hillary always have a stool and glass of water at every public appearance ?
don t most people in this day and age drink from a bottle of water ? again the stool and the glass of water and again on feb. 4 , wnd reported hillary clinton has been prescribed armour thyroid , a natural medication made from desiccated pig thyroid glands , for her hypothyroid condition and coumadin a brand name of warfarin , which initially was developed as a well-known rat poison for her congenital tendency to form blood clots.wnd also reported the medication clinton has taken since 1998 to deal with her blood-clotting problems may have side effects that are hazardous to her health , including blurred vision and confusion , both of which she has experienced .
and a california physician warned coumadin could be more life-threatening to her than the possibility of a recurring blood clot.bill clinton , during a question and answer session at the peterson foundation in washington , on may 14 , 2014 , told the audience that the concussion hillary suffered required six months of very serious work to get over .
on nov. 16 , 2015 , in an exchange between hillary clinton s aides huma abedin and monica hanley dated jan. 26 , 2013 , regarding clinton s schedule , the aides said it was very important to go over phone calls with clinton because the former secretary of state was often confused .
clinton s five-minute bathroom break at the third democratic debate in goffstown , new hampshire , on dec. 19 , 2015 , initially attributed to the distance of the woman s bathroom from the stage , was reported to have caused a flare up of problems from brain injury that required clinton to sit in a chair off-stage to recover from fatigue , dizziness and disorientation.wnd just last week reported that at least 10 prominent physicians have been questioning hillary clinton s health.based on publicly available information , the following physicians have raised concerns : dr. jane orient , m.d. , executive director of the association of american physicians and surgeons , said images of clinton being helped up stairs and propped up , and videos showing odd , seizure-like head movements require an explanation to voters , she contends .
the author of emerging diseases : protecting your family from pandemics , viral threats , and rogue vaccines noted the vituperation and anger that she s faced for raising questions .
i m not making a diagnosis , she told wnd on monday .
but i can look at the video .
you can look .
she said for a medical professional to simply ignore the evidence would be completely reckless .
meeting someone with these symptoms personally would require a how are you ?
she said .
these are not ridiculous questions .
dr. lee hieb , author of surviving the medical meltdown : your guide to living through the disaster of obamacare , agreed .
they made a huge deal about [ sen. john ] mccain because of his melanoma , she told wnd .
melanoma doesn t give you dementia !
she said the images and videos are evidence that should be reviewed and explained to voters , contending clinton is not being forthcoming .
if she doesn t want the american people informed we know where she stands .
citing clinton s previous concussion , hieb said such injuries can cause long-term side effects , seizures , personality changes and cognitive deficits .
the fox news medical a-team of dr. marc siegel and dr. david samadi had questions .
in 2008 i looked over a thousand pages of john mccain s records because of a melanoma he had 10 years ago .
what about hillary ?
in 2009 , a severe fall .
she breaks her elbow .
in 2011 , she boards a plane , falls .
in 2012 , she has a severe concussion which bill clinton says took her six months to recover from , siegel said .
he continued : then she ends up with a blood clot in the brain and a lifetime of blood thinners .
just that point alone if she s prone to falling , you can see from that picture up there that it looked like she can barely get upstairs without two people carrying her .
guess what if she falls and hits her head ?
she ll get a blood clot .
dr. drew pinsky s television show on the hln cable network , dr. drew on call , was canceled after he raised questions about clinton s health in an interview on kabc-am in los angeles .
alt-right fanatics and conspiracy theorists immediately questioned her health is she ok ?
and concerns over hillary s worst coughing fit ever was raised by msnbc.but as paul josepth watson reports , msnbc regurgitated claims by hillary s campaign aides that , allergens were high in northeast ohio on monday , before asserting that there is no evidence to indicate she is unwell .
whore press already running defense for # hackinghillary , blaming pollen .
what about the 10 previous times ?
pic.twitter.com/lwdnyjhehi paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) september 5 , 2016the problem for that propadandist line is it was a complete fabrication.as numerous websites that track daily allergen levels confirmed , grass pollen was low , tree pollen was low and ragweed pollen was moderate .