phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian government lawyers filed a lawsuit on friday to demand the dissolution of the main opposition party , in a move that would help prime minister hun sen extend his 32-year rule when the poor southeast asian nation votes in an election next year .
the attempt to disband the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) comes after its leader , kem sokha , was charged with treason following his arrest on sept.3 .
in their lawsuit on friday , government lawyers said the opposition had conspired with foreigners to topple the government , citing a 2013 video clip that shows kem sokha talking about a plan to take power with the help of americans .
today we filed a lawsuit at the supreme court on behalf of the interior ministry to ask to dissolve the cnrp , ky tech , one of the government lawyers , told reporters .
the cnrp , besides colluding secretly with foreigners ... also intends to serve foreigners , the lawsuit said .
kem sokha s daughter monovithya kem , who is also an official in the opposition party , said in a post on twitter : the international community has obligations to act now .
the u.s. embassy said it was unable to comment on the lawsuit filed by the government on friday , but it had earlier rejected the accusations relating to kem sokha .
western countries have condemned the opposition leader s arrest and have questioned whether the election can be fair following the crackdown on opposition leaders , activists and journalists .
the european union has made several statements about its concern .
in that context , dissolution by the authorities of the main opposition party would be an extremely negative step , said eu ambassador george edgar in an email to reuters .
hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander who defected from the genocidal group and helped drive it from power in 1979 , is allied to china , and beijing says it supports the cambodian government s efforts to maintain national security and stability .
half of cambodia s opposition members of parliament have fled the country .
one of the remaining parliamentarians derided allegations that the cnrp had been involved in planning a us-backed coup .
this is intended to destroy democracy in cambodia , mao monyvann said of the move to shut down the cnrp .
the ruling cambodian people s party narrowly won the last election in 2013 after losing seats to the opposition in what was hun sen s worst election result since cambodia returned to full democracy in 1998 .
the ruling party lost ground in local elections in june , after which , according to opposition members , hun sen stepped up a campaign against dissenting voices .
phil robertson , deputy director of human rights watch s asia division , criticized the international community for not responding more strongly to hun sen s crackdown .
the international community obligated itself to protect human rights and democracy in cambodia when they signed the paris peace accords , but now they are looking the other way as that dream dies , robertson told reuters .
prime minister hun sen is effectively putting an end to cambodian democracy , he said .