london ( reuters ) - britain will need a new paradigm to sell financial services to the european union after brexit as existing trade deals the eu has with foreign countries do not go far enough , the country s finance minister said on tuesday .
philip hammond , widely viewed as the most pro-european of prime minister theresa may s senior colleagues , said in a speech at the annual dinner of finance association cityuk that future trading arrangements with the eu had to be durable and fair .
britain has yet to start serious trade talks with the eu ahead of its march 2019 departure , as the process is currently bogged down in disagreements over border arrangements between the british province of northern ireland and the irish republic .
may came under pressure on tuesday from opposition parties and some allies to soften the eu divorce by keeping britain in the single market and customs union after brexit , hours after an attempt to break the logjam over the irish border collapsed .
hammond said he would not comment on the events of last two days concerning northern ireland , but added that britain and the eu had made good progress in talks over recent weeks .
i am optimistic that we will achieve sufficient progress at the council next week , and move on to the next stage of the negotiations , hammond said , referring to a scheduled meeting of eu leaders on dec. 14 and 15 .
britain wants to protect its existing trading arrangements with the eu , and the type of deal the eu has struck with other countries in the past is not acceptable , hammond said .
we must develop a new paradigm for our future trading relationship in financial services , he said .
no existing trade agreement , nor third-country access to the eu , could support the scale and complexity of reciprocal trade in financial services that exists between the uk and the eu , he added .
earlier on tuesday , the bank of england reiterated its warning that without legislative changes in britain and the eu , tens of billions of pounds of cross-border insurance contracts risk legal uncertainty after brexit , and said it was considering if banks needed to hold extra capital .