tokyo ( reuters ) - tokyo governor yuriko koike does not expect her new conservative party to pick a candidate for prime minister during the campaign for the oct. 22 election , leaving the door open to eventually backing a lawmaker from prime minister shinzo abe s party .
koike s new party of hope has emerged as a serious challenge to abe s liberal democratic party supporter base , but she has said she would not personally contest the election .
abe called the snap election last month in hopes his ruling bloc would keep its majority in parliament s lower house , where it now has a two-thirds super majority .
losing a simple majority would be a major unexpected upset , but a poor performance by the ldp could put pressure on abe to step down .
asked in an interview published on saturday by the asahi newspaper whether koike s party would pick a candidate for premier from its own ranks during the election , she replied : basically , no .
the campaign kicks off formally on oct. 11 .
koike , 65 , a former defense minister and ex-member of abe s ldp , told reuters on friday that all options were on the table regarding whom her party would back when parliament convenes to vote on a prime minister after the election .
we need to see the results ( of the election ) .
we must protect this country and at the same time , we must change it , koike told reuters .
we will decide after the election after confirming the trend in which our party of hope can achieve this .
in the interview with the asahi , koike praised former defense minister shigeru ishiba , whom she backed in a 2012 ldp leadership race won by abe , and lauded internal affairs minister seiko noda for her work on behalf of handicapped people .
ishiba has criticized abe on several fronts including his proposal to revise the post-war constitution s pacifist article 9 by clarifying the status of the military .
ishiba says abe s proposal does not go far enough .
noda has said she wants to run in the next ldp leadership race when abe s current term expires in september 2018 .