istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey said on friday that a huge banner of jailed kurdish militant leader abdullah ocalan unfurled in central raqqa by u.s.-backed kurdish forces would further harm already fraught relations between ankara and washington .
the banner of ocalan was raised on thursday at a ceremony to mark raqqa s capture from islamic state in a campaign spearheaded by kurdish syrian ypg fighters , with military support from the united states .
turkey considers the ypg to be an extension of ocalan s kurdistan worker s party ( pkk ) , which has waged a three-decade insurgency in turkey s southeast and is designated a terrorist organization by the united states , european union and turkey .
ankara says that weapons supplied to fighters in syria have ended up in pkk hands , threatening turkish security .
i wonder what more evidence the u.s. needs to accept that the ... ypg is a terrorist organization , turkish prime minister binali yildirim told reporters as he left a mosque in istanbul .
displaying a photograph of the pkk terrorist leader damages u.s.-turkey relations very seriously .
with this move , the u.s. is not only cooperating with terrorists , but they are endangering the future of syria .
the banner of ocalan was raised on thursday by an all-female kurdish militia .
kurdish ypg commanders and fighters were also shown chanting long live apo !
, as ocalan is known by his followers , in a video of celebrations distributed by the ypg press office .
president tayyip erdogan echoed yildirim s condemnation .
how can the u.s. explain the poster of ocalan in raqqa ?
is this the way they are cooperating with us in the struggle against terror ?
he said .
you are not standing by us against terrorism .
you wouldn t allow this if you were .
ocalan has been in jail in turkey since 1999 on a treason conviction .
he negotiated a truce from his prison cell , but the ceasefire broke down two years ago and thousands have died in mainly kurdish southeast turkey in renewed violence since then .
the banner incident comes amid a diplomatic spat between ankara and washington over the detention of a turkish employee of the u.s. consulate in istanbul that has seen the two countries suspend visa services for each other s citizens .