mecca ( reuters ) - the imam of mecca s grand mosque denounced those who cause conflict among muslims in his last friday sermon before the annual haj pilgrimage , as rifts widen among gulf neighbors and wars rage across the middle east .
saudi arabia , which hosts and supervises the haj , has with other arab governments imposed sanctions on qatar and cut all transport links with the country in recent months , accusing it of supporting iran and backing islamist terrorism - charges doha denies .
relations between shi ite muslim-led iran and predominately sunni saudi arabia are at their worst in years , with each accusing the other of subverting regional security and supporting opposite sides in conflicts in syria , iraq and yemen .
anyone who causes conflict and discord among muslims ignores the blessing of harmony , imitates those who lived in ignorance ( before islam ) , harms his people and cheats his nation , sheikh saleh mohammed al-taleb told the hundreds of thousands of pilgrims who have flocked to mecca from around the world to perform the haj next week .
taleb did not directly refer to the political and military divisions in the arab world that have killed hundreds of thousands of people and displaced millions more in recent years .
nearly 90,000 iranians are expected to attend , after tehran boycotted mecca last year following a crush at the pilgrimage in 2015 in which hundreds of people died , many of them iranians .
saudi officials say over 400 qatari pilgrims have also arrived through the land border in recent days , but qatar has accused saudi arabia of deliberately making it hard for them .
saudi arabia says qatar is seeking to politicize the ritual for diplomatic gains .
the dispute has defied mediation attempts by the united states and kuwait .
worshippers on friday filled the mosque s haram sanctuary , the holiest place in islam , and spilled into nearby streets , malls , hotel lobbies and garages , listening to the sermon through loudspeakers .
an elderly tunisian pilgrim named bakari abdel jalil attended in a white shirt and cap while other worshippers donned customary white robes .
he said he hoped regional tensions would not affect the haj .