riyadh/dubai ( reuters ) - u.s. firms attracted by saudi arabia s plans to build nuclear reactors are pushing washington to restart talks with riyadh on an agreement to help the kingdom develop atomic energy , three industry sources said .
saudi arabia has welcomed the lobbying , they said , though it is likely to worry regional rival iran at a time when tensions are already high in the middle east .
one of the sources also said riyadh had told washington it does not want to forfeit the possibility of one day enriching uranium - a process that can have military uses - though this is a standard condition of u.s. civil nuclear cooperation pacts .
they want to secure enrichment if down the line they want to do it , the source , who is in contact with saudi and u.s. officials , said before u.s. energy secretary rick perry holds talks in riyadh early next week .
another of the industry sources said saudi arabia and the united states had already held initial talks about a nuclear cooperation pact .
u.s. officials and saudi officials responsible for nuclear energy issues declined to comment for this article .
the sources did not identify the u.s. firms involved in the lobbying .
under article 123 of the u.s. atomic energy act , a peaceful cooperation agreement is required for the transfer of nuclear materials , technology and equipment .
in previous talks , saudi arabia has refused to sign up to any agreement with the united states that would deprive the kingdom of the possibility of one day enriching uranium .
saudi arabia , the world s top oil producer , says it wants nuclear power solely for peaceful uses - to produce electricity at home so that it can export more crude .
it has not yet acquired nuclear power or enrichment technology .
riyadh sent a request for information to nuclear reactor suppliers in october in a first step towards opening a multi-billion-dollar tender for two nuclear power reactors , and plans to award the first construction contract in 2018 .
reuters has reported that westinghouse is in talks with other u.s.-based companies to form a consortium for the bid .
a downturn in the u.s. nuclear industry makes business abroad increasingly valuable for american firms .
reactors need uranium enriched to around 5 percent purity but the same technology in this process can also be used to enrich the heavy metal to a higher , weapons-grade level .
this has been at the heart of western and regional concerns over the nuclear work of iran , which enriches uranium domestically .
riyadh s main reason to leave the door open to enrichment in the future may be political - to ensure the sunni muslim kingdom has the same possibility of enriching uranium as shi ite muslim iran , industry sources and analysts say .
saudi arabia s position poses a potential problem for the united states , which has strengthened ties with the kingdom under president donald trump .
washington usually requires a country to sign a nuclear cooperation pact - known as a 123 agreement - that forfeits steps in fuel production with potential bomb-making uses .
doing less than this would undermine u.s. credibility and risk the increased spread of nuclear weapons capabilities to saudi arabia and the region , said david albright , a former u.n. weapons inspector and president of the washington-based institute for science and international security ( isis ) .
it is not clear whether riyadh will raise the issue during perry s visit , which one of the industry sources said could include discussion of nuclear export controls .
under a nuclear deal iran signed in 2015 with world powers - but which trump has said he might pull the united states out of - tehran can enrich uranium to around the level needed for commercial power-generation .
it would be a huge change of policy for washington to allow saudi arabia the right to enrich uranium , said mark fitzpatrick , executive director of the americas office at the international institute for strategic studies think tank .
applying the golden standard of not allowing enrichment or preprocessing ( of spent fuel ) has held up a 123 agreement with jordan for many years , and has been a key issue in u.s. nuclear cooperation with south korea , said fitzpatrick , a nuclear policy expert .
the united states is likely to aim for restrictions , non-proliferation analysts say .
these could be based on those included in the 123 agreement washington signed in 2009 with the united arab emirates , which is set to start up its first south korean-built reactor in 2018 and has ruled out enrichment and reprocessing .
perhaps saudi arabia is testing the trump administration and seeing if the administration would be amenable to fewer restrictions in a 123 agreement , isis s albright said .
saudi arabia s nuclear plans have gained momentum as part of a reform plan led by crown prince mohammed bin salman to reduce the economy s dependence on oil .
riyadh wants eventually to install up to 17.6 gigawatts ( gw ) of atomic capacity by 2032 - or up to 17 reactors .
this is a promising prospect for the struggling global nuclear industry and the united states is expected to face competition from south korea , russia , france and china for the initial tender .
hashim bin abdullah yamani , head of the saudi government agency tasked with the nuclear plans , has said the kingdom wants to tap its own uranium resources for self-sufficiency in producing nuclear fuel and that this is economically viable .
as a nuclear conference in october , saudi officials declined to comment when asked to expand on the topic .
in 2015 , before the iran deal was signed , prince turki al-faisal , a senior saudi royal and former intelligence chief , said riyadh would want the option to enrich uranium if tehran had it .
in october , maher al-odan , the chief atomic energy officer of kacare , said saudi arabia had around 60,000 tonnes of uranium based on initial studies and that the kingdom wanted to start extracting it to boost the economy .
asked what would happen to the uranium after that , he replied : this is a government decision .