( reuters ) - the top risk to u.s. growth would come if u.s. president-elect donald trump keeps his protectionist promises , according to a reuters poll that shows economists have not joined in the market exuberance since the shock november vote .
for most of his campaign and after the election , trump vowed to make sweeping changes to u.s. trade and immigration policy , threatened to impose steep tariffs on chinese imports and proposed hefty tax cuts .
while financial markets have retreated in the past week and hopes of a sudden spurt in inflation have faded , u.s. 10-year treasury yields are still up more than 25 percent since election day , and stocks have hit record highs .
still , more than two-thirds of the 70 respondents to the question in the reuters survey taken over the past week said trump ’ s protectionist policies were the biggest threat to the world ’ s largest economy this year .
“ there is no question that near the top of the list of downside risks is the potential for more follow-through on the anti-free trade rhetoric , ” said jim o ’ sullivan of high frequency economics .
“ i am kind of assuming that the ( incoming ) administration will be practical on this , ” said o ’ sullivan , the top forecaster of u.s. economic data in reuters polls for 2016 , the second year in a row he achieved that distinction .
the strong dollar , which hit a 14-year high early this month and is up close to 6 percent since trump was elected , poses an additional near-term risk .
worries around the globe over trump ’ s confrontational style and a strengthening dollar are likely to be key themes among political and business leaders at the world economic forum in davos , switzerland , this week .
sweeping tax cuts for businesses and individuals , and the prospect of some infrastructure spending , have also not brightened prospects for u.s. economic growth , which trump has said he aimed to boost to 3.5 percent .
more than 80 percent of respondents said “ no ” when asked if now was the right time for such aggressive tax cuts , with the economy close to full employment .
the unemployment rate was 4.7 percent in december .
the latest poll estimated growth slowed to 2.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 3.5 percent in the third quarter .
through 2017 , economists predicted the economy would expand at an annual rate of 2.1 percent to 2.5 percent each quarter , just 0.1 percentage point higher than the previous estimate .
the full-year median was 2.3 percent .
the most optimistic growth forecast for any point in 2017 was 4.1 percent , far short of the post-financial crisis peak of 5.6 percent hit in the fourth quarter of 2009 .
“ obviously people have been assuming the growth-sapping parts ( protectionist measures ) are not followed through , but they may have run ahead of themselves in predicting how much stimulus will be enacted and how much growth will be boosted , ” said o ’ sullivan , who was also the most optimistic on growth among the top forecasters .
a little fewer than one-third of the respondents , including three of the top 10 u.s. economy forecasters in reuters polls last year , upgraded their 2017 growth outlooks in the latest poll .
many of them , like o ’ sullivan , said it was mainly on the assumption trump would not follow through on his restrictive trade agenda and instead focus on boosting growth through fiscal measures .
while those projected growth rates may be considered healthy for the economy at such a late stage of the recovery cycle , they could do little to boost inflation much beyond the federal reserve ’ s 2 percent target .
inflation pressure is more likely to come from a round of retaliatory tariffs if trump ’ s protectionist agenda becomes a global reality .
even though pay growth is forecast to average 3.0 percent this year , up from 2.8 percent in december ’ s poll , the fed ’ s preferred gauge of inflation , the core pce price index , will probably average 1.8 percent in 2017 and 2.0 percent in 2018 , unchanged from the last poll .
fed policymakers recently warned that with the economy close to full employment , an expansive fiscal policy could lead to faster rate hikes than currently priced in , pushing the u.s. dollar higher .
“ if the unemployment rate falls some more , it is going to add to upward pressure on wages and inflation and reinforce the case for fed tightening , ” o ’ sullivan said .
the wider poll of over 100 economists , including 17 large banks that transact directly with the fed , showed rates would remain unchanged at 0.50 percent to 0.75 percent until the second quarter , when a 25-basis-point hike is likely .
a follow-up increase is expected in the fourth quarter , taking the fed funds rate to a range of 1.00 percent to 1.25 percent .
fourteen economists , however , forecast a hike by march .
( for other stories from the poll )