as usual , donald trump s support only goes as far as who he thinks supports him .
after a week of claiming he was rooting for peyton manning and the denver broncos in the super bowl , he shamelessly switched sides to the carolina panthers after his arch-rival jeb bush claimed manning as his own.during the republican debate , a smug-looking jeb bush announced that peyton manning is supporting me , and i m for denver .
he wasn t kidding , manning has reportedly donated the maximum amount , $ 2,700 , to bush s campaign .
that had to sting the other candidates , because manning is a well-known conservative who loves throwing cash at his favorite politicians .
he gave money to george w. bush during his re-election campaign in 2004 , gave $ 5000 to mitt romney in 2012 , and regularly gives checks to republican politicians in his home state of tennessee .
his brother and fellow nfl quarterback eli manning also maxed out a contribution to jeb bush.this was an embarrassing moment for trump , who up until last week was boasting about manning.who is donald trump pulling for in super bowl 50 ?
https : //t.co/xbptyg0cgj face the nation ( @ facethenation ) january 31 , 2016 i ll stick with peyton , said trump at the time , just one week before he very much didn t stick with peyton.both trump and bush s other rival , marco rubio , appeared openly bitter about manning during the debate .
while trump let his flip-flop speak for itself , rubio noted that he was rooting for peyton manning , but now i m rooting for carolina .
as addicting info s oliver willis recently reported , it s not just peyton .
the denver broncos organization , like many football teams , is itself a massive backer of the gop.according to the center for responsive politics , the broncos have donated $ 112,475 to conservative candidates and political committees .
by comparison the carolina panthers have given $ 17,000 to support the right .
while both teams have also contributed to liberal candidates , the numbers are much smaller $ 3,500 for the broncos , $ 4,000 for the panthers.it s fun to watch how quickly trump will turn on a person who so recently praised just because he can t get anything from him or her .
it s clear that trump s opinions about people change at the whims of his fragile ego.feature image via flickr/papa johns