time to exhale james barack obama supporter james taylor doesn t just think the u.s. president is great he believes obama is the greatest of all-time .
i ve been watching politics since ( dwight ) eisenhower and adlai stevenson , when dinosaurs roamed the earth , and obama is my favorite , favorite president , taylor said in an interview wednesday .
i am just thankful for every day that he s in office .
i am so proud that he represents my country and i think he represents me i think he represents the america that i know .
taylor , 67 , is a recipient of the national medal of arts .
the pop icon performed america the beautiful at obama s second inauguration in 2013 .
i had a really tough time during the cheney-bush years , i did , and i had a hard time accepting that that administration represented me because i don t think they did , taylor said.the rock and roll hall of famer also called obama s family precious and said he appreciates the u.s. leader because he s sane and balanced .
he promised to give us a health care system , it s a work in progress , but he has put us on a road to that , taylor said .
i m so grateful for what he s done for gay rights and for the emancipation of gay people .
particularly from my point of view , i think that was so overdue and so important , and so important for america to be ahead of the curve on this .
taylor criticized congress in obama s defense .
i ve never seen a congress that has been so obstructive and so contrary and so committed to doing anything that will foul up this administration .
i just think it s an absolute scandal that he has had so little cooperation , he said .
so anyway , you hit a nerve and i ll go on forever .
but i ll just say it a third time : every day that barack obama and michelle obama are in the white house is a day that i am thankful for .
obama isn t the only politician taylor is supporting : the singer said he s on the hillary rodham clinton train , too .
and aside from the fact that she s a woman running , she s the right person .
the whole point black or white , male or female , gay or straight , christian , jewish , muslim , atheist it doesn t matter what these other connections are , he said .
our country needs to come together and the question is , is this public servant someone who will bring us together ?
and i think she is .
taylor will release a new album , before this world , on june 16 , and will perform a concert for siriusxm at the apollo in new york city on the same day .
he will also launch a u.s. tour in july.via : ap news