it s time to drain obama s swamp !
rep. jason chaffetz , the head of the house oversight committee , criticized the director of the federal office of government ethics on thursday over his criticism of donald trump s plan to address conflicts of interest .
and he threatened to subpoena the official , walter shaub , if he refuses to participate in an official interview .
he seems to be acting prematurely at best , without doing investigations or thorough looks , chaffetz said in an interview .
he s rendering opinions publicly that really cause you to scratch your head .
we need the office of government ethics to act ethically .
ironically , that s not what they re doing .
shaub , an appointee of president barack obama , has been a frequent critics of the incoming administration s ethics plans , peaking wednesday when he called trump s newly unveiled conflicts of interest policy meaningless .
the public rebuke of trump s business arrangements came during a press conference at the brookings institution that included the outspoken former white house ethics lawyers for obama and former president george w. bush .
in his remarks , shaub said the president-elect stepping back from running his positions is meaningless from a conflict of interest perspective .
the plan does not comport with the tradition of our presidents over the last 40 years , he added.chaffetz said shaub has refused since the election to agree to a meeting to discuss matters related to oge s public remarks about trump , as well as the republican-led panel s plans to pass language reauthorizing the office .
if shaub continues to resist , chaffetz said he d issue a subpoena if we have to .
he is coming in .
this is not going to be an optional exercise , chaffetz said , adding that he expected a meeting within a few weeks.shaub s 5-year term expires in january 2018 .
we need a fair person behind the plate that s going to call balls and strikes , chaffetz said .
what they re supposed to do is help work with somebody to comply with the ethics requirements .
but when you talk publicly about private conversations , that s not ethical .
and when you refuse to come in and talk to the committee when you re doing reauthorization , when you start tweeting and issuing press statements on things you never looked at , that shouldn t be the case at all .
this isn t chaffetz s first time challenging shaub .
in late 2015 , the republican accused the obama appointee of giving hillary clinton a pass on conflict-of-interest laws over speaking fees she and her husband , former president bill clinton , were supposed to disclose .
but chaffetz said he s grown more frustrated with shaub since the november election and also singled out the oge s use of its official twitter account to issue a bizarre series of posts in trump s own staccato style congratulating the president-elect for making major changes to his business arrangements.for entire story : politico