st. louis former st. louis police officer jason stockley was found not guilty friday of murdering a man while on duty.st .
louis circuit judge timothy wilson s highly anticipated verdict found the white former st. louis police officer not guilty of first-degree murder and armed criminal action in the december 2011 shooting death of a black drug suspect after a high-speed pursuit and crash.immediately after the verdict was issued , protesters gathered downtown near tucker boulevard and market street .
they blocked a ramp to interstate 64 off clark street , but were blocked by police from entering the highway .
protesters then headed to police headquarters.christina wilson , the fiance of the victim anthony lamar smith , bravely stood in front of a microphone prior to the court s announcement and asked for protesters to not resort to violence.inspired by your courage , christina .
honored to stand with you and call for peace in # stl .
https : //t.co/uculkuworo pic.twitter.com/4hjkvptiwj eric greitens ( @ ericgreitens ) september 15 , 2017christina wilson s plea for peace is reminiscent of martin luther king jr .
her words obviously fell on deaf ears for the thugs seen in this video who appear to be caught up in the party atmosphere and only appear to be looking for an opportunity to destroy someone else s property .
the video below is disturbing on so many levels .
while the people in the video appear to be only interested in the party atmosphere that surrounds them , one person , in particular , has caught the attention of viewers on social media and shined a light on what it looks like when children raise children in america .
watching this mother pushing her child to commit a felony , while teaching her to hate the very people who risk their lives every day to protect them , is disturbing , and possibly one of the saddest videos we have ever posted on our website.watch : police are sharing video of people damaging a police car during a demonstration after the stockley ruling .
https : //t.co/lsnktzj7wi pic.twitter.com/ohy4karcle fox2now ( @ fox2now ) september 16 , 2017