beirut ( reuters ) - syria s army declared victory over islamic state on thursday , saying its capture of the jihadists last town in the country marked the collapse of their three-year , hardline reign in the in the region .
the army and its allies are still fighting islamic state in desert areas near albu kamal , the last town the militant group had held in syria , near the border with iraq , the army said .
but the capture of the town ends islamic state s era of territorial rule over the so-called caliphate that it proclaimed in 2014 across iraq and syria and in which millions suffered under its hardline , repressive strictures .
yet after ferocious defensive battles in its most important cities this year , where its fighters bled for every house and street , its final collapse has come with lightning speed .
instead of a battle to the death as they mounted a last stand in the euphrates valley towns and villages near the border between iraq and syria , many fighters surrendered or fled .
there s some fighters left but they re few .
small numbers is all i can say , said a syrian army commander of the remaining militants near albu kamal .
some were killed and some ran away .
they went toward eastern or northern villages .
in albu kamal , the jihadists had fought fiercely , said a commander in the pro-syrian government military alliance .
but it was captured the same day the assault began .
this sealed the fall of the terrorist daesh organization s project in the region , an army statement said , using an arabic term for islamic state .
the fate of its last commanders is still unknown killed by bombardment or in battle , taken prisoner but unidentified , or hunkered into long-prepared hideouts to plot a new insurgency .
the last appearance of abu bakr al-baghdadi , who declared himself caliph and heir to islam s historic leaders from the great medieval mosque in iraq s mosul , was made in an audio recording in september .
oh soldiers of islam in every location , increase blow after blow , and make the media centers of the infidels , from where they wage their intellectual wars , among the targets , he said .
mosul fell to iraqi forces in july after a nine-month battle .
islamic state s syrian capital of raqqa fell in october to the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , a u.s.-backed alliance of kurdish and arab militias , after four months of fighting .
but all the forces fighting islamic state in syria and iraq expect a new phase of guerrilla warfare , a tactic the militants have already shown themselves capable of with armed operations in both countries .
western security chiefs have also said its loss of territory does not mean an end to the lone-wolf attacks with guns , knives or trucks plowing into civilians that its supporters have mounted around the world .
as it did after previous setbacks , islamic state s leadership may now stay underground and wait for a new opportunity to take advantage of the chaos in the middle east .
it might not have long to wait .
in iraq , a referendum on independence in the northern kurdish region has already prompted a major confrontation between its autonomous government and baghdad , backed by neighboring iran and turkey .
in syria , two rival campaigns raced across the country s east this year driving back islamic state the syrian army backed by russia , iran and shi ite militias , and an alliance of kurdish and arab militias backed by the united states .
syrian officials and a senior advisor to iran have indicated the syrian army will now stake its claim to kurdish-held territory .
washington has not yet said how it would respond to a protracted military campaign against its allies .
aggravating tensions and raising the possibility of turmoil from which islamic state could benefit is a contest for power between iran and saudi arabia .
it has developed a religious edge , pitting shi ite groups supported by iran against sunni ones backed by saudi arabia , infusing the region s wars with sectarian hatred .
a senior iranian official this week spoke from syria s aleppo of a line of resistance running from tehran to beirut , an implicit boast of its region-wide influence .
in recent days the rivalry has again escalated as riyadh accused lebanese hezbollah of firing a missile from the territory in yemen of another iranian ally , the houthi movement .
hezbollah is a critical part of the tehran-backed alliance helping syrian president bashar al-assad .
hezbollah fighters played the key role in ousting islamic state from albu kamal , a commander in that alliance told reuters .
baghdadi s declaration of a caliphate in 2014 launched a new era in jihadist ambition .
instead of al qaeda s strategy of using militant attacks against the west to spur an islamist revolution , the new movement decided to simply establish a new state .
it led to a surge in recruitment to the jihadist cause , attracting thousands of young muslims to immigrate to a militant utopia slickly realized in propaganda films .
islamic state s leadership ranks included former iraqi officials who well understood the running of a state .
they issued identity documents , minted coins and established a morality police force .
unlike previous jihadist movements that relied on donations from sympathizers , islamic state s territorial grip gave it command of a real economy .
it exported oil and agricultural produce , levied taxes and traded in stolen antiquities .
on the battlefield , it adapted its tactics , using heavy weaponry captured from its enemies during its first flush of military success , adding tanks and artillery to its suicide bombers and guerrilla fighters .
it imprisoned and tortured foreigners , demanding ransoms for their release and killing those whose countries would not pay in grotesque films posted online .
the number of those treated in this way was as nothing to the multitude of syrians and iraqis islamic state killed for their behavior , words , sexuality , religion , ethnicity or tribe .
some were burned alive , others beheaded and some dropped from the roofs of tall buildings .
captured women were sold as brides at slave auctions .
but as islamic state was pushed from territory in recent months , there were pictures of women pulling off face veils and smoking previously banned cigarettes .