harare ( reuters ) - when zimbabwean leader robert mugabe sacked his vice president in front of 12,000 baying party members in 2014 , emmerson mnangagwa sat quietly in the crowd , a green baseball cap pulled low over his eyes .
the man who stood to gain most from the dismissal betrayed nothing through his expression and gentle clapping - a survival tactic honed during five decades of service to the mercurial mugabe .
his cap , however , spoke volumes .
emblazoned across its front , next to a portrait of mugabe , were four words : indigenise , empower , develop , employ - a slogan of the ruling zanu-pf party .
that day , he became mugabe s official deputy .
mnangagwa , whose sacking from the post this month brought zimbabwe s political crisis to a head , is now poised to take over after mugabe , 93 , resigned on tuesday , ending almost four decades of rule .
mnangagwa will be sworn in on wednesday or thursday , zanu-pf s legal secretary patrick chinamasa told reuters .
the party s chief whip said mnangagwa would serve the remainder of mugabe s term until the next election due by september 2018 .
but there are questions over how mnangagwa will lead the country led by mugabe since independence in 1980 .
in a statement issued from hiding on tuesday , mnangagwa said zimbabweans from all walks of life had to work together to rebuild a shattered economy and deeply polarized society .
my desire is to join all zimbabweans in a new era , where corruption , incompetence , dereliction of duty and laziness , social and cultural decadence is not tolerated , he said .
in that new zimbabwe , it is important for everyone to join hands so that we rebuild this nation to its full glory .
this is not a job for zanu-pf alone but for all people of zimbabwe .
the 75-year-old was one of mugabe s most trusted lieutenants , having been at his side in prison , during wartime and then in government .
with his appointment in 2014 as mugabe s official deputy , mnangagwa had appeared well set as the eventual successor to africa s oldest head of state .
there are no arguments around his credentials to provide strong leadership and stability , but there are questions over whether he can also be a democrat , said eldred masunungure , a political science lecturer at the university of zimbabwe .
speaking at the congress in 2014 , mnangagwa reinforced the message emblazoned on his headgear , announcing revisions to zanu-pf s constitution that backed total ownership and control of zimbabwe s natural resources .
it was a key insight to the party s direction as it contemplated life beyond mugabe .
we will remain forever masters of our own destiny , mnangagwa said at the time , to cheers from the crowd .
along the way , mnangagwa earned the nickname ngwena , shona for crocodile , an animal famed in zimbabwean lore for its stealth and ruthlessness .
he backed mugabe s economic nationalism , especially a drive to force foreign firms to hand majority stakes to local blacks , suggesting he may not be the pro-market pragmatist many investors were hoping for .
he has been in every administration since independence , holding posts as varied as minister of state security , defense and finance , as well as speaker of parliament .
most controversially , he was in charge of internal security in the mid-1980s when mugabe deployed a crack north korean-trained brigade against rebels loyal to his rival joshua nkomo .
rights groups say 20,000 civilians , mostly from the ndebele tribe , were killed .
mugabe denies genocide or crimes against humanity but has admitted it was a moment of madness .
mnangagwa s role remains shrouded in mystery , typical of a political operator trained as a communist guerrilla in china in the 1960s and who always stayed in the shadows behind mugabe .
secretive and insular , he prefers to operate under the radar , those in his inner circle say , and when pushed into a corner , resorts to jokes and trivia to avoid serious discussion .
i wouldn t say he is deceptive but it s fair to say his default position is to crack jokes and deflect uncomfortable questions by asking endless questions , one member of parliament close to him said .
he is very conscious that his public image is that of a hard man but he is a much more complex personality - pleasant and an amazing story-teller , the politician , also from mnangagwa s midlands province , told reuters .
mnangagwa s appointment as vice president came a day after his predecessor joice mujuru was fired for allegedly planning to topple mugabe .
asked whether the purge would weaken the party , a smiling mnangagwa said : the revolution has a way of strengthening itself .
it goes through cycles , this is another cycle where it rids itself of elements that had now become inconsistent with the correct line .
mnangagwa learnt his politics in prison in the 1960s after being sentenced to death for sabotage by british authorities .
he was captured while in one of the earliest guerrilla units fighting white colonial rule in what was then rhodesia .
he was 19 and only spared the noose by a law prohibiting the execution of convicts under 21 .
after a decade in prison , often sharing a cell with mugabe , mnangagwa became personal assistant to the leader of the liberation struggle , and went on to head the guerrilla movement s feared internal security bureau .
in january , a photograph appeared in local media showing mnangagwa enjoying drinks with a friend .
in his hand was a large novelty mug emblazoned with the words : i m the boss .
to supporters of mugabe , this bordered on treason .
they suspected that mnangagwa already saw himself in the leader s shoes .
when mugabe fired mnangagwa as vice president this month for showing traits of disloyalty , he removed a possible successor who was also one of his last remaining liberation war comrades .
but relations had already cooled between the two men after suggestions by mnangagwa s allies in august that he had been poisoned by ice cream from a dairy owned by the mugabes .