geneva ( reuters ) - myanmar told the united nations refugee agency on monday its top priority was to bring back rohingyas who have fled to bangladesh , but much work was needed to consolidate stability in its troubled northern region of rakhine .
bangladesh and myanmar agreed on monday to set up a working group to plan the repatriation of more than half a million rohingya muslim refugees who have fled to bangladesh to escape an army crackdown , the bangladeshi foreign minister said .
win myat aye , myanmar s union minister , minister of social welfare , relief and resettlement , addressed the u.n. refugee agency s ( unhcr ) executive committee after u.n. refugee chief filippo grandi called for resolving issues related to rohingya citizenship and rights .
our next immediate priority is to bring back the refugees who have fled to bangladesh , win myat aye told the geneva forum .
the repatriation process can start any time for those who wish to return to myanmar .
the verification of refugees will be based on the agreement between the myanmar and bangladesh governments in 1993 , he said .
those who have been verified as refugees from this country will be accepted without any problem and with full assurance of their security and their access to human dignity .
the status of rohingya remains unsettled in myanmar where they are denied citizenship and classified as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots in myanmar that go back centuries , with communities marginalized and subjected to bouts of communal violence over the years .
many refugees are gloomy about the prospects of going back to buddhist-majority myanmar , fearing they will not be able to furnish the documents they anticipate the government will demand to prove they have a right to return .
win myat aye accused terrorist organizations of launching coordinated attacks on police posts on aug. 25 that sparked the exodus .
he said in addition to a humanitarian perspective , handling the situation also required considerations from security and political angles .
although the security situation has improved in the affected areas and ( there has been ) no more armed clashes since sept. 5 , much needs to be done to consolidate the stability in the region , he said .
giving preferential treatment to one group in terms of providing humanitarian assistance or media advocacy could worsen the sentiment of the other group , he said .