the only people who think all jewish people are rich and shrewd with money are anti-semitic racists , so therefore it should come as no surprise that this is yet another group of bigots that presumptive gop presidential nominee donald trump would try to appeal to in his attacks on hillary clinton .
no , hillary clinton is not jewish , but that didn t stop the donald .
you see , he is jealous because when it comes to fundraising , hillary clinton is winning .
while she has raised roughly $ 68.5 million in funds during june , while trump s campaign is broke.instead of raising money or staying quiet on the issue , trump , in his own unique brand of childish , racist buffoonery , trump tweeted out a crooked hillary image that included a star of david and a pile of money .
here is a screen capture : now , what trump was doing with this tweet was not lost on the great people of twitter .
this is clearly anti-semitic , and it doesn t help that trump has repeatedly courted white supremacists and other racists hell , neo-nazis have pledged to support him and his fans at the gop convention itself .
the richly deserved twitter treatment was definitely swift : just saw # donaldtrump 's star of david tweet .
i 'm impressed by his ability to find a way to insult literally every kind of human being .
cole haddon ( @ colehaddon ) july 2 , 2016square : no funrectangle : mehtriangle : words wo n't fitstar of david : great .
now where are my jackboots ?
https : //t.co/ywxc8d8cj6 sch ltz ( @ schultzenfreude ) july 2 , 2016a star of david over a pile of money , mr. trump ?
this is textbook anti-semitic imagery .
# louderthanadogwhistle https : //t.co/xxz5mtfsde marc lamont hill ( @ marclamonthill ) july 2 , 2016star of david is a totally classy touch and does n't at all reek of baffling jew-baiting .
https : //t.co/dilr6dphz4 andrew kirell ( @ andrewkirell ) july 2 , 2016maybe the star of david on trump 's tweet is code for `` someone help me , i did n't mean for this to go this long , how do i get out ? ? ? ''
lady murderface ( @ itsa_talia ) july 2 , 2016hi , @ realdonaldtrump graphics team .
can you please explain your choice of a star of david over money and 'corrupt ' ?
pic.twitter.com/gvexx4s4qq bradd jaffy ( @ braddjaffy ) july 2 , 2016and there is yet more evidence that trump is grossly unqualified to be president , if only for his incredibly racist ways alone , not to mention all the rest.good on you , twitter , for calling him out.featured image via joe raedle/getty images