almaty ( reuters ) - uzbekistan released a prominent dissident from prison on tuesday , on the same day an opposition outlet said one of its contributors in the central asian nation had been arrested .
the former soviet republic has puzzled observers with conflicting signals over the last few weeks , with another prominent dissident , who had been struck off a security blacklist , being detained on his return from exile .
human rights activist azam farmonov , 39 , was set free on tuesday , the united states embassy in tashkent said in a statement welcoming his release .
farmonov was sentenced to nine years in prison in 2006 on charges of extortion which other activists called fabricated .
his term was extended by five more years in 2015 .
farmonov s early release followed the freeing of several other prominent political prisoners jailed under president shavkat mirziyoyev s predecessor , islam karimov .
we applaud these positive steps and hope they signal future releases and a more open approach to civil society , the u.s. embassy said .
karimov had run the nation of 32 million with an iron fist from 1989 until his death in september 2016 , and his tough policies resulted in uzbekistan s international near-isolation .
seeking to improve ties with the west and attract foreign investment , mirziyoyev has taken steps to liberalize the nation .
he has moved to ease travel restrictions and implemented a foreign exchange reform .
he also ordered some 16,000 people struck off a blacklist of potential extremists and dissidents in august .
however , when one of them , prominent dissident writer nurulloh muhammad raufkhon , returned to tashkent from turkey last month , he was detained .
although raufkhon has been released this week , he still faces anti-government propaganda charges .
on tuesday , people s movement of uzbekistan , an organization of opposition activists in exile , said in a statement that a contributor for its website uzxalqharakati.com had been arrested and charged with seeking to overthrow the constitutional order .
authorities in uzbekistan could not be reached for comment on tuesday .