beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - a threat by a senior chinese diplomat to invade taiwan the instant any u.s. warship visits the self-ruled island has sparked a war of words , with taipei accusing beijing of failing to understand what democracy means .
china considers taiwan to be a wayward province and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under its control .
the united states has no formal ties with taiwan but is bound by law to help it defend itself and is its main source of arms .
beijing regularly calls taiwan the most sensitive and important issue between it and the united states .
in september , the u.s. congress passed the national defense authorization act for the 2018 fiscal year , which authorises mutual visits by navy vessels between taiwan and the united states .
at a chinese embassy event in washington on friday , diplomat li kexin said he had told u.s. officials that china would activate its anti-secession law , which allows it to use force on taiwan if deemed necessary to prevent the island from seceding , if the united states sent navy ships to taiwan .
the day that a u.s. navy vessel arrives in kaohsiung is the day that our people s liberation army unifies taiwan with military force , chinese media at the weekend quoted li as saying , referring to taiwan s main port .
taiwan s foreign ministry said late on saturday that , while chinese officials seemed to want to try and win over hearts and minds in taiwan , they also had been repeatedly using threats that hurt the feelings of taiwan s people .
these methods show a lack of knowledge about the real meaning of the democratic system and how a democratic society works , the ministry said .
china suspects taiwan president tsai ing-wen , who leads the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , wants to declare the island s formal independence .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security .
relations between china and taiwan were becoming even more complex and severe , zhang zhijun , head of china s policy-making taiwan affairs office , told a visiting delegation of the new party , a small pro-china taiwan opposition party on monday .
taiwan independence forces are trying to root out chinese culture in taiwan and are the gravest threat to peace and stability in the taiwan strait , the official xinhua news agency cited zhang as saying .
china will never back down over taiwan , influential chinese tabloid the global times , published by the ruling communist party s official people s daily , said earlier on monday .
li s words have sent a warning to taiwan and drew a clear red line , it said in an editorial .
if taiwan attempts to hold an independence referendum or other activities in pursuit of de jure taiwan independence , the pla will undoubtedly take action .
china would continue to maintain the principle of peaceful unification , foreign ministry spokesman lu kang said on monday .
at the same time , we will resolutely safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity , he told reporters .