yes , the epa has a pr department but they spent over $ 15 million on outside public relations consultants !
i guess it takes millions upon millions to brainwash the american people into thinking the epa is even necessary .
the overregulation and overspending is legendary and needs to stop !
a democrat has even jumped into a federal lawsuit against overregulation by the epa : missouri s democratic attorney general announced on friday that his state will join a federal lawsuit seeking to block the implementation of controversial new environmental protection agency regulations.defund the epa ! the environmental protection agency ( epa ) spent over $ 15 million on outside public relations consultants despite employing nearly 200 full-time in house pr workers.a new report on epa spending released by open the books , a nonprofit organization dedicated to transparency , found numerous examples of questionable expenditures within the agency.among them , the epa spent over $ 15.1 million on outside public relations consultants between 2000 and 2014 .
the funding was on top of the $ 141.496 million in salaries and $ 1.5 million in bonuses on full-time public affairs officers the epa has spent since 2007 .
as of 2012 , the epa employed 198 public affairs employees .
the average epa employee salary is $ 111,165 .
everyone is under the impression that the epa is spending money to clean the environment .
but , it turns out epa is running a $ 160 million pr machine , $ 715 million police agency , a near $ 1 billion employment agency for seniors , and a $ 1.2 billion in-house law firm , said adam andrzejewski , the founder of open the books .
the epa wasting $ 160 million on public relations dwarfs our recent exposure of their high-end furniture purchases ( $ 92 million ) , he said .
nothing is emblematic of government excess like an army of highly compensated pr agents sitting in their easy chairs .
it s simply waste .
open the books also found the epa spent $ 261,456 on badges and insignia , millions on gym equipment , and $ 17,820 on games , toys and wheeled goods .
the agency spent $ 23,884 for awards and trophies for the epa office of research and development ( ord ) ceremony in 2012 and 2013 .
the epa culture of wasteful spending extended into their own award ceremonies , said andrzejewski .
tagging the awards as athletic and sporting equipment in their checkbook , they spent hundreds of thousands of dollars to pat themselves on their own backs .
andrzejewski noted that the epa also has given $ 144 million in performance bonuses since 2007 .
it s an imbedded culture that gave $ 4 million in additional awards , badges , and trophies to themselves paid for at taxpayer expense , he said.read more : wfb