washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. environmental protection agency is preparing for hurricane irma s landfall on the u.s. east coast by securing vulnerable toxic waste sites and easing gasoline standards to ensure steady fuel supplies , its chief told reuters on thursday .
epa administrator scott pruitt declined to say whether he believed claims by scientists that the second powerful storm to affect the united states in two weeks may have a link to warmer air and water temperatures resulting from climate change .
the most we can do is help people in these areas by monitoring drinking water and respond to real and tangible issues , he said in a brief telephone interview .
hurricane irma is expected to make landfall in florida as early as friday after slamming caribbean islands with 185 mph winds , only days after hurricane harvey triggered record flooding in texas that killed scores of people .
the epa said has issued waivers on certain federal requirements for the sale , production and blending of gasoline to avoid supply shortfalls in the aftermath of harvey and as hurricane irma approaches florida .
pruitt said he spoke with florida governor rick scott about potentially issuing more waivers on gasoline requirements if the need arises after irma .
epa will grant additional waivers if requested , he said .
he said the agency is also evaluating 80 superfund toxic waste sites from florida to north carolina to identify those at risk of flooding .
the epa has yet to finish assessing the impact of harvey on texas superfund sites - heavily contaminated former industrial zones - amid widespread flooding .
on saturday , the agency said 13 sites were flooded or damaged , but the full impact on surrounding areas was not immediately clear .
pruitt said the agency is also continuing to seek additional information about explosions last week at french chemical company arkema s flooded plant in crosby , texas , which sickened more than a dozen law enforcement personnel and prompted an evacuation of the surrounding area .