berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel s conservatives said they were willing to open formal talks on forming a government with germany s social democrats ( spd ) - but her chosen partner was expected to take two more days to decide how to proceed .
weakened by heavy election losses to the far-right and then by the collapse last month of talks on a three-way alliance , merkel is pinning her hopes on the spd for a fourth term as chancellor and to avoid new elections .
leaders of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and her bavarian conservative allies ( csu ) sought to persuade their spd counterparts to drop their objections to a renewal of the grand coalition the two parties have been governing in since 2013 .
the cdu and csu representatives made clear that they wanted to begin exploratory talks with the spd on creating a stable government , the conservative camp said in a statement .
but an spd official said the party first needed to hold consultations before announcing a decision on friday .
after four years of governing with merkel , the center-left party scored its worst election result since 1933 - and few members want to repeat that experience .
sensing that merkel s lack of alternatives leaves it in a strong position , the spd has said it would agree to share power only if it wins commitments on more generous social policy .
a decisive point for the spd is that the social agenda has more prominence in germany , leading social democrat carsten schneider told german television ahead of the talks , demanding fairness for ordinary heroes .
but the mood between the two parties is still sour and merkel herself has been a frequent target of criticism by the social democrats .
the secrecy surrounding the talks underlined their sensitivity .
with both sides having a lot to lose , the parties plan no public statements when talks conclude on wednesday evening .
spd leader martin schulz has made a pitch for eu integration leading to a united states of europe by 2025 , and the spd wants a big spending boost on education , more nursery spots and a big healthcare reform .
merkel wants to maintain germany s solid finances , cut some taxes and expand the digital infrastructure .
the spd had vowed to go into opposition after its dismal election result and only softened its approach , agreeing to meet merkel , due to pressure from president frank-walter steinmeier , who wants to avoid new elections .
the spd pulled no punches in attacking merkel during the election campaign .
schulz has described merkel , known for pragmatism rather than vision , as a vacuum cleaner of ideas and has also accused her of silencing debate on issues .
a row last month over a conservative minister breaking protocol to back an extension for an eu license for a weed-killer despite spd opposition hurt ties at a crucial time .
one of the spd s deputies , ralf stegner , adopted a combative tone on wednesday , saying nobody could dictate the terms to the spd as the conservative bloc needed the party to rule .
some in the spd are prepared to contemplate another grand coalition , albeit with a clear spd signature , but others prefer the idea of tolerating a minority government under merkel .
one other option is a koko ( cooperation coalition ) agreement under which the spd would agree to work with merkel in some areas , such as the budget and european and foreign affairs , but force her to seek ad-hoc majorities for other policies .
this idea is unpopular with conservatives who prefer a grand coalition .
we have to try it - but please , seriously , carsten linnemann , head of a group representing small and medium-sized businesses in the conservative bloc , told ard television .