washington - democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton rebuked senate republicans on monday for denying a hearing to u.s. supreme court nominee merrick garland , accusing them of obstructionism , and warned of dangers if donald trump appointed the next justice .
in a speech in wisconsin , clinton put the future of the supreme court at the center of the election debate , cautioning that any trump-appointed justices would be likely to roll back workers ’ and abortion rights and “ demolish pillars of the progressive movement. ” “ what kind of justice would a president trump appoint , or for that matter what kind of attorney general ? ” she asked , noting the republican front-runner wants a temporary ban on muslims entering the country and the deportation of millions of undocumented immigrants .
“ once you make the extreme normal , you open the door to even worse , ” she said in madison , wisconsin , as part of a two-day trip to the state ahead of its april 5 democratic and republican primary elections .
clinton called on republican chuck grassley , chairman of the senate judiciary committee , to “ do his job ” and convene a hearing for garland , a moderate federal appeals judge who is president barack obama ’ s nominee to fill the seat vacated by the feb. 13 death of antonin scalia .
grassley and other senate republicans have said they will not hold a hearing or a vote on an obama nominee in a presidential election year , contending that voters should have a say when they elect the next president on nov. 8 .
“ i ’ d say my voice is being ignored right now because of their obstructionism , ” clinton said .
“ we chose a president — we chose him twice — and now republicans in the senate are acting like our votes didn ’ t count and president obama is not still our nation ’ s leader. ” clinton said the republican refusal to consider garland was the “ latest in a long line of actions aimed at disrupting our government and undermining our president , and the result is an america that is more divided , less functional and less secure. ” grassley , a six-term senator from iowa who has tangled with clinton over the investigation into her use of a private e-mail account while secretary of state , responded that clinton wanted to distract voters from the ongoing email investigations .
“ this is simply a blatant attempt by secretary clinton to politicize the supreme court and to change the conversation , ” grassley , who heads the committee that must hold hearings on any supreme court nominee , said in a statement ahead of clinton ’ s speech .
clinton has apologized for the email arrangement , which is being investigated by the federal bureau of investigation and has been slammed by republicans for potentially compromising security .
clinton has said she did nothing wrong and she believes the government will vindicate her .
garland traveled to capitol hill on monday to meet with democratic senators ben cardin of maryland and joe donnelly of indiana .
his first visit with a republican , senator mark kirk of illinois , is scheduled for tuesday .
democratic members of the senate judiciary committee wrote to grassley on monday and proposed hearings on garland in april , with votes on the nomination by may 25 .
clinton ’ s speech came as her campaign aides argued with rival bernie sanders ’ campaign in competing calls with the media over whether sanders has a viable path to the democratic presidential nomination .
sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , won contests in alaska , hawaii and washington on saturday , chipping away at clinton ’ s lead in the race for the 2,382 delegates needed to secure the democratic nomination at the party ’ s philadelphia convention in july .
clinton now has a lead of 268 pledged delegates over sanders .
when superdelegates , party leaders who can support any candidate , are added , clinton leads 1,712-1,004 , according to an associated press count .
but sanders aides said he could eclipse clinton ’ s advantage once the final round of contests are held on june 7 , and that superdelegates would begin to switch to back sanders once he did .
“ we are in this to win it , and there is a path to do so , ” campaign manager jeff weaver said .
clinton ’ s campaign described her lead as “ insurmountable ” given the party ’ s proportional allocation of delegates in all states , which means clinton will keep piling up delegates even in states sanders wins .
“ you have to win these big states very big , you have to win by landslides ” to make up the deficit , clinton strategist joel benenson told reporters .
trump also plans to campaign in wisconsin this week as he seeks to build his lead over republican rivals u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and ohio governor john kasich .
trump has won 738 of the 1,237 delegates needed to take the republican nomination at its july convention in cleveland .
cruz has won 463 , while kasich has won 143 , according to the new york times .