this is a story you won t likely find anywhere else , as both political parties seem to be okay with the import of low wage workers from foreign countries .
meanwhile , we have millions of american citizens who have given up any hope of finding a job , and many more who are being paid more by our government to stay home .
lexington , neb .
the old longhorn laundry is an unlikely place for a showdown over the first amendment.you could easily miss the nondescript concrete building on a quiet downtown corner of this old cow town.but ever since a group of somali workers from the local meatpacking plant spread out a sea of persian rugs in the expansive former laundry and began holding muslim prayer services five times a day , there has been controversy.city officials maintain that mosque leaders are ignoring local zoning laws and thumbing their noses at requirements for building permits and fire-code inspections.they insist that the flap is about a lack of parking , not a denial of religious freedom , and that it wasn t spurred by islamophobia .
the attraction is employment at tyson foods : african muslims , mostly from war-torn somalia , started arriving in the mid-2000s .
census estimates put the number of somalis in lexington at 769 in 2014 a 40 percent increase from 2000 .
local somalis and those who work with them say there actually may be 1,500 or more living in the community.across nebraska , census estimates show 2,100 somali-born residents clustered in omaha and lincoln , and near meatpacking plants in grand island and madison , as well as lexington.since obama was elected , nebraska has welcomed 6,716 refugees and the numbers have been increasing each of those years.most of the refugees ( seeded in nebraska by federal church contractors ) are burmese or iraqis , but of course somalis have been resettled as well .
( there are small numbers of muslim burmese and the largest group of iraqis we admit to the us are muslims .
somalis are virtually all muslim .
) for centuries , immigrants in search of a better life have been drawn to america s largest cities .
now , in part because of the meatpacking industry , recent immigrants have been seeking out small , rural towns .
but many of these towns are struggling to provide the social services needed by such a diverse population that s largely invisible to most americans.noel , mo is one of those small towns in america affected by the huge influx of mostly somalian muslim immigrants.noel , mo. , has been dubbed the christmas city and canoe capital of the ozarks thanks to the elk river , which winds through town .
but this missouri town of fewer than 2,000 residents thrives because of the tyson foods inc. chicken processing complex located here it alone employs about 1,600 people .
just 20 years ago , noel had only about half as many residents , and most of them were white .
then in the 1990s , hispanics most of them mexican moved to noel to process chicken .
pacific islanders and refugees from parts of myanmar and africa followed .
we do have small towns that have had 100 to 200 percent growth that have really changed overnight over the past 20 years and have a much larger immigrant population than they used to , says lisa dorner , a university of missouri education professor who has done extensive research on immigrant children growing up in small towns and suburbs .
dorner thinks such major demographic changes don t always sit well with local residents.how on earth our federal church contractors can be aiding and abetting this travesty continues to be beyond my understanding.from progressives for immigration reform ( emphasis rrw ) : in her npr news story , in a small missouri town , immigrants turn to schools for help , writer abbie fentress swanson chronicles the plight of newly arrived immigrants to the small , rural town of noel , missouri .
it seems that longtime residents there are not dealing well with sudden demographic changes .
consequently , immigrants from mexico , myanmar , ethiopia , somalia , kenya , and the pinglap region of micronesia are among those feeling unwelcome and isolated in this formerly white community , which saw its population double to 2,000 in just two decades.many of these immigrants are so poor they can not afford housing or healthcare .
their children often lack shoes and clothes .
as swanson notes , about 90 % of the community s children would go hungry most of the school day , if they didn t qualify for free or low-cost meals .
with such an influx of people , noel has not been able to keep up with providing social services .
there is a long wait list for units from the local housing authority , and building more housing would strain the town s sewer system , already at 80 % capacity.immigrants are attracted to noel by jobs at the chicken processing plant of tyson foods , which employs 1,600 people .
the starting wage is a paltry $ 9.05 per hour , which comes to $ 362 a week before taxes for an eight-hour , five-day week .
despite health and injury risks to workers in this industry , swanson calls this a decent wage and declines to hold tyson culpable for perpetuating widespread misery in the cash-strapped town.the nation s largest u.s. meat processor by sales can easily afford to pay its employees in noel a living wage , but prefers to have the community subsidize the resulting human wreckage .
after all , profit is the overriding goal , even if it must be achieved by driving wages so low that most american citizens no longer can afford to work at its processing plants .
no matter the continuous stream of cheap , compliant foreign labor will do just fine .
the results are compelling .the mayor of noel , mo , john lafley says tyson foods is pushing the town to allow for more housing development , but he s concerned that noel s infrastructure can t handle more units.the schools system ( 66 % minority children ! )
has become the de facto social services department trying to stem poverty in the immigrant households.the mayor says there s no money in the budget either to provide the social services needed in this small , remote town , which sits not far from the missouri-kansas-arkansas-oklahoma borders .
for rural missouri , tyson plant jobs pay decent wages that start at $ 9.05 an hour .
still , poverty looms large here .
about 90 percent of noel school students qualify for free or reduced-cost meals .
the number of homeless children has doubled in the past five years .
because the nearest food pantry and free clinic are miles away , many plant workers turn to their children s schools for help.tyson foods wants the town to build more housing , but the town can t afford the infrastructure costs.affordable housing is also a problem here in noel .
there s a long waiting list for open units at the local housing authority .
you can not rent a house right now .
if you look , try to find a house , you can t , says faisal ali ahmed , a somali refugee who works the night shift at the tyson plant as a forklift driver .
it s a very difficult life .
if they shut down this company now , nobody stay in this bush.john lafley , the mayor of noel , says longtime residents need to be sensitized to immigrants needs , and immigrants need to try to fit in .
we re trying to assimilate people that don t understand the american way .
and they want to keep their own ways , which is not that popular , lafley says.lafley says tyson foods is pushing the town to allow for more housing development , but he s concerned that noel s infrastructure can t handle more units.the schools system ( 66 % minority children ! )
has become the de facto social services department trying to stem poverty in the immigrant households.the mayor says there s no money in the budget either to provide the social services needed in this small , remote town , which sits not far from the missouri-kansas-arkansas-oklahoma borders .
for rural missouri , tyson plant jobs pay decent wages that start at $ 9.05 an hour .
still , poverty looms large here .
about 90 percent of noel school students qualify for free or reduced-cost meals .
the number of homeless children has doubled in the past five years .
because the nearest food pantry and free clinic are miles away , many plant workers turn to their children s schools for help.read about the profits tyson foods is making .
then this : assimilation is not the real problem facing noel , missouri nor is it street-level bickering about matters of race , religion and values .
the larger issue is what to do about rogue corporations that run roughshod over small communities in pursuit of profit , little of which is invested locally .
of greater concern is that our government wants to overload the job market even more through mass immigration policies , which will lay waste to many more small communities throughout america.and , what do you do about federal contractors for the us state department wearing the white hat of do-gooderism while helping tyson foods make the profit ! for entire story : refugee resettlement watch