this is what happens when people are more concerned about hurting someone s feelings or profiling someone than reporting someone s behavior to the proper authorities .
if the muslim employer won t take action after a hateful and unhinged employee is talking about his desire to want to kill people , it s time to take it to the next level.a former fort pierce police officer who once worked with 29-year-old omar mateen , the assailant in an orlando nightclub shooting that left at least 50 dead , said he was unhinged and unstable .
daniel gilroy said he worked the 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. shift with g4s security at the south gate at pga village for several months in 2014-15 .
mateen took over from him for a 3 to 11 p.m. shift.my palm beach post a licensed security guard who held a firearms license , mateen started working for g4s in 2007 , according to a company newsletter .
while there , he had been a screener at an area courthouse , said daniel gilroy , a co-worker.gilroy worked with mateen after he transferred to a security guard detail at pga village in port st lucie.mateen took his prayer mat to work and prayed regularly , but , gilroy found mateen s attitudes toward and comments to gays , african-americans and women crude.and then there was the screaming .
mateen was constantly agitated and on the verge of an outburst , said gilroy , who could hear his rants even outside of the guard house.fed up , he told mateen he wasn t interested in being friends.that s when he went boiled-rabbit crazy , said gilroy , with mateen texting him , pleading for a reconciliation of friendship , and accusing him of betrayal so frequently that gilroy s girlfriend believed the two men might have been having an affair.rather than continue , gilroy quit his job.mateen s former wife was also on the receiving end of his outbursts.speaking to the press sunday night , she described violent outbursts and beatings .
my family literally had to rescue me , she said.greg davis , a st. lucie county man , said a friend who worked with mateen told me ( mateen s ) demeanor recently had drastically changed .
he was working out , he really bulked up .
he showed up with a rental van the last night he was at work .
that s strange because he loved his car , said davis.none of the erratic behavior showed up in the mosque , or was obvious to his neighbors .
i would wave and say hello , said esmerelda gonzalez , whose parents live next door to mateen s former home onbayshore boulevard .
we never talked beyond that .
he came over and bought stuff at a yard sale we had .
he came over once and asked if he could use our property for parking because he was having a family gathering .
visitors sometimes came to the house at odd hours , sometimes as early as 4 a.m. , said gonzalez , but she thought nothing of it.at the mosque , rahman said he can t remember ever having a conversation with mateen.mateen , he said , attended sporadically frequently with his toddler son in tow but his three sisters were regular faces , sometimes performing chores and cleaning the mosque.if mateen leaned toward an extremist version of islam , he kept it from his imam , who wept as he began sunday evening prayers at the mosque .
there is nothing outside the door that says you can t come in and worship god and be here and pray if you are gay , rahman said .
and rahman said he speaks out against terrorist groups at every gathering .
they have hijacked our religion , rahman said .
they have caused more trouble for us than anything .
gilroy , a former fort pierce police officer , said mateen frequently made homophobic and racial comments .
gilroy said he complained to his employer several times but it did nothing because he was muslim .
gilroy quit after he said mateen began stalking him via multiple text messages 20 or 30 a day .
i quit because everything he said was toxic , gilroy said sunday , and the company wouldn t do anything .
this guy was unhinged and unstable .
he talked of killing people .
gilroy said this shooting didn t come as a surprise to him.via : florida today