washington ( reuters ) - for months republican presidential candidates traded insults such as “ dummy , ” “ jerk ” and “ loser. ” then , party front-runner donald trump repeated a supporter ’ s description of ted cruz as a “ pussy. ” with the contest for the party ’ s nomination moving into south carolina and the stakes rising , it is possible the most disparaging discourse of the nov. 8 election campaign is yet to come .
the epithets may be characteristic of schoolyard bullies , but there is some evidence that candidates are reveling in the attention they draw .
the harshest attacks elicit the biggest responses at rallies , on the internet and on cable tv .
trump , the billionaire former reality tv star , sent a new hampshire rally into a frenzy on monday when he repeated the term “ pussy ” shouted by a person in the crowd , effectively questioning cruz ’ s manliness .
trump went on to win the state ’ s primary the next day , ahead of the third-place cruz by a 3-to-1 margin .
“ it ’ s one of the reasons i won .
you have to be yourself , ” trump said in a television interview on nbc ’ s today show .
trump later promised to clean up his foul language and to be more presidential .
history suggests the language could turn even more coarse in the run-up to next saturday ’ s republican nominating contest in south carolina .
it was there that u.s .
senator john mccain of arizona was accused in 2000 of fathering an illegitimate african-american child , and former massachusetts governor mitt romney in 2008 of supporting polygamy .
“ these adults are acting like elementary children , ” leslie mcrobbie , a former fifth-grade schoolteacher from new hampshire , said of this year ’ s republican contenders .
president barack obama , a democrat , this week spoke of the snark that characterized a republican race of the past when he recalled that ronald reagan was described by rivals as an “ unshapely man ” and a “ yahoo ” before his election as president in 1980 .
coming off the first nominating contests in iowa and new hampshire , the seven remaining candidates for the republican nomination are under pressure either to break away from the crowd or prevent others from doing so .
insults can foster that .
former florida governor jeb bush , mocked more than once by trump as a “ low-energy ” candidate , has since retaliated by tweeting that trump was “ not just a loser , ” but also a “ liar and a whiner. ” the put-down was re-tweeted nearly 3,000 times and “ liked ” by more than 4,000 users .
cruz , responding to trump ’ s decision to skip a fox news-hosted republican debate , branded his rival “ ducking donald ” and sponsored a special edition filter on picture-sharing app snapchat that featured a blond-haired duck with an exaggerated pout meant to represent the real-estate mogul .
“ when we create so much of the modern campaign around the characters that are running , and not on the subjects , the natural byproduct of that is calling people names , ” said political scientist michael artime .
artime said that while bickering and name-calling have always existed in elections , this cycle has seen a notable uptick in the negative .
“ in the past , if somebody would ’ ve said what trump said the other night , that would have been a very damaging thing to their campaign , ” artime said .
“ the kind of politics we get is kind of the politics we deserve , ” he said .
while many have gleefully or indifferently watched as candidates hurled barb after barb , others have condemned it .
“ bullying can be highly instrumental and used for social climbing , ” said bob faris , associate professor of sociology at university of california-davis , who studies aggressive behavior in adolescents .
“ and it works , ” he said , “ provided that kids target the right kids. ” for trump , perhaps the most blustery of the candidates , the target is constantly changing , his numbers remaining constant in the opinion polls while he assails rivals for being “ stupid , ” “ weak ” and “ pathetic. ” “ he does look like a bully , ” faris said .
“ donald is a whole new development .
i can ’ t think of a candidate like him. ” presidential historian mike purdy , however , cites a precedent in the late republican president theodore roosevelt .
“ roosevelt loved more than anything else to be the center of attention , and he had a huge , huge ego , ” purdy said .
“ they both have a certain amount of ego .
they both have trouble controlling their mouths , ” purdy said , likening roosevelt to trump .
purdy said roosevelt called his onetime ally william howard taft a “ fathead ” during the 1912 presidential campaign , and went on to say then-rival taft , seeking re-election at the time , had the “ brains of a guinea pig. ” neither won the race .
purdy noted the attacks also came at the expense of substantive political discourse .
“ they ’ re incredibly personal attacks , and they ’ re not just attacks just on somebody ’ s position , they ’ re attacks about personal characteristics , ” he said .
“ that is part of the civility i think we need to recapture. ” on friday , trump suggested he agreed .
“ i do this for effect , ” trump said of his foul language in an interview with wor radio in new york .
“ as we get closer , you will be shocked at how presidential i will be .
you will be very proud of me. ” ( editing by richard valdmanis and howard goller ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .