on thursday , gop rep. dave brat took to cnn to blame , of all people , the media for donald trump s relentless attacks on attorney general jeff sessions .
brat represents virginia s 7th district , which may explain his love of both sessions and trump , and his desire to blame someone else for their falling out .
the 7th district was created in 1993 by decree of the department of justice , who forced the state to create at least one majority minority district in order to comply with section 5 of the civil rights act .
much of the urban areas of richmond were carved out into a new 3rd district , and what was left the mainly white voters were left in the 7th.being as trump and sessions are now the two most powerful racists in america , it stands to reason that a guy representing an area that hasn t voted for a single democrat in more than 45 years and never elected a person of color would want them to get along.in a statement released by brat s office on wednesday , he decried the full-throated obsession over russia by the media , which he said could not have been foreseen at the time of sessions recusal from the investigation .
that recusal has been the source of the recent enmity between the ag and the president .
from the statement : the media s attacks have only escalated since trump s inauguration .
fake news dominates .
anchors now make the news by opinion , instead of reporting objective reality .
the president is frustrated with those who have called for his impeachment since day one.but cnn s kate bolduan took brat to task for seemingly blaming the press for trump s social media outburts .
in a testy exchange , she maintained a difficult smile as she said the media s not forcing the president to tweet his attacks .
brat s response ?
i think you did .
bolduan was incredulous : are you kidding me ?
the media did not force the president to attack jeff sessions.watch the exchange in this tweet from cnn s katerina erbiti : i will concede the president did touch his key pad @ repdavebrat saying the media forced potus to attack sessions https : //t.co/mwkvpjzkjb katerina erbiti ( @ katerinaerbiti ) july 27 , 2017featured image via chip somodevilla/getty images