berlin ( reuters ) - germany may need to wait until next year for a new government as the three blocs trying to form an alliance are so far apart they will need a deeply detailed coalition deal , a senior bavarian ally of chancellor angela merkel has told reuters .
alexander dobrindt , parliamentary floor leader of the christian social union ( csu ) , said a coalition agreement would have to be more precise than the one that accompanied the right-left grand coalition in the last parliament .
after 12 years in power , merkel was humbled in last month s national election by a surge of the anti-immigrant far right and she must now broker a three-way coalition of her conservatives , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens - a combination previously untested at the federal level .
the task is further complicated by the fact that merkel s conservative bloc compromises her christian democratic union ( cdu ) and the right-leaning bavarian csu , whose alliance has been strained by her open-door migrants policy .
the conservative allies removed one obstacle to forming a new coalition on sunday by agreeing a limit on the number of migrants arriving in germany , sought by the csu .
but dobrindt said in an interview with reuters television that securing a three-way alliance would be difficult .
as we know that the points that separate us outweigh those we have in common , one can have doubts about whether a coalition agreement is possible this year , he said .
it is conceivable that we can t complete in december and that final talks - if there even are any - will only possible next year .
the three-way tie-up - dubbed a jamaica coalition after the black , green and yellow colors of the three party blocs that match the caribbean nation s flag - is merkel s only realistic option of forming a government .
the center-left social democrats , her previous partners in an awkward grand coalition , insist they now want to go into opposition .
a jamaica coalition was formed in the tiny western german state of saarland in october 2009 , but collapsed in january 2012 .
the same formation took power in the far northern region of schleswig-holstein after elections there in may this year .
at a national level , the cdu/csu , fdp and greens have deep differences on issues ranging from migration to european union reform , tax and the environment .
but merkel , asked in an interview with the rnd group of newspapers whether such a coalition could nonetheless come to pass , said the parties had a mandate from voters that they needed to take on .
it s our joint responsibility , our duty in fact , to form a government from that and to pursue sensible policies for our citizens and country .
i think that s possible , she said .
dobrindt said diverging opinions between the three parties meant they would have to nail down an in-depth deal .
we need , in a possible jamaica coalition agreement , a significantly higher level of detail than was the case with the grand coalition , he said .
the differences between the parties are big , so the agreements need to go deeper .
in their compromise struck on sunday , the cdu and csu agreed to limit to 200,000 the number of newcomers germany would accept per year on humanitarian grounds .
the fdp and greens insist the conservatives agreement can not simply be copied into a coalition deal .
senior greens member juergen trittin accused the conservatives on tuesday of violating christian values because they wanted to keep suspending family reunifications for migrants granted subsidiary protection - those who do not qualify as refugees but need international protection .
fdp deputy head wolfgang kubicki told deutschlandfunk radio the conservative deal would not form the basis for cooperation and would not be implemented the way it had been agreed , saying : that won t happen .
but dobrindt , whose csu is worried about losing its regional dominance in bavaria s state election next year , said the allies accord must be reflected in a coalition deal .
the regulations we have made in our joint paper - rules on migration - are of course an essential part of the negotiations and must also be found in a coalition agreement .
the intransigence of the csu , greens and fdp on the migrants issue points to difficult coalition talks that risk clouding the political outlook in germany , which has been a source of stability in europe during merkel s tenure .
we want europe to concentrate more on the big tasks and less on the small tasks , dobrindt said .
that means we must talk about bringing back responsibilities from brussels to germany - and the details of that will no doubt be difficult .