( from cnn ) new video captured hours before michael brown was killed shows the 18-year-old exchanging marijuana for cigarillos with the clerks of a ferguson , missouri , store , a documentary director told cnn on monday.director jason pollock , whose film stranger fruit debuted at the south by southwest festival in austin over the weekend , said the video shows that brown did not rob the store before being stopped by police and that surveillance footage purporting to show brown engaged in a robbery at the ferguson market and liquor stores was actually video of brown returning to the store to retrieve the cigarillos the clerks gave him .
this is a shady store .
we ve asked a lot of people in this community .
you can buy weed at the store , pollock said .
pollock suggests that had this footage been released , it would ve altered the notion that brown was shot after robbing the store .
he learned of the footage from a st. louis county police report that mentioned a video from 1:13 a.m. the day of brown s death.in an earlier interview , in which he appeared alongside brown s father , pollock said , what this video shows is that ( police ) lied to the world about what happened .
they wanted to make mike look bad , so they put out half a video to destroy his character in his death .
police say the new footage is irrelevant to their investigation .
investigators have previously said officer darren wilson initially stopped brown for walking in the street , not because the store reported a robbery.watch cnn s explosive interview here : about 100 protesters gathered at the store sunday night , forcing it to close , and gunshots were heard before midnight , but no one appeared to be injured , according to the st. louis post-dispatch.gunfire erupted last night in front of the ferguson store where michael brown was captured on surveillance video shoving the store clerk around , and now seen exchanging marijuana , as rioters gear up for a new fight in ferguson .
pray for this city !
breaking : gunfire erupts during protest at # fergusonmarket after cnn broadcasts new , heavily edited cctv footage of # michaelbrown .
pic.twitter.com/tupuhvywvu tennessee ( @ ten_gop ) march 13 , 2017