many americans believe it s racist to keep minorities trapped in a system that forces them to rely on bernie and hillary s promises of free shit from the government .
does that mean it s okay for them to go around and disassemble bernie sanders displays on college campuses ? a tulane university fraternity has caused an uproar this week after building a wall made of sandbags with the message make america great again and trump plastered across it.photos of the wall circulated on social media after it was erected on april 7 on the off-campus house of the university s chapter of kappa alpha order.as part of the local chapter s annual tradition , it has pledges build a wall around its private property each spring ahead of its old south formal ball , according to the times-picayune .
however , upset students said this time the wall was filled with connotations of hate and ignorance .
the wall has since been torn down by unidentified individuals alleged to be tulane football players.watch here : in a video posted to youtube , individuals can be seen grabbing the sandbags and tossing them into the street while fraternity members look on , one saying this is private property .
these connotations most directly mocked the experiences of latino immigrants and workers throughout our nation , a post on student ana de santiago s facebook read .
by writing trump in large , red letters across the wall , ka changed what was a tradition of building a wall into a tradition of constructing a border , symbolizing separation and xenophobia .
this issue not only affects latinos but all other marginalized immigrant groups in this country.on wednesday , the university addressed the incident in a statement , saying that while it encourages the free exchange of ideas and opinions , the local chapter s actions sparked a visceral reaction in the context of a very heated and divisive political season , the times-picayune reported.in an effort to support the individuals who dismantled the fraternity s trump wall , tulane s latino student advocacy group , generating excellence now and tomorrow in education ( gente ) , set up a change.org petition against the university s administration .
we the undersigned stand in solidarity with the individuals who took the brave action of dismantling the wall in front of kappa alpha fraternity house , a statement on the petition read .
this wall , although a tradition carried on by kappa alpha for many years , has been a source of aggression towards students of colour on this campus , and this year , with the addition of the labels trump and make america great again , has become overtly threatening towards muslim and latino students .
in a statement released to the times-picayune on tuesday , the fraternity s national chapter assistant executive director for advancement jesse lyons said its chapter takes ka s values of gentlemanly conduct very seriously .
this respect extends to every student of tulane and every member of the broader community , the statement read .
the comment was written on a makeshift wall on our private property , normally used for a game of capture the flag , to mock the ideologies of a political candidate .
this had a unintended negative effect and as such it has been dismantled .
in other words , they caved , and ceded their first amendment right to free speech , in order to avoid any controversy created by the leftist mafia .
* according to the fraternity s website , ka was founded in 1865 and robert e lee , who is known for commanding the confederate army in the civil war , is listed as its spiritual founder.in 2010 , the national fraternity chapter ordered an official ban on fraternity s members wearing confederate soldier uniforms to its annual old south ball.in a document titled laws concerning old south , ka also prohibits the display of the confederate flag from any chapter house , lodge , or meeting place .
via : daily mail * 100percentfedup.com