miranshah , pakistan ( reuters ) - a bomb rigged to a motorcycle exploded in a militant-plagued part of northwest pakistan near the afghan border , killing nine people , officials said on wednesday , the latest violence in a recent rise in attacks in the nuclear-armed country .
the bomb was detonated by remote control late on tuesday when an army vehicle passed in mir ali town in the north waziristan region , said three pakistani officials who declined to be identified as they are not authorized to speak to the media .
a spokesman for the pakistani army , which is responsible for security in the volatile , ethnic pashtun region , did not respond to calls seeking comment .
waziristan is bleeding once again , said police official tahir khan in peshawar , the main city in the northwest , who said he had heard about the blast but had no details .
no militant group claimed responsibility .
north waziristan was long home to pakistani and foreign islamist militants linked to the taliban and al qaeda until the pakistani army launched a major push against them in mid-2014 .
the military offensive cleared the militants from their bases and largely broke up their networks , forcing them to flee either over the porous border into afghanistan or to other parts of pakistan .
but the militants have struck back , sometimes with major attacks .
last friday , three pakistani taliban suicide bombers stormed a college in peshawar , killing eight students and a guard .
a week earlier , a senior police commander was killed in a suicide bomb attack in peshawar .
on tuesday , the pakistani taliban killed a member of an anti-taliban faction in another part of the northwest , while a bomb aimed at members of another pro-government faction killed five people a week earlier .
the pakistani taliban are fighting to topple the government and impose a strict interpretation of islamic law .
they are loosely allied with the afghan taliban who ruled most of afghanistan until they were overthrown by u.s.-backed military action in 2001 .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis visited pakistan this week to urge it to redouble efforts to rein in militants accused of using the country as a base to carry out attacks in afghanistan .