how long before the media will stop using two of the most irrelevant women in america to compare to women who actually will be remembered in history for making a positive difference in this world ?
british prime minister theresa may , turned heads on tuesday when she arrived in saudi arabia without wearing a headscarf reportedly bucking the advice of her own government.the photos showed may s ankles and wrists were covered .
however , the telegraph noted her outfit did not completely comply with foreign office guidelines : women should wear conservative , loose-fitting clothes as well as a full length cloak ( abaya ) and a headscarf .
there is no law in saudi arabia forcing foreign visitors to wear a headscarf , the newspaper reported .
fox newsmsn news and other publications attempted to paint hillary and michelle obama as two other prominent women who refused to don the headscarf in saudi arabia .
they probably just forgot that first ladies going back for several decades refused wear a headscarf while visiting saudi arabia.she follows in the footsteps of other political figures including hillary clinton and michelle obama , in refusing to adhere to the dress code for women.ms may has said she hopes to be an inspiration to oppressed women in saudi arabia by showing people there what women can achieve .wow here s hillary in muslim majority pakistan .
it sure looks like her head is covered in this picture : while the media is busy giving hillary kudos for being so brave as to reject wearing a headscarf in saudi arabia , perhaps they can explain why she and her adult daughter were wearing headscarfs with the person many call the father of terrorism palestinian leader yasser arafat .
how is it considered brave to wear a headscarf in deference to a terrorist ? oops !
it looks like michelle was caught wearing a headscarf while visiting muslim majority jakarta , indonesia .
it doesn t look like she s refusing to follow the islamic dress code in this picture .
while it s true that michelle did not wear a headscarf while visiting saudi arabia , she was only following a long tradition of other first ladies who also refused to wear a headscarf .
she was not expected to , nor did she shake hands with the saudi dignitaries.rosalyn carter can be seen without a headscarf as she walked behind the saudi dignitaries .