london ( reuters ) - britain s foreign minister boris johnson was accused by cabinet colleagues on sunday of backseat driving on brexit after setting out his own vision of the country s future outside the european union .
only days before prime minister theresa may is due to speak in italy about britain s planned eu departure , johnson on saturday published a 4,300-word newspaper article that roamed well beyond his ministerial brief and , in some cases , the approach set out by the government .
interior minister amber rudd said it was absolutely fine for the foreign secretary to intervene publicly but that she did not want him managing the brexit process .
what we ve got is theresa may managing that process , she s driving the car , rudd told the bbc s andrew marr on sunday .
asked if johnson was backseat driving , she replied : yes , you could call it backseat driving , absolutely .
johnson s article re-ignited speculation that he would challenge may for the leadership of the conservative party .
rudd , however , said she did not think johnson was laying the groundwork to challenge may .
i think that he , like i , supports the prime minister at this difficult time as we try to conclude the negotiations with the eu , she said .
may s deputy , damian green , also weighed in , saying that johnson had written a very exuberant article but it was absolutely clear to everyone that the driver of the car in this instance is the prime minister .
it is the job of the rest of us in the cabinet to agree on a set of proposals and get behind those proposals and get behind the prime minister , green told bbc tv .
johnson wrote in the daily telegraph that britain would not pay to access the eu market in the future .
once out of the eu , the country should borrow to invest in infrastructure , reform the tax code and set immigration levels as it sees fit , he said .
johnson also repeated the brexit campaign claim that the government would be 350 million pounds ( $ 476 million ) a week better off outside the eu .
government officials criticized johnson for repeating the claim , saying the figure does not take into account the funding britain receives back from brussels .
david norgrove , of the uk statistics authority , said he was surprised and disappointed that johnson was still quoting a figure that confused gross and net contributions .
it is a clear misuse of official statistics , norgrove said in a letter to johnson on sunday .
johnson said in reply that norgrove s letter was based on what appeared to be a wilful distortion of the text of my article and asked the official to withdraw it .
the timing of johnson s article published a day after a bomb injured 30 people on a train in london also drew criticism from some colleagues .
reacting to the furor his article had generated , johnson tweeted on saturday : looking forward to pm s florence speech .
all behind theresa for a glorious brexit .