another gitmo detainee returns to terror is anyone else starting to see a pattern here ?
former guantanamo detainee , ibrahim qosi , who is also known as sheikh khubayb al sudani , is now an al-qaeda leader in yemen.april , 2012 for al-qosi , his release will allow him to be reunited with his family .
unlike many other prisoners , all of his immediate family are still alive .
as paul reichler , his washington-based civilian attorney , who represented him pro bono for seven years , explained , he is now in his 50s , eager only to spend his life at home with his family in sudan his mother and father , his wife and two teenage daughters , and his brothers and their families and live among them in peace , quiet and freedom .
his pentagon-appointed defense lawyer , navy cmdr .
suzanne lachelier , noted that , last week , al-qosi was moved to special quarters , with a flat-screen tv , a refrigerator that let him eat at his leisure and a small outdoor gravel-topped patio , all inside a locked enclosure .
cmdr .
lachelier added there was also a real bed rather than a steel bunk topped with a mat , but that al-qosi slept on the floor before leaving because he suffers from a bad back .
a source with knowledge of al-qosi s case , who does not wish to be identified , told me that the obama administration was unwilling to detain al-qosi after his sentence came to an end , and i believe that one of the reasons that the president negotiated a waiver to the provisions in the national defense authorization act , allowing him to bypass restrictions on releasing prisoners that were imposed by congress , was to prevent republicans from trying to force him to continueholding al-qosi.summing up his client , al-qosi s lawyer , paul reichler said , he is an intelligent , pious , humble and sincere individual who has endured much hardship the past 10 years .
but he returns home without hatred or rancor .
really ?
al-qaeda leader = peace ?
the long war journal reported : al qaeda in the arabian peninsula ( aqap ) released a new video featuring a former guantanamo detainee , ibrahim qosi , who is also known as sheikh khubayb al sudani.in july 2010 , qosi plead guilty to charges of conspiracy and material support for terrorism before a military commission .
his plea was part of a deal in which he agreed to cooperate with prosecutors during his remaining time in us custody .
qosi was transferred to his home country of sudan two years later , in july 2012.qosi joined aqap in 2014 and became one of its leaders .
qosi and other aqap commanders discussed their time waging jihad at length in the video , entitled guardians of sharia .
islamic scholars ensure the correctness of the jihadist project , according to qosi .
and the war against america continues through individual jihad , which al qaeda encourages from abroad .
here , qosi referred to al qaeda s policy of encouraging attacks by individual adherents and smaller terror cells .
indeed , aqap s video celebrates jihadists who have acted in accordance with this call , such as the kouachi brothers , who struck charlie hebdo s offices in paris earlier this year .
the kouachi brothers operation was sponsored by aqap .
via : gateway pundit