brasilia ( reuters ) - the brazilian government is studying whether to extradite cesare battisti , an italian former left-wing guerrilla convicted of murder in his country , justice minister torquato jardim said on friday .
battisti is under arrest in the brazilian frontier town of corumb where he was detained on wednesday as he tried to cross into bolivia in a taxi , apparently fearing that brazil s government would revoke his asylum status at italy s request .
late on friday , battisti s lawyers said he had been granted habeas corpus , a court injunction ordering his release , and that they were trying to get him freed as soon as possible .
battisti faces life in prison in italy , where he was convicted of four murders committed in the 1970s , when he belonged to a guerilla group called armed proletarians for communism .
he escaped from prison in 1981 and lived in france before fleeing to brazil to avoid being extradited to italy .
brazil s supreme court authorized battisti s extradition in 2009 , but he was not sent back to italy because former leftist president luis inacio lula da silva granted him refugee status on his last day in office in 2010 .
lula s refusal to extradite battisti upset relations between the two countries .
but that is likely to change with michel temer , the center-right president who took office last year when lula s handpicked successor , dilma rousseff , was impeached .
no decision has been taken yet .
the matter is being studied because the italian government has repeatedly asked that he be sent back to italy , justice minister jardim told reporters during a conference at the rio de janeiro bar association .
brazilian police said battisti was being held for breaking currency laws due to the significant amount of cash in euros and dollars that he had at the border crossing .
if brazil decides to send battisti back to italy , there is no need for a new extradition request by rome because the earlier one approved by the supreme court is still standing , brazilian officials said .