geneva ( reuters ) - u.n. special envoy for syria staffan de mistura urged russia on wednesday to convince its ally the syrian government of the need to clinch a peace deal to end the nearly seven-year-old war .
de mistura , speaking on swiss television station rts , said failure to make peace quickly through united nations mediation could lead to a fragmentation of syria .
russian president vladimir putin during a surprise visit on monday to russia s hmeymim air base in syria , declared that the work of russian forces was largely done in backing the assad government against militants , following the defeat of the most battle-hardened group of international terrorists .
de mistura , asked what signal putin could give from his position of force , said : convince the ( syrian ) government that there is no time to lose .... you can think you win territory militarily but you have to win the peace .
and to win the peace , you have to have the courage to push the government to accept that there has to be a new constitution and new elections , through the united nations , he said .
the nearly seven-year civil war in syria has killed hundreds of thousands of people and driven more than 11 million from their homes .
all previous diplomatic efforts to resolve the conflict have ended in failure over the opposition s demand that president bashar al-assad leave power and his refusal to go .
the kremlin first launched air strikes in syria in september 2015 in its biggest middle east intervention in decades , turning the tide of the conflict in assad s favor .
now that it regards that mission complete , putin wants to help broker a peace deal and is keen to organize a special event in russia - a syrian congress on national dialogue - that moscow hopes will bring together the syrian government and opposition and try to hammer out a new constitution .
but de mistura made clear that peace negotiations must be through the united nations in geneva , as mandated by the u.n. security council , adding : otherwise it is not worth it ....
this is a complicated war , it is only in geneva through the u.n .
the u.n. envoy has conducted shuttle diplomacy between the syrian government delegation led by chief negotiator bashar al-ja afari and a unified opposition delegation .
the opposition told me clearly when they arrived here , and again yesterday and this morning too , that they are ready to meet the government right away to have a hard , difficult discussion .
the government is not ready , it has said it is not ready to meet the opposition .
that is regrettable but diplomacy has many means , de mistura said .
a senior western diplomat said that the government delegation had failed to engage with de mistura on a new constitution and elections during a round of negotiations due to end on thursday .
clearly they did not have any intention to engage in this political process .
and clearly they are not under sufficient pressure to do so , the diplomat told reuters .
the clear impression is the regime wants to avoid the u.n.-led political process at any cost .