abidjan ( reuters ) - ivory coast authorities arrested a senior aide to parliament speaker guillaume soro on monday , a prosecutor said , accusing him of possessing and distributing weapons to destabilize the state during an army mutiny earlier this year .
the arrest of soro s protocol chief souleymane kamarate kone and other associates could deepen a rift between the powerful former rebel leader and president alassane ouattara .
renegade soldiers in the second city bouake used weapons taken from kone s home to halt the advance of loyalist troops sent to put down their four-day uprising in may .
soon after the mutiny , prosecutors opened an investigation into the arms cache , which state prosecutor christophe adou said contained six tonnes of weapons and ammunition .
the possession and concealment of these weapons in an illegal manner and then their distribution aimed to destabilize the state , adou told reporters in the commercial capital abidjan .
an inquest with an arrest warrant was opened against him and all persons involved , he added .
around 15 people were questioned during the investigation , including soro s head of security and his deputy .
it was unclear , however , who in addition to kone was being targeted for arrest .
kone was taken into custody after questioning on monday and could not be reached for comment .
allies of soro say the investigation is politically motivated .
kone ... has already served in prison in 2000 for the cause of president alassane ouattara .
he is a strong man who will remain dignified , a spokesman for soro , who is out of the country , wrote in a statement .
the statement also called for supporters to remain calm and for the judicial process to remain independent .
soro headed a northern rebellion between 2002 and 2011 that helped ouattara to power after his predecessor laurent gbagbo refused to accept defeat in a 2010 election .
however , a split has opened between the president and his former ally this year .
soro is considered one of the main contenders to take over from ouattara , who can not run for re-election in 2020 , but he faces stiff opposition with the ruling rdr party .
diplomats and analysts worry that a series of army mutinies beginning in january may be a symptom of jockeying for position by political figures ahead of the 2020 vote .
the arrest of kone and other soro associates is likely to increase tensions , including within the army where the parliament speaker still commands the loyalty of many of the thousands of his former fighters now serving as soldiers .