seoul ( reuters ) - a north korean border guard briefly crossed the border with the south in the chase for a defector last week - a violation of the ceasefire accord between north and south , a video released on wednesday by the u.n. command ( unc ) in seoul showed .
the north koreans were only steps behind the young man when they shot him at least four times as he made his escape on nov. 13 .
the video , filmed as the defector drove an army truck through the demilitarized zone and then abandoned the vehicle , gives a dramatic insight into his escape .
the defector , identified by a surgeon as a 24-year-old with the family name oh , was flown by a u.s. military helicopter to a hospital in suwon , south of seoul .
doctors said he had regained consciousness , having had two operations to extract the bullets , and his breathing was stable and unassisted .
he is fine , lead surgeon lee cook-jong said at a news conference in suwon .
he is not going to die .
a unc official said north korea had been informed on wednesday that it had violated the 1953 armistice agreement , which marked the cessation of hostilities in the korean war .
the unc official told a news conference that a soldier from the north korean people s army ( kpa ) had crossed the military demarcation line ( mdl ) , the border between the two koreas , for a few seconds as others fired shots at the defecting soldier .
the key findings of the special investigation team are that the kpa violated the armistice agreement by one , firing weapons across the mdl , and two , by actually crossing the mdl temporarily , chad carroll , director of public affairs for the unc , told reporters .
the incident comes at a time of heightened tensions between north korea and the international community over its nuclear weapons program , but pyongyang has not publicly responded to the defection .
the video , released by the unc , was produced from surveillance cameras on the southern side of the the joint security area ( jsa ) inside the demilitarized zone .
when tree cover is too dense to see the wounded defector crawling across the border , it switches to infra-red .
the film begins with a lone dark green army jeep speeding along empty , tree-lined roads toward the border .
at one checkpoint , a north korean guard marches impassively toward the approaching vehicle .
it races by .
he runs in pursuit .
after passing a memorial to north korea founder kim il sung , where tourists often gather , the jeep runs into a ditch just meters from the border , which is not clearly marked .
for several minutes the driver tries to free the vehicle , but the wheels spin uselessly in fallen leaves .
the driver abandons the vehicle and sprints away , pushing tree branches out of his way and sending leaves flying .
he scrambles up a slope to cross just seconds before more guards appear , shooting as they run .
one slides into a pile of dead leaves to open fire before running forward and appearing to briefly cross the dividing line between the two countries .
he quickly turns on his heel .
the video does not show the moment the defector is hit , but he is seen lying in a pile of brush next to a concrete wall in a later edited clip .
the unc s carroll said the position was still exposed to north korean checkpoints across the border .
allied troops operating the cameras had by then notified their commanders and a quick reaction force had assembled on the south korean side , according to carroll .
the video does not show this force .
infrared imagery shows two south korean soldiers crawling through undergrowth to drag the wounded north korean to safety , while the deputy commander of the border security unit oversees the rescue from a few meters away .
doctors have conducted a series of surgeries to remove four bullets from the critically wounded soldier , who arrived at the hospital having lost a large amount of blood .
from a medical point of view he was almost dead when he was first brought here , said the surgeon , lee .
hospital officials said the man remains in intensive care .
the soldier showed signs of depression and possible trauma , in addition to a serious case of parasites that has complicated his treatment , the hospital said in a statement .
lee said last week one of the flesh-colored parasites he removed from the soldier s digestive tract was 27 cm ( 10.6 in ) long .
continuing stress made the soldier hesitant to talk , but he had been cooperative , doctors said .
the patient first recovered consciousness on sunday , and asked where he was in south korea , lee said .
he was in agony when he came to , the surgeon added .
since then doctors have played south korean pop music for him , and american action movies including the transporter from 2002 .
on average more than 1,000 north koreans defect to the south every year , but most travel via china and numbers have fallen since kim jong un came to power in 2011 .
it is unusual for a north korean to cross the land border dividing the two koreas .
they have been in a technical state of war since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
the last time a north korean soldier had defected across the jsa was in 2007 .