umm al hawaya , qatar ( reuters ) - deep in the qatari desert , a herd of cows stands in a vast shed , cooled by fans and jets of mist - each animal a key player in a plan to defy a trade boycott and make the kingdom self-sufficient in milk by next year .
the black and white holstein cattle are among the first members of a 14,000-strong herd that farming company baladna is expecting to build up in coming months , its chief executive john dore told reuters in an interview .
we will make qatar self-sufficient by june - that is the target , dore said .
he conceded that raising and milking cows in temperatures nearing 50 degrees celsius ( 120 fahrenheit ) in summer posed special challenges .
but technology and the deep pockets of baladna s qatari owners were compensating for the harsh environment , said dore , an irishman who previously worked for saudi arabian dairy giant almarai .
hundreds of cows were already hooked up to the automatic milking machines at baladna s farm in umm al hawaya , about 50 km ( 30 miles ) north of doha , and producing milk good enough to export , he said .
more than 6,000 more cows from the united states are due to arrive by february .
qatar s drive to build a dairy industry in the desert illustrates how the tiny but wealthy country , the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , is using money and technology to cope with its isolation .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt cut trade and transport ties with qatar in june , accusing it of backing terrorism , a charge which doha denies .
the boycott disrupted qatar s shipping routes through the gulf .
it also shut qatar s land border with saudi arabia , across which many perishable goods were imported , including almost 400 tonnes of fresh milk and yoghurt a day .
the boycott has forced qatar to fly in dairy products from turkey and iran .
but dore said the country was determined to create its own dairy sector , largely relying on baladna , a private company which is receiving logistical and other support from the government .
the firm , which raises sheep , was considering moving into milk production before the boycott , but knew it would find it hard to compete on price with imports from almarai , he said .
the boycott removed that competition and in the initial weeks of the diplomatic crisis , the company flew in the first 3,400 cows on state-owned airline qatar airways .
we were milking cows here on the 11th of july , which is barely a month after the blockade , and that by any method or means is some achievement , dore said .
baladna is planning two more sea shipments from the united states - each holding 3,300 animals - by february .
another consignment of 3,000 cows has been planned , but not yet ordered .
by june , it says it is expecting to raise production of fresh milk and yoghurt to 500 tonnes a day , enough to meet domestic demand with 100 tonnes left over for export .
baladna has not disclosed financial details of its project , and it is not yet clear whether qatar can produce large volumes of milk economically , let alone export some at competitive prices .
but for now at least , the country s drive to reduce its dependence on imports with domestic production appears to be stimulating the economy .
the manufacturing sector grew 3.2 percent from a year earlier in september , official data released last week showed .
food manufacturing jumped 23.5 percent .