in a nation so rich with muslim rapists diversity , this moderate muslim will likely be able to move right back into his previous job of admonishing islamaphobes if things don t pan out for him in the raping and beheading business michael nikolai skr mo aka abo ibrahim al swedi probably didn t need a job .
he was trained as a chef before he converted to islam.the 29-year-old swede , who today calls himself abdul samad al swedi , grew up in gothenburg .
he converted to islam during a field trip to egypt about ten years ago and has since been engaged in a series of tax-funded muslim organizations.in 2009 he was invited to svt , where he told swedish viewers how muslim phobia ( islamophobia ) and hatred was spread around europe.previously , the swede have been heavily involved to counter what he described as a misleading picture of muslims as violent fanatics .
in an episode of svt debate , which can be seen on youtube , he attacked the malicious picture of muslims spread in europe .
this fear is based on ignorance of islam , michael skr mo said.obviously .
if only people truly knew what islam was.as a lecturer abdul samad has mainly been active in the radical bellevue mosque in gothenburg .
there he held a series of sermons on the association multicultural youth center ( mkuc ) , notorious for four youth leaders of the association , including president of the association , once armed with knives attempted to attack lars vilks in an art event at red rock in gothenburg .
it is worth noting that sermons should have been co-arranged with the wide muslim educational association ibn rushd .
abdul samad has also been linked to the swedish federation of muslims , also a compound of radical preachers , located at the bellevue mosque.michael skr mo , 29 , took the whole family his little four children and wife to the is-controlled area inside syria .
now skr mo filmed a propaganda video outside the syrian city kobane where he preaches jihad and calls swedish jihadists to leave sweden and join the holy war .
my brothers , hijra ( migration ) and jihad are so simple .
it only costs a few thousand lapp [ swedish kronor ] , he says in swedish .
do you not wish in in your heart to fight and show god what you have to offer him ?
the door to jihad is standing there waiting for you .
it s the fastest way to jannah [ paradise ] .
according to sweden s expressen newspaper , he converted to islam in 2005 , after which he travelled widely in the islamic world , learning arabic and studying the religion.at the end of the video , skr mo becomes more emotional .
i want you to be here with me .
i want us to hang out in jannah .
my wonderful brothers , take this decision , trust in allah , sacrificing your money and your life for allah , and you will receive the highest from allah via : frontpage magazine