new york/ankara ( reuters ) - the u.s. judge presiding over the trial of a turkish gold trader accused of evading u.s. sanctions against iran on thursday refused to say if the wealthy businessman would be on trial with one of his co-defendants later this month .
u.s. prosecutors have charged the trader , reza zarrab , and his alleged co-conspirators of handling hundreds of millions of dollars for iran s government and iranian entities from 2010 to 2015 , in a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
nine people have been criminally charged , but only zarrab and a banker from turkey s halkbank , mehmet hakan atilla , are in u.s. custody .
both deny the charges .
the case has complicated relations between the united states and turkey , both members of the nato military alliance .
while the two are due to go on trial on nov.27 , zarrab has not appeared in court or submitted any filings since september , sparking speculation in turkish media that he has reached an agreement with u.s. authorities .
u.s. district judge richard berman refused to say whether zarrab would be on trial alongside atilla when asked by victor rocco , one of atilla s lawyers , at a court hearing on thursday .
the one perk that comes with being a judge is you don t have to answer questions as witnesses and lawyers do , berman said .
rocco told reporters after the hearing that he expected to know more about zarrab in the next few days .
u.s. prosecutors have alleged that zarrab , a dual turkish and iranian citizen , sought support from and invoked the name of turkish president tayyip erdogan to advance his business .
erdogan has not been accused of wrongdoing .
the president has accused u.s. prosecutors of having ulterior motives by including references to him and his wife in court papers .
u.s. authorities informed turkey that zarrab had been moved to a different location and was in good medical condition , turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu said earlier on thursday .
they responded after turkey sent two diplomatic notes to ask about zarrab s condition after the u.s. federal bureau of prisons website showed zarrab had been released last week and his lawyers said they had not heard from their client in five days .