dakar ( reuters ) - congolese security officials recruited more than 200 exiled rebel fighters to help suppress protests against president joseph kabila a year ago , ordering them to use lethal force , human rights watch said in a report on monday .
security forces killed dozens during demonstrations in december 2016 when a delay to presidential elections and kabila s refusal to step down sparked widespread unrest .
kabila was required by the constitution to step down after an election to replace him in 2016 but the vote has been delayed until december 2018 .
opposition leaders and activist groups have vowed fresh protests this month to try to force him from power .
the hrw report was based on interviews with 13 fighters from the m23 rebel group who it says were recruited in neighboring rwanda and uganda , m23 leaders and nine congolese security and intelligence officials , most of whom were cited anonymously .
congo s government spokesman declined to comment .
delphin kahimbi , the head of congo s military intelligence named in the report as one of the operation s coordinators , denied he recruited m23 fighters , calling the report s findings ridiculous and absurd .
m23 president bertrand bisimwa said in a statement on monday that congo had recruited deserters and others previously kicked out of the group but that m23 leadership was in no way involved .
the m23 rose up against the government in eastern congo in 2012 in one of a series of insurrections driven by disputes over ethnicity , land and resource rights that have cost millions of lives over the past two decades .
the m23 was defeated by congolese and u.n. troops in late 2013 .
the government subsequently promised amnesty for most of the hundreds of rebels who fled to neighboring rwanda and uganda , but the process has stalled .
congo s security services turned to m23 last year because kabila did not trust his own security forces , the report said .
fighters were deployed to kinshasa , congo s second city lubumbashi and the eastern city of goma , integrated into police , army and presidential guard units .
they were ordered to use lethal force against protesters , the report said .
for their service , m23 members received hundreds of dollars each .
recruiters also warned they would lose all protection if kabila left power .
richard karemire , uganda s military spokesman , denied m23 fighters were recruited in uganda .
rwandan officials could not be immediately reached for comment .