beirut ( reuters ) - dozens of people gathered outside beirut s national museum on saturday evening to light candles for a british woman and three arab women murdered in the past week in lebanon .
the killing of the british embassy worker rebecca dykes last week has sparked extensive media coverage in lebanon , prompting activists to press for more attention to be given to widespread violence against women .
lebanese women s rights activists held the vigil to mourn the victims , demand better laws , and to protest against the violence - including the three reported murders in northern lebanon alone over the past week .
society refuses to listen to us or see us until our blood is spilled , leen hashem , an organizer , told the crowd from the steps of the museum .
this violence is structural and systematic .
justice is not only arresting the criminal .
justice is for all this not to happen to us in the first place , she said .
don t tell me to cover up .
tell him not to rape me , one woman chanted through a megaphone , a demand repeated by people in the crowd .
participants laid white roses over pictures of the four women , and lined the steps with candles .
wafaa al-kabbout stood on the sidelines , holding a framed photo of her 21-year-old daughter zahraa , whose ex-husband shot her dead last year .
now my daughter is gone , she s not coming back , she said .
but all these young women are our daughters .
and there is still fear for the young women after them .
the united nations says a third of women worldwide have suffered sexual or physical violence .
a 2017 national study by the beirut-based women s rights group abaad said that one in four women have been raped in lebanon .
less than a quarter of women who faced sexual assault reported it , the survey said .
little by little , we are breaking the silence ... for women to come forward and talk about the violence they are facing , said saja michael , program manager at abaad .
in the past five years , women have become more likely to report violence and seek help , she said , though sexual assault remains a bit more taboo .
part of the reason is that ngos have set up new shelters and community centers , with psychological , legal , medical , and other services , michael added .
it s becoming more of a public discourse , she said .
it s no longer what s happening behind closed doors .
lebanon s parliament passed a long-awaited law in 2014 that penalized domestic violence for the first time .
but rights groups were outraged that authorities watered it down , and it fell short of criminalizing marital rape .
child marriage also remains legal in lebanon .
in august , parliament abolished a law that absolved rapists if they married their victims , joining other arab states that repealed similar laws this year .
activists welcomed it as a major step , but said there was a long way to go on lebanese legislation to protect women .
every day we are subjected to harassment , in college , on the street , everywhere , said ramona abdallah , a university student at the vigil .
it really could be any one of us .
rebecca dykes , 30 , who worked at the british embassy in lebanon , was found strangled beside a highway outside beirut last weekend .
a lebanese uber driver picked her up before assaulting and killing her , state media said .
a security official said the suspect had confessed .
earlier in the same week , a lebanese man killed his mother-in-law and wounded his wife by shooting them inside their home in the northern akkar region , state news agency nna said .
authorities have arrested him , it said .
in another incident , nazira al-tartousi , a 15-year-old pregnant syrian , was found dead with a bullet in her neck in the north , security sources said .
her husband , the suspect , has denied killing her , they said .
and yaman darwish , 22 , died after sustaining a broken chin and gunshot wounds in another northern village , the security sources said .
the investigation showed the lebanese woman had also been hit on the head with a vase , and choked .