barcelona ( reuters ) - hundreds of thousands of supporters of a unified spain filled barcelona s streets on sunday in one of the biggest shows of force yet by the so-called silent majority that has watched as regional political leaders push for catalan independence .
political parties opposing a split by catalonia from spain had a small lead in an opinion poll published on sunday , the first since madrid called a regional election to try to resolve the country s worst political crisis in four decades .
polls and recent elections have shown that about half the electorate in the wealthy northeastern region , which is already autonomous , oppose secession from spain , but a vocal independence movement has brought the current crisis to a head .
spain s central government called an election for dec. 21 on friday after sacking catalonia s president carles puigdemont , dissolving its parliament and dismissing its government .
that followed the assembly s unilateral declaration of independence in a vote boycotted by three national parties .
the regional government claimed it had a mandate to push ahead with independence following an unofficial referendum on oct. 1 which was ruled illegal under spanish law and mostly boycotted by unionists .
waving thousands of spanish flags and singing viva espa a , protesters on sunday turned out in the largest display of support for a united spain since the beginning of the crisis underlining the depth of division in catalonia itself .
i m here to defend spanish unity and the law , said alfonso machado , 55 , a salesman standing with a little girl with spanish flags in her hair .
knowing that in the end there won t be independence , i feel sorry for all the people tricked into thinking there could be and the divisions they ve driven through catalan society .
the poll of 1,000 people by sigma dos for newspaper el mundo showed unionist parties winning 43.4 percent support and pro-independence parties 42.5 percent .
the survey was taken from monday to thursday , just as the central government prepared to take control of catalonia .
madrid said on saturday that secessionist politicians , including puigdemont , were free to take part in the election .
the hardline cup has been unclear if it would .
the deposed catalan government will soon have to make difficult decisions , puigdemont s former deputy oriol junqueras said on sunday in an editorial in online newspaper el punt avui .
he stopped short of saying his erc party would take part in the election .
we need a shared strategy ... it s important to weave solid alliances with those who are willing to build a state that serves its citizens , he said , possibly alluding to a rumored alliance between the erc and the catalan arm of the anti-austerity podemos party .
such an alliance could put the independence movement in difficult position as it would mean a main secession supporter joining forces with parties that reject madrid s hard line but do not support separatism .
with weeks to go before the election , the poll showed the cup , kingmaker for the pro-secessionists in the dismissed 135-seat parliament , would win seven seats , down from a current 10 .
the pro-independence coalition junts pel si , which held 62 seats previously , was split into parties pdecat and erc for the poll as they are unlikely to run on a single platform .
the two would win between 54 and 58 seats in total , the poll showed .
at sunday s rally , former european parliament president josep borrell called for unionist voters to turn out in december to ensure independence supporters lose their stranglehold on the regional parliament .
maybe we re here because many of us during elections didn t go and vote .
now we have a golden opportunity .
this time , nobody should stay at home , borrell said to cheering crowds .
puigdemont called on saturday for peaceful opposition to madrid s takeover .
but he was vague on precisely what steps the secessionists would take as spanish authorities move into barcelona to enforce control .
european countries , the united states and mexico have also rejected the catalan declaration of independence and expressed support for spain s unity .
but emotions are running high and the next few days will be tricky for madrid as it embarks on enforcing direct rule and putting officials in administrative roles .
national police were accused of heavy-handedness during the oct. 1 referendum .
officers of the regional police force , called the mossos d esquadra in catalan , were stationed in main public and government buildings on sunday .
but the force is believed to have divided loyalties .
the central government has removed the mossos chief , josep lluis trapero , and said units could be replaced if warranted .
in an open letter on sunday , interior minister juan ignacio zoido praised the mossos for their work and urged them to accept temporary direction from madrid .
the main secessionist group , the catalan national assembly , has urged civil servants not to follow orders from the central government and to mount peaceful resistance , while the pro-independence trade union csc has called a strike .
puigdemont , junqueras and their advisors left the catalan government offices on friday , newspaper la vanguardia reported on sunday , effectively handing the building over to madrid and making a forced eviction on monday less likely .
since the return of democracy in the late 1970s spain has suffered several traumatic episodes , including an attempted military coup in 1981 , a violent basque separatist conflict , and more recently an economic crisis .
the catalan issue is however the biggest challenge to the territorial integrity of what is now a progressive european union nation .
the chaos has prompted an exodus of businesses from catalonia , which contributes about a fifth of spain s economy , the fourth-largest in the euro zone .
tourism to barcelona has been hit and markets have darted up and down on the fast-moving developments .
european leaders have also denounced the push , fearing it could fan separatist sentiment around the continent .