kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - a vietnamese woman accused of killing the half-brother of north korea s leader was captured on camera making an aggressive attack on him , two days after a similar act on another person , a police investigator told a malaysian court on tuesday .
doan thi huong , 28 , is charged along with siti aisyah , an indonesian woman , with killing kim jong nam by smearing his face with vx , a chemical poison banned by the united nations , at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
there was a stark difference in huong s movements in two closed circuit television recordings made in the airport s third level departure hall , said police official wan azirul nizam che wan aziz .
the first recording on feb. 11 showed huong approach an unidentified member of the public from behind to wipe something on the person s face in a soft manner , he said .
she then appeared to apologize , placing her hands together and bowing her head , before retreating slowly , added wan azirul , a member of the airport district s criminal investigations department .
but a similar act carried out on kim jong nam was quite rough and seemed more like an attack , wan azirul said .
for me , the act seemed aggressive .
other differences i saw were in her movements - compared to before , the accused doan moved in a quick and rushed manner , he said , using huong s first name .
the women have pleaded not guilty , saying they thought they were involved in some sort of prank for a reality tv show .
they face the death penalty if convicted .
chemical weapons expert raja subramaniam said degradation products of vx were found on huong s fingernails but not on the rest of her hands .
traces of vx were found on the clothes worn by both accused women , subramaniam said in court last week .
on tuesday , subramaniam also declared impossible a theory that the vx was created by combining together two non-poisonous chemicals , saying it would have required large amounts of heat in order to work .
experts had earlier suggested the women had each been given a non-lethal substance that formed a deadly combination after being smeared on the victim s face .
hisyam teh , huong s lawyer , argued during cross-examination that she could not have known that she was handling vx .
no sane person , having been made aware that a liquid was vx , basically the deadliest of all nerve agents , would put out his hand for vx to get administered , he added .
the trial will resume on wednesday .