how long before the media is clammering all over this construction worker to get an interview with this hero ?
yet when ben carson suggested victims faced with the same or similar situation react in the same way , he was called crazy by the media byron price isn t afraid of much , but , he didn t expect to come face-to-face with a determined suspect who was on a mission .
bryon was among the least injured , but , campus officials say his brave acts may have saved lives.when bryon heard a commotion he went to see who was screaming and possibly break up a fight .
when he stepped into a second-floor classroom he found the armed suspect who then turned and came after him .
so when he came at him he said he ended up on his back .
i said why d you go on your back .
he goes , he goes , i don t care if he cuts my legs i didn t want him to cut my chest or my abdomen .
he said he has to come at me if i m down and then if he has to bend over i got a chance at his eyes or his throat and it worked , said john price , victims father.byron was stabbed while trying to fight off the attacker .
his father said another construction worker also grabbed a ladder to try to threaten the suspect and get him to leave.byron was working on remodeling a waiting room on campus .
he was just finishing up his work for the day when he noticed the commotion and went to investigate .
his father said his son doesn t want any attention for his actions and attempts to save others , but he is proud of how he confronted danger without a second thought .
as a man , you want to be the guy when it s your turn to rise up and do what you are supposed to do , no matter what , you do it .
and then when your son s do it .
yea , i m proud of the boy , john said.via : abc30contrast this hero s story to ben carson s comments on the oregon shooter tragedy .
this construction worker did exactly what ben carson suggested he would do , but somehow the media calls him a hero and ben carson irresponsible for suggesting such an act of valor.here are two examples of the leftist media un-leashed : https : //youtu.be/afzvr8xlpdg