paris ( reuters ) - never let it be said that president emmanuel macron doesn t care about how he comes across .
for the first television interview of his five-month-old presidency , an hour-long appearance on france s tf1 during sunday primetime , everything on screen seemed scrupulously chosen to highlight elements of the 39-year-old s education , world view and ambitions for france .
seated at a marble-topped designer table , three interviewers on the other side , macron had on the wall over his shoulder a large modernist painting with the words liberte , egalite , fraternite - the national motto - arranged around the french flag and an image of marianne , the national symbol .
while the interview took place in the gilded , classical elysee palace , home to french presidents since 1848 , macron and his wife brigitte have updated many of the rooms with contemporary art , designer rugs and angular metal furniture .
on his office desk , from where one of several cameras provided a wide-angle of the scene , the titles of books macron is supposedly reading were on show .
alongside a tome on india , there was one entitled le genie allemand ( the genius of the germans ) , another by former italian prime minister enrico letta about building europe in a harsh world , and another by an economist called towards the world of 2050 .
others touched on literature , culture and financial regulation , sending subtle and not-so-subtle messages to european leaders and french citizens alike .
a paperweight in the colors of the french flag weighed down one pile .
since taking office in may , the former investment banker and civil servant has been meticulous in managing his image , talking about the need to ensure the presidency is elevated , dealing solemnly with the weightiest issues of the day .
at the same time , he has insisted that he is not a president of the rich as critics have labeled him but in touch with ordinary citizens via frequent visits to factories , businesses , fairs and markets .
the obsessiveness about how he comes across has also tripped him up .
he was ridiculed for dressing up in an olive flight suit to address the military , and three months into his presidency , french media reported he had already spent 26,000 euros ( $ 30,700 ) on makeup .
and an opinion poll after the interview showed many people were not convinced by his message on social issues .
french journalists have expressed frustration that he does not make himself more available for interviews or at press conferences , something his predecessor francois hollande did all too regularly , sometimes responding to text messages .
instead those around macron describe the need to be jupiterian taking big decisions from on high rather than getting caught in the melee of daily journalism .
during sunday s interview , macron rejected criticism that he had been dismissive towards unionists , saying his use of words like slackers and the phrase kicking up a bloody mess to describe protesters were him telling it straight .
we re taking care of the parts of france where things aren t going so well , he said .
i m doing what i said i would do during the election campaign .
throughout the interview macron was polite but combative , unwilling to cede the word to his questioners and at times turning the event into a lengthy policy presentation .
he talked repeatedly of long-term vision rather than quick results .
some reviewers criticized the failure to elicit news .
macron s concern for image was evident immediately after his election victory - that evening he crossed the courtyard of the louvre to the strains of beethoven s ode to joy , the official anthem of the european union .
a fly-on-the-wall documentary released the next day told the inside story of his campaign , largely painting the thrusting president in a positive light .
but whether his approach can win over more of the public than the 24 percent who voted for him in the first round of the election is questionable .
while 9.7 million people tuned in to watch on sunday , a poll by harris interactive showed 61 percent were not convinced by what he said , especially on social issues .