feel good story of the day two escaped inmates sought in the killings of two guards on a georgia prison bus were captured after a chase and being held at gunpoint by a rural tennessee homeowner whose vehicle they were trying to steal , authorities said.donnie rowe , 43 , and ricky dubose , 24 , were apprehended thursday in the rural community of christiana , tennessee , ending a multi-state manhunt that began tuesday morning .
true bravery is what s caused us to stand before you tonight to talk about a successful capture instead of a tragic incident , tennessee bureau of investigation director mark gwyn said at a news conference .
so i m totally grateful to everyone involved .
earlier in the day , police in nearby shelbyville had responded to a call about a home invasion , where a couple had been held captive , georgia bureau of investigation spokeswoman nelly miles said.the suspects fled in the couple s vehicle and fired on sheriff s deputies chasing them on interstate 24 about 50 miles southeast of nashville , tennessee , highway patrol spokesman lt. bill miller said .
rutherford county sheriff michael fitzhugh said his deputies did not return fire and none of them was injured.rowe and dubose crashed the car and bailed out , running into the woods , miller said .
they then came across a home set back on a long driveway.the trooper said the homeowner looked outside and saw the two allegedly trying to steal his car .
the man held the two at gunpoint with a neighbor he called for help until the sheriff s department could get there to arrest the fugitives.the two were being held at the rutherford county jail.georgia department of corrections commissioner greg dozier said in a news release that he was relieved the two inmates were captured and no longer a threat to the public.the two men had been on the run since early tuesday , when they are accused of having killed sgt .
christopher monica and sgt .
curtis billue.watch : the two inmates overpowered and disarmed the guards on a bus about 6:45 a.m. tuesday as 33 inmates were being driven between prisons , authorities have said .
one of them fatally shot both guards , and then they jumped out of the bus and carjacked a driver who happened to pull up behind them on state highway 16 in putnam county , southeast of atlanta , authorities said.the two inmates then fled in the stolen honda civic and drove about 25 miles north to madison , where they ransacked a home , stealing food and clothes and leaving their prison uniforms behind around 10:30 a.m. tuesday.late tuesday night , about 12 hours after the home burglary , the pair stole a ford pickup truck from a rock quarry about 9 miles from the burglarized home when the trail had gone cold .
daily mail