new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton ’ s lead over republican rival donald trump increased to more than 7 percentage points in a reuters/ipsos poll released on tuesday , from less than 3 points on thursday .
the shift came as trump struggled to reset his campaign following a stretch of controversies .
about 42 percent of likely voters favored clinton and about 35 percent preferred trump , according to the aug. 4-8 online poll of 1,152 likely voters , which had a credibility interval of plus or minus 3 percentage points .
the others would either pick another candidate , would not vote , or “ don ’ t know/refused. ” the results reflected a decline in support for trump , rather than a boost for clinton : in last thursday ’ s poll , 42 percent of likely voters favored clinton and about 39 percent favored trump .
among registered voters over the same period , clinton held a lead of nearly 13 percentage points , up from about 5 percentage points on thursday , according to the poll .
the five-day survey concluded on a mixed day for the trump campaign .
after squabbles last week with party leaders and the parents of a muslim american soldier killed in iraq , trump sought to turn the page with a speech outlining an economic platform of tax breaks and regulatory rollbacks .
but in what was surely unwelcome news for trump ’ s campaign , 50 heavyweight republican national security officials , in a letter published on monday , said that trump would be “ the most reckless president in american history. ” trump hit back , saying the signatories “ deserve the blame for making the world such a dangerous place. ” trump faced more dissent within his party on monday .
a former cia officer , evan mcmullin , announced he would run as an independent alternative to trump for conservative republicans , and republican senator susan collins said she would not vote for trump .
in a separate reuters/ipsos survey that gave respondents the option to choose from clinton , trump , libertarian candidate gary johnson and green party candidate jill stein , clinton leads trump by about 6 percentage points .
of the alternative party candidates , johnson came in third with nearly 8 percentage points , up from 6 points on thursday .
stein has about 2 percentage points .
the aug. 4-8 survey of 1,154 likely voters had a credibility interval of 3 percentage points .
mcmullin was not an option in the poll .