jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian authorities have uncovered a group spreading hate speech and fake news online , one of many that they fear could undermine national unity .
indonesia has an ethnically diverse population of 250 million people , most of them muslim but with significant minorities from other religions , and unity across the archipelago has been a priority of governments for generations .
three people were arrested this week on suspicion of being part of a syndicate being paid to spread incendiary material online through social media , police said .
if this is allowed to continue , it isn t just about violating the law but also has the potential to damage the unity of this country , said presidential spokesman johan budi .
budi said it was up to investigators to determine the motive of those behind the campaign , adding police should investigate the issue right down to its roots .
national police spokesman awi setiyono said the material involved religious and ethnic issues and posts defamatory to government officials .
he declined to comment on the motive , saying investigators were still building their case and had yet to identify who was behind the syndicate , which calls itself saracen , that has been spreading the material .
the police cyber crime unit said dozens of facebook and other social media accounts were being sued to spread the material to an estimated 800,000 social media accounts .
setiyono said investigators had uncovered money transfers of up to $ 5,000 to pay those spreading the material .
religious and ethnic tensions flared in the capital , jakarta , this year when city elections pitted an ethnic chinese christian governor , who was accused on insulting islam , against a muslim candidate .
authorities have scrambled to remove hate speech from social media and online forums in an attempt to defuse tension but a growing amount of content encouraging religious intolerance or radicalism is being shared .
search giant google said this month it was working with authorities to tackle content deemed to be offensive .