washington ( reuters ) - the united states on thursday began implementing restrictions to its visa waiver program under a law passed after last year ’ s paris attacks that makes it harder for citizens of some countries to visit .
several of the islamic state attackers who killed 130 people in france held european passports that would have allowed them to easily enter the united states under the former system .
citizens of the 38 , mainly european , countries in the u.s. visa waiver program ( vwp ) , who were previously able to travel to the united states for up to 90 days without a visa , must now obtain one if they have visited iran , iraq , sudan and syria since march 1 , 2011 .
they must also obtain a visa if they are dual iranian , iraqi , sudanese or syrian nationals , the u.s. state department said .
citizens from the 38 nations are required to obtain a travel authorization through the so-called electronic system for travel authorization ( esta ) before coming to the united states .
the state department said that as of thursday it would revoke the esta travel authorizations held by citizens from the 38 visa waiver program countries if they are dual iranian , iraqi , sudanese or syrian citizens .
however , it noted that under the new law the u.s. secretary of homeland security has the authority to issue waivers to the restrictions on law enforcement or national security grounds .
people who could be eligible for a waiver include those who visited iran , iraq , sudan or syria on behalf of international organizations or humanitarian groups , or journalists who carried out reporting in the four countries .
they may also include people who traveled for legitimate business reasons to iraq or to iran following the july 14 , 2015 nuclear agreement .
the visa waiver program nations are andorra , australia , austria , belgium , brunei , chile , czech republic , denmark , estonia , finland , france , germany , greece , hungary , iceland , ireland , italy , japan , latvia , liechtenstein , lithuania , luxembourg , malta , monaco , netherlands , new zealand , norway , portugal , san marino , singapore , slovakia , slovenia , south korea , spain , sweden , switzerland , taiwan and united kingdom .