( reuters ) - cerberus capital management lp ’ s chief executive officer stephen feinberg is in talks to join u.s. president donald trump ’ s administration in a senior role , the private equity firm said on thursday .
feinberg ’ s move would make him the latest wall street veteran to serve under trump .
u.s. treasury secretary nominee steven mnuchin , u.s. commerce secretary designate wilbur ross , and gary cohn , director of the white house national economic council , are just some of the high-profile financiers who have agreed to join trump ’ s administration .
it is not clear what role feinberg is discussing with trump ’ s senior team .
his appointment would require him to provide “ voluminous information ” and disclosures to the office of government ethics and comply with all applicable conflict-of-interest rules and regulations , cerberus told its investors earlier on thursday in a letter seen by reuters .
cerberus also told its investors that it has a succession plan in place that would result in minimal changes to the current management and operation of the firm .
feinberg , who served as one of trump ’ s economic advisers during his u.s. election campaign , co-founded cerberus in 1992 .
a princeton graduate , he previously worked at bond trader drexel burnham lambert .
forbes magazine currently pegs 56-year-old feinberg ’ s net worth at $ 1.25 billion .
feinberg rarely gives interviews and has been photographed only a few times by news photographers .
it is not clear how he would respond to the publicity of a job within the administration , assuming the role being discussed is a high-profile one .
cerberus became well known for a $ 7.4 billion deal it struck in 2007 , along with co-investors , to buy an 80 percent stake in car maker chrysler and its financing arm chrysler financial .
chrysler was pushed to the brink of liquidation in 2009 before a bailout that was the subject of intense debate within the administration of former u.s. president barack obama .
cerberus lost control of the automaker during its restructuring .
in december 2010 , cerberus struck a deal to sell chrysler financial to toronto-dominion bank for $ 6.3 billion .
a source close to cerberus said at the time that deal meant the private equity firm would end up close to break-even on its investment in chrysler as a whole .
feinberg attracted more controversy in 2012 , when a gunman killed 20 children and six adults at sandy hook elementary school in newtown , connecticut , using a bushmaster rifle made by freedom group inc , an arms manufacturer owned by cerberus .
following unease by cerberus investors , the new york-based buyout firm sought to sell freedom group but could not sell it for the $ 1 billion price tag it expected .
instead , feinberg came up with a mechanism for cerberus fund investors to sell their stakes in freedom group .
cerberus has more than $ 30 billion in assets under management .
its investments include supermarket operator albertsons companies inc and beauty products company avon products inc .