kabul ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s plans to step up air strikes on islamist militants in afghanistan risk increasing civilian casualties and stirring resentment , despite an initial welcome by afghan officials and international allies .
afghan president ashraf ghani has avoided vocal criticisms of errant air strikes , but in previous years they sparked intense friction and soured ties between his predecessor , hamid karzai , and the international coalition in afghanistan .
with the u.s. set to resume a more active role in the war , many analysts expect a rise in the u.n.-documented first-half figure of 232 civilian casualties from international and afghan air operations , a spike of 43 percent from a year earlier .
the issue about air strikes is part of a broader package of concerns , said one western official .
i don t hear western diplomats saying , how many bombs should we drop ?
i hear them saying , why are we bombing ?
what are we doing here , in general ?
during the 16 years since a u.s.-led campaign toppled the taliban from power in 2001 , resentment has repeatedly been fueled by coalition missteps that undermined hard-won progress on the political or military fronts .
the exact contours of trump s plan remain uncertain , but officials of several coalition nations told reuters they feared more civilians could be harmed , despite avoiding the subject in public remarks .
additional airstrikes can be a double-edged sword for leaders looking to stem taliban offensives , said christopher kolenda , a former u.s. army officer who served in afghanistan and worked on american military strategies for the conflict .
better air support for afghan forces on the ground will limit gains taliban can make , and that s helpful in negotiations , he said .
the downside is if this creates a rise in civilian casualties , then you run a high risk of creating a cascade of negative perceptions among afghans .
there is no question ghani cares deeply about protecting afghan civilians , kolenda added , but domestic political challenges and future elections make it inevitable that he will have to address any rise in civilian casualties .
by the government s count , civilian casualties have dropped in recent years , a spokesman for ghani said .
the afghan government and its international partners main aim is to provide a secure environment for its people , shah hussain murtazawi told reuters , adding that afghan forces coordinate with foreign troops to protect non-combatants .
even as overall civilian casualties by pro-government forces dropped this year , casualties from aerial operations spiked 43 percent in the year s first half , the united nations says .
in the first six months , the u.n. recorded 29 civilian deaths and 85 injuries from afghan air force strikes , and 54 deaths and 31 injuries in strikes by international warplanes .
the prospects of more air strikes provoked mixed feelings in areas hardest hit , where many leaders fear attacks by taliban or islamic state , but also worry about the threat to residents .
air strikes will not bring long-term security , said abdul jabbar qahraman , a lawmaker from the restive southern province of helmand .
they can defeat enemies when afghan forces are under a huge attack , but they can also promote hatred between locals and government .
in the eastern province of nangarhar , where islamic state made its greatest gains before being targeted by joint afghan-u.s. offensives , the governor s spokesman , attaullah khogyani , agreed .
air strikes are important and helpful in many situations , but if they cause civilian casualties repeatedly that may hurt government legitimacy .
u.s. air force aircraft dropped 503 weapons in august , in the most monthly air strikes since august 2012 .
american warplanes are also more likely to launch air strikes this year , with the air force dropping weapons during one of roughly every four close air support sorties , up from one in every eight last year , and one in every 14 in 2015. international advisers have also pushed the afghan air force to take a greater role in the air war , boosting the number of civilians killed or injured by afghan bombs and rockets .
pressure will probably grow for ghani to ensure the afghan forces take measures to protect civilians , kolenda added .
civilian casualties is one of many problems that is damaging the legitimacy of the government , he said .