we ve inserted our thoughts and a few tweets throughout this article .
our comments can be found in bold red type.let s start with trump s twitter response to mr. kahn s passionate speech denouncing trump at hillary s coronation .
i don t think too many americans can argue with this : i was viciously attacked by mr. khan at the democratic convention .
am i not allowed to respond ?
hillary voted for the iraq war , not me !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 31 , 2016khizr khan , the bereaved father of fallen soldier capt .
humayun khan who attacked donald trump last week in a speech at the democratic national convention , told cnn s jim acosta sunday morning that terror has nothing to do with islam .
here is khan s full quote ( emphasis added ) : https : //youtu.be/bpwrruw2xwoin addition to this , there was in the speech that my good wife asked me to refrain from saying , i wanted to say we reject all violence .
we are faithful , patriotic , undivided loyalty to this country .
we reject all terrorism .
she asked me not to say that because that was not the occasion for such a statement.well , if you really believed that and you had an audience of millions who were listening to your impassioned pleas , why didn t you just say it ?
americans have been begging for muslims to denounce the violence committed in the name of islam against innocent americans .
he had the chance , but it was more important that he unfairly bash trump for holding an opinion about how to best stop terrorism than speak out against radical islam.this twitter user @ socalmike_sd makes a good point : his son was killed by radical muslims .. ppl trump does n't want here in the us .. how is that shameful ?
ridiculous https : //t.co/bhaezpun99 michael ( @ socalmike_sd ) july 31 , 2016khan also asked senate majority leader mitch mcconnell and speaker of the house paul ryan to repudiate trump , calling it a moral obligation and warning that failing to do so would be a burden on their souls that history would not forgive.don t worry khan .
if you re looking for an ally in bringing immigrants to america , you ve found the right guy in paul ryan .
while you re at it , why don t you ask ryan how the un can properly vet immigrants coming from muslim majority nations who hate us in previous remarks , trump had acknowledged the positive contributions of most muslims , while focusing on the need to fight radical islamic terror .
in his speech after the islamic terror attack on a gay nightclub last month in orlando , for example , trump said : we have muslim communities in this country that are great , and we have to form that partnership .
last thursday , khan caused a sensation at the convention when he spoke alongside his wife , challenging trump s proposed ban on muslim immigration , saying : have you even read the u.s. constitution ?
you have sacrificed nothing and no one .
by the way khan trump and his children have received death threats and threats of violence .
trump doesn t have to run for president of the united states .
he s doing it because he loves our country .
despite what you and the democrats would like low-information voters to believe , you don t have the corner on loving america khan made no mention of radical islam , or terror .
his claim that the constitution bars trump s ban on muslim immigration has also been disputed.here are a few muslims views on a temporary muslim ban in america .
pay close attention to the last man of three who are being interviewed : via : breitbart news