what next ?
under a sacramento , california program , public housing residents are getting free zip cars .we now have pretty much everything free for people living in government housing free phones , free food , free debit card loaded with money , low-cost housing and now a car to use to zip around in oy vey ! it s no wonder refugee from all over the world want to come to the us .
we have the most generous freebies ! this program was funded by a grant from the state of california .
it s basically a rob peter to pay paul program the program is funded through a $ 1.3 million grant from the california air resources board using cap-and-trade funds that businesses pay to offset their carbon emissions .
this should be interesting residents can use the cars on a first come , first served basis .
they will be limited to three-hour windows three times per week.sacramento mayor darrell steinberg said the cars will help people get to doctors appointments , job interviews and school.residents at three public housing areas now have a mini-fleet of free zipcars to make their way around sacramento.on friday , sacramento launched a pilot program that put eight shared electric kia souls at public housing sites .
up to 300 residents can apply for on-demand access to the vehicles , with no charge for maintenance , insurance or juicing up the battery.the program is funded through a $ 1.3 million grant from the california air resources board using cap-and-trade funds that businesses pay to offset their carbon emissions.local leaders said it will provide green transportation options to disadvantaged areas where even simple tasks like getting groceries can be a challenge .
not having a car it can be a real strain to get places safely , said thomas hall , spokesman for the sacramento metropolitan air quality management district , which is running the program in partnership with car-share company zipcar and other governmental agencies.the cars are owned and maintained by boston-based zipcar , which has car-sharing operations in dozens of cities and on college campuses .
two cars are located at each of four sites : alder grove housing complex off broadway , edgewater apartments downtown , mutual housing at lemon hill in south sacramento and the sacramento valley station.read more : sacramento bee