moscow ( reuters ) - mikhail gorbachev , the last soviet leader , said on thursday a landmark arms control treaty that helped end the cold war was in peril and called for a summit between u.s. president donald trump and russian president vladimir putin to save it .
gorbachev , 86 , said u.s.-russia relations were in the throes of a severe crisis and that the treaty , which banned all soviet and american short and intermediate-range land-based nuclear and conventional missiles , was now at serious risk .
gorbachev signed the pact - the intermediate-range nuclear forces ( inf ) treaty - in 1987 along with then u.s. president ronald reagan in washington .
russia , after the 1991 soviet collapse , took on its obligations .
both sides have accused each other of violating the treaty in recent months however , stoking fears it might break down as u.s.-russia ties continue to deteriorate amid allegations that moscow interfered with the 2016 u.s. presidential election , something russia flatly denies .
gorbachev , writing in government newspaper rossiiskaya gazeta , said the inf treaty was in danger and that trump and putin needed to meet and discuss the problems of nuclear disarmament and strategic stability .
it has turned out to be the most vulnerable link in the system of limiting and reducing weapons of mass destruction , gorbachev wrote of the landmark treaty .
if the system of curbing nuclear arms crumbles , and that is exactly what the collapse of the inf treaty can lead to , the consequences will be catastrophic .
the inf treaty required the united states and the soviet union to eliminate and forego all nuclear ground-launched ballistic and cruise missiles with a range of 500 to 5,500 km , eliminating an entire category of weapon .
appealing to trump and putin , gorbachev said he wanted to see a fully-fledged u.s.-russia summit of the kind he took part in toward the end of the cold war .
it s totally abnormal for the presidents of nuclear powers to meet somewhere on the sidelines ( of an event ) and that they have only met once , gorbachev wrote , referring to a meeting between trump and putin at the g-20 summit in germany in july .
if the inf treaty could be saved , it would be a powerful signal for the whole world that the biggest nuclear powers understand their responsibility and take their obligations seriously , wrote gorbachev .