abuja ( reuters ) - cameroon has broken international law by forcibly deporting at least 100,000 nigerians who had fled there to escape islamist boko haram militants , human rights watch ( hrw ) said on wednesday .
cameroon s minister of communications declined to comment on the report , which said the army had been detaining the refugees and torturing some of them , before the authorities pushed them back into neighboring northeast nigeria .
human rights watch said the expulsions reported since 2015 were one of the largest illegal forced repatriations it had seen in recent years , and were in flagrant breach of global and cameroonian law .
boko haram militants have killed tens of thousands in their fight to carve out an islamist state in northeast nigeria .
the violence has forced hundreds of thousands to flee , many across the border into cameroon , chad and niger .
cameroon s army has been aggressively screening newly arriving nigerians at the border , subjecting some to torture and other forms of abuse , and containing them in far-flung and under-serviced border villages , the report said .
this policy of blocking asylum seekers from accessing protection has made it easier for cameroon to deport them , it said , adding that the u.n. refugee agency ( unhcr ) has been denied access .
the unhcr said the report was broadly in line with its own understanding of the situation , though it could not confirm all the details in the paper .
forced returns in any context are of serious concern to us and in the case of cameroon and nigeria we have raised these concerns repeatedly and publicly , said a unhcr spokesman .
cameroon signed a treaty in march with nigeria and the unhcr to ensure that all refugee returns are voluntary but the rights group said cameroon s violations had continued .
they humiliated us like animals and beat us like we were slaves , the report quoted one refugee as saying .
his brother died from the resulting internal bleeding , he added .
some deportees , including children , were so malnourished or sick they did not survive their return to nigeria , said hrw .
nigeria is struggling to cope with millions of people dependent on emergency relief for food , shelter and medicine , victims of an eight-year conflict in which at least 20,000 have been killed .
at least 10.7 million people are in need of assistance in the region , mainly in nigeria but also in chad , niger and cameroon , according to the united nations .