21st century wire says legacy note to obama s ghost writer : barack hussein obama will go down in the record books as the greatest gun salesmen of all time .
both obama and his attorney general eric holder embarked on one of the most aggressive , multi-pronged gun restriction political campaigns in us history .
hence , under president obama , gun sales sky rocketed driving up demand along with record levels on purchasing prices.that s right obama did more for the gun industry than charlton heston ever could.in the aftermath that bull market however , guns , both news and used , have since adopted some of the attributes of a commodity.as the market settles under a new administration , expect a little more predicability josh levine az centralnow that we re more than a month into the trump era , i m eager to see how the new administration , controversial legislation , and even heated twitter exchanges about gun control affects firearm sales in the secondary market.logic would tell me that sales will slow down .
after all , gun sales soared during president obama s eight years in office .
a recent usa today article i read stated that since nov. 4 , 2008 , both smith & wesson holding corp. and sturm , ruger & co. stock rose more than 1,000 percent .
a similar trend was seen during the clinton administration as well.on the contrary , a recent time article stated that gun ownership in the u.s. is the lowest it has been since 1978 .
don t believe it ?
apparently , the gun sales rose during the past eight years among gun owners buying more guns.effects on auctionsso , how does this all shake out for the auction industry ? you have to remember that the secondary market is different than retail .
i think bidders will continue to seek out sporting , collectible , recreational and defensive guns at auctions because they know they can find quality firearms at a good value.there s also the matter of trust .
auction houses are ffl holders , and they must adhere to all state and federal laws.so far , it has been business as usual at our auction house , and prices for collectible guns continue to be strong.a 6 inch colt python.as an example , recently we sold a colt python that realized $ 3,000 with buyer s premium .
they just continue to command top dollar.i m also seeing more western guns selling at auction .
recently , we sold a colt single action army that realized $ 3,120 with buyer s premium .
it had condition issues , but still performed well.these examples are colt .
however , other brands are fairing just as well .
browning , remington , local favorite ruger and beretta have all been performing admirably.even though gun owners and buyers may relax a lot under president trump s tenure , i m not anticipating a sudden drop of interest in the guns we sell at auction .
the baby boomers and older are downsizing and selling off their collections .
and , no amount of tweets or controversial public policies will change that fact.the buyers may have been motivated by fear when it appeared that hillary clinton might win , but now i think they re motivated by pure collecting passion.tips before purchaseif you re in the market to purchase antique firearms , check used gun prices in the blue book of gun values as well as sites like liveauctioneers and gunbrokers.com before placing a bid.check the gun s condition in person or ask for the auction house to provide photos and a condition report if you are purchasing it online.also , make sure you will clear a background check as most major auction houses will require a federal background or nics check , as it s known.if you re selling , don t despair .
i don t think this new trump era will make prices in the secondary market plummet .
they may not be huge or the best , but i think they ll continue to be decent.josh levine owns j. levine auction & appraisal in scottsdale .
contact : josh @ jlevines.com or @ jlevines1 on twitter.read more 2nd amendment news at : 21st century wire 2nd amendment files