new york ( reuters ) - advocates fighting to close the u.s. gender pay gap hailed president barack obama ’ s proposal to expand salary reporting requirements but said much more was needed to end wage discrimination .
under the plan , companies with 100 employees or more must provide data on hours worked and salary ranges , broken down by gender , race and ethnicity , to the equal employment opportunity commission each year to help identify and combat pay discrimination .
lisa maatz , vice president of government relations at the american association of university women , said the data would be useful in passing legislation , making companies comply with existing laws and proving the gender pay gap is not a myth .
“ the wage gap is a persistent , pernicious problem , and it has been around for awhile , ” maatz said in an interview .
“ we still have a lot to do to change it , but this is an excellent step forward. ” maatz said other measures , including non-retaliation policies at companies so women can ask about discrepancies in pay and changes in how salaries are determined , would accelerate progress .
“ not using salary histories but rather looking at resumes and taking into account experience and paying for what the job is worth to the company will do a lot to help close the gender pay gap , ” maatz added .
women earn 79 cents for every dollar a man makes for equal work , according to the institute for women ’ s policy research .
although the pay gap has narrowed since 1960 , when women made about 60 cents for every dollar , the institute calculates that if change continues at the same pace , women will not reach equal pay until 2059 .
the current situation is worse for black women , at 60 cents , and latina women , at 55 cents , said vivien labaton , co-founder of the non-profit make it work campaign for economic security for working families .
labaton said making salary range data that companies submit to the equal employment opportunity commission accessible to their employees would speed up change .
“ what make it work is calling for is a publicly available database that would show what employers pay for different jobs based on sex , race and ethnicity , ” she said .
the commission issues only aggregated data that does not reveal any particular employer ’ s or employees ’ information .
“ we do know that the more transparency you have , the smaller the gender pay gap there will be , ” said maatz .