tokyo ( reuters ) - popular tokyo governor yuriko koike , whose fledgling conservative party poses a growing challenge to prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc , agreed on saturday to cooperate in next month s election with a small party based in western japan .
the deal potentially broadens the geographic reach of koike s new party of hope , formally launched just this week , ahead of the oct. 22 poll .
abe called the election hoping to keep his conservative liberal democratic party-led coalition s majority in parliament s lower house , where it had a two-thirds super majority before dissolution .
but koike has upended the political landscape with her new party and some japanese believe she could become the country s first female premier .
koike and osaka governor ichiro matsui , who heads the small conservative japan innovation party , announced the deal to coordinate candidates in tokyo and osaka , western japan , at a news conference with hideaki omura , governor of aichi prefecture in central japan and the head of a tiny local party .
in a situation where abenomics is stalled , we must proceed with reform in each region , koike told the joint news conference in osaka , referring to abe s economic policies .
we have agreed to mutually cooperate in the coming election with those who share that aspiration , she added .
koike s party of hope is already cannibalizing the failed main opposition democratic party , which in a stunning move this week decided to have its lower house members leave the party and run on her ticket .
the party , a mix of conservatives and liberals , had struggled with rock-bottom support and defections .
koike , a former ldp lawmaker and defense minister , has said she would only take in those who agree with her conservative stance on security policies , leaving liberals out in the cold .
abe , for his part , is warning that koike s new party would cause bring confusion , not hope and stressing that the ldp-led coalition is the only reliable choice at a time of rising tensions over north korea s missile and nuclear arms programs .
north korea has twice launched missiles over japan , he said in remarks carried by nhk public broadcaster .
we must join with international society to meet this threat .
last year , koike infuriated the ldp s tokyo branch by running for governor without party approval .
she defeated her ldp rival by a landslide and then led a novice local party to a historic win with the backing of abe s junior coalition partner .