belfast ( reuters ) - britain on tuesday rejected an irish demand for a role in running northern ireland if parties there fail to revive a devolved power-sharing government , as unionists said concessions would lead to grave consequences for theresa may s government .
the 1998 peace deal that ended 30 years of violence in northern ireland between irish nationalists and pro-british unionists provides for a consultative role for the irish government in the running of the british region .
since january irish nationalists sinn fein and the democratic unionist party ( dup ) have failed to reach agreement on re-establishing the devolved administration .
the british government has warned it may soon have to step in to rule the province directly for the first time in a decade .
irish foreign minister simon coveney on tuesday told journalists in belfast that if talks to form a power-sharing government failed there can be no british-only direct rule , adding that this was irish government policy .
he did not say what kind of role he expected for the irish government and said he was still hopeful devolved power-sharing could be rescued .
in an apparent rebuff to coveney , a british government spokesman said in a statement that london would never countenance any arrangement , such as joint authority , inconsistent with the principle of consent in the ( good friday ) agreement .
in the absence of devolved government , it is ultimately for the united kingdom government to provide the certainty over delivery of public services and good governance in northern ireland , as part of the united kingdom , the statement said .
dup lawmaker jeffrey donaldson , whose party prime minister theresa may s minority government depends on to survive , warned that his party would not accept any concessions to dublin .
even if we have a temporary period of direct rule , the irish government must be clear that it must not interfere with the internal affairs of northern ireland and to do so would be a fundamental breach of faith , donaldson told the belfast telegraph newspaper in comments published on wednesday .
if that were to happen it would have grave consequences for the stability of the government at westminster and for the prospect of restoring devolution in northern ireland , he was quoted as saying .