washington ( reuters ) - more than half the democrats in the senate , including many of president barack obama ’ s strongest supporters , signed a letter to him on wednesday urging him to move more quickly to admit syrian refugees into the united states .
despite obama ’ s pledge to admit 10,000 of the people fleeing syria ’ s civil war in the year ending this september , only 1,736 have been allowed into the country so far .
in contrast , more than 6,000 have been admitted from myanmar and more than 5,000 have been admitted from iraq .
“ we urge your administration to devote the necessary resources to expeditiously and safely resettle refugees from syria , ” the 27 senators wrote in the letter , which was seen by reuters .
“ we are deeply concerned about the slow pace of admissions for syrian refugees in the first seven months of the fiscal year , ” the letter said .
the lead signers on the letter included senator richard durbin , the number two democrat in the senate , and senator amy klobuchar .
the letter was signed by 25 other members of the democratic caucus , including presidential candidate bernie sanders it requested an update on specific measures the administration plans to take to fulfill its commitment to resettle the remaining 8,264 syrians within five months .
obama said in late april that he expected the united states to meet his goal of admitting 10,000 syrian refugees before sept. 30 , the end of the federal fiscal year .
but obama ’ s promise sparked a firestorm of criticism in the united states , mostly from republicans who say that violent militants could enter the country by posing as refugees .
more than 30 governors , most of them republicans , have tried to block refugees from coming to their states .
the united states has offered refuge to far fewer of the millions fleeing war in syria and iraq than many of its closest allies .
germany has taken in hundreds of thousands .
canada admitted 26,859 syrian refugees between nov. 4 , 2015 , and may 1 , 2016 .
“ other nations , including ours , can and should do much more , ” the senators said in the letter .