the office of immigration statistics reported that of the 188,382 deportations of illegal aliens in 2011 , 23 percent had committed criminal traffic offenses ( primarily driving under the influence ) .
congressman steve king ( r-ia ) estimates that illegal alien drunk drivers kill 13 americans every day that s a death toll of 4,745 per year.trump has taken a hard-line on illegal alien drunk drivers in america .
he is the only politician who is addressing this serious problem .
he can be seen here embracing parents and families who have been torn apart by the death of a loved one at the hands of an illegal alien : this is the story of a prominent illegal alien activist and drunk driver the left is embracing and working so hard to keep in america : on may 28 , the community organizer for casa , a national immigrants rights organization based in maryland , was stopped by police and arrested for a dui after having had two margaritas at a restaurant .
her blood alcohol was twice the legal limit for driving.her arrest sent a shockwave through the activist community , with petitions from organizations such as change.org being filed to stop her deportation.the last thing anyone in the immigrant activist community would have expected was that wendy uruchi contreras would be arrested and potentially deported.uruchi s attorney , enid gonzalez , told fox news latino her team filed for a stay of removal with the department of homeland security on friday .
her case is very unusual , gonzalez said .
since she came to the u.s. on a visa waiver which allows visitors from 38 countries to stay for up to 90 days without a visa she automatically waived any possible effort to block removal from the country .
gonzalez added , had she come in undocumented , she d have a strong defense for cancellation for removal , because of her children .
she d meet those requirements .
the decision on her stay of removal could take a day or six weeks .
if immigration authorities recommend granting it , she ll likely have a year to remain in the u.s. , and gonzalez says immigration officials keep very close tabs on people in those circumstances.uruchi didn t start her career as an activist very long ago .
according to the washington post , she met some employees from casa a few years ago at an event at the salvadoran embassy , and she began going to events , then organizing them .
in 2014 , she was hired full-time as a virginia community organizer.uruchi spent the last two years helping undocumented immigrants fight their deportations , without ever revealing her own status .
via : latino fox news