ankara ( reuters ) - president tayyip erdogan s spokesman threatened a prominent opposition lawmaker with legal action on monday for calling the turkish leader a fascist dictator .
in some of the most blistering criticism of erdogan by a high-profile politician in recent memory , bulent tezcan , spokesman for the main opposition people s republican party , attacked what he said was a fearful atmosphere in turkey .
if you try to scare people and to create a fearful atmosphere by showing legal words as illegal ones we will not be deterred , tezcan said in a speech in the western city of tekirdag , criticizing local judicial authorities .
his comments appeared to be in defense of the local mayor , a chp member , who was questioned by authorities this month after he reportedly called erdogan a dictator at a party congress .
i don t know if our mayor said that or not .
i , here in tekirdag , say it now : erdogan is a fascist dictator , tezcan said .
tezcan s comments prompted a swift backlash from erdogan s office and lawmakers from his ruling ak party .
bulent tezcan s hate speech is an example of disgrace for the main opposition , erdogan s spokesman , ibrahim kalin , said on twitter .
this is not politics , but rather enmity towards the people s will .
legal measures will be sought in this regard .
insulting the president is a crime punishable by up to four years in prison in turkey lawyers for erdogan , who has dominated turkish politics for more than a decade , have filed more than 1,800 cases against people including cartoonists , a former miss turkey winner and schoolchildren on accusations of insulting him .
following a failed coup in july 2016 , erdogan said he would drop outstanding suits , in a one-off gesture .
nonetheless , rights groups and some western governments have voiced concern that turkey is sliding toward authoritarianism .
some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs and more than 50,000 jailed pending trial on suspicion of links to the failed coup .
erdogan says such measures are necessary to ensure stability and defend turkey from multiple security threats .