update : texas sen. ted cruz is defending a campaign mailer that iowa s secretary of state says misrepresents election law.the mailer bills itself as a voting violation notice and tells the recipient it s been sent due to low expected voter turnout in your area .
it then grades the recipient s voting history and that of several neighbors , citing public records.cruz told reporters in sioux city , iowa , on saturday that the mailing is routine .
he says he won t apologize for using every tool we can to encourage iowa residents to vote.iowa secretary of state paul pate says in a statement that there s no such thing as an election violation related to voting frequency and that insinuating otherwise is not in keeping in the spirit of the iowa caucuses .
how is it that ted cruz is opposed to gov t data collection yet he s using big data mining to shame voters in iowa into voting for him .
strange , very strange.residents have been receiving notices like this one : the copy at the bottom reads : you are receiving this election notice because of low expected voter turnout in your area .
your individual voting history as well as your neighbors are public record .
their scores are published below , and many of them will see your score as well .
caucus on monday to improve your score and please encourage your neighbors to caucus as well .
a follow-up notice may be issued following monday s caucuses .
cruz , a critic of excessive government data collection , has been notably aggressive about gathering personal information for his campaign .
some of the data comes from typical sources , such as voters consumer habits and facebook posts .
according to several sources , a donor-funded us startup embedded in republican s campaign has been paying uk university academics to collect psychological profiles on potential voters .
the result is a personalized citation sent to iowan voters from the cruz campaign.on friday evening , personalized letters target individual iowa voters and identifies them as having failed to vote in prior elections .
much like the china social credit system , it knows too much about its citizens , and it identifies the neighbors of the voter , and provides their voting history and their score as well.ted cruz claims to be running a positive campaign and paints himself as a trustworthy conservative .
attempting to shame voters into caucusing for him with these completely fake voting violation letters is a sleazy tactic that is sure to leave a bad taste in the mouth of undecided voters .
worse still was his decision to go ahead with sending these letters not thinking he would get caught .
in the social media age , when you do something bad , people are bound to find out and expose you .
this was clearly a last ditch desperation tactic from a campaign that has been going in the wrong direction in the polls for weeks now.via : red state watcher