geneva ( reuters ) - north korea said on wednesday it was working to uphold women s rights and gender equality but that sanctions imposed by major powers were taking a toll on vulnerable families .
han tae song , ambassador of the democratic people s republic of korea ( dprk ) to the united nations in geneva , also urged south korea to return 12 waitresses kidnapped while working in china in april 2016 , calling it a crime against humanity .
seoul has said the 12 women and one man had chosen to defect to the south .
u.s. president donald trump arrived earlier in the day in china seeking help to rein in north korea , telling the reclusive state s leader he was putting his country in grave danger by developing nuclear weapons .
the united states and other hostile forces impede the enjoyment by our people of their human rights in every possible way , resorting to the vicious ways and means of all kinds in their attempt to stifle the ideas and system of the dprk , han told the u.n. committee on the elimination of discrimination against women .
washington , he said , had manipulated sanctions resolutions against his country at the u.n. security council that violated north korean sovereignty and rights to existence and development , he said .
due to these inhumane economic sanctions , vulnerable peoples like women and children are becoming ... victims .
such sanctions against humanity which block even the delivery of the medical equipment and medicines for maternal and child health and the basic goods for daily life including even children s bicycles threaten the protection and promotion of our women s rights and even the right to survival of the children .
south korea imposed unilateral sanctions on 18 north koreans on monday , barring any financial transactions between those sanctioned and any south koreans , as part of international efforts to dry up pyongyang s illegal cash flows .
japan said on tuesday it would impose additional sanctions on north korea in response to the continuing threat posed by its missile and nuclear programs .
the u.n. panel , composed of 23 independent experts , was examining north korea s record as part of a regular review .
its findings are due to be issued on nov 17 .