hey al why don t you try going into the neighborhoods of chicago and ask the residents to contribute to your worthless charity ?
everyone knows shakedown al does nothing to help the hundreds of young black men who are killed by other black youths every year .
it s all about the contributions to al and his worthless charity at a hartford , connecticut rally supposedly called to protest five homicides of young people in the city over the past two weeks four of them shootings rev .
al sharpton was challenged saturday by a black pastor for asking every preacher present to donate $ 100 to sharpton s civil rights organization , national action network ( nan ) .
i want to be here to see a memorial for the young people that have died , said sharpton at shiloh baptist church , according to ct news junkie .
i want the names and their stories up so children can see they don t want to be on that wall .
pastor marcus mosiah jarvis of christ the cornerstone praise and western tabernacle , however , shouted at sharpton as he strode down the center aisle of the crowded church , how dare you ask the people of hartford to give you their money !
you re nothing but a pimp !
jarvis slammed sharpton for using the supposed anti-violence rally as a cover for coming into a community where people are struggling for jobs , struggling for money , and demanding money to speak .
don t you come up in here asking us for money , jarvis yelled , according to fox ct.jarvis was about to be escorted out of the church , but he instead remained in the rear .
sharpton responded to his challenge by removing $ 1,000 in cash from his suit pocket .
everything that you all raise will go to a memorial , he said .
[ f ] or the lives that could have gone on to cure cancer .
lives that could have been the next president of the united states .
sharpton founded nan in 1991 .
as breitbart news reported in april of last year , the irs fined the nonprofit for not properly reporting its taxes , and it was charged with $ 1.9 million in back taxes and penalties .
additionally , the new york times reported last november that sharpton owes more than $ 4.5 million in state and federal taxes .
mr. sharpton has regularly sidestepped the sorts of obligations most people see as inevitable , like taxes , rent and other bills , reported the times.the rally was the culmination of a march through hartford in which sharpton and about 150 mostly black individuals participated .
rev .
dr. boise kimber invited sharpton to speak.according to the hartford police department , the city saw 49 shooting victims between january and may 16.jarvis later said local efforts are essential to initiate change in a community , reports ct news junkie .
we re setting in place classes where people can come for credit repair , establishing credit , home ownership , creating a resume , how to look for a job , mock interviews that s how you empower people , not creating memorials , he said.via : breitbart news