manila ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump said on monday he had a great relationship with his philippine counterpart , rodrigo duterte , while a white house official said human rights got only a brief mention when the two met on the sidelines of an asian summit .
a spokesman for duterte said there was no mention at all of human rights or extrajudicial killings during their conversation .
the meeting between the two presidents was one of the most anticipated at the summit of east and southeast asian leaders in manila , with human rights groups pressing trump to take a tough line on duterte over his bloody war on drugs , in which thousands of people have been killed .
the conversation focused on isis ( islamic state ) , illegal drugs , and trade , said white house spokeswoman sarah sanders .
human rights briefly came up in the context of the philippines fight against illegal drugs .
duterte s spokesman , harry roque , told a news conference the philippine president had explained his antidrug policy at length to trump , who seemed to be appreciative of his efforts .
there was no mention of human rights , no mention of extralegal killings , he said .
a joint statement released later by the white house listed human rights as the third of 14 topics discussed .
the two sides underscored that human rights and the dignity of human life are essential , and agreed to continue mainstreaming the human rights agenda in their national programs to promote the welfare of all sectors , including the most vulnerable groups , the statement said .
they discussed the philippine campaign against crime , including illegal drugs , it said , and committed to share best practices in the areas of prevention ; enforcement , including capacity-building and transparency in investigations ; and rehabilitation .
more than 3,900 people have been killed in a war on drugs that duterte declared when he took office last year .
his government says the police act in self-defense , but critics say executions are taking place with no accountability .
we are your ally .
we are an important ally , duterte told trump at the beginning of their talks , according to reporters allowed in to the meeting room .
trump replied : we ve had a great relationship .
this has been very successful .
and the asean ( association of southeast asian nations ) conference has been handled beautifully by the president in the philippines .
duterte , who has been called the trump of the east for his brash style and provocative language , said last week he would tell the u.s. president to lay off if he were to raise accusations of rights violations .
trump was criticized in may for praising duterte during a phone call for the great job he was doing to counter illegal narcotics .
the united states and the philippines , a former u.s. colony , have been strategic allies since world war two .
but their relations have been strained by anti-u.s. outbursts from duterte and his enthusiasm for better ties with russia and china .
however , duterte clearly appears to be getting on better with trump than he did with the american president s predecessor , barack obama .
trump and duterte seem to have warmed to each other after meeting for the first time on saturday at an asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) group meeting in vietnam .
on sunday , duterte crooned hit filipino love song ikaw ( you ) at a gala dinner for summit leaders in manila , saying it was on the orders of trump .
one of the song s verses , translated from filipino , begins : you are the light in my world , a half of this heart of mine .
ladies and gentlemen , i sang uninvited , upon the orders of the commander in chief of the united states , duterte said later , according to the abs-cbn news channel .
roque described the relationship between trump and duterte as warm , friendly and candid .
it s very apparent that both of them have a person who they consider as not a best friend , he added .
they have similar feelings toward former u.s. president barack obama .
duterte s anger was unleashed last year when obama raised concern about possible human rights abuses in the war on drugs .
duterte said obama could go to hell and called him a son of a bitch .