a tale of a mother and the dangerous religion of progressivism putting her radical liberal ideology before the safety and well-being of her own children a swedish mother decided it would be a good idea to open up her home to a male refugee from eritrea , and so she kicked her daughter out of her room to make space .
that refugee then decided to sexually assault her 10-year-old daughter.in the summer of 2015 , a mother of three children in sweden brought two third world asylum seekers into her home .
to make space , she decided to move her daughter emma into her own room.on the eve of aug. 18 , 2015 , emma awoke to find isaac squeezing her chest .
she suffered breast pain after the incident and didn t want to tell anyone , as she was afraid her mother would get in trouble .
emma couldn t even look at isaac because he looked scary to her .
the story came out after emma finally told a friend of hers , and eventually after several people became aware of the situation , isaac was confronted.he protested he would never sexually assault emma , since he has a girlfriend back in eritrea .
but after further questioning , he finally admitted to groping emma s breasts .
when the police questioned him , isaac changed his testimony and denied he had ever touched her.isaac meanwhile maintains he s only 15 , since he started school in eritrea when he was 10 and then went to school for an additional seven years .
he finished school two years ago , which according to him , makes him only 15.the lund district court finds this sort of calculation bizarre , but the judge has decided to move forward with the case under the assumption that he is , in fact , just 15 .
the judge sentenced isaac on friday based on the charge of juvenile sexual assault , which means he ll be sent to counseling.in the counseling process , he ll apparently learn to control his impulses and process through past experiences in his life that may have caused him to act out the way he did.meanwhile , emma s brother says he s never seen his sister so distraught .
she cries often , even though according to her brother , she s very strong.yet , despite what isaac did , he ll be able to stay in sweden.via : daily caller