kigali ( reuters ) - a critic of rwandan president paul kagame asked him to free her and her detained mother and sister as she stood in court on monday charged with forgery and inciting insurrection .
diane shima rwigara , who was barred from running against kagame in august elections , moved to comfort her mother adeline and sister anne as they cried during the hearing .
i request the president release me and my family , she said .
she told court she was being victimized ... because i have political ambitions .
the 35-year-old accountant is accused of faking the registration papers she filed to stand in the election that kagame went on to win with 98.8 percent of the vote .
rwigara has regularly said kagame stifles dissent and has criticized the rwandan patriotic front s ( rpf ) tight grip on power since it fought its way to power to end a genocide in 1994 .
in court , rwigara said the government had threatened and attempted to silence her family and supporters since she announced her plan to contest the presidency in may .
some of the supporters were told that they would be accused of working with terror groups .
some were tortured , rwigara said .
prosecutor michel nshimiyimana told the court that he had 70 witnesses who would prove that rwigara faked their signatures.he said some of the signatures belonged to dead people .
diane said she was being prosecuted because of her political ambitions but we have 70 witnesses .
they said they didn t sign for her nor did they know her , he told the court .
rwigara s mother and sister are also charged with inciting insurrection .
the prosecution on monday played audio clips and videos that it said recorded the mother talking to relatives abroad and accusing the rwandan government of killing its people .
the family s defence attorney said the conversations were private and did not constitute crimes .
last week rwigara s mother and sister told the court all three of them had been tortured and deprived of food as they were held in jail awaiting trial .
[ l8n1mo2i1 ] they said they were handcuffed day and night and kept in solitary confinement .
their lawyer buhuru pierre celestin told the court then that their confinement violated international conventions , while prosecutors said that the defendants rights were respected .
the trial will resume on wednesday .