( reuters ) - as hurricane irma bore down on the southern united states on wednesday , airlines adjusted flight schedules , made cancellations and assured passengers they would not have to pay unusually high fares ahead of the storm s arrival .
irma , the second powerful hurricane to approach the united states in as many weeks , was expected to make landfall in florida by the weekend .
it had already pummeled islands in the caribbean with rain , pounding winds and surging surf by wednesday .
while the storm s precise trajectory remained uncertain , airlines preemptively canceled flights in the likely affected regions and put in place travel waivers for customers to reschedule plans .
american airlines , the largest u.s. carrier by passenger traffic , said on wednesday it would begin winding down operations in south florida , including miami , fort lauderdale and west palm beach , on friday .
miami-bound flights arriving on friday from europe and south america were canceled .
american , delta air lines and jetblue all announced fare caps on flights out of florida - $ 99 on jetblue and american and $ 399 on delta - for residents trying to get out of the storm s path .
we want those trying to leave ahead of the hurricane to focus on their safe evacuation rather than worry about the cost of flights , jetblue spokesman doug mcgraw said .
airlines have been criticized in the past for raising prices in the wake of deadly episodes and , as irma approached , some social media users accused carriers of engaging in price-gouging schemes ahead of the dangerous storm .
in response , senators richard blumenthal and edward markey called on the u.s. department of transportation on wednesday to launch an investigation into potential opportunistic fare hikes by airlines .
it would certainly be offensive if airlines who rely on publicly supported infrastructure and have been bolstered by american taxpayers for nearly a century used this opportunity to impose unconscionable costs on consumers , they wrote in a letter to transportation secretary elaine chao .
accusations of unfair pricing techniques have been investigated in the past , including after a deadly amtrak derailment in 2015 , but u.s. officials said last year they found no evidence of wrongdoing in that instance .
united airlines , which took a substantial financial hit when hurricane harvey slammed into texas last week , said it had suspended operations out of san juan , puerto rico , a u.s. territory that was being raked by the very powerful category 5 hurricane on wednesday afternoon , and had extended a travel waiver to include cities in south florida .
in some cases , carriers added flights and upsized aircraft out of florida and the caribbean before the storm struck to accommodate as many passengers evacuating the area as possible .
fort lauderdale-based spirit airlines said it expected its largest operational hub to be affected and planned to move its operations center to detroit on thursday evening .
beyond u.s. airlines , canadian carriers air transat and westjet airlines both launched evacuation operations on wednesday to remove passengers that could be affected by hurricane irma in the dominican republic , and air canada allowed passengers to change flights in impacted areas free-of-charge .
westjet , canada s second-largest carrier , operated rescue flights to punta cana and puerto plata on wednesday and could make additional trips to santa clara and cayo coco , cuba , on thursday , airline spokeswoman lauren stewart said .
carnival cruise lines , which has major operations in florida , canceled two of its bahamas-bound cruises and said it was likely that other schedules would be affected as the storm s path and impact became more clear .