london ( reuters ) - britain s theresa may won a temporary reprieve from rival factions within her own party on friday by striking a overnight agreement with the european union that some business leaders hope will increase prospects of an orderly exit from the bloc .
after all-night negotiations and an early morning dash to brussels by may , she and eu commission chief jean-claude juncker agreed to start talking about trade and a post brexit transition period , declaring sufficient progress had been made on the cost and detailed terms of the separation .
this took some of the heat out of a conflict between conservative lawmakers that had threatened may s fragile grip on the party s leadership , and eased pressure on her minority government from business leaders who have repeatedly warned of a post-brexit exodus .
everyone s won a reprieve here , said anand menon , director of the uk in a changing europe think tank .
this isn t a deal , it s a progress report ...
it s exactly what she wanted - all she wanted was progress .
the conservative party s historical divisions over britain s relationship with the eu had threatened to erupt earlier in the week when a carefully choreographed announcement of a deal spectacularly collapsed after the small northern irish party propping up her government objected to the terms .
that raised the prospect of a fourth successive conservative prime minister being forced from power over a row about europe - a flashpoint that played a major part in the downfall of david cameron , john major and margaret thatcher .
pro-brexit supporters said the only solution to the impasse over how to manage the irish border after brexit was to walk away from talks ; pro-eu lawmakers said the deadlock could be better broken by agreeing to stay in the eu s customs union .
in the end , they agreed that the details of the irish border would be agreed as part of talks about the future relationship , according to a 15-page negotiators report .
all we have done is put everything off until next year , menon said .
but , influential voices from both sides of a party which still identifies along the leave and remain lines drawn during the june 2016 referendum , rallied round their leader , signaling a temporary truce .
the agreement was endorsed by both conservative brexiteers and remainers - both of which can count on enough supporters to undermine , and possibly even topple , may after her gamble on a june snap election backfired and stripped the party of a parliamentary majority .
this is a significant personal political achievement for the prime minister ...
earlier this week , there were all sorts of doomsayers who thought there would be no prospect of an agreement .
they ve been proven wrong , michael gove , an influential pro-brexit member of her cabinet , told the bbc .
in part , the closing of ranks around may reflects her party s concern that deposing her could trigger a fresh election in which a resurgent labour party , led by socialist jeremy corbyn , could win power .
former finance minister george osborne , sacked by may in 2016 , once described her pledge to run again as leader at the next election as something similar to seeing the living dead in a second-rate horror film .
on thursday he predicted she would lose her leadership before the end of the current term , due to run until 2022 .
businesses also warmed to the declaration of progress , which was rubber-stamped over breakfast in brussels after a night of back and forth phonecalls between may , her northern irish backers the democratic unionist party , and eu officials .
businesses will be breathing a sigh of relief , said adam marshall , director general of the british chambers of commerce .
the endorsements came with hefty caveats , warning that more clarity needed to come quickly to prevent businesses from triggering contingency plans to cope with a so-called hard brexit in which britain would leave without a negotiated settlement the sand in the timer is running out - leave it too late and damage will be done to both the uk and the eu , said miles celic ceo of the thecityuk trade body which represents london s financial services sector .
for the financial and related professional services industry , our critical issues must now be progressed .
equally , the calm among brexiteers within may s party was not matched by those outside it , with one of the main campaign groups that persuaded britons to vote 52 to 48 percent in favor of leaving saying she had not met their definition of brexit .
much of their anger was directed at a backstop option set out in the text of the agreement which promised that if trade talks failed , the united kingdom would maintain full alignment with those rules of the eu internal market and customs union that help protect north-south cooperation in ireland .
under theresa may , we are leaving the european union in name only , said leave campaigner arron banks in a statement .
if anyone in the conservative party has any integrity or sense of duty left , we call on them now to save brexit by triggering a leadership contest .
nevertheless , friday s agreement was seen as a big step toward avoiding a chaotic exit and formalizing terms which would meet many pro-eu observers definition of a soft exit .
it means that no deal overall is less likely , said charles grant , director of the centre for european reform think tank .
but the toughest part of the negotiations could be yet to come , with britain looking to agree a huge free trade deal before march 2019 - a tight timetable seen as unrealistic by brussels .
in phase two it will emerge that the eu is going to give us a pretty bad deal in terms of what s in our economic interests , grant said .
asked if friday s agreement was a step toward a softer brexit , may s spokesman said : they re not terms that we ve ever recognized or engaged with .
there is the brexit , which the british people voted for , and that s what we re delivering .