copenhagen ( reuters ) - iceland s opposition leader katrin jakobsdottir will become the country s new prime minister , after her left-green movement on wednesday agreed to form a coalition government , state broadcaster ruv reported .
her party , which emerged as the second biggest party in snap parliamentary elections on oct. 28 , entered coalition talks with the independence party , the main partner in the current government coalition , and the progressive party two weeks ago .
current prime minister bjarni benediktsson of the right-wing independence party called the snap election in september , after less than a year in government , as a scandal involving his father prompted a government ally to drop out of his ruling coalition .
the nordic island of 340,000 people , one of the countries hit hardest by the 2008 financial crisis , has staged a remarkable economic rebound spurred by a tourism boom .
the formation of a broad coalition government could bring an end to political instability triggered by a string of scandals .
the previous snap election took place late in 2016 , after the panama papers revelations showed several government figures involved in an offshore tax haven scandal .
still , some left-green members and voters have criticized the party s plan to enter a coalition with benediktsson and his independence party .
two of left-green s mandates did not support the new coalition , giving the three parties a total of 33 of parliament s 63 seats .
jakobsd ttir , 41 , campaigned on a platform of restoring trust in government and leveraging an economic boom to increase public spending .
she failed to form a left-leaning government earlier this month , but said on election night she was open to forming a broad-based government .
while both the left-greens and the independence party parties agree that investment is needed in areas like welfare , infrastructure and tourism , they disagree over how it should be financed .
the left-greens want to finance spending by raising taxes on the wealthy , real estate and the powerful fishing industry , while the independence party has said it wants to fund infrastructure spending by taking money out of the banking sector .
benediktsson will become finance minister in the new government .