sydney ( reuters ) - australian prime minister malcolm turnbull announced plans on monday to force all lawmakers to declare they are not dual nationals as he seeks to defuse a political crisis that saw his deputy ejected from parliament .
turnbull s center-right coalition government was thrown into disarray last month when the high court ruled that five lawmakers who were dual nationals , including deputy prime minister barnaby joyce , were ineligible for parliament .
the australian leader has been facing down calls since for a full audit of parliamentarians to ensure they comply with the country s constitution , which bars foreign nationals from sitting in parliament to prevent split allegiances .
the high court ruling expelled three members of the liberal-national coalition government from parliament , while a fourth resigned days later after confirming he also had dual nationality .
the other affected lawmakers were from minority parties , with the main opposition labor party yet to be ensnared .
turnbull said his plan , unlike an audit , would put the onus on lawmakers to check their own situation and anybody found to have made a false declaration would be in contempt of parliament .
lawmakers will be required to produce documents to prove any second citizenship has been renounced .
members and senators have been put squarely on notice now and so they will be turning their mind to their own affairs and the issues of citizenship , turnbull told reporters in canberra .
the new laws would apply to both existing and prospective lawmakers .
those already in parliament would be given 21 days to make a declaration from the date it comes into force , while new lawmakers would have the same period of time from their swearing in .
turnbull said he hoped to push the changes through parliament in the last remaining sitting days this year .
that will require support from the labor party , which suggested a similar plan last week .
turnbull has said previously that the court s interpretation of the constitution was very strict .
he has flagged potential changes to the constitution , noting that more than half of australia s population of 24 million was either born overseas or has a parent who was born overseas .
a referendum would be needed to change the constitution .
all seven lawmakers in the high court case , two of whom were cleared to remain in parliament , accepted that they were dual nationals at the time of their election but claimed they were unaware of their status .
some were conferred a second nationality by birth , others by descent .