fox and friends spoke with tucker carlson this morning about allegations president trump made on twitter over the weekend about obama wiretapping trump towers prior to the election.steve doocy asked tucker what he thinks about the trump allegations of wiretapping by barack obama .
carlson responds by saying , this is a real problem .
the us government spying on its own citizens is a longstanding fact .
it s a huge problem and it s clouded by deceit and evasion .
just , here s one fact : we don t know how many americans have their communications swept up by because the intelligence community won t tell us .
not only will they not tell us , they won t tell the congress which is supposed to provide oversight to them .
they ve been asked directly and they say , we don t know and we re not going to find out .
so , this is an infuriating problem .
we know for a fact that the national security advisor , when he was a private citizen , before the inauguration , was surveilled by the fbi and that that was leaked .
that s a felony .
we know this stuff happens , and we know that it has a corrosive effect on government and our civic life and yet we re not debating it at all .
partly because twitter is not the way to raise this issue , and partly because the democrats don t want to talk about it .
but , i guess the bottom line is , yes , this is plausible and we need to find out what happened and it doesn t seem like we re moving in the direction of finding out .
ainsley earhardt asks tucker carlson , what happens next though tucker , going forward ?
will we be able to find out any of this information , or will is it something that will just be swept under the rug again ?
tucker responds , the president himself can find out .
and he can let the rest of us know by declassifying this information .
he has the power to do that .
he can unilaterally declassify whatever he wants .
and i hope that he will .
because a lot of people like me , who have lived here you know , my whole life and have watched this stuff happen , are very suspicious that this kind of thing happens regularly .
and again , that shakes everyone s faith in the institution of government .
it s terrible .
it has a chilling effect in the most basic way .
if you think that the government is listening to you , that your political enemies can destroy you , if you step out of line , then you re no longer living in a free society .
brian kilmeade points out to tucker that president obama may have finally met his match : when they re going after trump or they re trying to do this , they ve never quite met somebody who fights like this .
he fights harder than anybody else maybe in the country , and he ll be defensive .
so when he says , oh , you re coming after me , you ve got this intelligence bureau that seems to be turning on me , fine , i m going after you twice as hard .
i think that president obama in his retirement , may be in the dust up of his career right now , because he s never had an opponent like this .
14 republicans couldn t handle him , hillary clinton couldn t handle him and now he s trying to handle him , and he can t !
steve doocy of fox news pointed out how the media is not surprisingly , totally taking barack obama s side on this issue .
doocy shows tucker carlson a clip of abc this week with liberal media hack martha radditz who s defending former president barack obama against allegations of wiretapping trump towers by our current president donald trump.watch : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=eyyqpynhcso