dayton , ohio ( reuters ) - secret service officers rushed on stage to protect u.s. republican presidential front-runner donald trump during a disturbance at a rally on saturday , a day after rowdy protests shut down his event in chicago .
trump briefly ducked at the podium and four secret service members scrambled to surround him after a man charged the stage at dayton international airport in ohio .
officers then grabbed the man , dressed in a black t-shirt and jeans , before he was able to reach the stage and hauled him away .
“ i was ready .
i don ’ t know if i would have done well but i would have been out there fighting , folks , ” trump told a rally later in the day .
he said the man “ was looking to do harm. ” the incident further increased tension after trump ’ s chicago rally was scrapped amid chaotic scenes on friday .
trump ’ s republican rivals hurled scorn at the new york billionaire , saying he helped create the nervous atmosphere that is now sweeping the race for the white house with his fiery rhetoric .
trump blamed supporters of democratic candidate bernie sanders for the incidents in chicago , where scuffles broke out between protesters and backers of the real estate magnate .
he called the u.s. senator from vermont “ our communist friend. ” the scenes in chicago followed a series of recent incidents of violence at trump rallies , in which protesters and journalists have been punched , tackled and hustled out of venues , raising concerns about degrading security leading into the nov. 8 election .
“ all of a sudden a planned attack just came out of nowhere , ” trump said in dayton , describing the events in chicago .
he called the protest leaders there “ professional people ” .
sanders , a u.s .
senator from vermont , hit back .
“ as is the case virtually every day , donald trump is showing the american people that he is a pathological liar .
obviously , while i appreciate that we had supporters at trump ’ s rally in chicago , our campaign did not organize the protests. ” president barack obama told a fundraising event in dallas that political leaders “ should be trying to bring us together and not turning us against one another. ” democratic front-runner hillary clinton drew criticism for releasing an initial statement that did not mention trump by name and tied violent campaign events to a shooting in a south carolina black church last year that left 9 people dead .
while campaigning in st. louis , missouri , on saturday , clinton criticized trump directly for “ ugly , divisive rhetoric ” that encourages aggression and violence .
the months-long republican race may be coming to a head at nominating contests on tuesday where trump is seeking victories that might give him an almost insurmountable lead for the nomination .
primaries in florida and ohio will be particularly important since they are winner-take-all states , where all republican delegates are given to the winner of the popular vote instead of being awarded proportionally .
it will be a make-or-break day for republican candidates john kasich , the governor of ohio , and u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , who both must win their home states to forge a credible path forward .
trump has drawn fervent support as well as criticism for his calls to build a wall along the u.s.-mexico border and to impose a temporary ban on muslims entering the country .
his rallies often attract small groups of protesters , but friday ’ s was the first at which there may have been as many protesters as supporters .
at an event in kansas city on saturday , trump urged police to arrest people who disrupt his events .
“ they ’ ll have to explain to mom and dad why they have a police record and why they can ’ t get a job .
and you know what ?
i ’ m going to start pressing charges against all these people and then we won ’ t have a problem , ” he said to cheers .
outside the rally , police broke up confrontations between trump supporters and protesters who shouted , “ shut it down ! ” police on horseback and riot gear briefly moved into a crowd of protesters and officers used what appeared to be pepper spray against demonstrators for a few seconds .
rubio , who according to the new york times slightly edged out kasich on saturday to win the washington d.c. primary with 37 percent of the vote , bemoaned the state of the presidential race during an event in florida , saying it had “ become reality television. ” “ last night in chicago , we saw images that make america look like a third world country , ” rubio said , reminding supporters the stakes on tuesday are high .
kasich told journalists before a campaign event in cincinnati , ohio , that trump had created a “ toxic environment. ” republican candidate u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas called the chicago incidents “ sad. ” vanderbilt university political scientist john geer said that the tension on display at trump ’ s events are a proxy for what is going on in the electorate writ large .
“ people have strong reactions to donald trump , ” geer said .
“ they are playing out in the voting booth and they are also playing out at these events. ” geer said the chicago cancellation would likely embolden trump ’ s supporters - an idea floated by trump in several television interviews .
clinton picked up four delegates in the northern mariana islands ’ democratic primary on saturday , to sanders ’ two .
on the republican side , cruz won around two-thirds of the votes in wyoming ’ s republican nominating contest but because of the state ’ s unusual rules it is not clear how many wyoming delegates will go his way at the republican convention in july .
( additional reporting by alex dobuzinskis in los angeles , kevin murphy in kansas city , idrees ali and amanda becker in washington .
; editing by alistair bell and sandra maler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .