did you know that over 15 thousand so-called muslim refugees have been admitted to the us since inauguration day ? where did they go ?
15,726 mostly muslim refugees admitted since inauguration dayamericans have got to wake up and see what s happening to us ! loretta brady has written the best ever first-hand account of the damage the refugee resettlement program is doing to america s small towns .
it s truly a must-read !
please share ! i gave a talk at a luncheon a few months ago that was basically relating my story of how my hometown has been islamized by refugee resettlement .
so it makes sense to do a blog post.i m from the utica , ny area .
utica is the city nicknamed by the un the city that loves refugees !
soon every american city will be a city that loves refugees !
get ready !
so i would like to tell you what it is like living in an area where the major city is about 25 % ( or more ) refugee , mainly muslimi was born in utica , a faded industrial town along the mohawk river/erie canal corridor , and lived there until i was 8-years-old when my family moved to a nearby small college town .
i loved living in utica because there were lots of families on my block , big catholic families with lots of kids .
you could yard-hop , checking out who was available for play .
you could bike around the neighborhood .
there were block parties in the summer .
my grandmother lived up the street .
life was good.my father and his father were born and lived in utica , ny .
my father was a judge in utica , like his father before him .
the catholic school my father attended is now a community center for refugees .
after i moved back to the utica area as an adult i used to recite full fathom five to the children as we drove by my father s former catholic school .
( nothing of him that doth fade , /but doth suffer a sea change/into something rich and strange .
) when i had my first child i was living in new york city .
her father and i divorced when she was a baby , and when she was two-years-old , i beat a hasty retreat back home to upstate ny .
there i met my husband .
we got married , we had babies ( in that order , ahem ) , and we settled down outside of utica.when i moved back home one of the first things i noticed was that an old methodist church was being converted into a bright shiny white new mosque .
the local paper touted this as immense progress and featured a local woman who had attended the church as a child and was positively brimming with joy it was being turned into a mosque .
if that is the general sentiment , then it s odd that my county went for trump , right ?
there are at least two mosques in the city now .
they just built another.where do i start ?
utica had always been the city that loves refugees but under obama things accelerated .
muslim immigrants were suddenly in these local bureaucratic positions where they had power over you .
this , in what is probably one of the most corrupt states in the union , where the power of the state is everything.the social worker at my daughter s school was a muslim immigrant .
i looked for her profile on the school website , i googled her , i could not find information on her background , resume , qualifications , or educational attainments.when i began to homeschool my daughter the administrator to whom i had to submit paperwork was a muslim immigrant .
to homeschool in new york state you must submit detailed quarterly reports to an administrator at your local school district .
i googled the administrator .
he also worked at the local board of cooperative educational services , but i could not find any other information on his background , resume , qualifications , or educational attainments.i was friends with the wife of the orthodox priest at our church , and she told me that this administrator found some problems with her paperwork and challenged her .
it turned out she was right about the issue , and he backed down .
comfy little situation , right ? right before we moved i went to the er .
the nurse practitioner was a muslim immigrant ( bosnia ) , and the doctor she worked under was a muslim immigrant ( pakistan ) .
i remember how during the visit i suddenly became very aware of the cross i always wear around my neck.in 2012 on the way home from my daughter s piano lesson , i left my children in the car , ran into the supermarket for ten minutes , and came out to find a man outside my car who informed me he had called the police .
i called my husband and my parents and together we waited for the police officer who eventually arrived and arrested me .
lenore skenazy wrote an account of the incident in the wall street journal .
it is pretty accurate except that it wasn t a suburb , it was a village of less than 2,000 people.it was a terrible thing to do , but it was not hot ( we re about two hours from the canadian border ) , it was the small safe village where i grew up ( i think i was the only arrest that week ) , and i spent half my childhood hanging out in the car with my brother while my mother did errands .
my friend sent me a salon article ( i don t read salon ) about a mom who did the same thing , and she like me was in her hometown where she grew up , and so automatically just living by the rules she grew up with .
my mother never got arrested .
it didn t occur to me i would be arrested .
that s my only arrest .
so far .
but anyway , the point of this story is i was then investigated ( and cleared which i hope should be obvious ) by cps.the cps worker who investigated me was muslim.so let me just summarize : the social worker at the school is muslim , the administrator who ok s homeschooling is muslim , the cps worker is muslim , the nurse practitioner at the er is muslim , the doctor at the er is muslim .
these are positions of authority that wield a lot of power.are you starting to get the picture ? the spring before we moved utica made national news because of a federal grant to the local community college ( two million dollars ) for a ( muslim immigrant ) professor to teach teenage ( muslim ) refugees how to build drones .
the grant didn t mention explicitly that the drones would be equipped with bombs or anything , so it was all aboveboard .
this was going on like down the road from us .
my husband assured me he could shoot any drone out of the sky , and i m sure he could , but curiously enough that didn t assuage my anxiety , but only exacerbated it .
the last thing i needed was my husband getting arrested on federal charges for taking down a drone.i looked up the muslim immigrant professor on linked in .
it was an odd career trajectory .
it looked like he had been a soccer coach a few years before .
it wasn t exactly clear to me how he had landed his present job where he was getting federal money to train muslims to build drones , but , hey , that s the obama era for you.in 2015 , a 26-year-old bosnian refugee in utica was arrested for supporting isis .
the local paper reported that in his spare time when he wasn t supporting isis , he enjoyed mixed martial arts fighting at the local gym .
local law enforcement complained they hadn t been informed of the investigation .
you know and i know that if anything happens , local law enforcement are the first responders.i went to a couple trump rallies and meetings in upstate ny before we moved .
when i mentioned the arrest of this isis supporter to a local businessman at one of the meetings , he got a very serious look and said utica was full of isis and the local police were really worried .
the trump meetings were emotional .
the organizer picked a donut shop whose owner was friendly to the trump platform so we could talk .
everyone went around the table and introduced themselves .
two of the women cried .
new york state is not doing well.don t believe the start-up ny commercials .
potemkin village.my husband lost two jobs in three years in upstate ny .
not by any fault of his own- he is a very skilled , dedicated , experienced , hard worker- but because his bosses went out of business .
his first boss moved to north carolina .
his second boss had to close up shop , which seemed linked to a downturn in the stock market .
a lot of the middle class in upstate ny are boomer retirees , and when the stock market goes down , they get nervous and cut back on renovation and building .
my husband is a carpenter.the upstate new york economy is one of the worst in the country .
that s why it s a good place to resettle refugees.after the second time my husband lost his job , i applied for food stamps for the family .
when i moved back home i had tried to find a job as a lawyer , i could not .
i finally found a job processing letters of credit for an investment bank .
my salary was $ 27,000 a year .
i actually got paid an extra $ 2,000 higher than starting salary for my translation skills .
after i had my second child , most of my pay after taxes would have gone to childcare .
the new york state tax system penalizes low-income people who work .
so i stayed home .
my parents helped us with bills.so my husband was unemployed , i was unemployed , we have four children , we certainly qualified for food stamps , and i felt stupid and irresponsible for not applying when we qualified for them , so i applied .
the local department of social services does not answer their phone .
you can go there and wait in line .
it is a very very long line , and a very uncomfortable place to be .
by tacit agreement , the white people stick together in the waiting area .
the department of social services rejected my application several times without reason .
i knew we qualified , so it became for me this bureaucratic challenge that i had to vanquish .
it took a lot of wrangling and some certified sign-for-delivery mailings which were expensive .
i managed to get us a month of food stamps .
it was about $ 50 a week , i think , for a family of six .
i don t know if that s average or not.want to know why my application was rejected several times even though we qualified ?
want to know why it was so difficult to get food stamps ?
the department of social services in my area is swamped because of the refugees .
25 % of the city are refugees .
virtually all of the refugees are on welfare .
and when they apply for welfare , they don t do so as an independent entity , as i did .
they go through their refugee resettlement agency who deals with the department of social services for them .
so basically americans get the short shrift , and refugees get taken care of .
and that s america .
this is why so many democrats voted for trump .
americans are getting squeezed out by non-americans at multiple levels.what else to tell you ? new york state sued our local school districhttps : //www.nytimes.com/2015/11/18/nyregion/new-york-state-accuses-utica-school-district-of-bias-against-refugees.html ? _r=1t for trying to separate teenage refugees from the rest of the students .
i went to a cle where i sat next to a lawyer for the school district , and she was freaking out over this lawsuit .
she was like , the state is coming after us , and we don t have any money .
my county is a democrat county , and trump won my county .
issues like this are why .
americans can see that they are being forced to accommodate non-americans to their own detriment and expense.there is tb in utica .
i m sure there is more than reported .
obama stopped screening foreigners for tb , which america has been doing since before the days of ellis island , and the refugees are from places where tb is endemic .
whenever i was in a hospital- when i gave birth or when i went to the er- i would be very aware of my surroundings.the local walmart is full of headscarves and burkas .
i cried when i went into my first walmart in north carolina and all i saw were americans.the nice lady who asked me to give a talk a couple months ago on my hometown asked me if there were any refugees who were an asset to the community .
i replied that they do not consider themselves part of your community , so if they are going to be an asset to any community , it is not going to be yours.i hope i ve presented an idea of why i m so opposed to refugee resettlement .
i couldn t write this blog post where i m from .
i d be scared that someone would target my house .
i d be scared of the authorities .
i had to wait to get to higher ground to speak more openly.north carolina is like heaven .
people are so much happier here .
i thank god every day we got here .
i consider it a free zone , and i want it to stay free.please also check out my other blog post on utica , ny .
i wrote it after my husband and i drove into the city on a random sunday and saw about a dozen refugees ( all women , and you know there had to be men as well , who just weren t present at the time ) moving into renovated housing .
this is in an area where low-income americans , white and black , languish in subpar housing .
a lot went on under the obama administration .
and i doubt a lot of it was on the books .