washington ( reuters ) - the united states on thursday said it welcomed an announcement by a saudi-led coalition to keep the hodeidah port in yemen open for a month and allow humanitarian aid to flow through , and condemned a houthi bombing of a palace in saudi arabia .
in a brief statement , white house spokeswoman sarah sanders suggested the united states believed iran bore ultimate responsibility for the dec. 19 missile attack against the palace in riyadh .
we urge the united nations security council to hold iran responsible for its repeated and blatant violations of security council resolutions , sanders said .
at a briefing later on thursday , deputy assistant secretary of state tim lenderking said the united states would have a conversation with saudi arabia about the 30 days the port will be open and about possibly changing the timeline , but said the united states first wants to see ships moving in and goods and services reaching the people of yemen .
the saudi-led arab coalition fighting in yemen said on wednesday it would open the houthi-controlled port it had blockaded .
a cholera epidemic has been spreading across the country and 8 million people are on the brink of famine in what the united nations deems the world s worst humanitarian crisis .
the saudis say the red sea port is also a hub used by the houthis to bring in weapons , which it accuses iran of supplying .
tehran denies the charges .
lenderking also said there was no military solution to the conflict and that president donald trump s administration believes the best course is aggressive diplomacy .
trump had threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that voted on thursday in favor of a united nations general assembly resolution calling for the united states to drop its recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
when asked if u.s. aid to yemen would diminish given that yemen drafted the resolution and was one of the 120 countries that voted for it , lenderking said he was not sure but trump s threat was not empty .