manila ( reuters ) - philippine lawmakers allied with president rodrigo duterte on tuesday voted to allocate an annual budget of just 1,000 pesos ( $ 20 ) to the commission on human rights , a public body that has clashed repeatedly with duterte over his bloody war on drugs .
about four-fifths of lower house members present supported the move to cut the budget to almost nil , in what critics of the anti-drugs campaign call retaliation for the agency s efforts to investigate thousands of killings over the past 15 months .
the chr deserved a low budget for being a useless body and defending criminals rights , house speaker pantaleon alvarez , a close ally of duterte , said in a television interview .
if you want to protect the rights of criminals , get your budget from the criminals , he said .
it s that simple .
why should you get budget from the government and yet you are not doing your job ?
congressman edcel lagman said 32 minority lawmakers opposed the measure during the debate at the second reading .
he said duterte s supporters were virtually imposing the death penalty on a constitutionally created and mandated independent office .
the chr requested a budget of 1.72 billion pesos for 2018 , but the government proposed 678 million .
congress voted to slash that to just 1,000 pesos , a huge cut from the 2017 budget of 749 million .
the budget requires another vote , then senate approval before it becomes final .
human rights monitors said the chr was a vital institution that stands no chance of doing its job without a proper budget .
phelim kine , deputy asia director for human rights watch , said the overwhelming support for the cut was part of the duterte administration s attempt to prevent independent institutions to check its abuses .
agnes callamard , the u.n. special rapporteur on extrajudicial killings , said filipinos deserved a strong , independent rights organization that could hold the state accountable .
instead they are getting a war on drugs which , by the president s own account , has failed to curtail addiction rates , while creating a climate of fear and insecurity , feeding impunity , and undermining the constitutional fabrics of the country , callamard posted on her facebook page .
if the philippines congress is looking for public money being wasted , damaging and hurting the philippines society , this is it .
the chr has long complained it lacks manpower and resources to fully investigate the killings , the majority of which activists say are of users and small-time peddlers , with few high-profile arrests .
filipinos , however , are largely supportive of the crackdown as a solution to tackling rampant crime , which duterte says stems from drug addiction .
critics maintain police are executing suspects , and say the government has what is effectively a kill policy .
duterte has angrily rejected that and police say they kill only in self-defense .
chr head , chito gascon , said the measly budget was an attempt to force his resignation .
he said he would take the issue to the supreme court if necessary .
the principal reason why i can not resign my office is that to do so is to weaken the institution itself , gascon said .
asking me to resign would lead to essentially making the institution forever at the mercy of politics .
( $ 1=50.8690 philippine pesos )