istanbul ( reuters ) - president tayyip erdogan filed a criminal complaint against a prominent opposition lawmaker on tuesday , one of erdogan s lawyers said , after the deputy called the turkish leader a fascist dictator .
in blistering criticism of erdogan , the spokesman for the main opposition republican people s party , bulent tezcan , attacked what he said was a fearful atmosphere in turkey .
erdogan s lawyer , huseyin aydin , said on twitter : we have filed a legal petition concerning bulent tezcan with the ankara chief prosecutor s office for the crime of insulting the president .
aydin also posted photos of the petition .
the suspect s statements are part of a new campaign against our president and can not be interpreted as an isolated incident , the petition said , saying such a campaign had also been launched ahead of last year s attempted coup .
in a speech on monday in the western city of tekirdag , criticizing local judicial authorities , tezcan had said : if you try to scare people and to create a fearful atmosphere by showing legal words as illegal ones we will not be deterred .
his comments appeared to be in defense of the local mayor , a chp member , who was questioned by authorities this month after he reportedly called erdogan a dictator at a party congress .
i don t know if our mayor said that or not .
i , here in tekirdag , say it now : erdogan is a fascist dictator , tezcan said .
his comments prompted a swift backlash from erdogan s office and lawmakers from his ruling ak party , with erdogan s spokesman ibrahim kalin saying his hate speech is an example of disgrace for the main opposition .
insulting the president is a crime punishable by up to four years in prison in turkey .
lawyers for erdogan , who has dominated turkish politics for more than a decade , have filed more than 1,800 cases against people including cartoonists , a former miss turkey winner and school children on accusations of insulting him .
following the failed coup of july 15 last year , erdogan said he would drop outstanding suits , in a one-off gesture .
nonetheless , rights groups and some western governments have voiced concern that turkey is sliding toward authoritarianism .
some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs and more than 50,000 jailed pending trial on suspicion of links to the failed coup .
erdogan says such measures are necessary to ensure stability and defend turkey from multiple security threats .