kiev ( reuters ) - the release of two crimean tatars from russian custody this week was a good sign and hopefully means russia will take positive steps in eastern ukraine as well , the u.s. special envoy to the ukraine peace talks said on saturday .
ukraine and russia are at loggerheads over russia s annexation of the crimean peninsula in 2014 and support for separatists in the donbass region in a conflict that has killed more than 10,000 people despite a notional ceasefire .
russia unexpectedly released a pair of tatar activists on wednesday thanks partly to an intervention by turkish president tayyip erdogan .
they have vowed to return to crimea to campaign for the release of other prisoners .
the fact that they were released is a small positive sign , kurt volker told reuters on a visit to kiev , where he met the freed men .
it s the kind of thing you hope you could build on that , russia would build on that with some other steps with the donbass , he added .
a former ambassador to nato , volker was appointed in july by the donald trump administration to help resolve the donbass conflict , which washington cites as a key obstacle to better relations between the united states and russia .
a recent sticking point is whether and how the united nations should send a peacekeeping force to the region .
volker met kremlin aide vladislav surkov in october for talks on this , which he said produced no breakthroughs but were constructive .
what we are doing , is we are seeing whether we can create some common ideas for how a peacekeeping force could be useful in resolving the conflict , volker said , saying the force could only be effective with a stronger mandate than russia envisages .
russia denies sending its own troops or sophisticated weaponry to helping the separatists .
volker blamed russian aggression for the donbass conflict but said a realization on russia s part that the violence is against its interests could spur a change in moscow s behavior .
the real issue is russia s decision-making .
until now , russia has been holding this territory , keeping this conflict alive , hoping that it provides some leverage over ukraine , volker said .
the reality has sunk in i believe that this has actually produced the opposite .
it has produced a ukraine that is more unified , more nationalist , more anti-russian , more westward-looking than ever existed before .
volker also said the united states was actively considering supplying lethal defensive weapons to kiev , a prospect that has riled russia .
no-one has any worry about someone defending themselves unless they are an aggressor , so it should not be that controversial an issue , volker said .