tokyo ( reuters ) - takuya yokota vividly remembers clutching a flashlight and running to the ocean with his mother and twin brother to look for his older sister in the dark , shouting her name .
megumi , then 13 , had disappeared on her way home from school on a cold november day 40 years ago , kidnapped - it emerged decades later - by north korean agents to help train spies .
none of them has ever seen her again , one of scores japan believes were snatched away in the 1970s and 80s .
our house was thrust into a bottomless darkness , yokota , nine at the time , told reuters .
every day after that was silent and hard .
now , as tensions rise after north korean missile launches over japan and nuclear tests , u.s. president donald trump has made megumi s case part of his attacks on pyongyang .
he mentioned her in a september speech at the united nations and during his japan visit next week plans to meet her parents and other families whose loved ones were stolen .
prime minister shinzo abe has made the abductions a keystone of his political career and said he won t rest until all 13 of those pyongyang admits to kidnapping have returned and divulges information about the others japan suspects were taken .
megumi yokota has become the poster child for the cause .
but progress has largely stalled since 2002 , when five of the 13 returned home .
pyongyang said the other eight , including megumi , were dead .
trump is the third u.s. president abductee families have met , following george w. bush and barack obama .
yokota hopes the trump meeting will give the issue new life .
with abe in charge , megumi s return may be closer , although yokota shows hints of impatience with abe , in office since late 2012 .
i d like ( abe ) to put his reputation and his government on the line and lead this issue to a resolution , he said .
toru hasuike , the brother of abductee kaoru hasuike , one of those who returned to japan , says the trump meeting is merely a nod to abe s conservative base .
this is a performance , making political use of them , he told reuters , referring to the yokotas .
asking america for help is strange .
it s our country , so the japanese government should take responsibility to help them .
raising the issue will generate more awareness , but progress is unlikely , said robert boynton , a journalism professor at new york university and author of a 2016 book on the abductions .
the sad thing is i think the north koreans are playing a waiting game - waiting for people like the yokotas to pass away , that the next generation won t be as exercised and the issue will just go away , boynton said .
takuya yokota hopes to once again meet the older sister who doted on her twin brothers .
i think of her at work , i think of her before i sleep , he said .
when it gets cold and the snow falls ...
i wonder if she s warm enough .
i think of this every day .