the atlantic , a publication that wouldn t know unbiased journalism if it bit them in the a $ $ published what appears to be a reluctant piece on president trump s outstanding accomplishments during his first 6 months in office .
most of the people reading this piece by the atlantic are fans of their writing because they ve bought into the progressive , anti-american sentiment they were fed like crack cocaine in college .
almost like the patch that smokers wear to help them get through the withdrawal of nicotine while going through a cessation program , the atlantic provides their readers with enough anti-trump propaganda to keep them in business , while acting like a support group for their readers , who fear every anti-american piece of legislation barack obama worked so hard to implement , is all unraveling , thanks to this guy who foolishly wants make america great again .
of course , in the eyes of the atlantic reader , america was never great to begin with.the parts where the atlantic talks about president trump s accomplishments are italicized and the comments the writer makes to counter trump s successes have been highlighted.the atlantic starts out the article by giving credit to trump s shadow government , as somehow being responsible for his amazing successes in his first 6 months .
according to the atlantic , the actual government is the fake news stories and the obsession with negative chatter surrounding trump s presidency , while president trump s accomplishments have been hidden in the shadows .the atlantic imagine , if you will , that there is a shadow government.the actual government , the administration of donald trump , is coming off the worst week of his presidency , although there haven t been any smooth weeks .
trump s top legislative priority , repealing and replacing the affordable care act , seems dead for the moment .
( tax reform ?
forget it . )
his administration has set a new standard for chaos and dysfunction , rolling through staffers the way other administrations run through , well , legislative initiatives .
trump s foreign policy remains inchoate and ineffective .
meanwhile , a special counsel investigation looms over the entire administration , threatening both its legitimacy and legal jeopardy for some of its members.things are going considerably better for the shadow government .
with the trump administration s chaos sucking up all the attention , it s been able to move forward on a range of its priorities , which tend to be more focused on regulatory matters anyway .
it is remaking the justice system , rewriting environmental rules , overhauling public-lands administration , and greenlighting major infrastructure projects .
it is appointing figures who will guarantee the triumph of its ideological vision for decades to come .
let s consider the trump administration s accomplishments .
spoiler alert : like climate change , they re real.one of the two biggest victories has come on border security , which was one of trump s top campaign priorities .
border crossings have already plummeted , suggesting that rhetoric making it clear to immigrants that they are not welcome is effective in its own right .
customs and border protections report that apprehensions of unauthorized people are down nearly 20 percent from the same time in 2016 .
( trump continues to radically exaggerate these figures , though . )
this decline has occurred despite trump being foiled on his actual policy proposals at the border .
construction hasn t begun on his border wall yet , and federal courts have repeatedly smacked down his muslim travel ban.that said , he did get one good result in courts and that points to a second area of success .
the supreme court allowed parts of the travel ban to go forward , in a victory that would not have happened without neil gorsuch on the court , filling a seat that under all previous customs would have been filled by barack obama s appointee merrick garland .
given his legislative struggles , the most enduring trump victories are likely to come in the judicial branch.trump may get to appoint several more justices to the high court .
and in the meantime , he s filling up lower courts with lifetime appointees .
as the veteran democratic official ron klain wrote recently , a massive transformation is underway in how our fundamental rights are defined by the federal judiciary .
for while president trump is incompetent at countless aspects of his job , he is proving wildly successful in one respect : naming youthful conservative nominees to the federal bench in record-setting numbers .
there are the quiet , far-reaching changes .
getting back to pruitt , the environment is one of the places where the trump administration has had its largest impact .
the most prominent move was trump s june 1 announcement that the u.s. will withdraw from the paris climate accord .
but the epa is moving on other fronts as well .
it s working to dismantle barack obama s clean power plan , a signature policy aimed at reducing greenhouse-gas emissions .
in june , following a february executive order from trump , the epa began the process of rescinding the 2015 waters of the united states rule , which aimed at protecting smaller bodies of water and streams in the same way that larger ones had been .
in december , in the closing weeks of his administration , obama banned drilling in the arctic and parts of the atlantic ocean ; the trump administration promptly set about undoing that ban .
( how interested oil companies will be remains to be seen .
) the new york times found in june that pruitt s epa has moved to undo , delay or otherwise block more than 30 environmental rules , a regulatory rollback larger in scope than any other over so short a time in the agency s 47-year history .
and it might have done more if not for constraints imposed by judges .
epa tried to abandon an obama-era rule on methane emissions , but a court on monday forced it to continue enforcing the rule.other agencies are also in on the environmental deregulation act .
the state department reversed an obama-era decision , clearing the way for the keystone xl pipeline to begin construction .
the interior department is considering reversing a rule on fracking on public lands , and might also reverse some equipment regulations on offshore drilling equipment implemented after the 2010 gulf oil spill .
the department has rolled back a ban on coal mining on public lands.although the justice department had staunchly opposed a texas voting law that has repeatedly been smacked down by courts as discriminatory , sessions switched the department s position , and it has now told courts the law ought to be allowed to remain .
the attorney general has also sought to cut off funding to so-called sanctuary cities , though his legal authority to do so is disputed.curiously , since he campaigned as an atypically lgbt-friendly republican , trump has also made a range of changes on gay issues .
last week alone , the justice department announced that sexual orientation was not covered by section vii , and the president said that transgender people would not be allowed to serve in the military .
the administration has also rejected obama-era protections for transgender students .