beijing ( reuters ) - china on friday warned its nationals in pakistan of plans for a series of imminent terrorist attacks on chinese targets there , an unusual alert as it pours funds into infrastructure projects into a country plagued by militancy .
thousands of chinese workers have gone to pakistan following beijing s pledge to spend $ 57 billion there on projects in president xi jinping s signature belt and road development plan , which aims to link china with the middle east and europe .
protecting employees of chinese companies , as well as individual entrepreneurs who have followed the investment wave along what is known as the china-pakistan economic corridor , has been a concern for chinese officials .
it is understood that terrorists plan in the near term to launch a series of attacks against chinese organizations and personnel in pakistan , the chinese embassy in pakistan said in a statement on its website .
the embassy warned all chinese-invested organizations and chinese citizens to increase security awareness , strengthen internal precautions , reduce trips outside as much as possible , and avoid crowded public spaces .
it also asked chinese nationals to cooperate with pakistan s police and the military , and to alert the embassy in the event of an emergency .
it did not give any further details .
pakistan s foreign ministry could not be reached immediately for comment .
china has long worried about disaffected members of its uighur muslim minority in its far western region of xinjiang linking up with militants in pakistan and afghanistan .
at the same time , violence in pakistan s southwestern baluchistan province has fueled concern about security for planned transport and energy links from western china to pakistan s deepwater port of gwadar .
the taliban , sectarian groups linked to al qaeda and the islamic state all operate in baluchistan , which borders iran and afghanistan and is at the center of the belt and road initiative .
in addition , separatists there have long battled the government for a greater share of gas and mineral resources , and have a long record of attacking energy and other infrastructure projects .
islamic state claimed responsibility for killing two kidnapped chinese teachers in baluchistan in june , prompting the government in islamabad to pledge to beef up security for chinese nationals .
it had already promised a 15,000-strong army division to safeguard projects along the economic corridor .
china s security concerns abroad have grown along with its global commercial footprint .
in 2016 , a suspected suicide car bomber rammed the gates of the chinese embassy in the kyrgyz capital bishkek , killing the attacker and wounding at least three people .