seoul ( reuters ) - south korea approved a plan on thursday to send $ 8 million worth of aid to north korea , as china warned the crisis on the korean peninsula was getting more serious by the day and the war of words between pyongyang and washington continued .
north korea s foreign minister likened u.s. president donald trump to a barking dog on thursday , after trump warned he would totally destroy the north if it threatened the united states and its allies .
chinese foreign minister wang yi said the situation on the korean peninsula was getting more serious by the day and could not be allowed to spin out of control .
we call on all parties to be calmer than calm and not let the situation escalate out of control , wang said , according to a report from the state-run china news service on thursday .
meeting separately with his south korean counterpart , kang kyung-wha , wang reiterated a call for south korea to remove the u.s.-built thaad anti-missile system , which china says is a threat to its own security .
china hopes south korea will make efforts to reduce tension , a report on china s official xinhua news agency quoted wang as saying .
the decision to send aid to north korea was not popular in south korea , hitting president moon jae-in s approval rating .
it also raised concerns in japan and the united states , and followed new u.n. sanctions against north korea over its sixth nuclear test earlier this month .
the south s unification ministry said its aid policy remained unaffected by geopolitical tensions with the north .
the exact timing of when the aid would be sent , as well as its size , would be confirmed later , the ministry said in a statement .
the south said it aimed to send $ 4.5 million worth of nutritional products for children and pregnant women through the world food programme and $ 3.5 million worth of vaccines and medicinal treatments through unicef .
we have consistently said we would pursue humanitarian aid for north korea in consideration of the poor conditions children and pregnant women are in there , apart from political issues , said unification minister cho myong-gyon .
unicef s regional director for east asia and the pacific karin hulshof said in a statement before the decision the problems north korean children face are all too real .
today , we estimate that around 200,000 children are affected by acute malnutrition , heightening their risk of death and increasing rates of stunting , hulshof said .
food and essential medicines and equipment to treat young children are in short supply , she said .
the last time the south had sent aid to the north was in december 2015 through the united nations population fund ( unfpa ) under ex-president park geun-hye .
south korea s efforts aimed at fresh aid for north korea dragged down moon s approval rating .
realmeter , a south korean polling organization , said on thursday moon s approval rating stood at 65.7 percent , weakening for a fourth straight month .
although the approval rate is still high , those surveyed said moon had fallen out of favor due to north korea s continued provocations and the government s decision to consider sending aid to north korea , realmeter said .
moon will meet japan s prime minister shinzo abe and trump later on thursday on the sidelines of the u.n. general assembly , where north korea was expected to be the core agenda item .
in an address on tuesday , trump escalated his standoff with north korea over its nuclear challenge , threatening to totally destroy the country of 26 million people if the north threatened the united states and its allies .
trump also mocked its leader , kim jong un , calling him a rocket man .
north korea s foreign minister ri yong ho called trump s comments the sound of a dog barking .
there is a saying that goes : even when dogs bark , the parade goes on , ri said in televised remarks to reporters in front of a hotel near the u.n. headquarters in new york .
if ( trump ) was thinking about surprising us with dog-barking sounds then he is clearly dreaming , he said .
asked by reporters what he thought of trump calling north korean leader kim jong un rocket man , ri quipped : i feel sorry for his aides .
north korea conducted its sixth and largest nuclear test on sept. 3 and has launched numerous missiles this year , including two intercontinental ballistic missiles and two other rockets that flew over japan .
such provocations have sparked strong disapproval from the international community , especially from the united states and japan .