manila ( reuters ) - a group of civil society organizations has demanded that apple inc ( aapl.o ) remove from its app store games it said violated the tech firm s guidelines and promoted violence and killings commonplace in the philippines war on drugs .
the group named several apps featuring characters based on philippines president rodrigo duterte and his national police chief , ronaldo bato dela rosa , who engage criminals in gun battles and fistfights .
these games valorise and normalise the emerging tyranny of duterte s presidency and his government s disregard for human rights principles , the asian network of people who use drugs ( anpud ) said in an open letter to apple s chief executive officer , tim cook .
apple did not immediately respond to a request for comment from reuters .
the group listed 131 organizations from numerous countries as supportive of the oct. 10 complaint to apple , among them groups working on human rights , youth and drug policy reform .
they urged apple to issue an apology for hosting such insensitive content .
thousands of filipinos have been killed in duterte s 15-month-old war on drugs , a campaign that has caused international alarm .
human rights groups say state-sponsored executions are taking place , an assertion the authorities vehemently reject .
the group said games such as fighting crime 2 , duterte knows kung fu , duterte running man challenge , tsip bato and duterte vs zombies might seem harmless and fun but were offensive and distasteful because in reality , murder and impunity had prevailed .
duterte running man challenge was not available for download on friday , and three of the app developers could not be reached for comment .
ben joseph banta , a managing partner of ranida games , which developed tsip bato , said the game sought to discourage drug use with the use of banner messages opposing drugs that were visible to players .
the aim of our game is not to promote violence , banta said in an emailed response , adding that it featured supplemental digital content against the use of illegal drugs .
we understand the human rights groups and we re very much open to make changes in the game in order to remove the stigma that the game is promoting violence , he said .