brussels ( reuters ) - nerves are fraying in the brexit talks , negotiators are trying to work out if the other side is bluffing about walking away , and a ticking clock is fast narrowing british options come march 2019 .
philip hammond , britain s finance minister , echoed recent eu assertions when he said that a transition period to some new relationship was a wasting asset , the value of which would diminish significantly for both sides if its form remains unclear to businesses much after the start of the new year .
as negotiators in brussels make little progress before prime minister theresa may meets eu leaders next week , a warning about a breakdown in talks from a minister seen strongly to favor a business-friendly bespoke transition out of the eu came a day after the eu summit chair spoke of a similar new year deadline .
donald tusk said on tuesday that if london fails to settle divorce terms by december , and so unlock talks on the transition and future trade pact , then the eu would reconsider its objectives .
that reflects mounting doubts across europe that any legal exit deal can be struck .
the longer the stand-off goes on , eu negotiators said , the more britain s choice come march 30 , 2019 , will be between the hard brexit by which it will simply quit all eu systems and be treated like , say , australia , and a virtual status quo , staying in most eu systems , without voting rights , rather like norway .
the closer we get , the less there is to discuss about a transition and the more it just goes to a standstill transition , with britain still in everything , but without a vote , one said .
pretty soon , said another , it will be norway or nothing .
while all such commentary reflects the sides jockeying for negotiating advantage , the evidence this week is that they remain far apart and are getting tetchy .
may and the eu traded jabs over whose court the ball is in after the prime minister made concessions in a speech at florence on sept. 22 .
behind closed doors , british negotiators voiced outraged surprise that her offer was seen as insufficient to launch talks on the future relationship .
it s hard to say it was genuine , one eu official said of the show of emotion .
it s a form of pressure .
brexit secretary david davis and eu negotiator michel barnier are due to give a news conference around noon ( 1000 gmt ) on thursday to give an update on the week s progress .
businesses are sounding the alarm .
a german industry federation warned members to start preparing for a very hard brexit .
a senior representative of london s financial services industry told a brussels audience this week that a legal transition agreement must be reached by the end of this year .
most importantly , it must reflect the status quo , said catherine mcguinness of the city of london corporation .
there is no feasibility in asking firms to transition to a transition .
if uncertainty continues , businesses will vote with their feet .
hammond ruled out budgeting yet for more customs and border facilities , and few on the continent believe threats of a walkout they say would hurt britain more than them .
so leaders will watch may s struggle to unite her government and sit tight .
one senior eu diplomat said british counterparts were in such a weak position that sometimes i feel sorry them .
for many in brussels , that makes a virtual status quo after brexit the increasingly likely outcome : in march 2019 , britain will formally leave , said another eu official .
but de facto most of the existing arrangements will remain ...
they will have their celebration of independence and then we will sit down to talking business again .
may insists a two-year transition period is enough to agree a new free trade pact , but many question that .
john bruton , the former prime minister of ireland , has recommended an alternative to either no deal at all or a virtual status quo transition just keeping britain fully in the eu for four years beyond 2019 .
arguing that the two-year deadline set by article 50 of the eu treaty raises the risk of talks collapsing , and that agreeing first a transition and then another accord is complex , bruton said this week that britain and the eu should agree to a six-year negotiating period , with britain only leaving in 2023 .
neither wants any extension .
but bruton warned : the present tight time frame ... increases the likelihood of miscalculation and of the uk leaving the eu with no deal at all .