washington ( reuters ) - a soft brexit incorporating trade deals would be the best way to minimize damage to britain and the european union , german finance minister wolfgang schaeuble said on thursday .
schaeuble , in washington for a meetings of the international monetary fund , also praised the pro-european stance of french president emmanuel macron and said multilateralism was a prerequisite for world peace .
he said he hoped british finance minister philip hammond and other backers of a so-called soft brexit prevailed in negotiations over the terms of britain s exit from the eu .
the talks have stalled on issues like the bill britain must pay to leave and the future of northern ireland s land border with the eu .
hammond , considered one of the most pro-eu members of prime minister theresa may s cabinet , on wednesday warned that the lack of direction to talks was hurting business investment and consumer confidence .
a soft brexit - in which britain remains in or close to the eu s single market and keeps many of the trade and business benefits it had as member - would be preferable , schaeuble said .
that is the best way to keep the damage as minimal as possible , he said during a event on the sidelines of the imf meeting .
schaeuble said he was optimistic that chancellor angela merkel and her conservatives would be able to forge a new coalition government before christmas , that the new team would stick to a stable economic and pro-european course .
merkel is trying to put together a three-way coalition with the pro-business free democrats and the environmentalists greens .
the parties must still resolve differences over immigration , taxes and energy .
schaeuble is due to become president of the lower house of the german parliament and step down as finance minister , freeing the post for someone from another party .
the job is likely to go to a member of the fdp , but a key ally of merkel on thursday said he would like to keep the spot for the conservatives to preserve schaeuble s insistence on a balanced budget .