beirut ( reuters ) - the leader of lebanon s hezbollah said on monday his iran-backed group had not sent any weapons to yemen and denied that it was behind the firing of a ballistic missile at riyadh from yemeni territory held by tehran-allied houthi forces .
in a televised address , sayyed hassan nasrallah also urged followers to listen to recent comments by israeli officials which he said pointed to ties between saudi arabia and israel , hezbollah s arch foe .
an israeli cabinet minister said this week that israel has had covert contacts with riyadh amid common concerns over iran , a first disclosure by a senior official from either country of long-rumoured secret dealings .
nasrallah also heaped criticism on arab states that accused hezbollah of terrorism at an emergency arab league meeting on sunday .
he called the charge trivial and ridiculous , asking why arab states were silent about what he described as the destructive war a saudi-led coalition has waged in yemen .
i confirm to them , no ballistic missiles , no advanced weapons , and no guns ... we did not send weapons to yemen , or bahrain , or kuwait , or iraq , he said .
hezbollah had however sent arms to palestinian territories , including anti-tank missiles , nasrallah said .
i take pride in that .
and in syria there are the weapons we are fighting with , he said .
regional tensions have risen in recent weeks between sunni muslim monarchy saudi arabia and shi ite iran , whose rivalry has wrought upheaval in syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
arab league foreign ministers held an emergency meeting on sunday at the request of saudi arabia to discuss ways to confront iran and hezbollah over their role in the region .
saudi arabia has accused the heavily armed shi ite hezbollah of helping houthi rebels in yemen and playing a role in the ballistic missile attack this month .
riyadh has been bogged down in the war it launched against the houthis in yemen in 2015 .
i categorically deny it , nasrallah said .
no man from lebanese hezbollah had any part in the firing of this missile or any missiles fired previously .
lebanon was thrust back to the forefront of the power struggle between riyadh and tehran after its prime minister quit abruptly in a broadcast from saudi arabia this month .
in his shock resignation speech , saad al-hariri accused iran and hezbollah of sowing strife in the region .
lebanese state officials and politicians close to hariri say he was held in riyadh against his will and forced to resign , which riyadh and hariri denied .
lebanese president michel aoun has refused to accept the resignation until hariri comes home .
a long-time saudi ally and sunni leader , hariri flew to france at the weekend and is expected to return to beirut in time for independence day celebrations on wednesday .
we are all waiting for the return of the prime minister , whom we still consider has not resigned , nasrallah said .
when he comes , we will see .
we are open to any dialogue and any discussion that happens in the country .
hariri took office last year in a power-sharing deal that saw aoun , a hezbollah political ally , become president .
his coalition government includes hezbollah , a military and political movement that wields great influence in lebanon .
hezbollah has sent thousands of fighters to syria to support the damascus government against mostly sunni syrian rebel factions , some of whom have received saudi aid , and islamic state militants .
nasrallah also thanked major-general qassem soleimani for what he described as his huge role in fighting islamic state in the eastern syrian town of albu kamal .
soleimani , commander of foreign operations for iran s revolutionary guards , led the battle from the frontlines from the very beginning , he said .
the battle must continue with the same strength ... and we must continue working to end the remnants of daesh , he said , using the arabic acronym for islamic state .
hezbollah could withdraw its large number of commanders from iraq once islamic state was defeated there , he said .