washington ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s new top political strategist predicted on friday the republican presidential front-runner would amass the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch his party ’ s nomination well before the republican national convention in july .
veteran campaign tactician paul manafort was chosen by trump on thursday to oversee a fractious nomination process that many republicans expect may not yield a clear winner before the convention .
manafort said on cnn ’ s “ new day ” program that rival ted cruz , the u.s. senator from texas , will not be able to dent trump ’ s delegate lead before california ’ s june 7 primary .
“ the reality is : ted cruz has seen his best day , ” manafort said .
“ the reality is : this convention process will be over with sometime in june , probably june 7 , and it ’ ll be apparent to the world that trump is over that 1,237 number. ” trump has been uncharacteristically quiet on social media after his double-digit loss to cruz in the wisconsin primary on tuesday , which followed a series of missteps on the campaign trail including his statement , later recanted , advocating punishment for women who have illegal abortions .
in elevating manafort , trump said he would add more staff before the convention in an expansion of his campaign team beyond the close-knit group of advisers who have been at his side since he jumped into the presidential race last june .
“ people that i know that want to get involved and wanted to before but didn ’ t have a way in , ” manafort said .
the next presidential nominating contests before the nov. 8 election include a number in east coast states seen as more fertile ground for the real estate tycoon , including in his native new york on april 19 .
manafort cited pennsylvania , new jersey , connecticut and maryland as states where trump would do well .
“ by the time we get to california the momentum is going be very clear and ted cruz ’ path to victory is going to be in shambles , ” he said .
cruz , appearing on the cnn program earlier , said he had a clear path to 1,237 delegates .
“ it ’ s difficult .
we ’ ve got to win and we ’ ve got to win consistently , ” cruz said .
“ he ’ s right .
he has to win , ” manafort said .