the fast food industry has been warning those demanding a $ 15/hr .
wage that they could be easily replaced.in the social sciences , unintended consequences ( sometimes unanticipated consequences or unforeseen consequences ) are outcomes that are not the ones foreseen and intended by a purposeful action .
the term was popularised in the twentieth century by american sociologist robert k. merton .
it s cheaper to buy a $ 35,000 robotic arm than it is to hire an employee who s inefficient making $ 15 an hour bagging french fries , former mcdonald s usa ceo ed rensi said in an interview on tuesday on the fox business network s mornings with maria .
it s nonsense and it s very destructive and it s inflationary and it s going to cause a job loss across this country like you re not going to believe .
according to rensi , rising labor costs are forcing chains to cut entry-level jobs and replace workers with machines .
currently , wendy s , mcdonald s , and panera are rolling out kiosks across the us , in part because of the rising cost of labor .
business insideraccording to statista.com , in 2016 , there were over 3.7 million people in the us who were employed in the fast food industry .
when those jobs go away , where will these workers go for employment ?
will they be forced to do the jobs that only the illegal aliens will do ?
wendy s just announced their plans to install self-ordering kiosks at about 1,000 locations by the end of the year.a typical location would have three kiosks , the columbus dispatch reported .
higher-volume restaurants will be given priority for the kiosks.wendy s chief information officer , david trimm , said the kiosks are intended to appeal to younger customers and reduce labor costs .
kiosks also allow customers of the fast food giant to circumvent long lines during peak dining hours while increasing kitchen production.trim estimates the company will see a return on its investment in less than two years .
they are looking to improve their automation and their labor costs , and this is a good way to do it , said darren tristano , vice president with technomic , a food-service research and consulting firm .
they are also trying to enhance the customer experience .
younger customers prefer to use a kiosk .
customers will still be able to order at the counter for now , although tristan predicts that mobile ordering and payment via smartphones will one day overtake self-ordering kiosks and cash registers .
weasel zippers , wmur