this is a very big development .
we all knew the gop establishment has been pandering to pro-amnesty corporations and the chamber of commerce , but this is a new low , even for the gop establishment there is a bigger controversy about to break wide-open that s potentially far more significant than paul ryan and mitch mcconnell approving nikki haley s non-subtle attack on gop frontrunner donald trump .
that bigger controversy is the spanish version of the gop state of the union rebuttal containing an amnesty pledge .as this is written , governor nikki haley is trying to get out ahead of the building expose .
haley just gave a dc press conference claiming she does not support amnesty ; however , against her earlier admission of speaker ryan and leader mcconnell approving her script the spanish version must have held similar approvals.governor haley gave the english version , miami representative and party-insider mario diaz-barlat delivered it in spanish.english : spanish : here s a ( paragraph by paragraph ) comparison as translated by the miami herald ( emphasis mine ) : english ( via haley ) : no one who is willing to work hard , abide by our laws , and love our traditions should ever feel unwelcome in this country.spanish ( via diaz-barlat ) : no one who is willing to work hard , abide by our laws , and love the united states should ever feel unwelcome in this country .
it s not who we are .
english : at the same time , that does not mean we just flat out open our borders .
we can t do that .
we can not continue to allow immigrants to come here illegally .
and in this age of terrorism , we must not let in refugees whose intentions can not be determined.spanish : at the same time , it s obvious that our immigration system needs to be reformed .
the current system puts our national security at risk and is an obstacle for our economy .
english : we must fix our broken immigration system .
that means stopping illegal immigration .
and it means welcoming properly vetted legal immigrants , regardless of their race or religion .
just like we have for centuries.spanish : it s essential that we find a legislative solution to protect our nation , defend our borders , offer a permanent and human solution to those who live in the shadows , respect the rule of law , modernize the visa system and push the economy forward .
english : i have no doubt that if we act with proper focus , we can protect our borders , our sovereignty and our citizens , all while remaining true to america s noblest legacies.spanish : i have no doubt that if we work together , we can achieve this and continue to be faithful to the noblest legacies of the united states.it is important to remember the backdrop to this current dual narrative ( one the gope leadership want to say publicly and one they wish to keep hidden ) .back in june 2014 speaker john boehner was only two days away from calling up the vote on the senate gang-of-eight amnesty bill , when house majority leader eric cantor was defeated in the virginia primary.mario diaz balart along with paul ryan and luis v. gutierrez were in secret negotiations throughout the spring/summer of 2014 planning the pathway for comprehensive immigration reform .
john boehner asked kevin mccarthy to whip the house and identify if they had votes for passage : [ ] on tuesday june 10th speaker boehner , eric cantor ( majority leader ) and kevin mccarthy ( majority whip ) had lunch together discussing timing the vote thursday night or friday morning.however , later that same night the results from the 2014 virginia primary showed an unknown conservative outsider , dave brat , had defeated ( primaried ) eric cantor .
at 7:00pm tuesday night the first word went out that cantor had lost.~ full back storyso this hidden narrative within the 2016 republican state of the union rebuttal should come as no surprise .
comprehensive immigration reform is the gope agenda they continue to hide from the electorate.via : conservative treehouse