washington ( reuters ) - u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin on sunday said one of the top goals of the trump administration ’ s tax plan is to help the middle class , but he could not guarantee that every middle-class family would receive a tax cut .
“ it is our objective that the entire middle class will get a tax cut , ” mnuchin said on abc ’ s “ this week ” program .
“ you can not make guarantees because every single person ’ s taxes are different , people take advantage of different things. ” president donald trump last week outlined his plan , which includes reducing the corporate income tax rate to 20 percent , establishing a new 25 percent tax rate for pass-through businesses and lowering the top income tax rate for individuals to 35 percent .
a report on friday from the non-profit washington-based tax policy center found that taxpayers in the top 1 percent income bracket - above $ 730,000 - would receive about 50 percent of the total benefit from the overhaul , with their after-tax income forecast to increase an average of 8.5 percent .
the group said about 12 percent of taxpayers would face an average tax increase of roughly $ 1,800 .
this includes more than a third of taxpayers making between about $ 150,000 and $ 300,000 , as most itemized deductions , including for state and local taxes , would be repealed .
mnuchin and other trump administration officials defended the plan , saying it is not aimed at helping the rich , while acknowledging the details were in flux .
“ the objective of the president is that rich people don ’ t get tax cuts , ” mnuchin said .
“ as we go through this process , we will explain to the american public how this works. ” mnuchin was also asked on whether a proposed new rate of 25 percent for so-called pass-through businesses would end up being exploited by wealthy people looking to lower their tax bills .
about 95 percent of american businesses are pass-throughs such as sole proprietorships , partnerships and s-corporations , according to the brookings institution , a washington think tank .
the name comes from the profits and losses of such businesses that pass through directly to their owners , unlike public corporations .
mnuchin said the administration would seek to put “ guard rails ” around rules for pass-throughs to avoid people using them as a loophole .
white house budget director mick mulvaney told cnn ’ s “ state of the union ” program : “ this really is about the middle class and the corporate tax rate , for the president. ” gary cohn , trump ’ s top economic adviser , said no one knows how the plan would affect americans because it has not been finalized .
“ when people come out with these definitive statements of what the tax plan is going to do , or what the tax plan is not going to do , i find it hard to believe , because we don ’ t even know what the tax plan is going to look like in its entirety , ” cohn said on fox news ’ “ sunday morning futures ” program .
mnuchin said the administration hoped to have the tax overhaul legislation passed in december .