barcelona ( reuters ) - around one million catalans rallied in barcelona on monday , waving red and yellow striped flags and banging drums , in a show of support for independence after madrid moved to block a referendum on the region s split from spain .
sept. 11 marks the diada , catalonia s national day , which commemorates the fall of barcelona to spain in 1714 and is traditionally used by pro-independence activists to call for secession for the northeastern region with a distinct language .
however , this year s event had particular significance as a show of strength for the independence movement just three weeks ahead of a referendum on the issue which madrid has declared illegal and taken steps to obstruct in the courts .
demonstrators climbed on each others shoulders to form human towers , a catalan tradition , while others carried banners reading we re going to be a free country !
and full of hope while wearing fluorescent yellow t-shirts with the word yes .
city police said on twitter that around one million people took part , one of the highest turn-outs in recent years .
protesters said they hoped the vote would go ahead as planned on oct. 1 .
we hope that we will be able to hold the referendum with total normality , because in a democracy it is normal to be able to vote , said german freixas , a 42-year-old engineer accompanying his family to the rally .
if the people want it to happen , it will go ahead .
the constitutional court last thursday suspended the referendum after a legal challenge by prime minister mariano rajoy .
police have since searched newspaper offices and printers for signs of any preparation for the referendum .
the head of catalonia s regional government , carles puigdemont , told journalists on monday : it s not an option that the referendum won t go ahead .
it s 20 days away and we ve already overcome many hurdles .
puigdemont is facing criminal charges of misuse of public money , disobedience and abuse of office for organizing the referendum .
he is prepared to go to prison , he has said .
a majority of catalonia s mayors have so far said they will allow the use of municipal facilities for the vote .
the mayor of barcelona , ada colau , said on monday she would do everything possible to allow people to vote but would not put civil servants jobs at risk .
polls have shown support for independence waning in recent years with those wanting a separate state in a minority .
however , a majority of catalans want to vote on the issue .
at a peaceful march in august , convened as a show of unity in the wake of islamist attacks that killed 16 , mostly in barcelona , the king and rajoy were booed and jeered by the crowds in a show of resentment toward madrid .
protesters on monday held a minute of silence for the victims of the attacks .