beijing/seoul ( reuters ) - chinese tour operators based in the border city of dandong have been told to halt trips to the north korean capital pyongyang , five sources told reuters on tuesday , the day before u.s. president donald trump s first official visit to china .
chinese president xi jinping will host trump in beijing on wednesday , with north korea s development of nuclear weapons expected to top their agenda .
the united states has been pressuring china to do more to rein in its neighbor and ally .
tourism is one of the few remaining ways north korea earns hard currency , as the united nations has ramped up sanctions on the country over the past year , curbing key export industries including coal , seafood and textiles .
it was very unexpected , we had no idea this was going to happen until we received the notification today , said a chinese tour operator who runs trips to north korea out of dandong .
this is devastating news for us , he said , adding the order had come from the dandong tourism bureau .
the sources reuters interviewed for this story all requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the issue .
the dandong tourism bureau was not immediately reachable for comment late on tuesday .
china s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment sent after working hours on tuesday night .
most tour companies that take chinese tourists to north korea are based in dandong , the main trading hub on the chinese side of the border .
dandong-based tour companies were told on tuesday that , as of wednesday , they were only permitted to run one-day tours to sinuiju , the north korean city opposite dandong , which is a popular destination for chinese tourists making day trips .
longer trips to pyongyang and other parts of north korea were banned until further notice , the sources said .
many chinese tour operators run three-day or longer tours inside the world s most isolated country .
the sources said the government had not given any official explanation for the changes .
it s low season right now , but that s unlikely to be the reason , said another dandong-based tourism source .
it s much more likely to be connected to increasing sanctions against north korea .
we ll have to wait and see what happens once trump leaves china .
maybe they will loosen the rules but it s very hard to say .
this is all connected to the growing tensions .
earlier this year , the united states banned its citizens from visiting north korea after american college student otto warmbier died shortly after returning to the united states in a coma following more than a year in captivity in north korea .
he had been detained during a tour there .
the korea maritime institute , a think-tank in the south , estimates that tourism generates about $ 44 million in annual revenue for north korea .
about 80 percent of all north korea s foreign tourists are chinese , it says .
china said more than 237,000 chinese visited in 2012 , but it stopped publishing the statistics in 2013 .
the order does not appear to affect north korea-focused tour operators based elsewhere .
we didn t receive any notice to halt trips to north korea , said rubio chan of glo travel , a hong kong-based tour company which takes tourists to north korea .
but that may be because we are based out of hong kong and we work directly with our partners in pyongyang .