beirut ( reuters ) - islamic state is building up its defenses in a pocket of territory on the syrian-iraqi frontier , the u.s.-led coalition said on friday , in an anticipation of assaults by syrian and iraqi forces aiming to snuff out the jihadists last stronghold .
iraq launched an offensive on thursday to capture the last iraqi territory held by islamic state , the areas of rawa and al-qaim , a town just over the border from the syrian town of albu kamal , which is also held by the jihadists .
right now , we are seeing the buildup of ( is ) defenses in both al-qaim and in albu kamal , colonel ryan dillon told reuters by phone , adding that islamic state s leadership had shifted to albu kamal from towns deeper into syria .
albu kamal is in the crosshairs of both the u.s.-led coalition and the syrian government and its iranian-backed militia allies .
pro-damascus forces , who are also backed by the russian air force , said on thursday they would march on the town having driven is out of a base some 70 km ( 40 miles ) away .
dillon said albu kamal was definitely a target for the coalition but said it would be up to the leadership of the coalition s syrian allies , the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , to take the decision on a ground assault .
the sdf s priority for now was to shore up its control over the al-omar oil field , syria s largest , which was captured from is on sunday , he said .
right now , we have to consolidate that area in and around omar oilfield and the area that led up to it to make sure that that area is secure , and then it ll be the sdf leadership decision if they can allocate the right resource to adequately push into albu kamal , he said .
assisted by the coalition , the sdf is fighting is on the eastern banks of the euphrates , whereas the syrian army and its allies , supported by russian air power , is largely fighting on the western banks of the river .
dillon said is fighters were now much different fighters from the ones the u.s.-led coalition fought leading up to the battle for mosul , the iraqi city recaptured from is in june .
we have not seen this fight to the death that we saw in mosul , and i think it is attributed much to their morale , he said .