the world s largest oil field service , schlumberger , has been bleeding profits since an oversupply of oil drove the cost per barrel from $ 100 in 2014 to $ 33.01 .
ceo paal kibsgaard saw his company profits decrease 40 percent since the downward trend in oil prices began , and as a result he fired 25,000 people in 2015 , roughly 20 percent of the company s workforce.the ceo felt the pain in his company s loss of profits though as his salary decreased from $ 18.5 million in 2014 to $ 18.3 million in 2015 .
the drop was only due to the performance in his pension plan though , as his base salary and stock values increased from 2014.despite running a failing company , kibsgaard remains one of the highest paid ceos in the world .
in 2014 , cnn money ranked him as number 9 on their list of the 12 highest paid ceos in the world.forbes listed schlumberger as # 123 on its list of largest public companies , with a market cap of $ 109.8 billion as of may 2015 .
the sheer size , scope and profits the company makes should inoculate it to some degree from making enormous employee layoffs , leaving thousands of men and women with families unemployed , facing inadequate compensation and the stressors inherent with re-entering the job market .
layoffs are often a sign of failure by top executives to properly manage a business and forecast needs , wrote eleanor boxham in a 2013 fortune magazine article .
and failure of board members to ensure that the right management is in place .
given this sign of failure from schlumberger s ceo , it is ethically abhorrent he receives such a high salary the same year the company lays off thousands of lower level employees .
despite the layoffs , the company s stock has steadily increased lately , and unfortunately that is all these corporate leaders , especially in the oil industry , care about .
these attitudes are what contribute to the growing income and wealthy inequality not just in america , but all over the world .
the 62 wealthiest people in the world have as much wealth as the bottom 50 percent of the world , nearly 3.6 billion people .
the wealthiest 1 percent of the world s population have as much wealth as the other 99 percent .
for nearly fifty years , wages of working people in the united states have remained stagnant while the top income earners have seen their salaries grow exponentially .
in the united states since the 2008 recession , nearly 99 percent of all new generated income has gone to the wealthiest 1 percent of americans .
current trends suggest these enormous disparities in wealth are expanding , and if ceos like kibsgaard are allowed to take home huge salaries while simultaneously firing thousands of people , things are only going to get worse.featured image courtesy of flickr