santiago ( reuters ) - chile s conservative presidential candidate sebastian pinera on wednesday promised to double economic growth and by 2025 make the country the first in latin american to achieve developed nation status .
pinera said he would increase investment and eventually cut corporate taxes in his bid to expand chile s economy .
the country is currently judged an upper-middle-income nation by the world bank and would have to lift per-capita income to join the group of economies termed developed .
long the front-runner in november s election , recent polls show pinera , 67 , has increased his lead over his nearest opponent , center-left senator alejandro guillier .
speaking at a news conference , pinera said he would double growth after a four year period under president michelle bachelet in which chile s economy slowed to an average annual rate of 1.8 percent expansion due to declining investment .
pinera , who was president from 2010 to 2014 , is strongly backed by the business community in chile , latin america s wealthiest country on a gross domestic product per capita basis .
to triumph in a likely december run-off he will need to address middle-class demands for the country s affluence to be more fairly distributed .
our mission , by 2025 , is to see chile become the first country in latin america to reach developed nation status , pinera said .
he also promised to leverage future growth to eradicate poverty and better share wealth .
bachelet s tax and labor reforms - a hallmark of her center-left administration - have received a lukewarm reception across the political spectrum .
leftists complain the reforms are too timid and the conservative opposition says they have stoked market uncertainty and crimped private investment .
pinera promised to simplify bachelet s tax reform to promote investment and balance the budget within six to eight years .
we re striving for a corporate tax rate comparable to that of oecd countries , pinera said .
chile s corporate tax rate in 2018 was 27 percent , compared to the oecd average of 24-25 percent .
a recent spike in the price of copper , chile s main export , has started to boost the country s coffers , leading the government to estimate higher growth of 3 percent next year up from 1.5 percent this year .