warsaw ( reuters ) - poland lowers its retirement age on sunday , a costly election promise by the ruling conservatives which goes against a european trend of gradually increasing the pension age as people live longer and stay more healthy .
lowering the age to 60 for women and 65 for men is popular in particular among supporters of the governing right-wing law and justice ( pis ) party , and reverses an increase to 67 approved in 2012 by the former centrist government .
it is seen as having a limited immediate impact on the economy , which is booming , but might put pressure on state budgets in the future .
the move comes at a time when unemployment in poland has fallen to its lowest level since the transition from communism in the early 1990s , and could increase the pressure on wages which are already growing at their fastest pace in five years .
the polish labor market faces increasingly limited access to workers , said rafal benecki , a warsaw-based economist covering central europe at the ing bank .
poland s population of 38 million is among the most rapidly aging in the european union .
the government is throwing away the most effective tool to increase the labor market participation rate , benecki said .
the state pension agency zus has estimated that 331,000 people could decide to take advantage of the option to retire earlier , which would amount to 2.0 percent of poland s 16.3 million workers .
economists and central bankers say the rising flow into poland of hundreds of thousands of workers from ukraine could reduce the pressure on wages .
labour ministry figures show that polish employers requested over 900,000 short-term permits for ukrainian workers in the first half of 2017 , compared to 1.26 million in the whole of the previous year .
with the inflow of workers from ukraine , so far the problem that some have foreseen - labor shortages , pressure on the labor market - is diminishing , central bank governor adam glapinski said in early september .
the pis government has estimated the cost of the retirement age reduction at about 10 billion zlotys ( $ 2.74 billion ) in 2018 , roughly 0.5 percent of gdp .
since coming to power in 2015 , the current government has sharply increased public spending to meet campaign pledges to help families and distribute the fruits of economic growth more evenly .
despite the increase in spending , the state budget posted the first surplus for the january-august period in more than two decades , mainly due to a government crackdown on tax evasion and because a new child benefit has fueled consumption .
economic growth reached 3.9 percent in the second quarter , but economists warn that the higher cost of pensions could cause problems if the economy slows .
i m worrying what will happen when the economic cycle turns , said marcin mrowiec , chief economist at bank pekao .
we might wake up with wages above levels that firms can cope with and ... permanently higher budget spending on pensions .
( $ 1 = 3.6471 zlotys )