wouldn t it be great if the obama administration came out with something regarding the terror risk revealed by the fbi ? fbi officials sent out a memo warning of terrorist attacks at super bowl 50 that could take out the entire fiber-optics system that feeds the arena .
if the fiber-optic cables get cut , it impacts financial institutions , impacts silicon valley , said retired assistant special agent in charge jeffrey harp , to kpix 5 .
it impacts a lot of infrastructure in that area .
the fbi said it hadn t received a specific threat about the super bowl .
but agents also said they ve identified several danger zones outside the stadium they re going to protect as well , cbs news reported .
it s the lone wolf , harp said .
it s the individual who is self-radicalized that creates a problem that you can t detect .
there s only so much the fbi can do with regard to surveillance within the guidelines of the constitution .
if someone were to use a drone to disperse something , he said , cbs news reported , it could be a potentially hazardous situation .
given that his beloved chicago bears were pretty much out of contention on the first week of the regular season , president barack obama hasn t really paid that much attention to the super bowl .
that doesn t mean other people aren t , though including the savages of the islamic state group.an fbi bulletin claimed there was a significant threat to this year s super bowl 50 being held on feb. 7 at levi s stadium in santa clara , california from terrorist groups .
there s going to be law enforcement secreted around the stadium that you are not going to see or know about .
they are there , retired fbi assistant special agent in charge jeffrey harp told reporters .
if the fiber optic cables get cut , it impacts financial institutions , impacts silicon valley , it impacts a lot of infrastructure in that area , harp added.several attacks have already been carried out against fiber optic systems in the bay area , disrupting silicon valley s extensive tech industry .
none of those crimes have been solved.via : wndvia : conservative tribune