mecca/riyadh ( reuters ) - a few steps away from mecca s grand mosque , a dozen empty towers rise into the sky above the holy city visited by millions of muslim pilgrims every year .
hilton and marriott logos adorn the site , heralding the $ 3.2 billion jabal omar complex that is being built to bring hotels , restaurants and luxury malls to the pilgrimage experience .
all these hotels and buildings around the mosque will bring more business , god willing , said awad al-arshani , beckoning customers into his dates of the two holy mosques shop .
pilgrimage is the backbone of a plan to expand tourism under crown prince mohammed bin salman s economic reform program , announced a year ago to diversify the economy away from oil .
the haj , a journey every able-bodied muslim who can afford it must perform once in a lifetime , is a profound experience for those who undertake it .
it is also big business for saudi arabia .
the haj and the year-round lesser pilgrimage , umrah , generate $ 12 billion in revenues from worshippers lodging , transport , gifts , food and fees , according to bmi research .
but there are still big questions about how saudi arabia will cater to its most active tourism market , especially as the kingdom eschews tourist visas .
pilgrimage visas currently bar travel outside the holy cities of mecca and medina .
authorities plan to relax the restrictions , but have not specified to what extent and have raised the visa cost for return pilgrims to more than $ 500 .
most of the kingdom s tourism development so far targets the affluent end of the market , while the biggest and fastest-growing pilgrim populations come from modest means .
additionally , worshipping at shrines is considered idolatry under saudi arabia s austere official wahhabi school of islam and it is unclear which islamic historical sites pilgrims might be lured to after years of neglect .
the saudi tourism commission has pledged to rehabilitate four sites in mecca : jabal al-nour , jabal thawr , hudaybiyyah and mohammed s migration path from mecca to medina .
but there is scant sign of any restoration in mecca so far , said irfan alawi , founder of the islamic heritage research foundation .
religious police still sit outside some of the sites , shooing away pilgrims with warnings about idolatry , he said .
dozens of other sites were demolished to make way for the redevelopment .
pilgrims comprise the bulk of saudi arabia s 20 million annual foreign visitors , apart from workers and business travelers .
nearly 2.4 million came for this year s haj , up from 1.9 million last year , and 7.5 million performed umrah in 2016 .
officials aim to increase the number of umrah and haj pilgrims to 15 million and 5 million respectively by 2020 , and hope to double the umrah number again to 30 million by 2030 .
in addition , they hope pilgrims will be attracted to spend money at museums , luxury resorts and historical sites .
some pilgrims are encouraged by the moves .
we love this country because it s the cradle of islam , the land of the revelation and the prophet , peace be upon him , nasser al-zein , a turkish-german car dealer from frankfurt , told reuters as he performed haj .
we d love to spend our money here , more than in the west .
here , it s an islamic country .
others find the costs prohibitive .
the problem is the visa .
if they were to extend it perhaps we could stay and visit places other than mecca and medina , said zawaoui daraji , 50 , a trader from algeria .
the hotels charge you 25,000 riyals ( $ 6,666.31 ) for your stay .
it s too much for us , he said .
such concerns have not deterred saudi officials .
long before last year s reform announcement , they began investing tens of billions of dollars in mega-hotels , public transit and a grand mosque expansion in mecca .
the $ 15 billion abraj al-beit golden clocktower complex , completed in 2011 with seven towers of hotels and malls , already looms over the mosque .
joining it soon will be 40 new towers from the jabal omar development , begun in 2008 , and the $ 3.5 billion abraj kudai complex , which will be the world s largest hotel and come complete with four rooftop helipads .
a new airport in jeddah and the high-speed haramain rail system , both set to open next year , will whisk visitors between cities along the red sea coast .
despite a funding crunch for existing projects in the last year , authorities have announced new leisure mega-projects outside the holy cities .
one of these , the faisaliah project , will run from mecca s edge out to the red sea .
it aims to attract 10 million visitors to seaside getaways and islamic research centers by 2050 .
further north , the red sea project hopes to attract luxury travellers to island resorts and pre-islamic ruins in a closed visa-free zone .
the king abdullah economic city , one of the stops on the rail line , is planning resorts and theme parks , too .