new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump narrowed his deficit to democratic rival hillary clinton to 7 percentage points from 15 points late last week , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on tuesday , polling was under way on tuesday at the republican national convention in cleveland to officially nominate trump as the party ’ s candidate for the nov. 8 presidential election .
clinton is due to be officially nominated at the democratic convention in philadelphia next week .
forty-three percent of likely voters supported clinton in the july 15-19 poll , while 36 percent supported trump .
the poll included 1,069 voters and had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .
the previous poll , in which trump trailed clinton by 15 percentage points , covered the five-day period that ended july 14 .
trump ’ s rise appeared partly fueled by a decline in the number of voters who remained on the sidelines .
the percentage of voters who supported neither candidate dropped to 12 percent in the july 15-19 poll from 15 percent in the july 10-14 poll .
clinton has led in the poll most of the year .
the last time that trump matched clinton ’ s level of support was in mid-may , after his remaining rivals for the republican nomination dropped out and many republican leaders started to openly support his bid for the white house .
this week ’ s republican convention provides another opportunity for party leaders to publicly embrace trump ’ s campaign .
presidential nominees typically see a boost in voter support following their party conventions .
in 2012 , republican nominee mitt romney jumped by about 5 percentage points in the reuters/ipsos poll following the republican convention .
this year , however , republican leaders have struggled to give a full-throated endorsement of trump ’ s “ america first ” campaign over his hard line on immigration and trade , and his fiery rhetoric that some have called bigoted .
many republican elders , including both former presidents bush and the last two presidential nominees , romney and john mccain , are staying away from cleveland .
the convention also has been marred by protests from anti-trump delegates and a controversy over a speech by trump ’ s wife , melania , that included a section that was strikingly similar to a portion of the speech given by michelle obama at the democratic convention in 2008 when her husband , barack obama , was seeking his first term as president .