united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council is due to vote on thursday on rival u.s. and russian bids to renew an international inquiry into chemical weapons attacks in syria , diplomats said , a move that could trigger russia s 10th veto to block action on syria .
the mandate for the joint inquiry by the u.n. and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) , which found the syrian government used the banned nerve agent sarin in an april 4 attack , expires at midnight thursday .
the united states was first to ask for a vote on its draft resolution , followed quickly by russia .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , france , russia , britain or china to be adopted .
diplomats say there is little support among the 15-member council for the russian draft , which russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia has said aims to correct systemic errors of the inquiry , known as the joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) .
russia has vetoed nine resolutions on syria since the conflict started in 2011 , including blocking an initial u.s. bid on oct. 24 to renew the jim , saying it wanted to wait for the release two days later of the inquiry s report that blamed a sarin gas attack on the syrian government .
the united states hopes the security council will stand united in the face of chemical weapons use against civilians and extend the work of this critical group , the u.s. mission to the united nations said in a statement on wednesday .
not doing so would only give consent to such atrocities while tragically failing the syrian people who have suffered from these despicable acts , it said .
while russia agreed to the 2015 creation of the inquiry , known as the joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) , it has consistently questioned its findings , which also concluded that the syrian government used chlorine as a weapon several times .
a spokesman for the u.s. mission to the united nations said on monday that russia has refused to engage in negotiations on the u.s. draft resolution .
diplomats said the united states had amended its draft in a bid to win russian support .
british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft warned on wednesday that if the inquiry ended : the only victors would be people who want to use chemical weapons in syria , which is the ( syrian president bashar ) al-assad regime plus daesh ( islamic state ) .
everyone in the security council would be shooting ourselves in the foot if we allowed that to happen , he said .
the russian mission to the united nations was not immediately available for comment on the impending council vote .
if the inquiry is not renewed , nebenzia said on monday : it may send a bad signal , but the way the investigation has been conducted sends an even worse signal .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .