jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia s foreign minister is due to meet myanmar leader aung san suu kyi on monday to discuss delivering humanitarian aid to members of myanmar s rohingya minority , as indonesian protesters urged their government to take a tougher line .
dozens of indonesians protested outside the myanmar embassy in jakarta on monday , calling for a cut in diplomatic ties with myanmar over violence against its rohingya muslim minority .
aid agencies estimate that about 90,000 rohingya have fled from myanmar into neighboring bangladesh since violence erupted in the north of rakhine state last week .
we will discuss in detail indonesia s proposal on how indonesia can give humanitarian aid to rakhine state , indonesian foreign minister retno marsudi said in a video statement from the myanmar city of yangon .
she is also scheduled to travel to bangladesh to urge authorities there to protect fleeing rohingya refugees .
in a sign of mounting public anger in jakarta , a petrol bomb was thrown at the myanmar embassy on sunday , causing a small fire .
the protests follow demonstrations in malaysia and condemnation from world leaders such as president tayyip erdogan of turkey , who on friday said the violence against muslims amounted to genocide .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
bangladesh is also growing increasingly hostile to rohingya , more than 400,000 of whom live in the poor south asian country after fleeing myanmar since the early 1990s .
indonesia is home to the world s largest population of muslims .
its government has been actively involved in providing aid for myanmar to develop rakhine state and protect the rights of the rohingya , alongside the majority buddhist community .
ifah rohma , an activist from a jakarta-based organization called muslim friends of rohingya , said many indonesians as fellow muslims were concerned about the fate of rohingya .
indonesia should not be engaging in soft diplomacy , rohma said outside the myanmar embassy , which was surrounded by heavy security and barbed wire .
now is the time to cut ties , recall our ambassador and expel their ambassador , she said .
myanmar says its security forces are fighting a legitimate campaign against terrorists responsible for a string of attacks on police posts and the army since last october .