a comparison of records by david goldstein , investigative reporter for cbs2/kcal9 , has revealed hundreds of so-called dead voters in southern california , a vast majority of them in los angeles county .
he took a lot of time choosing his candidates , said annette givans of her father , john cenkner.cenkner died in palmdale in 2003 .
despite this , records show that he somehow voted from the grave in 2004 , 2005 , 2006 , 2008 and 2010.but he s not the only one.cbs2 compared millions of voting records from the california secretary of state s office with death records from the social security administration and found hundreds of so-called dead voters.specifically , 265 in southern california and a vast majority of them , 215 , in los angeles county alone.the numbers come from state records that show votes were cast in that person s name after they died .
in some cases , goldstein discovered that they voted year after year.across all counties , goldstein uncovered 32 dead voters who cast ballots in eight elections apiece , including a woman who died in 1988 .
records show she somehow voted in 2014 , 26 years after she passed away.it remains unclear how the dead voters voted but 86 were registered republicans , 146 were democrats , including cenkner .
he s a diehard democrat , and i was thinking that if somebody was voting under his name , he s probably rolling in his grave if they were voting republican , givans said.she said her dad always voted at the polls , only now records show someone else may be casting his vote .
it just astounds me .
i don t understand how anybody can get away with that , she said.and then there s julita abutin.records show she voted in norwalk in 2014 , 2012 , 2010 and 2008 though she died in 2006.abutin s daughter , marivic , says it s impossible that her mother voted.but the los angeles county registrar confirms they have signed vote-by-mail envelopes with her mother s name for the 2014 and 2012 election , though she died 10 years ago.edward carbajal jr. s father died in la puente in 2001 but state records show a vote was cast in his father s name in eight elections after he passed away.it s possible as a junior , election officials mistakenly attributed the vote to his father .
there is no way to tell from cbs2 s data but he wonders why his dad is still registered .
i mean , that should be something that everybody that s involved with these types of things should know who s alive and who isn t , he said.the los angeles county registrar told cbs2 : we remove 1200 to 2000 deceased records from the database per month .
but the news station checked all of the dead voters from la county on the registrar s website and found 212 of the 215 were still registered and eligible to vote in next month s presidential primary election .
it s very troubling because it basically dilutes the voice of the lawful voter , said ellen swensen with the true the vote , a nationwide voter-rights group .
what it does is every single vote that s cast by a dead voter actually cancels out a vote of a lawful voter cause if they voted for one candidate and you voted let s say for another , your vote got canceled out , she said.as goldstein reports , it was all supposed to change after the hanging chads incident in florida in the 2000 presidential election .
congress passed the help america vote act in 2002 , which mandated sweeping reforms , including a statewide voter registration system that would eliminate ineligible voters.but california is the only state that s still not compliant with the act .
secretary of state alex padilla hopes to have it compliant later this year .
the problem is california has been the most derelict state in the country in implementing statewide databases that are required under federal law .
they just blew it off for over a decade , said adams.read more : cbsla