berlin ( reuters ) - the leader of germany s pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , a possible partner in chancellor angela merkel s new government , has called for russia to be invited to the next summit of the group of seven industrialized countries .
the proposal met immediate resistance from merkel s conservatives and the environmentalist greens , throwing a possible wrench into already tricky negotiations about a three-way ruling coalition .
fdp leader christian lindner told the austrian newspaper die pressed that readmitting russia to the group of eight could help ease tensions with moscow .
russia was suspended from the group in 2014 after it annexed ukraine s crimea peninsula following an uprising in kiev that toppled its pro-moscow president .
we can not make all things dependent on the situation in crimea , lindner said , although he said russia s violation of international law could not be accepted .
but this is the most severe conflict and that s the last place we ll see progress , lindner said .
that s why i m in favor of intensifying dialogue - and that putin is asked to join the table of the g7 and that one talks with him and not about him .
juergen hardt , foreign policy spokesman for the conservatives , called lindner s suggestion unhelpful .
putin would tout readmission to the exclusive g8 discussion format as confirmation of his policies at home , and that would be counterproductive , hardt said .
omnid nouripour , a greens lawmaker and foreign policy expert , urged the fdp chief to refrain from any further suggestions until the potential coalition partners had worked out their russia policy .
the three blocs are due to start exploratory talks about a coalition next week , but experts have warned it could take months to bridge their differences on migration , climate and taxes .
finance minister wolfgang schaeuble , a member of merkel s conservatives , told an event in washington that he expected the talks to be completed by christmas .
fifty-seven percent of voters support the idea of the three-way coalition , according to a new poll for broadcaster ard .
lindner had already raised eyebrows in august when he suggested that germany might have to accept russia s 2014 annexation of the crimea region of ukraine as a permanent provisional arrangement .
merkel and greens politicians have previously rejected calls to gradually lift sanctions against russia imposed over its role in the ukraine crisis .
the center-right chancellor has also objected to the idea of inviting putin to g7 meetings .
turning to euro zone policies , lindner repeated his criticism of french president emmanuel macron s proposals to create a joint euro zone budget .
a red line for us in any coalition talks is the mutualization of debt in europe , the creation of new pots of money , lindner said .