mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico ’ s government is planning a diplomatic push to counter aggressive rhetoric against its nationals in the u.s. election race , a senior official said on tuesday , after calls by donald trump for a massive wall to divide the two nations .
republican presidential candidates marco rubio and ted cruz have also proposed building a wall along the u.s.-mexico border , but it is trump who has taken the hardest line against the united states ’ southern neighbor .
the republican front-runner has labeled mexican migrants as drug runners and rapists , proposed mass deportations of undocumented immigrants and said mexico is “ killing ” the united states with cheap labor .
francisco guzman , mexican president enrique pena nieto ’ s chief of staff , on tuesday said it was time for the government to push back against these negative images .
mexico plans to use its extensive network of u.s. consulates to highlight the benefits of u.s.-mexican relations to the u.s. economy and the american people , guzman said .
the initiative will include forums with u.s. business people , politicians and public figures to get mexico ’ s opinions heard .
“ mexico ’ s positioning in the u.s. election debate is not generally adequate , ” guzman told a group of foreign correspondents .
“ it doesn ’ t reflect the constructive relationship between mexico and the u.s. ” trump rolled up a series of primary wins on tuesday and looked set to take command of the republican nomination battle .
the mexican government has up till now avoided a direct confrontation with the billionaire real estate developer , though the country ’ s top diplomat has called his policies and comments “ ignorant and racist. ” former mexican presidents vicente fox and felipe calderon have publicly condemned trump , both comparing him to adolf hitler .
“ we ’ re not going to involve ourselves in the ( u.s. presidential ) debate .
we don ’ t want to polarize , but we do want to have a positive institutional relationship as we ’ ve had in the past , ” guzman said .
“ the u.s.-mexico relationship requires more bridges and fewer walls .
the isolationist solution is not a solution at all , ” he added .
the united states is mexico ’ s top trade partner , the destination for about 80 percent of its exports , in addition to sharing many cultural and family links .
to promote stronger ties , mexico ’ s government plans to meet with the final contenders for the white house once the two major parties have selected their candidates , guzman said .
“ any candidate , above all if he wants to project himself forward , has to , in my opinion , see the relationship with mexico not as a threat but as an opportunity , ” he said .
( writing by david alire garcia ; editing by simon gardner and andrew hay ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .