brussels ( reuters ) - the european court of justice could cut costs and speed up verdicts by letting judges speak english rather than only in french , an eu audit showed on tuesday - but a plan to let them has been stymied by brexit .
the luxembourg-based court is a bogeyman for british critics of the eu and negotiations on the 2019 withdrawal from the european union are deadlocked over london s insistence the ecj should have no future say in britain .
yet before last year s brexit referendum it was looking at embracing english more .
this assessment has not yet been finalised because of the uncertainties related to the outcome of the brexit process , the european court of auditors ( eca ) said in a report .
the court is a bastion of the french language among european union institutions where english has become ubiquitous .
ecj rules , intended to avoid linguistic arguments over the law , force judges to use french in their deliberations and written submissions and verdicts must be in the bloc s once dominant tongue , even though english is now the most common of the 24 official eu languages in which cases can be filed .
the eca did not say how much of the court s 400-million-euro ( $ 470 million ) annual budget could be saved by allowing the use of english .
but some lawyers working at the ecj say translation into french , in which only 13 percent of cases are actually initially filed , adds to delays in getting judgments .
brexit has raised some questions about the status of english in the eu as a whole , since once britain leaves it will not be the official eu language of any member state .
it is an official language in ireland and malta but countries can only nominate one for eu use and they chose gaelic and maltese respectively .
however , eu officials do not seriously imagine that english is threatened as a working language .
at the court , even when britain ceases to be subject to its judgments , many cases will continue to involve multinational companies and many of those choose have their pleas dealt with principally in english .
in a reply included in the eca report , the court said the time taken for rulings has fallen in the past decade despite an increased caseload and that discussions will continue on a language regime that is chosen on the basis of its efficiency .