sydney ( reuters ) - australia s prime minister malcolm turnbull , a strong supporter of gay marriage , defended the right of a church to refuse to marry a young couple who had posted support for same-sex unions on social media .
the minister of a presbyterian church in the southern state of victoria told a young couple in their 20s that they would not be allowed to hold their ceremony at the church after the bride posted a message on facebook supporting same-sex marriage .
australia is in the midst of a non-compulsory , non-binding poll to inform parliament on whether it should become the 25th country to legalise same-sex marriage .
the issue has threatened to fracture the ruling liberal-national coalition government .
churches are free to marry whoever they like , turnbull said on friday in canberra according to a press conference transcript .
as strongly as i believe in the right of same-sex couples to marry ...
religious freedom is fundamental and it will be protected in any bill that emerges from this parliament .
religious freedom in australia is guaranteed under the constitution .
the issue has dogged prime minister turnbull for two years as progressive and conservative members of his ruling coalition have pulled in opposite directions threatening his narrow parliamentary majority .
australians have started receiving postal ballots for the poll , which runs until the end of october , and the issue is dividing the country s population of 24 million people along religious and generational lines .
despite securing 70 percent public support in an ipsos/fairfax poll , the issue of same-sex marriage had faced a political deadlock , only broken last week when the high court gave the all-clear for the vote .
fissures have opened within religions as some churches urge their followers to vote against same-sex marriage , while other churches have taken a neutral stance .
the catholic archbishop of sydney , australia s largest city , wrote to sydney catholic school principals on friday afternoon , quoting pope francis and urging them to oppose the vote .
the bishop of parramatta , vincent long van nguyen , however , told his parishioners in a pastoral letter that the vote was a matter of individual conscience .
the anglican church , which officially opposes gay marriage , has been divided on the issue for years .