here s a newsflash rand we re not looking for a guy who can win a popularity contest in washington to be our next president .
we re actually looking for a candidate who is willing to stand up to politicians who ve forgotten who they came to washington dc to represent we really do love much of what rand stands for , but his comments about senator cruz couldn t have been more off base.sen .
rand paul on tuesday said fellow republican presidential candidate ted .
cruz is done for in the senate .
ted has chosen to make this really personal and chosen to call people dishonest in leadership and call them names , which really goes against the decorum and also against the rules of the senate , and as a consequence , he can t get anything done legislatively , paul told fox news radio .
he is pretty much done for and stifled and it s really because of personal relationships , or lack of personal relationships , and it is a problem .
don t get us wrong we happen to agree with senator rand paul on a lot of things .
picking on one of the most courageous men in washington dc however , was not a very good idea especially when there is video footage like this that can be easily accessed : paul , a kentucky republican who has had the backing of his home-state senior senator , majority leader mitch mcconnell , despite some tough policy differences , had been asked about cruz s inability to even muster the support of 11 senators to secure a roll call vote on a procedural motion designed to amend the continuing resolution to keep the government running.the senate s set to vote on passage of that measure at 10 a.m. on wednesday , the last day of the federal government s 2015 fiscal year .
i approach things a little different , i am still just as hardcore in saying what we are doing , i just chose not to call people liars on the senate floor and it s just a matter of different perspectives on how best to get to the end result , paul said in the interview.paul backed mcconnell s 2014 re-election bid .
cruz had accused mcconnell of lying to him about the way forward for the revival of the export-import bank in the senate.like cruz , paul opposes the cr advanced by mcconnell to avoid a shutdown later in the week .
but paul has focused his criticism on the use of the stopgap spending vehicles .
paul would have rather seen more pressure put on democrats to advance the dozen individual appropriation bills .
i would defund not only planned parenthood but hundreds and hundreds of regulations , hundreds and hundreds of wasteful programs .
i would take them all out , put them on the table and say you know what democrats , it doesn t take 60 votes to defund something , it s actually going to take 60 votes to fund any of these programs , vote on them one at a time and we will see how many of these crazy programs get 60 votes .
my guess would be very few , but that would take the courage to let the spending expire and start anew and let new programs all require 60 votes to pass , paul said.mcconnell signaled tuesday he intends to call additional votes on the regular fiscal 2016 spending bills , though there was no evidence democrats accede to that proposal without a big budget agreement between the two parties .
via : roll callif you want to see why ted cruz isn t the most popular guy in washington dc , watch this video that was taken only two days ago on the senate floor .
watch this , and you ll know why conservatives who are sick of politicians who leave their spines in their home states with their campaign promises love this guy :