washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration announced plans to expand wage reporting requirements for private businesses on friday , bolstering its efforts to narrow the longstanding u.s. gender wage gap .
the equal employment opportunity commission ’ s plan would require employers with 100 or more employees to provide the agency with detailed wage information , broken down by gender , race and ethnicity .
unlike a similar labor department rule proposed earlier , it would apply to all large businesses and not just federal contractors .
the plan , which is expected to take effect in september 2017 , will be open to public comment but does not require congressional approval .
it is part of a long-running effort by obama and federal agencies to close the yawning gap between pay for men and women .
the commission ’ s proposal would not require the disclosure of specific salaries of individual employees , but it would seek aggregate data on pay ranges and hours worked .
“ the goal is to help businesses that are trying to do the right thing ... to get a clearer picture of how they can make sure their employees are being treated equally , ” obama said at a white house event .
he spoke on the seventh anniversary of the lilly ledbetter fair pay act .
the measure , the first bill obama signed into law , overturned a supreme court decision that severely restricted the time period for filing complaints of employment discrimination concerning compensation .
although fighting gender pay imbalances has been a focus for obama , the pay gap has narrowed only slightly over the past two years .
“ we can ’ t deliver on the promise of equal pay unless we have the best , most comprehensive information about what people earn , ” labor secretary thomas perez said in a statement on friday .
the median wage of a woman working full-time year-round in the united states is currently about $ 39,600 , only 79 percent of a man ’ s median earnings of $ 50,400 .
gender equality in the u.s. work force , and globally , is still decades away , according to an independent report released on wednesday .