london ( reuters ) - iran has sentenced to death a person found guilty of providing information to israel to help it assassinate several senior nuclear scientists , tehran s prosecutor said on tuesday .
dolatabadi did not identify the defendant , but amnesty international said on monday that ahmadreza djalali , an iranian doctor who studied and taught in sweden , had been sentenced to death in iran on espionage charges .
at least four scientists were killed between 2010 and 2012 in what tehran said was a program of assassinations aimed at sabotaging its nuclear energy program .
iran hanged one man in 2012 over the killings , saying he had links to israel .
on the latest conviction , tehran prosecutor abbas jafari dolatabadi told the judiciary s news agency : the person had several meetings with ( israeli intelligence agency ) mossad and provided them with sensitive information about iran s military and nuclear sites in return for money and residency in sweden .
the headline of the report described the convicted person as a mossad agent .
amnesty said the court verdict against djalali stated that he had worked with the israeli government which then helped him obtain a swedish residency permit .
neither iran nor amnesty said when the verdict was issued .
sweden condemned the sentence and said it had raised the matter with iranian representatives in stockholm and tehran .
we condemn the use of the death penalty in all its forms .
the death penalty is an inhuman , cruel and irreversible punishment that has no place in modern law , swedish foreign minister margot wallstrom said in an emailed comment .
djalali , a doctor and lecturer at stockholm medical university the karolinska institute , was arrested in april 2016 and held without access to a lawyer for seven months , three of which were in solitary confinement , according to london-based amnesty .
djalali was sentenced to death after a grossly unfair trial that once again exposes not only the iranian authorities steadfast commitment to ( the ) use of the death penalty but their utter contempt for the rule of law , said philip luther , amnesty s middle east advocacy director .
the united states has denied iran s accusation that it was involved in the scientists deaths , while israel has a policy of not commenting on such allegations .
dolatabadi said the convicted person gave mossad information about 30 nuclear and military scientists including massoud ali mohammadi , who was killed by a remote-controlled bomb attached to a motorcycle outside his home in tehran .
the judiciary said the defendant was also linked to the assassination of nuclear engineer majid shahriari , killed in a bomb attack in november 2010 .
djalali s wife vida mehrannia , who lives in sweden with their two children , has told amnesty that his physical and mental health has sharply deteriorated since he was detained .
we are calling for his release because he has not committed any crime , amnesty quoted her as saying .
the vice-chancellor of the karolinska institute , where djalali received his phd in disaster medicine in 2012 , said he was deeply concerned .
for many years , he has worked with researchers from all over the world to improve the capacity of hospitals in countries suffering from extreme poverty or affected by disasters and armed conflicts , ole petter ottersen said in a statement published on the university s website .
we ask that dr djalali be subjected to due process and fair trial .