new york ( reuters ) - donald trump rode to the top of the republican ticket promising a “ big , beautiful , powerful ” border wall with mexico to stop the flow of undocumented immigrants .
along that border , however , americans are more likely to call the wall a “ waste of money ” , according to a reuters/ipsos opinion poll .
the results show that while the new york businessman may have expected his tough stance on immigration to fire up support nationally , it seems to be falling short in a state heavily affected by illegal immigration , and where he is now facing a surprising challenge from his democratic rival hillary clinton .
asked if a wall would be “ an effective barrier or a waste of money , ” 47 percent of arizona residents picked “ waste of money ” and 34 percent picked “ effective barrier ” , with the rest picking neither , according to the poll .
among republicans , 21 percent picked “ waste of money ” and 57 percent picked “ effective barrier. ” most arizonans also believed it is not realistic to expect mexico to pay for the wall , something trump has vowed would happen if he ’ s elected president on nov. 8 , according to the poll .
the results lined up closely with nationwide opinions of trump ’ s immigration policy : 49 percent of american adults say the wall would be a “ waste of money ” and 31 percent say it would be an “ effective barrier. ” “ as big and powerful , as rich as this nation is , we can not just leave the door open , ” said tony estrada , santa cruz county sheriff , who has served in law enforcement in the border county for 49 years .
“ but , we need a realistic and humane process .
donald trump is … catering to people ’ s fear. ” polls show arizona , a state that has voted democrat only once in a presidential election since 1952 , has become competitive .
the real clear politics average of polls showed clinton ahead there by 1.3 percentage points .
reuters/ipsos polling shows trump ahead there by 4 points .
clinton ’ s campaign said last week it would spend $ 2 million more campaigning in arizona before the election .
arizona ’ s border with mexico is 370 miles long , covering an isolated desert terrain that has drawn millions seeking to cross illegally .
the state ’ s number of undocumented immigrants has fallen 35 percent from a 2007 peak to 325,000 , according to the pew research center , as arizona cracked down on that population .
nationwide , the number has dropped 9 percent from a high in 2007 to 11.1 million undocumented immigrants .
wendy cornacchio , a 45 year-old trump supporter from phoenix , said she believes illegal immigration is still a problem – but she would rather see technologies like drone surveillance than trump ’ s wall to address it .
“ i don ’ t think that necessarily building a wall will work , but the concept of closing the borders i agree with , ” she said .
florida is another closely-fought state that has seen large levels of illegal immigration , though by sea rather than by land .
some 41 percent of voters there said they believed trump ’ s wall would be a “ waste of money ” , while 36 percent thought it would be an “ effective barrier ” .
progressive activist groups in both florida and arizona have been using trump ’ s hard line on immigration against him to mobilize latinos for clinton , who advocates a path to citizenship for some undocumented immigrants .
mi familia vota , for example , says they registered more than 15,000 people in arizona this year .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english and spanish in arizona and florida .
the arizona poll ran from oct. 5 to oct. 19 and gathered responses from 2,600 people .
the florida poll ran from oct. 5 to oct. 12 and gathered responses from 2,610 people .
both polls have a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 2 percentage points for the total group and 3 percentage points for likely voters .