the media can t seem to get enough of the story of the texas mother who killed her two daughters and was then shot and killed by local police .
of course , there hasn t been any inquiry into the possible wrongful actions by the law enforcement officer who killed her by the cop-hating black lives matter group .
in fact , there wasn t any outcry by the black lives matter rioters when shanika minor shot and killed a 23 year old 9 month pregnant mother of two live children , who watched their mother bleed to death in front of them .
why did we have to wait for shanika shantel minor to make it on the fbi s 10 most wanted list before the general public was made aware of her gruesome crime ?
why ?
because black lives really don t matter to the race hustlers , to the media and not even to those outside of the affected community .
blacks killing blacks is just not newsworthy .
but watch what happens when a white cop kills a black thug in self-defense .
the media just can t get to the scene of the crime fast enough .
a woman accused of murder and placed on the fbi s top 10 most wanted list tuesday was arrested friday at a motel in fayetteville.shanika shantel minor was arrested by a cumberland county sheriff s deputy shortly after 2 a.m. at the airport inn on gillespie street.she is being held without bail at the cumberland county jail until federal agents can escort her to wisconsin , where she is wanted for murder.minor , who is 24 , allegedly shot a pregnant woman march 6 in milwaukee , wisconsin , then fled the area , according to the fbi s milwaukee office .
the 23-year-old victim , who was five days away from her due date , died in front of her two children , the fbi said .
her unborn child also died.the fbi said the shooting stemmed from an argument over loud music being played in the victim s home , which was in a duplex also occupied by minor s mother .
apparently minor believed that the victim had somehow disrespected her or her mother , special agent chad piontek said in a release issued tuesday by the fbi s milwaukee field office .
it is a fairly violent neighborhood .
unfortunately , there is sometimes a street mentality about solving problems .
the day before the fatal shooting , the fbi said , minor instigated an argument with the neighbor and , brandishing a handgun , challenged her to fight .
the fbi said minor s mother implored her daughter not to hurt the neighbor and minor drove away after firing a round in the air.shortly before 3 a.m. the following day , minor returned to the neighborhood and confronted the neighbor by the rear door of her residence , the fbi said .
minor s mother stood between the women , trying to keep the peace , the fbi said , but minor reached over her mother s shoulder and fired her gun , striking the neighbor in the chest.the neighbor retreated into her home and died in front of her children , and minor left , the fbi said .
piontek called the murder a senseless crime .
in placing minor on the most wanted list , the fbi said she should be considered armed and extremely dangerous .
the agency also offered a reward of up to $ 100,000 for information leading to her capture .
minor was found and arrested in fayetteville less than three days after the agency s announcement.when it placed her on the list , the fbi said minor might have contact with people in missouri , mississippi , texas , tennessee , ohio and georgia .
north carolina wasn t among the states listed.according to the cumberland county sheriff s office , someone called the county s emergency communications center at 1:28 a.m. to report that minor was staying in room 122 at the airport inn .
the caller described minor to aid in identifying her.deputies responded , confronted the woman in the room and , at 2:08 a.m. , determined her identity and took her into custody.via : fayobserver