wellington ( reuters ) - the leader of the small new zealand party holding the balance of power after an inconclusive election last month said he would hold a key board meeting on monday as he nears a decision on which party he will support in a coalition government .
the country has been in political limbo since sept. 23 when neither the national party , which has led the government since 2008 , or the labour party scored enough seats to form a government .
the new zealand first has held negotiations with both over the past week , but has kept the country guessing over which way it was leaning .
it convened a caucus on friday , but the internal meetings were set to continue through monday .
members of the board will be ... flying in on sunday and early monday morning for a joint caucus and board meeting ... all day monday , winston peters , leader of the nationalist nz first party told reporters in wellington .
an announcement was expected sometime next week .
nz first s policies are more aligned with those of labour - both favor curbing migration and foreign ownership , renegotiating certain trade deals and changes to the central bank s approach to monetary policy .
but observers have said that a two-way coalition is much simpler to put together than one involving three parties .
national won 56 seats at the september election , meaning it would only need nz first s nine seats to have a majority in parliament .
labour , with 46 seats , will have to go into coalition with both the greens and nz first to be able to govern .
the most widespread criticism of the current state of play is that a party leader with 7.5 percent of the nation s vote has been allowed to dictate the outcome for 100 percent of new zealanders , sean kean , managing director of auckland-based triple t consulting said .
the political uncertainty has pushed the new zealand dollar down 2.9 percent against the u.s. dollar since the vote .
the new zealand dollar was last 0.07 percent lower at $ 0.7125 .