well , this is rich hillary clinton had her housekeeper print out sensitive government e-mails and documents !
the former secretary of state lectured her employees to remind them of how to keep information secure ( video below ) yet she s playing loose and free with top secret documents ! what if marina santos was a spy for a foreign government that was hostile to the us ?
ms. santos is now in hot water and should be called upon to testify .
the big question you re probably asking about now is why the heck santos wasn t subpoenaed ?
marina santos could hold the secrets to emailgate !
you really can t make this stuff up ! as secretary of state , hillary clinton routinely asked her maid to print out sensitive government e-mails and documents including ones containing classified information from her house in washington , dc , e-mails and fbi memos show .
but the housekeeper lacked the security clearance to handle such material.in fact , marina santos was called on so frequently to receive e-mails that she may hold the secrets to e-mailgate if only the fbi and congress would subpoena her and the equipment she used.clinton entrusted far more than the care of her dc residence , known as whitehaven , to santos .
she expected the filipino immigrant to handle state secrets , further opening the democratic presidential nominee to criticism that she played fast and loose with national security.clinton would first receive highly sensitive e-mails from top aides at the state department and then request that they , in turn , forward the messages and any attached documents to santos to print out for her at the home.among other things , clinton requested santos print out drafts of her speeches , confidential memos and call sheets background information and talking points prepared for the secretary of state in advance of a phone call with a foreign head of state .
pls ask marina to print for me in am , clinton e-mailed top aide huma abedin regarding a redacted 2011 message marked sensitive but unclassified.in a classified 2012 e-mail dealing with the new president of malawi , another clinton aide , monica hanley , advised clinton , we can ask marina to print this .
revisions to the iran points was the subject line of a classified april 2012 e-mail to clinton from hanley .
in it , the text reads , marina is trying to print for you .
both classified e-mails were marked confidential , the tier below secret or top secret .
santos also had access to a highly secure room called an scif ( sensitive compartmented information facility ) that diplomatic security agents set up at whitehaven , according to fbi notes from an interview with abedin.from within the scif , santos who had no clearance collected documents from the secure facsimile machine for clinton , the fbi notes revealed.read more : nyp