could this be another casualty of the clinton crime syndicate ?
the mi6 spy who was found dead inside a holdall bag in his bathtub in london hacked into secret data held on former u.s. president bill clinton , the sun newspaper has sensationally claimed today.gareth williams was 31 years old when he was found naked , dead in his own bathtub in pimlico , just a few minutes walk away from britain s houses of parliament.speculation has been rife ever since his death in september 2010 about the circumstances surrounding his death .
a metropolitan police investigation revealed predictably , though suspiciously , that mr williams death was probably an accident .
this was despite an initial inquest concluding that his death was unnatural and likely to have been criminally mediated .
since then the unexplained death has been the subject of investigation by the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) .
the bbc reported as early as december 2010 that mr williams had been on secondment from britain s signals intelligence operation gchq to mi6 , and then subsequently to the united states national security agency.the sun reports that williams had dug out the guestlist for an event the former american president was going to as a favour for a pal .
the murdoch-owned paper reports : the sun on sunday can reveal that voicemail messages mr williams left for family and pals were deleted in the days after his death .
and a rival agent may also have broken into the flat to destroy or remove evidence.the inquest was barred from discussing mr williams s work in public .
but sources say he was helping on the joint monitoring network echelon , which uses sophisticated programs to eavesdrop on terrorists and criminal gangs , particularly those in russia .
a source said : the clinton diary hack came at a time when williams s work with america was of the most sensitive nature .
it was a diplomatic nightmare for sir john sawers , the new director of mi6 at the time .
insiders claim mr williams , who had been given a second passport with a fresh identity , was also getting fed up with living a secret life .
he is said to have loathed his spy training after having his wrist broken during one hardcore session .
mr williams , a keen cyclist originally from anglesey , north wales , died shortly after returning from a hacking conference in america.he had been to see a drag queen show by himself two days before he was last seen alive , on august 15 , 2010.eight days later his naked body was found folded into the 32in by 19in bag placed in the bath of his flat in pimlico , central london.his mobile phone and sim cards were laid out on a table .
the last computer evidence of him being alive showed him looking at a cycling website.a number of theories exist about mr william s death , including that of a scorned ex-lover , a kremlin car driving past his house , and some bizarre sexual fantasies that mr williams may have played out and taken too far.mr williams had no alcohol or drugs in his system when he was found , and the inquest found that he would not have been able to seal himself in the bag alone.the metropolitan police refused to comment on the new revelations that mr clinton s security details may have been breached by mr williams .
via : breitbart news originally posted on aug. 30 , 2015