caracas ( reuters ) - in another setback for venezuela s dispirited opposition , four of its five state governors broke with their coalition s official stance on monday to swear themselves in before a pro-government legislative superbody .
the democratic unity coalition went into the oct. 15 gubernatorial polls as favorites for a big win against president nicolas maduro s candidates because of voter anger at a brutal economic crisis in the opec member .
but it ended up taking just five of 23 states .
initially alleging fraud , the opposition later acknowledged that abstentionism in its ranks played a big part in the defeat , which shed doubt on its ability to beat the ruling socialists in next year s presidential vote .
after the regional ballot , the coalition said none of its winning candidates would kneel before the pro-maduro constituent assembly body , which it has refused to recognize since its establishment in an election in july .
but the newly elected governors for tachira , merida , nuevo esparta and anzoategui - all from the democratic action party , one of venezuela s biggest and oldest - swore themselves in before assembly directors as a prerequisite to taking office .
after presiding over the ceremony , constituent assembly head delcy rodriguez chided the one winning opposition candidate , juan pablo guanipa of oil-rich zulia state , who held out .
these actions will have consequences , she said .
maduro previously warned there may be a new election in any state where the winner does not swear loyalty to the assembly .
guanipa , of the justice first party , which has a militant line against maduro , said he would not legitimize the fraudulent constituent assembly whose election the opposition boycotted .
zulia will never kneel before the dictatorship , he added .
critics see the creation of the constituent assembly , which has superseded all powers including the opposition-led congress , as the cementing of dictatorship in venezuela .
major western and latin american nations have refused to recognize its legitimacy .
but maduro said it was the only way to bring peace back after four months of opposition protests this year that led to 125 deaths , thousands of arrests and injuries , and widespread damage to property and infrastructure .
appearing on state tv late on monday , maduro said he had congratulated the four democratic action governors by telephone and would meet with them , possibly as soon as tuesday .
i ve told them : let s turn the page ... and get down to work , he said .
democratic action is one of the biggest parties in the opposition coalition , and its decision on monday infuriated many opposition supporters who viewed it as a sellout .
the move could presage a complete reformulation , or possible breakup , of the coalition , which consists of more than two dozen parties and has long suffered from infighting .
we are going to see a new unity .
in the worst crises and circumstances , opportunities always crop up , wrote opposition leader henrique capriles , of the justice first party , hinting at imminent changes .
the coalition s biggest triumph was a resounding victory at december 2015 legislative elections .
but it has been in the doldrums since maduro survived this year s protests , and many venezuelans perceive its leaders as elitist .
further pummeling his foes , maduro named five senior officials as protectors for the states won by the opposition , undermining its influence on the ground by granting new funding and parallel responsibilities to government figures there .