istanbul ( reuters ) - turkish authorities have opened an investigation into the u.s. prosecutors who brought charges against a turkish gold trader facing trial in new york , state media said on saturday , after ankara said the case was based on fabricated documents .
the istanbul prosecutor s office is investigating former u.s. attorney preet bharara and acting u.s. attorney john h. kim , the state-run anadolu news agency said , following allegations that their case was based on documents turkey says were fabricated .
when asked for comment , bharara referred reuters to the southern district of new york s attorney s office .
james margolin , a spokesman for the attorney s office , declined to comment .
reuters was not immediately able to reach anyone at the istanbul prosecutor s office for comment .
the reported move comes after turkish foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu on friday said the u.s. case was based on documents fabricated by followers of the cleric fethullah gulen , whom ankara blames for last year s attempted coup .
cavusoglu also accused bharara of being very close to gulen s network .
following those allegations , bharara responded on friday on twitter , saying : turkey fm is a liar .
now let s see what happens in court .
the case against the wealthy , iran-born gold trader reza zarrab has complicated already strained relations between the united states and turkey , both members of the nato military alliance .
zarrab , together with alleged co-conspirators , has been charged with handling hundreds of millions of dollars for iran s government and iranian entities from 2010 to 2015 , in a scheme to avoid sanctions .
he has pleaded not guilty and is due to go on trial in new york on nov. 27 .
under a previous turkish investigation that became public in 2013 , turkish prosecutors accused zarrab and high-ranking turkish officials of involvement in facilitating iranian money transfers via gold smuggling , leaked documents at the time showed .
president tayyip erdogan , then prime minister , cast that investigation as a coup attempt orchestrated by his political enemies .
several prosecutors were removed from the case , police investigators were reassigned , and the investigation was later dropped .
erdogan , who has not been accused of any wrongdoing , has said u.s. prosecutors have ulterior motives by including references to him and his wife in court papers relating to the trial in new york .