washington ( reuters ) - india has denied visas for a delegation from the u.s. government agency charged with monitoring international religious freedom , the agency said on thursday .
the delegation from the u.s. commission on international religious freedom had been scheduled to leave for india on friday for a long-planned visit with the support of the u.s. state department and the u.s. embassy in new delhi , but india had failed to issue the necessary visas , the commission said .
“ we are deeply disappointed by the indian government ’ s denial , in effect , of these visas , ” uscirf chairman robert george said in a statement .
“ as a pluralistic , non-sectarian , and democratic state , and a close partner of the united states , india should have the confidence to allow our visit , ” he said .
george said uscirf had been able to travel to many countries , including those among the worst offenders of religious freedom , including pakistan , saudi arabia , vietnam , china , and myanmar .
“ one would expect that the indian government would allow for more transparency than have these nations , and would welcome the opportunity to convey its views directly to uscirf. ” the indian embassy in washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
last year , despite a much-heralded fresh start in u.s.-india ties under indian prime minister narendra modi , the united states ran into problems arranging visits by the head of its office to combat human trafficking and its special envoy for gay rights .
a u.s. state department official referred queries on the visa issue to the indian government , but highlighted remarks by president barack obama on a visit to delhi last year , in which he made a plea for freedom of religion in a country with a history of strife between hindus and minorities .
in its 2015 report , the bipartisan uscirf said incidents of religiously motivated and communal violence had reportedly increased for three consecutive years .
it said that despite its status as a pluralistic , secular democracy , india had long struggled to protect minority religious communities or provide justice when crimes occur , creating a climate of impunity .
non-governmental organizations and religious leaders , including from the muslim , christian , and sikh communities , attributed the initial increase in violence to religiously divisive campaigning in advance of the country ’ s 2014 general election won by modi .
the report said that since the election , religious minorities had been subject to derogatory comments by politicians linked to modi ’ s bharatiya janata party and numerous violent attacks and forced conversions by hindu nationalist groups .
u.s. law allows for imposition of sanctions on countries the commission terms “ of particular concern , ” but the uscirf ’ s recommendations are not binding and these are not automatically imposed .