it s too bad the media didn t work as hard to expose the massive lies about barack hussein obama and his background during his campaign .
many are calling this the end of carson s political career .
compare this mostly innocuous fabrication to the fact that hillary clinton put our nation s security at risk with her personal email server .
what about the incredible lie hillary told about the controversial video to the families of the 4 brave americans whose caskets were just unloaded off the plane from benghazi ?
compare this to the multiple lies that have been exposed about hillary and bill s corrupt money laundering for political favors charity .
does anyone remember how the media circled the wagons for barack hussein obama when it was discovered he sat in the pews of a black liberation theology church for over 20 years listening to a close friend and mentor preach hate towards whites and the united states of america ?
what about the birth certificate , the fake social security numbers , the lies obama told about his illegal relative he claimed he didn t know , but then later it was revealed that he actually lived with him ?
none of those things mattered .
obama was untouchable and if you criticized him or the lies he told about his past , the media and the left were quick to label you as an intolerant racist .
compare and contrast the treatment of hillary clinton , barack hussein obama and black conservative , dr. ben carson by the media .
but the feeding frenzy on ben carson by the progressive media will continue unabated and unchecked , because nobody in the gop has the cajones to stand up to them .
and that , my friends is why the non-establishment gop candidates who are fighting back against the leftist media are polling at the top .
america is ready for a fighter , and if we truly love our country , every one of us should be standing shoulder to shoulder behind trump , carson and cruz who are being openly punished by the media for standing up to them never underestimate the capacity of the media to propagandize against republicans.that s the theme of this morning s overwrought news coverage on dr. ben carson s supposed lie regarding a scholarship to west point .
the story began with politico , which ran with the audacious headline , ben carson admits fabricating west point scholarship .
even i was taken in by the headline after all , that s a pretty bold claim ! politico began thusly : ben carson s campaign on friday admitted , in a response to an inquiry from politico , that a central point in his inspirational personal story was fabricated : his application and acceptance into the u.s. military academy at west point.the key word here is fabricated .
did the carson campaign admit any such thing ?
absolutely not .
the facts reported by politico don t even support this interpretation of the carson campaign s response .
according to politico , carson said in his 1992 memoir gifted hands that he was offered a full scholarship to west point after dining with general william westmoreland in 1969 .
here s the relevant passage from carson s autobiography : at the end of my twelfth grade i marched at the head of the memorial day parade .
i felt so proud , my chest bursting with ribbons and braids of every kind .
to make it more wonderful , we had important visitors that day .
two soldiers who had won the congressional medal of honor in viet nam were present .
more exciting to me , general william westmoreland ( very prominent in the viet nam war ) attended with an impressive entourage .
afterward , sgt .
hunt introduced me to general westmoreland , and i had dinner with him and the congressional medal winners .
later i was offered a full scholarship to west point .
i didn t refuse the scholarship outright , but i let them know that a military career wasn t where i saw myself going.that s the entire relevant portion of carson s account .
he reiterated that account last month in an interview with charlie rose , when he said , i was offered a full scholarship at west point , got to meet general westmoreland and go to congressional medal of honor dinners .
but decided really my pathway would be medicine .
politico followed up on this story .
they reported one additional pieces of information that seem to conflict with carson s story : carson never applied to west point , and was never extended admission.but carson never said he applied .
he said he was extended a full scholarship offer .
what s more , west point doesn t offer scholarships : all admission is free contingent on serving in the military afterwards .
it thus seems probable that westmoreland or another military figure tried to recruit carson , telling him that he wouldn t have to pay for his education and that carson read that as a full scholarship , and never applied.in fact , that s exactly what carson s campaign manager said to politico in an email : dr. carson was the top rotc student in the city of detroit .
in that role he was invited to meet general westmoreland .
he believes it was at a banquet .
he can t remember with specificity their brief conversation but it centered around dr. carson s performance as rotc city executive officer .
he was introduced to folks from west point by his rotc supervisors .
they told him they could help him get an appointment based on his grades and performance in rotc .
he considered it but in the end did not seek admission.but here s how politico editorialized : when presented with this evidence , carson s campaign conceded the story was false .
that s nonsense .
they did no such thing .
they provided details that corroborated carson s story and explained his loose use of the language .
if someone told you that you could go to college for free , you might reasonably conclude that you had been offered a full scholarship to attend that university .
but politico would call you a liar if you used such language to describe the exchange.now , some on the right are saying that carson should be held to a higher standard here than other candidates because he s running as an outsider .
but this is a basic case of misinterpreting facts , not an outright lie .
carson served in rotc .
prominent people wanted him to go to west point .
he wouldn t have had to pay .
he didn t apply because he didn t want to go .
those facts are not in dispute .
it s the specific wording over which media have decided to crucify him.this is a textbook example of a left-wing media hit .
politico would never editorialize about any democrat who issued such a response to a factual inquiry in this manner .
politico won t even conclude that hillary clinton lied about her attribution of the benghazi attacks to a youtube video despite email evidence that she knew benghazi was a terrorist attack entirely unrelated to a youtube video.but for ben carson , they ll make an exception.via : ben shapiro , daily wireupdate : dave weigel of the washington post rightly points out this from carson s facebook page circa august : i was the highest student rotc member in detroit and was thrilled to get an offer from west point .
but i knew medicine is what i wanted to do .
so i applied to only one school .
( it was all the money i had ) .
i applied to yale and thank god they accepted me .
i often wonder what might have happened had they said no.so politico lied again carson never even claimed to have applied to west point .