beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s outgoing prime minister , saad al-hariri , made a brief visit to the united arab emirates from saudi arabia on tuesday despite a deepening crisis back home and a rise in regional tensions triggered by his surprise resignation .
hariri announced his resignation on saturday during a visit to his ally saudi arabia and has not yet returned to lebanon .
he said he believed there was an assassination plot against him and accused iran , saudi arabia s arch-rival , and its lebanese ally hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
his resignation has thrust lebanon back into the frontline of the regional rivalry that pits a mostly sunni bloc led by saudi arabia and allied gulf monarchies against shi ite iran and its allies .
hariri s office said he had flown to abu dhabi on tuesday and then returned to riyadh , but it gave no reason for the trip .
it also did not say when he would return home .
hariri s future tv channel said he would also visit bahrain but gave no reason .
hezbollah has accused riyadh of forcing hariri to resign .
riyadh and aides to the lebanese leader , whose family made their fortune in the saudi construction industry , have strongly denied reports that he has been detained or was forced to quit .
on monday riyadh accused lebanon of declaring war against it because of aggression by hezbollah , dramatically escalating the crisis and threatening to destabilize lebanon .
on tuesday lebanese politicians and hezbollah remained silent about the escalation in saudi rhetoric after a series of consultations with president michel aoun , a hezbollah ally .
a rocket fired from yemen was intercepted on the outskirts of riyadh hours after hariri s resignation on saturday .
on monday , saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir told cnn the rocket was an iranian missile launched by hezbollah .
iranian president hassan rouhani called aoun on tuesday to discuss developments , telling him that unity among the lebanese people would ensure that external strife and regional problems could be overcome , iran s state news agency irna reported .
iran will do all it can to bolster the stability of lebanon , irna quoted rouhani as saying .
hariri s resignation has triggered the collapse of a national unity government agreed last year in a political deal that united lebanon s opposing sides .
this had led to lebanon s first budget since 2005 and to agreement on a new law for a parliamentary election , which could now get derailed .
aoun has said he will not accept hariri s resignation until he returns to lebanon to explain his thinking a move widely seen as a stalling tactic .
hezbollah and its allies will struggle to form a government without hariri or his blessing .
the post of prime minister must be filled by a member of lebanon s sunni community , among which he is the most influential politician .
the pro-hezbollah al-akhbar daily reported on tuesday that hariri was placed under house arrest hours after arriving in riyadh last friday , that a saudi security team was supervising his movements and that he had only limited access to his phones .
fouad siniora , a former prime minister and member of hariri s future movement , said he had spoken to him on monday and added that hariri would return to lebanon .
the political crisis has alarmed investors .
on tuesday lebanon s dollar bonds fell and the cost of insuring exposure to its debt reached its highest since late 2008 , and moody s ratings agency warned of damage to its credit rating .
five-year credit default swaps ( cds ) for lebanon lbgv5yusac=mg jumped 51 basis points from monday s close to 588 bps , according to ihs markit data .
lebanon s 2022 issue dollar bond lb055923779= fell 3.4 cents to 92 cents in the dollar , trading at its lowest ever level , thomson reuters data showed .
the finance minister , central bank governor and head of the banking association all issued statements on monday stressing lebanon s financial and monetary stability .