trump continued his attacks on the fake news media on monday night , leveling yet another attack on the amazon washington post over a story they published regarding one of the many things the donald did to support russia and in doing so , he appears to have confirmed the existence of a secret cia program.the story in question claimed that trump had ended a secret cia program to train syrian rebels to fight against dictator bashar al-assad .
according to the post , vladimir putin had long wanted to see the program shut down , and doing so reflects trump s interest in finding ways to work with russia , which saw the anti-assad program as an assault on its interests .
the amazon washington post fabricated the facts on my ending massive , dangerous , and wasteful payments to syrian rebels fighting assad , trump tweeted.the amazon washington post fabricated the facts on my ending massive , dangerous , and wasteful payments to syrian rebels fighting assad .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 25 , 2017trump , of course , didn t dispute the existence of the program just some of the facts surrounding his decision to end it .
then it was right back to attacking the fake news , apparently unaware that he had just revealed classified information : so many stories about me in the @ washingtonpost are fake news .
they are as bad as ratings challenged @ cnn .
lobbyist for amazon and taxes ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 25 , 2017is fake news washington post being used as a lobbyist weapon against congress to keep politicians from looking into amazon no-tax monopoly ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 25 , 2017so what got him on the topic ?
politico reporter hadas gold notes that fox news sean hannity was discussing the secret program on his show monday night : .
@ tuckercarlson was discussing this post story ( from july 19 ) tonight on his program https : //t.co/z4zeoxmwi4 https : //t.co/8b56qnk1e5 hadas gold ( @ hadas_gold ) july 25 , 2017naturally , americans are a little bit concerned that our alleged president is on twitter blabbing our national secrets again : isn t he tweeting about a classified program ?
kelly pranghofer ( @ kellypranghofer ) july 25 , 2017you misspelled directly supported bashar al assad because russia supports him .
jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) july 25 , 2017screw bone spurs !
trump ignorantly declassified a covert operation via twitter .
he s unfit to serve !
april ( @ speakout_april ) july 25 , 2017seriously , fuck off .
you managed to make the freakin boy scouts look like fascists today .
just shut up .
please .
michaelmarshallsmith ( @ ememess ) july 25 , 2017trump s rant about wapo story on us aid to syria sounds like putin s words .
key ( @ goodmendidzilch ) july 25 , 2017potus trump just discussed a covert cia operation and threatened major us corporation due to ceo owning a newspaper he dislikes .
pic.twitter.com/3vf4pu2mgb david rothschild ( @ davmicrot ) july 25 , 2017it s disclose secret cia operations and endanger valuable hard to find syrian assets week donovan rozier ( @ gaberino4 ) july 25 , 2017god , are you really stupid enough to reveal a ( formerly ) covert operation on twitter ?
my cat is literally smarter than you .
buffoon .
carter gaddis ( @ dadscribe ) july 25 , 2017leaking classified info who s the leaker now ?
you re a traitor giving away state secrets .
# impeachtrump # 25thamendmentnow j f ( @ carpjen ) july 25 , 2017what putie wants , putie gets , right ?
hippiechick ( @ mklave ) july 25 , 2017just to be clear about what happened : donald trump doesn t like a media outlet so he confirmed the existence of a classified cia program vladimir putin wanted gone.this is not normal.featured image via getty images/screengrab