beijing ( reuters ) - china wants to improve its military relationship with singapore , but is resolutely opposed to any country having defense ties with self-ruled taiwan , china s defence ministry said on thursday , obliquely criticizing singapore s taiwan links .
china is suspicious of the city state s good military relations both with the united states and taiwan , claimed by china as its own .
singaporean troops train in taiwan , despite a lack of formal diplomatic relations between the two , which has been an irritant in china-singapore ties .
last november , hong kong port authorities impounded nine singaporean armored military vehicles being shipped home from training grounds in taiwan , leading to tensions between singapore and china .
hong kong later released the vehicles .
asked about a visit of singaporean defence minister ng eng hen to china last week and speculation this may lead singapore to end its military training in taiwan , chinese defence ministry spokesman wu qian said relations with singapore s military had been generally developing smoothly .
there are high level talks , mutual visits of warships and other exchanges , which has deepened mutual understanding and achieved practical results , wu told a monthly news briefing .
china is willing to work with singapore to create favorable conditions to develop an even more mature military relationship , he said .
i also want to stress here that taiwan is an inseparable part of china .
we resolutely oppose any country having any form of official exchanges with taiwan or military links .
ng s meeting with chinese defence minister chang wanquan came as part of a trip to beijing by singapore s prime minister lee hsien loong , where there was no public mention of the taiwan matter .
influential state-run chinese newspaper the global times said last week that it was inevitable the military training in taiwan would end , though it offered no proof .
taiwan is one of china s most sensitive issues .
beijing has never renounced the use of force to bring what it considers a wayward province under its rule .
ties across the taiwan strait have nosedived since tsai ing-wen from the pro-independence democratic progressive party won presidential elections last year .
china suspects she wants to push for the island s formal independence .
she says she wants to maintain peace with her giant neighbor .
in recent months , chinese air force jets have carried out a series of drills around taiwan which have included bombers and advanced fighter jets .
spokesman wu reiterated that the drills were routine .
we will continue with such exercises , he added .
taiwan s defence ministry declined to comment .