paris ( reuters ) - world powers attempted to shore up lebanon s stability on friday by pushing saudi arabia and iran to stop interfering in its politics and urging hezbollah to rein in its regional activities .
lebanon plunged into crisis on nov. 4 when saad al-hariri resigned as prime minister while he was in saudi arabia , saying he feared assassination and criticizing the saudis regional arch-rival iran along with its lebanese ally hezbollah .
after international pressure and negotiations between lebanese political factions , he rescinded his resignation on tuesday and his coalition government , which includes hezbollah , reaffirmed a state policy of staying out of conflicts in arab states .
the international lebanon support group ( gis ) , a body that includes the five members of the u.n. security council britain , china , france , russia and the united states met in paris on friday to try to reinforce hariri s hand to prevent a new escalation .
disassociation applies to everyone - inside and outside , jean-yves le drian said at a news conference with hariri after the meeting .
these principles were reaffirmed this morning , he said , later referring specifically to both iran and saudi arabia .
without naming hezbollah , he urged all sides not to import regional tensions into lebanon .
hariri said that any breach of the policy of non-interference would drag lebanon back into the danger zone .
the disassociation policy is in the overarching interest of lebanon , he said .
the meeting had earlier been opened by president emmanuel macron .
he has invested political capital in the crisis and leveraged france s close relations with both lebanon and saudi arabia to secure a deal that saw hariri travel to paris and open the door to a resolution of the crisis last month .
( the group ) calls upon all lebanese parties to implement this tangible policy of disassociation from and non-interference in external conflicts , as an important priority , the final communique read .
saudi concern over the influence wielded by shi ite muslim iran and hezbollah in other arab states had been widely seen as the root cause of the crisis , which raised fears for lebanon s economic and political stability .
the lebanese policy of dissociation was declared in 2012 to keep the deeply divided state out of regional conflicts such as the civil war in neighboring syria .
despite the policy , hezbollah is heavily involved there , sending thousands of fighters to help syrian president bashar al-assad .
he said that while the diplomatic language for the final declaration would not single out any party , the message was that saudi arabia and iran should not influence lebanese politics and that hezbollah should rein in its regional activities .
friday s meeting isn t anti-saudi or anti-iranian , it s pro-lebanon , a senior french diplomat said before the meeting .
highlighting the difficulties of upholding such a policy , hezbollah backed calls on thursday for a new palestinian uprising in reaction to u.s. president donald trump s recognition of disputed jerusalem as israel s capital .
the stability of lebanon may seem like a small miracle given the many conflicts that destabilize the region , but it is maintained at the cost of sacrifice , dialogue and compromise , hariri said earlier alongside macron .
those attending friday s meeting also committed to strengthening the lebanese army through a conference in rome and to support a meeting in brussels also in 2018 to discuss how to help lebanon cope with the 1.4 million refugees it hosts .
a separate donor conference will also take place in march in paris to boost the country s economy with a view to stimulating investments once expected legislative elections take place in may .