beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian army and its allies took complete control over albu kamal , islamic state s last significant town in syria , a military news service run by hezbollah said on sunday .
the army had declared victory over islamic state in albu kamal earlier this month but the jihadists then staged a counter-attack using sleeper cells hidden in the town .
driving islamic state from albu kamal means only a few villages along the euphrates and patches of nearby desert , as well as isolated pockets in other parts of the country , remain in syria of the caliphate it declared in 2014 .
most of the forces battling islamic state in syria and iraq have said they expect it to go underground and turn to a guerrilla insurgency using sleeper cells and bombings .
western intelligence agencies have said it will still be able to inspire attacks on civilians around the world .
the syrian army and its allies in the axis of resistance have expelled daesh from its last stronghold on syrian soil , the hezbollah news service reported .
the axis of resistance is used by those in it to describe the alliance of iran , syria and shi ite militias including hezbollah .
the british-based syrian observatory for human rights said on sunday that most is members withdrew from the town , with fighting continuing in the perimeter of albu kamal .
islamic state s area of rule in syria has crumbled this year under two rival military campaigns .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) alliance of kurdish and arab militias , backed by a u.s.-led coalition has driven it from much of its territory in the north , including its former syrian capital raqqa .
syria s army and its allies have waged an offensive across central and eastern syria backed by russian air and missile power .
the two offensives have mostly avoided conflict with each other through communication between the united states and russia .
however , syrian and iranian officials have said that damascus seeks to regain control over areas held by the sdf .