seoul ( reuters ) - at least four defectors from north korea have shown signs of radiation exposure , the south korean government said on wednesday , although researchers could not confirm if they were was related to pyongyang s nuclear weapons program .
the four are among 30 former residents of kilju county , an area in north korea that includes the nuclear test site punggye-ri , who have been examined by the south korean government since october , a month after the north conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test , unification ministry spokesman baik tae-hyun told a news briefing .
they were exposed to radiation between may 2009 and january 2013 , and all defected to the south before the most recent test , a researcher at the korea atomic energy research institute , which carried out the examinations , told reporters .
north korea has conducted six nuclear bomb tests since 2006 , all in tunnels deep beneath the mountains of punggye-ri , in defiance of u.n. security council resolutions and international condemnation .
the researcher cautioned that there were a number of ways people may be exposed to radiation , and that none of the defectors who lived had lived in punggye-ri itself showed specific symptoms .
a series of small earthquakes in the wake of the last test - which the north claimed to be of a hydrogen bomb - prompted suspicions that it may have damaged the mountainous location in the northwest tip of the country .
experts warned that further tests in the area could risk radioactive pollution .
after the sept. 3 nuclear test , china s nuclear safety administration said it had begun emergency monitoring for radiation along its border with north korea .
and in early december , a state-run newspaper in china s jilin province , which borders north korea and russia , published a page of common sense advice on how readers can protect themselves from a nuclear weapons attack or explosion .
cartoon illustrations of ways to dispel radioactive contamination were also provided , such as using water to wash off shoes and using cotton buds to clean ears , as well as a picture of a vomiting child to show how medical help can be sought to speed the expulsion of radiation through stomach pumping and induced urination .