daily shooter 21st century wirelast night , a highly emotive and politicized gladio-style event unfolded in america .
still , after so many other similar events recorded throughout recent history all followed by similarly predictable political fall-outs and effects the general public are still slow to grasp what is really happening before their eyes .
the event in dallas falls into a similar pattern of other high-profile sniper attacks , all of which were stage false flag events designed with a particular political , or geopolitical purpose in mind.regarding last night , here s what we know so far the plot : according to law enforcement officials , at least 5 police officers were shot and killed with another 7 wounded , after 3 or 4 alleged snipers described as radical left-wing and armed militant black activists , fired from surrounding buildings into an 800-strong black lives matter protest crowd who were marching in downtown dallas , texas .
amazingly , we re told that only one civilian was reportedly injured .
image : # blacklivesmatter protesters rally around recent victims philando castile and alton sterling ( photo : indian express/ reuters ) .protesters are said to have been marching against the recent police shootings of two black men in the cities of baton rouge , louisiana and also in st. paul , minnesota.the following onlookers videos were released from the dallas incident .
watch : amazingly , by late last night and early this morning , police chief david brown reported that at least 3 of suspected snipers were already in custody.brown stated early on that he believed the four suspects were working as a unit , using long-range rifles , triangulated at elevated positions at difference places in the downtown area .
the fourth suspect , micah xavier johnson ( the media referred to him as micah x to intentionally prompt a malcolm x tone to the event ) , we are told was a military-trained us army veteran , who was said to be caught in a shoot-out with police from the second floor of the el centro parking garage .
he was upset about black lives matter , the recent police shootings , he was upset at white people .
he wanted to kill white people , especially police officers , brown said .
( ny post ) bizarrely , according to police , johnson ( photo , above ) was finally summarily executed by police after an unprecedented risk assessment by the dallas police who deployed a robot carrying a bomb .
chief brown claimed that his officers had no choice but to use the bomb to kill the suspect : other options would have exposed our officers to grave danger .
the political ripple effects of this unlikely and highly improbable event were felt immediately , as the mainstream media siege was underway , and the politicians began lining up to weigh-in and jockey for political position on any number of issue ranging from gun control , to race relations , and police brutality , but also debating the whether or not public marches and demonstrations are indeed safe for the public to attend in the face of this latest security threat .
on the police side of this dialectic , law enforcement are also queuing up to decry the violence against police and calls are omnipresent for increased police powers and security measure in order to combat the rising threat of domestic extremism .
coincidentally , yesterday s event just happened to all on july 7th , or 7/7 ala london 7/7 .
following on that theme , the media and law enforcement began floating the term terrorist attack and cnn leading the pack by claiming that dallas 7/7 was the police s worst loss since 9/11 ( sept 11 , 2001 ) .
so one can see how the spin is already being applied to this media event.the maidan massacreback february 2014 , events transpired in kiev , ukraine which sparked international outrage and calls for regime change in kiev , and served as the key catalyst for a coup d etat and the ouster of ukraine s democratically elected president viktor yanukovych .
a leaked phone call between eu foreign affairs chief catherine ashton and estonian foreign affairs minister showed how there was knowledge at the highest levels of european government , but western leaders opted to maintain a disinterested stance in the face of this new evidence .
listen to the phone call here : earlier this year , in january 2016 , one such academic investigation concluded that the sniper event at maidan square was in fact a false flag event which was used to create a false public perception of events and usher in a shift in political power in that country .
canadian political science professor dr. ivan katchanovski of ottawa university concluded that this academic investigation concludes that the massacre was a false flag operation , which was rationally planned and carried out with a goal of the overthrow of the government and seizure of power , wrote katchanovski in his study , called the snipers massacre on the maidan in ukraine .
despite all these revelations , the us , uk and the eu are still standing by their earlier narrative of the sniper massacre as a , euromaidan democratic , peaceful mass-protest movement and a color revolution led by pro-western parties .
ukraine s own internal investigation into the matter has been shown to be a highly political exercise , which appears to have resulted in a comprehensive cover-up of what really happened on the day.snipers in homs , syriain the early days of what western governments and media were portraying as an arab spring color uprising in syria in 2010 and 2011 , unknown snipers played a crucial role in advancing a strategy of tension and fomenting civil unrest , particularly in the city of homs .
snipers were reported as firing on citizens and also shooting at police indiscriminately .
the western media s policy was not to report on this , but only to report on the state security reaction and crack-down triggered by these mysterious and seemingly random acts of violence.some independent writers and researchers have reported on the anomalies of the homs shootings , but as yet , no in-depth investigation has taken place.however , the testimony of father frans van der lugt in homs , provided a look into what was happening during this ugly phase of a western and gcc-backed rebellion being waged in syria : from the start , the protest movements were not purely peaceful .
from the start i saw armed demonstrators marching along in the protests , who began to shoot at the police first .
very often the violence of the security forces has been a reaction to the brutal violence of the armed rebels .
it s clear now after looking back at numerous reports about these incidents , that they were designed to instigate a crisis , which would ultimately lead to either a political instability and civil unrest.the other aspect of these false flag events , is that they have the potential to also redefine the relationship between the public and the state and its security apparatus.in each instance , a regime change was expected , although this was not completely successful in the case of syria.the dallas deceptionthe dallas shooting is significant on a number of levels.firstly , dallas will further accentuate the artificial divide between what americans perceive as the left or liberal wing of political society , and the what is sold as america s right or conservative wing .
in this dialectic , democrat is set against republican , young against old , black is pitted against white , wealthy against poor , upper class against middle class , and even middle class against lower class .
in the run-up to the presidential election in november , this division will be important in order to polarize america along a prefabricated dialectical line and thus keeping the national discourse down at a base , or emotional level and through this binary process avoid any real examination of america s fundamental issues , policy flaws and the federal government s unsustainable bloated borrow & spend habit effectively kicking the can down the road another 4 years ( which seems to be the norm ) .
ultimately , this serves the state , its bureaucratic stakeholders and the power structure as a whole .
secondly , this event can be used to nudge the left-wing and democrat party s own gun control agenda , which is being aggressively pursued at the moment .
this wing of the political establishment has already demonstrated that it has no qualms about using a national incident or tragedy , like the orlando shooting , as warm pr leverage to push their emergency legislative agenda .
ironically , left-wing and black activists will be blamed for this latest act of political violence and will be used in this case to further advance the political left s own bespoke gun control agenda much to the dismay of conservative america .
as a result of this staged event carried out by agent provocateurs , anti-police or anti-government african-american militant , or black power activists will be painted a poor light , and effectively marginalized .
once this process is complete , the state can then move in to extend that marginalization to any anti-government protests further neutering any real grass-roots opposition for what is obviously a rapidly growing police state in the us.thirdly , this event is being used to increase tension between the public and law enforcement .
note the differences between the short and the long-term narratives at play here .
in the short-term , this dallas sniper event is originally designed as a reaction to us police killing poor unarmed black men on the streets of america , but in the long-term the pendulum will swing back to the state in order to restore law and order , thus further consolidating power into a more concentrated police state .
this is evidenced already by us law enforcement are already rallying in solidarity , in an us against them dialectic by placing the nation s police as the protagonist and the public as the antagonist.this obvious dialectical theme is already being echoed internationally on twitter , as police in the us and the uk advance the term thin blue line : the thin blue line stretches across the country tonight .
we stand by you @ dallaspd # dallas # thinblueline pic.twitter.com/zyifjwyfdh nypd 108th precinct ( @ nypd108pct ) july 8 , 2016it should be noted here that the colloquial policing term thin blue line is derived from the term thin red line , which describes as an inferior , outnumbered force holding back the hordes .
the original reference of this comes from a battle of balaclava fought by the highland infantry brigade for the british army during the 19th century crimean war .
explained : the thin red line has become an english language figure of speech for any thinly spread military unit holding firm against attack .
the phrase has also taken on the metaphorical meaning of the barrier which the relatively limited armed forces of a country present to potential attackers .
( wiki ) it s important to understand the symbolism behind this term thin blue line which is currently being invoked by law enforcement .
it implies an us against them dialectical narrative , arguably , quite far and remote from the familiar peace officer-oriented slogan protect and serve .
finally , this event will be used to reinforce and heighten the ever-increasing profile of america s bizarre new post-9/11 cult of the first responder , which appears to be an extension of the cult of our boys , a lionization campaign which was developed by the pentagon over years of mass us troop deployment in two highly unpopular wars in iraq and afghanistan .
the main thrust of the effort to glorify and assert to preeminence of the first responder is part and parcel of a wider us agenda to fully militarize us domestic society , and to characterize us public life as a combat zone , or domestic war zone which society devolves its authority and constant crisis management over to america s new unified command structure and gendarmerie the department of homeland security ( dhs ) , and the fbi.between the 1960 s and 1990 s , operation gladio saw numerous staged terror events carried out in europe in order to advance a strategy of tension .
all of the alleged terrorist attacks during this time were later proven to be the work not of terrorists , but of the security and intelligence services .
many innocent civilians died , and still to date , no one has been convicted , much less brought before a court or public hearing on a dirty state-sponsored program which many believe is still running to this day , albeit in one form or another.expect the political rhetoric to spin out of control with each media cycle over the next 72 hours , before fading into monday .
such is the nature of the daily shooter in these troubled and fleetingly real times.stay tuned here for more stories and updates on the dallas deception.read more dallas shooting news at : 21st century wire dallas shooting filessupport our work by subscribing and becoming a member @ 21wire.tv