tim allen took to twitter to express his disappointment after discovering that the second highest rated comedy tv series on abc , last man standing was going to be cancelled : stunned and blindsided by the network i called home for the last six years .
# lastmanstanding tim allen ( @ ofctimallen ) may 16 , 2017many of his fans commented in support of his courage to stand up for his conservative views : thanks for standing up and speaking out against the pc police for as long as you could , tim .
mark dice ( @ markdice ) may 16 , 2017conservative comedian mark dice also reminded him that his comments on a recent jimmy kimmel show about how it was tough to be a conservative in hollywood , was likely the final straw that caused abc to cancel his show : you calling out the liberals for their insanity on jimmy kimmel was the last straw for the network , but someone had to do it .
thanks , tim !
mark dice ( @ markdice ) may 16 , 2017a petition was started last week by last man standing fans and now has over 371k signatures .
the petition asks abc to reconsider their decision to cancel the last man standing and to renew the show .
here is the link to that petition : the petition to abc reads : despite consistently high rankings , especially considering the time slot in which it is aired , tim allen s show last man standing has been cancelled by the network on which it is aired , abc .
last man standing stands out in the sea of network television sitcoms .
it is a show that appeals to a broad swath of americans who find very few shows that extol the virtues with which they can identify ; namely conservative values .
last man standing was not just selling conservative ideals though , as some of the characters in the show are clearly of the liberal persuasion , yet the characters on the show all manage to get along and take care of one another , despite their politically opposed views .
the show is about more than politics though , it is about family .
in fact , politics is only a secondary part of the show , but one in which many americans can readily identify .
last man standing is one of the only shows on broadcast television , and the only sitcom , that is not constantly shoving liberal ideals down the throats of the viewers .
and sadly , that is likely the real reason the show has been cancelled.the intent of this petition/boycott is to attempt to get abc to renew the show .
with that in mind , i will no longer be watching any abc shows .
i have cancelled the dvr settings for the other abc shows that i regularly watch .
if you want to help try to save last man standing , i encourage you to do the same .
even if you are not willing to boycott the network , but still want to save the show , please sign this petition and share it .
if you do plan to boycott abc , please say so when you sign .
let them hear our voices.now , studio 20th century fox television is looking for a new home for canceled tim allen comedy last man standing .
speaking to variety thursday , studio presidents jonnie davis and howard kurtzman said that they were surprised by abc s decision to pull the plug on the show .
that s the one that s really an open sore right now , davis said .
kurtzman added , we really were expecting a pickup .
the fact that we didn t get a pickup was a surprise and a disappointment .
i think no one was more disappointed than tim allen , such a huge star with such a huge following .
but the series , which was abc s second most-watched comedy last season behind modern family , may not be dead .
asked whether last man standing would be shopped to other networks , kurtzman said , we re starting to explore that .
if it s not going to go forward at abc , of course jonnie and i are hopeful that we can find another home for it .
political and social conservatives have been vocal in their disappointment over the show s end .
allen , its star and executive producer , is conservative and a supporter of president trump.speaking to reporters tuesday , abc entertainment president channing dungey denied that last man standing was canceled because of allen s right-leaning politics , and said that it was , instead , a scheduling decision .
once we made the decision not to continue with comedy on friday , it was just kind of that s where we landed , she said .
varietytime will tell if abc s fan base is more important to them than their liberal views