frankfurt ( reuters ) - frankfurt city officials have warned that germany s financial capital could grind to a halt on monday if residents don t heed orders to vacate their homes to allow the defusing of a massive world war two bomb .
on sunday , the city will evacuate some 60,000 people in the nation s biggest such maneuver since the war while officials disarm the british bomb discovered on a building site this week in frankfurt s leafy westend , where many wealthy bankers live .
fire and police chiefs , at a hastily called press conference on friday , said they would use force and incarceration if necessary to clear the area of residents .
an uncontrolled explosion of the bomb would be big enough to flatten a city block , frankfurt fire chief reinhard ries told reporters .
this bomb has more than 1.4 tonnes of explosives , he said .
it s not just fragments that are the problem , but also the pressure that it creates that would dismantle all the buildings in a 100-metre ( yard ) radius .
.
the hc 4000 bomb is assumed to have been dropped by britain s royal air force during the 1939-45 war .
such finds are not unusual , but rarely are the unexploded bombs so large and in such a sensitive position .
the compulsory evacuation radius of 1.5 km ( roughly a mile ) around the bomb includes police headquarters , two hospitals , transport systems and germany s central bank storing $ 70 billion in gold reserves .
officials on friday called on frankfurt s residents to clear the area by 8 a.m. on sunday and warned the effort could take at least 12 hours .
police said they couldn t begin defusing the bomb until they were sure everyone had left the area .
they would ring every doorbell and use heat-sensing technology from overhead helicopters to help them identify stragglers , they said .
roads and transport systems , including the parts of the underground , will be closed during the work and for at least two hours after the bomb is defused , to allow patients to be transported back to hospitals without traffic .
air traffic from frankfurt airport could also be affected if there is an easterly wind on sunday , air traffic control told reuters on friday .
also , small private planes , helicopters and drones will be banned from the evacuation zone , they said .
frankfurters can spend the day at shelters set up at the trade fair and the jahrhunderthalle convention center , police have said .
in addition , most museums are offering frankfurt residents free entry on sunday , and a few of them will open their doors earlier in the morning than usual , the city said on its website .