wellington ( reuters ) - the party holding the balance of power in new zealand s election said on monday foreign ownership restrictions would be part of its coalition talks , after a final tally showing greater support for the center-left bloc drove the local dollar to a four-month low .
a final vote count published over the weekend - two weeks after the sept. 23 poll - showed the center-left labour-green bloc picking up two extra seats , bringing it nearer to the center-right governing national party s tally .
with labour-green on 54 seats and national on 56 seats , both will need nz first s nine seats to meet the 61 seats needed for a majority in parliament in new zealand s proportional representation system .
when pressed by reporters on whether foreign ownership would be a large part of negotiations with both national and labour , nz first leader winston peters said he doubted whether anyone in the press expected otherwise .
so have you got that ?
it s a yes , he said .
national , which has sought to focus discussions on its careful management of the small , open trading economy , has repeatedly expressed support for open investment .
in contrast , labour has suggested there is room for some restrictions .
it wants to ban overseas buyers from purchasing existing homes as it tries to tackle what it has described as a housing crisis in new zealand .
labour and new zealand first are thought to have more policies in common , with both looking to curb immigration , renegotiate certain trade deals and adjust the role of the central bank .
the new zealand dollar nzd=d4 fell as far as $ 0.7052 on monday from $ 0.7090 on friday evening , its lowest since late may , as uncertainty over the election outcome prevailed.the currency traded at $ 0.7071 in the afternoon .
the market s been anticipating more of a center-right government and the unknown from the center-left is weighing , anz economist con williams said .
peters , a colorful 40-year political veteran who has in the past has taken senior roles in both labour and national governments , has set a self-imposed deadline of oct. 12 to announce which party he will support .
when asked how this week s talks compared to previous election negotiations , peters said , according to local media : they are similar in some ways because of circumstances .
more like 1996 than 2005 .
in 1996 peters formed a coalition government with national after two months of negotiation , while in 2005 he entered a confidence and supply agreement with labour , which allowed the center-left party to govern .
the 1996 election was much tighter than 2005 in which labour won a wide lead .
but we have a few days to go yet before we will know the outcome , the new zealand herald quoted peters as saying .