amsterdam ( reuters ) - dutch politicians gave each other high-fives when they won a contest to host the european medicines agency last month , but not everyone in the capital is celebrating the expected influx of highly-paid pharmaceutical experts .
amsterdam s residents and media , already sick of the numbers of tourists searching out stag-do strip joints on their streets , are increasingly vexed about another group of visitors - white-collar , expatriate workers .
a nice brexit trophy , but can the city handle it ?
newspaper nrc handelsblad said in a headline , referring to the decision to move the regulatory agency from london to amsterdam after britain leaves the eu .
the ema will come with around 900 staff - a wonderful economic boost , according to supporters of the move .
detractors say it s just another group of foreigners with big pay packets driving up rents and property prices .
home buyers will pay the price for drugs agency in amsterdam , said national broadcaster nos .
on social media , many also mourned the death of the city s free-wheeling and edgy spirit , killed off , they said , by the likes of the ema s army of bureaucrats .
the sanitation of amsterdam has been going on for more than a decade .
advertising campaigns have focused on the city s canals , the anne frank house , the museums packed with van gogh and rembrandt s greatest works .
legislators have helped the re-branding by shuttering a third of the city s brothels in 2008 and starting a program to close marijuana cafes near schools in 2011 .
the number of overnight tourists nearly doubled from 2011 to 2016 , according to amsterdam marketing .
amsterdam and its 850,000 residents now welcome more than 6 million foreign tourists a year .
that has all coincided with a surge in the number of well-heeled expatriates - numbers have also doubled to 77,000 in 2015 from 39,000 in 2009 , according to the city s statistics office .
amsterdam has always been an open city , said reinier van dantzig , leader of the largest faction in city parliament from the centrist d-66 party .
immigrants were an integral part of the city s 17th-century golden age and were continuing to contribute to the current economic boom , he added .
that s why i have such difficulty with people who say that people from outside who want to become amsterdammers would be some kind of danger - i think they re an addition .
the city , he said , was building housing for 70,000 more people , with extra space allotted to apartments for low and medium-income families .
too little , too late for danielle van diemen , a 5th-generation amsterdammer .
the city is being defined by a mix of western foreigners who think that amsterdam is edgy but that s no longer true , she said , pointing to a ban on squatting that went into effect in 2010 .
the gap between wealthy expats who don t speak dutch and locals is all but unbridgeable , she added .
so : expats go home and leave the city to us .
i am like a visitor in my own neighborhood , said bert nap , who lives near the center .
we have lost all our bakers and other shops to tourism-orientated shops , he added , echoing complaints across europe s holiday hotspots .
a survey by apartment-searching website nestpick in april ranked amsterdam # 1 on its global list of best cities for millennials , citing its tolerance , night life and thriving startup scene .
these people have qualifications , they have skills , they are networked , and so the fact is that they compete for houses and jobs with people who don t have those qualifications , said jan rath , a sociology professor at the university of amsterdam .
you could argue that what s happening ... is actually a replacement of the population he said .
real estate prices have soared , leading to a squeeze on unskilled workers , whether they are native dutch or turkish and moroccan immigrants .
according to statistics netherlands ( cbs ) , 40 percent of young couples leave the city within four years of having their first child , driven out by the lack of affordable housing .
resentment also stems from a policy that allows skilled immigrants to receive 30 percent of their income tax-free .
on a salary of 100,000 euros that amounts to 15,000 euros in extra take-home pay for an expat over a dutch person doing the same job .
property prices rose 13 percent in the third quarter of 2017 from the same period a year earlier , according to the cbs , above their 2008 highs .
listings have dried up .
as one real estate agent put it , the market has boiled dry .
michiel van hemert , a kitchen assistant , said government priorities were wrong .
imagine the economic boom that would come from retraining 40 and 50-year-olds , which is clearly needed , he said .
he recommended more funding for educators , police , nurses and other public servants .
i speak for myself and two or three generations before me .