hanoi ( reuters ) - vietnam s crackdown on high level corruption has led to the arrest of dozens of officials from state oil firm petrovietnam and the banking sector .
as well as shedding light on graft , mismanagement and nepotism within state firms at a time privatization is accelerating , the arrests show the ascendancy of a more conservative faction within the ruling communist party .
how many people are involved ?
at least 51 have been arrested across petrovietnam and the banking sector .
some have been tried and sentenced already .
the most senior figure arrested is former petrovietnam chairman dinh la thang .
he is the first former politburo member to face prosecution in decades .
neither he nor his lawyer was available for comment .
germany has accused vietnam of kidnapping one petrovietnam suspect , trinh xuan thanh .
more than 100 other officials are also under threat of prosecution or have been demoted or fired .
what is petrovietnam ?
petrovietnam is a tangled enterprise of 15 direct units , 18 subsidiaries and 46 affiliates in which it owns smaller stakes .
hundreds of millions of dollars in losses have been racked up at units ranging from banks to construction firms and power plants to textile mills .
the scandals at petrovietnam are connected to the banking sector through a deal in which the oil firm lost $ 35 million in an investment in ocean bank .
the lender s former chief executive - a previous petrovietnam chairman - was sentenced to death .
what does the crackdown mean politically ?
it shows a concerted effort to rein in large-scale corruption through which some officials had secured massive personal wealth and tarnished the ruling party s image .
but it has also allowed the current communist party leadership to strengthen its hand under general secretary nguyen phu trong after winning out in a power struggle with former prime minister nguyen tan dung last year .
whether or not the arrests go even higher , trong s supremacy is assured through a term that lasts until 2021 and the faction is better placed to maintain its dominance even beyond .
what divides the different groups in the ruling party ?
although the party presents a public image of unity , there are diverse views on everything from the pace and openness of reforms to vietnam s delicate diplomatic balancing between china , the united states and other powers .
what best characterizes the current leadership is conservatism in preserving the party s absolute authority in close alignment with the security establishment .
it marks a change of style from the leadership under dung and his allies , some of whom emerged as personalities in their own right and showed signs of readiness for greater political openness .
alongside the corruption arrests , vietnam has also arrested more bloggers , activists and other critics this year than in any other since a 2011 crackdown on youth activists .
how popular is the corruption crackdown ?
few tears are shed in vietnam over the arrests of former officials , but there is also scepticism over the real motives .
the day-to-day corruption of low-level officials and police is still a factor of vietnamese life .
what impact has this had on petrovietnam ?
petrovietnam s net profit margin in 2016 was its lowest in at least seven years at just over 7 percent from over 15 percent in 2009 .
the company told reuters the oil price was the biggest factor , but it has also said failed projects , wrongdoing by officials and the investigations themselves had an impact .
petrovietnam s shares are not listed on a stock exchange , but some of its units have underperformed its thai peer ptt since 2009 .
what does this mean for reform and privatization ?
although the crackdown points to the political strengthening of the party , the leadership has shown less sign of delaying economic reform than the previous administration .
facing pressure because of its budget deficit , the government has accelerated plans to sell major stakes in the most attractive assets - brewery sabeco and vinamilk .
it is also selling stakes in three units of petrovietnam .
some economic and business analysts believe the fear among officials of being branded corrupt could further hold up bureaucratic decision making in state-run firms and ministries .
( $ 1=22,710 dong )