myrtle beach , south carolina ( reuters ) - the vatican on friday tried to tamp down a firestorm ignited by pope francis ’ comments assailing donald trump ’ s views on u.s. immigration as “ not christian ” , assuring the republican presidential front-runner that it was not a personal attack or attempt to influence the u.s. campaign .
francis told reporters during a conversation on his flight home from mexico on thursday , “ a person who thinks only about building walls , wherever they may be , and not building bridges , is not christian. ” trump has said if elected president , he would build a wall along the u.s.-mexican border to keep immigrants from illegally entering the united states .
vatican spokesman father federico lombardi told vatican radio the pope ’ s comments , in response to a reporter ’ s question on trump , were an affirmation of his longstanding belief that migrants should be helped and not shut out .
he said the pope believed people “ should build bridges , not walls ” .
“ in no way was this a personal attack , nor an indication of how to vote , ” lombardi said .
trump , who leads republican candidates in opinion polls , lashed out on thursday , dismissing the pope ’ s remarks as “ disgraceful ” for questioning his faith .
“ if and when the vatican is attacked by isis ( islamic state ) , which as everyone knows is isis ’ ultimate trophy , i can promise you that the pope would have only wished and prayed that donald trump would have been president , ” trump said .
later , during a television appearance , he rowed back , calling francis “ a wonderful guy. ” the extraordinary exchange between the billionaire real estate developer and leader of the world ’ s 1.25 billion roman catholics , which occurred days before saturday ’ s republican nominating contest in south carolina , was headline news around the world .
on friday , new york ’ s daily news gave it the front page .
against a backdrop of an image of trump , a headline blared : anti christ !
the new york post ran a front page photo of trump and the pope wearing boxing gloves with the headline : trump & pope : bible belters .
it was unclear what , if any , effect the tussle might have on the vote in south carolina , a conservative state that is home to many evangelical protestant christians .
patrick hornbeck , chairman of the department of theology at fordham university in new york , said on thursday that francis ’ words were not surprising given the poverty he had just seen in mexico .
“ there is very little common ground between pope francis and donald trump , ” hornbeck said .
he predicted the pope ’ s words on electoral politics would have little effect on any u.s. catholics who liked trump as a candidate .
at a cnn town hall in columbia , south carolina , on thursday night , trump said he had “ a lot of respect ” for francis but that the pope had been influenced by hearing only mexico ’ s side of the border issue .
the pope ’ s statement also had been exaggerated by the media , he said .
“ i think he said something much softer than it was originally reported by the media , ” trump said .
earlier on thursday , thomas groome , director of the boston college center on the church in the 21st century , said francis ’ comments were entirely in keeping with his focus on mercy .
“ the pope is commissioned to preach the gospel of jesus christ .
that ’ s his job , ” groome said .
“ so when he was asked a direct question , he gave trump the benefit of the doubt , he said we have to be sure he said this , but if he said this , it is not christian. ” ( reporting by emily flitter ; writing by doina chiacu ; editing by toni reinhold ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .