what a slap in the face to a strong candidate who has received little to no attention by the traditional gop pundits and rino s who run the party and manipulate the candidate s popularity dr. ben carson , a 2016 gop presidential candidate , is furious that the national republican senatorial committee ( nrsc ) would use his birthday to try to boost its fundraising coffers .
the nrsc has recently sent out fundraising emails and online ads soliciting donations under the guise of wishing dr. carson a happy birthday , carson communications director doug watts told breitbart news on thursday.while he surely appreciates their good wishes , he is less than happy they never bothered the common courtesy of advising our campaign .
contributors should be advised that none of the proceeds or names are being shared with the campaign .
this is the kind of politics-as-usual approach americans are tired of , deceitful washington practices to feather the nests of the political class.andrea bozek , an nrsc spokeswoman , told breitbart news in response on friday that the group was just trying to wish carson a happy birthday .
first we are hearing of it , bozek said .
we simply wanted to wish dr. carson a happy birthday .
the nrsc fundraising pitch was sent out in an email paid for by the nrsc and wishes carson a happy birthday via town hall magazine media .
carson s birthday is friday , sept. 18.the email , addressed to friend , reads as following : just wanted to let you know that republican presidential candidate dr. ben carson celebrates his birthday this week !
dr. carson is a strong conservative who has saved many lives during his time working as a neurosurgeon .
please join us in wishing dr. ben carson a happy birthday and sign his birthday card today !
that links off to a website from the nrsc putting forward a birthday card for carson but also collecting email addresses and soliciting donations for the gop campaign committee for u.s. senate republicans.carson has proven to be a prolific fundraiser .
in fact , carson s communications director watts told breitbart news in simi valley , california at the reagan library that in just the month of september , carson has raised $ 5.5 million in the first 15 days .
we hit our 500,000th donation with 300,000 unique donors , watts told breitbart news on the spin room floor .
it s really the grassroots exploding , as they re seeing the possibility of an outsider winning .
their efforts matter and their small donations matter .
watts told breitbart news that the average donation is around $ 49 to $ 51 .
about 90 percent of our contributors are under $ 200 , watts said.for entire story : matthew boyle , breitbart news