nairobi ( reuters ) - it had all the trappings of a proper polling station - ballot-boxes , pots of indelible ink , registration lists and a dozen election officials dutifully seated behind school desks .
the only things missing were the voters .
in nairobi s kibera slum , a hot-bed of support for veteran opposition leader raila odinga , many young men failed to heed his call for a peaceful stay-away from thursday s election , a re-run of an august presidential vote annulled by the courts .
after opening six hours late because of a lack of security , the polling station at kibera s olympic primary school came under attack from stone-throwing youths determined to ward off any voters .
police at the gates responded with volleys of tear gas followed by live rounds , sending gangs of youths chanting slogans against president uhuru kenyatta scurrying for cover in the warren of streets and tin-shacks next to the school walls .
riot officers then sealed off the area , making it impossible for even residents to get through , let alone would-be voters prepared to run the gauntlet of pro-odinga peer pressure .
i don t want to vote .
i just want to go to my home , said 24-year-old kevin ouma-sigiria , after being turned back by armed riot police blocking the rubble-strewn road 500 metres ( 1500 feet ) from the school .
as he spoke , another man tried to talk his way through the road-block , only to receive a prod in the chest from a wooden club , followed by a nonchalant whack around the ankles .
there is a crisis up there , one of the riot officers , who idenitified himself only as kevin , said .
if they come one-by-one , that s ok .
but if they gather again , the crisis will get bigger .
moments later , 35-year-old said mohammed scurried down the street in the opposite direction with his wife and three small children to pack them off to relatives living up-country .
it s not good for their health , he said , clutching his children s hands as the pop of exloding tear-gas grenades echoed across the tin roof-tops .
other opposition strongholds in western kenya saw similar unrest , causing the election commission to postpone voting there until the weekend - although there is little prospect of a 48-hour delay yielding a different outcome .
in kibera , polling station staff should have slept overnight at the olympic school but were unable to do so because of fear of being attacked .
as it was , they arrived under armed escort at 10am - four hours after voting was meant to start .
the ballot boxes , also escorted by a heavily armed police contingent , arrived an hour after that - not that there was any chance of them being used .
nobody is going to vote here today , said olympic deputy presiding officer jaqueline onuko , blithely tucking into a sandwich as rocks clanged against the metal roof of the classroom-cum-polling station .
the first time around was very busy ... they were here queueing at 3 in the morning .
now nobody is going to come .
they are scared of both the police and their neighbors .