washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate banking committee rejected u.s. president donald trump ’ s nominee to head the u.s. export-import bank on tuesday but approved four other board nominees , enough to restore the trade bank ’ s full lending powers upon their confirmation by the full senate .
the committee voted 13-10 against scott garrett as exim president in a rebuke to conservatives who saw the former new jersey republican congressman as an ally who would keep tight controls on the government export lender .
garrett helped lead a 2015 effort to shut down exim to end a source of “ corporate welfare ” for giant manufacturers such as boeing co and general electric .
after his nomination he pledged to keep the bank “ fully open ” but struggled to persuade senators that he now believed in the bank ’ s core mission of providing taxpayer-backed loans and guarantees for u.s. export transactions .
“ i believe he ’ s a principled man who simply believes in the abolishment of the bank , ” said senator mike rounds of south dakota , who voted against garrett along with south carolina republican tim scott and all democrats on the panel .
the white house ’ s director of legislative affairs , marc short , commented , “ we are disappointed that the senate banking committee missed this opportunity to get the export import bank fully functioning again .
we will continue to work with the committee on a path forward. ” the committee , however , approved trump ’ s nominations for exim ’ s first vice president , kimberly reed , and three other board members : former louisiana congressman spencer bachus , claudia slacik and judith delzoppo pryor .
it also approved mark greenblatt as the agency ’ s inspector general .
confirmation of at least three board members will allow exim to resume approval of loans and guarantees above $ 10 million , returning the united states to export financing for major projects such as commercial aircraft , power turbines and petrochemical plants for the first time since june 2015 .
ge in a statement urged quick confirmation of the remaining exim nominees and hailed the committee vote as “ a milestone for manufacturers across the u.s. whose customers require a fully-functioning exim bank. ” exim has a $ 42 billion backlog of deals in its pipeline awaiting approval , representing about 250,000 u.s. jobs based on bureau of labor statistics multiplier data , said scott schloegel , an obama administration appointee who still serves as the bank ’ s top officer .
schloegel said with exim ’ s extended absence from large-scale export finance , many u.s. exporters have been unable to compete with china for some major projects in the power and technology sectors .