brussels ( reuters ) - if european leaders earned points for the amount of time they spend at summits , french president emmanuel macron would probably top the rankings this week .
a two-day gathering in brussels - with talks running past midnight on thursday - was merely the icing on the cake for macron , who had already hosted a global climate conference and a counter-terrorism summit in the past four days .
he certainly comes with a lot of energy and ideas , one european council official said of the 39-year-old , who in seven months in office has earned a reputation for burning the candle at both ends , stretching his youthful staff .
we just hope we can find a way to channel it .
the question is , is it delivering results ?
when it comes to europe , the report card is so far mixed , although that s not necessarily macron s fault .
during his election campaign and early months in office , he put euro zone reform at the heart of his program , hoping to work hand-in-hand with germany and other member states on it .
but the german election in september weakened chancellor angela merkel s position and she is still trying to put together a coalition , a process unlikely to be completed before march .
without her , macron lacks a partner to push things along .
the discussions he wanted to have on ideas like a separate budget for the single currency area have been pushed back , an acknowledgement that the timing is not right .
there are talks on migration , security and defense , all topics addressed by eu leaders on thursday , but progress is slow and halting , particularly on migration , which led to divisive discussions late into the night .
macron , who in recent weeks has made trips to africa , met middle east leaders and brokered the return of lebanese prime minister saad hariri from saudi arabia , is at the heart of all the exhausting debates .
he may want to steer a course somewhere between former president nicolas sarkozy , whose hyperactive eu style drove some partners to distraction , and his immediate predecessor francois hollande , who was at times considered too low-key .
his energy is much appreciated , especially after the blow of brexit , but he must also try to stay a bit realistic , said a diplomat , mentioning that macron had managed to raise the ukraine crisis , the middle east , euro zone reform and demands that the bloc offer more social protection to citizens .
one problem the former investment banker faces is that getting 28 eu leaders to agree on a single course of action is always hard .
when he acts outside the eu bubble , he has arguably had more success .
his one planet summit this week drew new green pledges from corporations and international organizations , keeping the battle against climate change high up the global agenda .
an unscheduled stop in saudi arabia last month for talks with crown prince mohammad bin salman helped clinch the release of hariri , who flew to paris and then back to lebanon , where he withdrew his resignation as prime minister .
macron has in some ways taken the international reins at a time when several western leaders are otherwise engaged - britain s theresa may is tied up with brexit , merkel is bogged down in coalition politics and president donald trump s first year in office has been chaotic and unpredictable .
his main rival for geopolitical engagement is russian president vladimir putin , who has invited him to be guest of honor at the economic forum in st. petersburg next may .
no confirmation yet of whether macron will find the time to go .