kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - one month into the trial of the killing of north korean leader kim jong un s half-brother , malaysian prosecutors have focused on two accused women , but have shed no light on four prime north korean suspects .
historically close ties between north korea and malaysia unraveled as the southeast asian country started investigating the alleged murder of kim jong nam , who died after the two women smeared his face with vx , a banned chemical weapon , at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
malaysian police declared two women , indonesian siti aisyah and doan thi huong from vietnam , and four men who fled to north korea , as prime suspects .
police secured an interpol alert for the four men , identified as north koreans ri ji hyon , hong song hac , o jong gil , and ri jae nam .
their photos and passport details were widely distributed among media organizations .
but as the trial enters its fourth week , prosecutors have yet to name the four men or even confirm their north korean origin in court .
the case s lead police investigator , wan azirul nizam che wan aziz , has referred to the suspects only by their pseudonyms during the trial and said that authorities did not have enough information to trace and arrest them .
based on my investigation , the suspects used assumed names and there were no identifying details such as passport numbers or telephone numbers , wan azirul told the court .
kim jong nam and his relationship with north korea s leader has been barely mentioned throughout the trial .
witnesses and lawyers alike refer to the victim as kim chol , according to the name on his north korean passport .
nor have prosecutors made any mention of what south korean intelligence sources have described as a state-sponsored plot to kill kim jong nam , who had been living in exile in macau .
both south korean and u.s. officials say kim jong un s regime were behind the killing , which pyongyang vehemently denies .
the question of who ( the victim ) is related to is only relevant when trying to determine the motive , but it s up to the prosecutors if they want to avoid having to prove a conspiracy involving the head of state of a foreign government , shad saleem faruqi , a law professor at the kuala lumpur-based university of malaya , the broader you cast the net , the more difficult your job becomes , he said .
malaysia and north korea came close to snapping ties over the case until a swap deal was agreed upon on march 30 .
three north koreans wanted for questioning over the killing were allowed to return home , along with kim jong nam s body , while nine malaysians barred from leaving pyongyang were released .
defense lawyers have said siti aisyah and huong , who were arrested in kuala lumpur within days of the killing , were duped into thinking they were playing a prank for a reality tv show and did not know they were poisoning kim jong nam .
cctv recordings screened in a court on the outskirts of kuala lumpur showed the four suspects , known only as mr. chang , mr. y , james and hanamori , at the airport on the morning of the killing .
hanamori , who went by the names of grandpa and uncle orchestrated the operation at the airport , wan azirul said .
two of them were seen meeting siti aisyah and huong before changing clothes and leaving the scene after kim jong nam was attacked .
mr. chang and mr. y had applied liquid on the women s hands , wan azirul said .
the trial resumes on monday when more cctv footage is expected to be shown .
the defense team is expected to focus more on the four north koreans , when the judge calls it to present its case .
the two women face a mandatory death sentence by hanging if found guilty .