did you know that in the state of texas alone over the last few years , more than 2000 illegal aliens were deported after committing sex crimes ? did you know that in the state of texas alone over the last few years , nearly a thousand illegal aliens have been convicted of sex crimes against children ? of course you didn t. the media has covered these horrors up for years , and even after donald trump dared reveal these horrors , the rape-deniers in the media continue to cover them up .
the media is covering up all kinds of horrific statistic regarding illegal aliens .
before we get to those , let s start with why.to democrats and their media allies , a few hundred raped children a year is seen as a small price to pay for the political benefits that come with an unsecure border .
mexicans vote 3-to-1 for democrats.of the 862 alien sex offenders deported by the texas-based offices , about 27 percent were convicted of sex offenses against children .
-breitbartyesterday in las vegas , a hispanic immigrant was been arrested for allegedly raping a toddler in las vegas .
the man accused of raping a 4-year-old girl and videotaping the entire sexual assault on his cellphone has been placed on an immigrant detainer .
it is not currently known if the accused child rapist is a legal or illegal immigrant.julio cesar medrano , 23 , also goes by the alias , julio rodriguez .
the las vegas resident was arrested on child rape charges on april 21 .
the sexual assault happened on april 3 , according to the time stamp on the 30-second cellphone video , police investigators.julio medrano was arrested after a woman found the video appearing to depict the immigrant raping the child .
a tattoo on the hand of the man in the alleged child rape video aided las vegas law enforcement investigators in identifying the suspect , the daily mail reports.julio medrano has been charged with seven criminal counts in connection with the child sexual assault case .
the charges levied against the hispanic immigrant include sexual assault against a child younger than 14 , child abuse or neglect , producing and possessing child pornography , possession of a dangerous weapon , and carrying a concealed knife without a permit , according to the clark county detention center online records database.for entire story inquisitr