and this woman wants to be in charge of america ?
she can t even handle a laugh factory standup skit !
the thing that s so wrong is that the first amendment comes into play here .
you won t believe this : in what appears to be a first for a serious presidential contender , hillary clinton s campaign is going after five comedians who made fun of the former secretary of state in standup skits at a popular hollywood comedy club.a video of the short performance , which is less than three minutes , is posted on the website of the renowned club , laugh factory , and the clinton campaign has tried to censor it .
besides demanding that the video be taken down , the clinton campaign has demanded the personal contact information of the performers that appear in the recording .
this is no laughing matter for club owner jamie masada , a comedy guru who opened laugh factory more than three decades ago and has been instrumental in launching the careers of many famous comics .
they threatened me , masada told judicial watch .
i have received complains before but never a call like this , threatening to put me out of business if i don t cut the video .
practically all of the country s most acclaimed comedians have performed at the laugh factory and undoubtedly they have offended politicians and other well-known personalities with their standup routines .
tim allen , jay leno , roseanne bar , drew carey , george carlin , jim carrey , martin lawrence , jerry seinfeld and george lopez are among the big names that have headlined at the laugh factory .
the first amendment right to free speech is a crucial component of the operation , though masada drew the line a few years ago banning performers including african americans from using the n-word in their acts.the five short performances that clinton wants eliminated include some profanity and portions could be considered crass , but some of the lines are funny and that s what the laugh factory is all about .
the video features the individual acts of five comedians , four men and a woman .
the skits make fun of clinton s wardrobe , her age , sexual orientation , the monica lewinsky scandal and the former first lady s relationship with her famous husband .
the laugh factory has appropriately titled it hillary vs .
the first amendment .
masada told judicial watch that , as soon as the video got posted on the laugh factory website , he received a phone call from a prominent person inside clinton s campaign .
he said the video was disgusting and asked who put me up to this , masada said .
the clinton staffer , who masada did not want to identify , also demanded to know the names and phone numbers of the comedians that appear in the video .
masada refused and hung up .
he insists that the comedy stage is a sanctuary for freedom of speech no matter who is offended .
just last night we had ( emmy-award winner ) dana carvey doing donald trump and it was hilarious , masada said .
here it is :