we love this guy !
trey gowdy gets it and gives a lesson to a dhs thug on due process !
yes !
for progressives , the problem isn t islam ; it is the constitution .
senator joe manchin ( d-wv ) who was elected as a supposedly pro-gun moderate is remarkably frank : appearing on morning joe to discuss the gun control measures democratic senators filibustered for 15 hours to advance , senator manchin said , due process is what s killing us right now .
due process is killing us .
if only we lived in a dictatorship with no limit on government power , everything would be fine ( never mind that the fbi dropped the ball on the omar mateen case ) .
at least it would be fine for joe manchin.manchin gibbered incoherently that mateen was on a terrorist watch list .
not at the time of the massacre he wasn t. the fbi investigated him twice due to all the red flags he was waving , but he was effectively cleared.a gun shop warned the fbi about mateen prior to orlando .
but the agency didn t listen ( now it has no comment ) .but if we just sacrifice our most basic liberties , boobs like manchin will somehow keep us safe.it isn t just the second amendment that our progressive rulers want to use islamic terror attacks as a pretext to destroy .
they aren t fond of the fifth or fourteenth either .
both have due process clauses .
as even liberal slate recognizes , if the government can revoke your right to access firearms simply because it has decided to place you on a secret , notoriously inaccurate list , it could presumably restrict your other rights in a similar manner .
you could be forbidden from advocating for causes you believe in , or associating with like-minded activists ; your right against intrusive , unreasonable searches could be suspended .
and you would have no recourse : the government could simply declare that , as a name on a covert list , you are owed no due process at all.that is , you have no rights at all.discarding the constitution isn t enough for vox editor emmett rensin ; he wants to abolish private property in the name of disarming law-abiding citizens : this presents a catch-22 for leftists .
if they need to confiscate all of our property in order to take our guns , how will they prevent us from using guns to defend our property ? let s send progressives back to 2015 so that trey gowdy can give them a lesson in due process .