donald trump s presidency is falling apart .
between the russia investigations , his falling approval numbers and the fact that he s alienating nearly every ally we have , poor little donny is in desperate need of some good news .
so what does every dictator worth his salt do ?
forces his staff to compliment him.on tuesday , trump let cameras into this very weird cabinet meeting , where after praising himself by saying that few presidents have passed more legislation than him , which is flat-out not true , he went around the table where , surprise , cabinet members also praised him.here s a sample : this is hilarious & a reminder how bad the dear leader bubble has gotten.icymi , what schumer is mocking ?
pic.twitter.com/jupspreukm rogue cpi ( @ roguecpi ) june 12 , 2017it didn t take long for senate majority leader chuck schumer to mock trump .
he put out a video with his staff praising his performance on the sunday news shows .
one staffer even complimented his hair .
the last staffer was more general , saying that he loved working for schumer and for his agenda .
that s when schumer lost it .
he cracked up and stopped the tape before the last person at the table was able to speak.here s the video : great meeting today with the best staff in the history of the world ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/oce1xheaac chuck schumer ( @ senschumer ) june 12 , 2017twitter loved it : thank you , @ senschumer for being the best tweeter in the united states government and giving us the opportunity to read them .
althomelandsecurity ( @ althomelandsec ) june 12 , 2017trollololol kno ( @ kno ) june 12 , 2017king of trolling !
chris rollins ( @ chrisrollins_ ) june 12 , 2017awesome ! ! !
who needs snl when we ve got schumer .
i hope other dems do the same thing marnieb ( @ carbon_based_xy ) june 12 , 2017the problem is cons don t undetstand sarcasm , they don t do irony .
johnr ( @ anglerarcher ) june 12 , 2017thats why im proud to say you re my senator and you were my rep before that brooklyn snark= ? ?
the snark is strong in you # geeksresist gift ?
pic.twitter.com/j9qfgrxqun obi-wan kenobi ? ?
( @ gbmnyc ) june 12 , 2017it is priceless and let me say sen your hair is prefect ellen reeher morris ( @ ellenmorris1222 ) june 12 , 2017i could not you more sen schumer !
and your staff , bravo ? ? ?
pic.twitter.com/pfrtq6arhm polly sigh ( @ dcpoll ) june 12 , 2017this , my friends , is the difference between trump and a true leader .
trump demands loyalty while schumer seems to believe he needs to earn it .
schumer has a sense of humor about his job while trump has none , about anything .
nothing says you re insecure in your abilities than forcing underlings to give you praise.featured image via mark wilson/getty images