great news !
a federal judge just ordered the state department to make another attempt at locating hillary clinton s missing emails about the 2012 benghazi terrorist attack .
the interesting thing is that the judge is an obama appointee who ruled with judicial watch .
didn t do enough .u.s .
district court judge amit mehta ruled tuesday that the state department did not do enough to track down messages clinton may have sent about the assault on the u.s. diplomatic compound on sept. 11 , 2012 an attack that killed four americans , including the u.s. ambassador to libya , politico reported : in response to freedom of information act ( foia ) requests , state searched the roughly 30,000 messages clinton turned over to her former agency at its request in december 2014 after officials searching for benghazi-related records realized she had used a personal email account during her four-year tenure as secretary.state later searched tens of thousands of emails handed over to the agency by three former top aides to clinton : huma abedin , cheryl mills and jake sullivan .
finally , state searched a collection of emails the fbi assembled when it was investigating clinton s use of the private account and server.in all , state found 348 benghazi-related messages or documents that were sent to or from clinton in a period of nearly five months after the attack.judicial watch , a conservative watchdog group , said the state department s initial search was not good enough because it didn t search the email accounts of clinton s top aides for relevant messages pertaining to benghazi.mehta , an appointee of former president barack obama , agreed with judicial watch in a 10-page ruling .
to date , state has searched only data compilations originating from outside sources secretary clinton , her former aides , and the fbi .
it has not , however , searched the one records system over which it has always had control and that is almost certain to contain some responsive records : the state.gov e-mail server , mehta wrote .