paris ( reuters ) - four months after a heavy electoral defeat , france s national front is on the verge of a split between its leader and her chief deputy that could open the way to a policy change on the euro as the far-right party seeks to rebrand itself .
marine le pen s relationship with florian philippot , for years her closest aide , has become so strained since she lost the presidential election to centrist emmanuel macron that far-right experts say it has reached the point of no-return .
a rupture would mark an important change for the fn and le pen because she has for years defended philippot s anti-euro , protectionist line against critics in the party , and built her 2012 and 2017 presidential campaigns on his advice .
philippot has been under fire in the party over its setbacks in this year s presidential and parliamentary elections , with many blaming the anti-euro line he has backed so strongly .
le pen , whose leadership is also under scrutiny , has increasingly distanced herself from philippot , focusing on the party s anti-immigration , identitarian roots in speeches rather than the party s stance on the euro .
philippot has stood firm , maintaining that opposing the euro is a vote winner .
le pen has now issued him an ultimatum , saying he must decide between his party role and a think-tank group known as the patriots that he has set up focused on an anti-euro policy .
i don t intend to abandon the patriots nor my convictions nor my ideals , a visibly shaken philippot said in an interview on cnews .
if they want to get rid of me and prevent me from working on the relaunch of the national front , then let it be done , he added .
minutes later le pen issued a terse statement saying she had decide to revoke his responsibilities for strategy and communications , but stopped short of firing him as vice president - for now .
jerome fourquet , a specialist on the far-right at pollster ifop , sees the split as definitive .
this seems to have escalated to a point of no-return , he said .
if philippot leaves the party or is forced out , it could at first cause further turmoil for the far-right as it struggles to portray itself as the main opposition to macron , despite having reached the second round of the presidential election in may .
in the presidential run-off , le pen secured 34 percent of the vote against 66 percent for macron its strongest election performance but still a disappointment .
in june s parliamentary election , the national front won only eight seats .
the role of chief opponent has been assumed by jean-luc melenchon , leader of the far-left france insoumise ( france unbowed ) , who together with unions is leading calls for mass protests against reforms planned by macron .
the departure of philippot , a graduate of france s top ena administrative school , could be followed by others in the party with a similar profile walking out , depriving the party of figures who were key to policy-making .
le pen and her party might , however , see long-term gains as his exit could enable her to reassert her authority and make it easier to shift policy on the euro .
this might in turn help the fn forge alliances with other right-wing politicians .
if philippot was to leave there would be a negative buzz , there would be turmoil in the fn , but after a while that would likely be digested and overcome , fourquet said .
he underlined that the party had survived previous crises , such as the departure in the late 1990s of bruno megret , once a political star who took allies with him .
analysts say philippot has fewer loyal allies and a smaller political capital than megret did at the time and would therefore be unlikely to create a rival party that would pose a serious threat to the fn .
the deadline for the fn to decide how it wants to rebrand itself is march , when it will hold a party congress to decide on a new name and what its strategies and policies should be for the next presidential election due in 2022 .
jean messiha , who coordinated le pen s presidential manifesto , said the party was in a difficult phase where it was adapting to france s changed political landscape .
we need to get our act together and , most importantly , we need marine le pen to reaffirm , to reassert her authority , he told reuters .
le pen s partner , senior fn official louis aliot , made a similar point , telling supporters at the weekend not to give in to defeatism .
in politics , you re never dead , he said .