according to the journal of blacks in higher education , this year marks harvard s highest percentage of accepted black students to date .
almost 12 percent of the total applicants who were offered admission next fall are black .
based off harvard s average student yield of 70 percent , the journal predicts that approximately 170 black students will join the class of 2018 .
it goes on to stress the fact that american colleges most known for their selectiveness tend to average only 5 to 10 percent black students .
-hpblack students at harvard university will be hosting their own , separate black-only graduation ceremony.the root reports more than 125 harvard graduate students have registered to participate in the separate black graduation ceremony scheduled for may 23.according to the root , the point of the event is to acknowledge the struggles and resilience that black students have had to possess in order to thrive in higher education , an environment where minorities are typically underrepresented .
courtney woods , who is graduating with a master s degree in education policy and management , claimed the event is a way to reclaim harvard s alleged history of slavery , epistemic racism and colonization .
woods told the root , harvard s institutional foundation is in direct conflict with the needs of black students .
there is a legacy of slavery , epistemic racism and colonization at harvard , which was an institution founded to train rising imperialist leaders , she said .
this is a history that we are reclaiming .
woods added , it speaks volumes that there has never been a black graduation ceremony until now .
for entire story : mrctvhere s another example of self-imposed black segregation at harvard university .
by alienating themselves from the white students and suggesting they kill themselves there will never be a chance for black and white students to overcome racism at harvard .
in case you missed it , in march , 2015 , we published a story about students at harvard university who held a debate where black harvard students argued that white people should kill themselves for having white privilege .