more and more evidence is revealed every day , that points to the real possibility that murdered dnc staffer seth rich was the person who leaked the dnc emails to wikileaks , and that there is an all-out effort to cover it up , or completely dismiss it as a tin-foil hat theory by social media platforms , the leftist media and the democrat party .
twitter just suspended the wnd account for posting a story that suggested disgraced dnc chief and top democratic strategist donna brazile may have interceded in the seth rich murder investigation .
in the wnd exclusive story titled : alicia powe and liz crokin wrote the story that was also posted to and deleted from the social media platform by twitter : former democratic national committee interim chairwoman donna brazile is the high-ranking dnc representative who allegedly called police and the family of murdered dnc staffer seth rich and demanded to know why a private investigator was snooping into rich s death , the private eye revealed to wnd monday .
the high-ranking dnc official that called the police after i inquired about rich s case was donna brazile , veteran homicide detective rod wheeler told wnd .
why shouldn t i reveal who it was ?
brazile , who was also a cnn contributor and a hillary for america donor at the time , was caught providing democratic party nominee hillary clinton with questions that would later be asked of clinton at a televised cnn town hall .
in an interview with fox news before the election , brazile denied leaking the questions to clinton .
but in a march 17 , 2017 , column for time magazine , she finally admitted doing so , saying it was a mistake i will forever regret .
according to wnd , their twitter account was suspended because of this seth rich investigation bombshell .
and now , big league politics is reporting associations the dc police chief who resigned only a month after seth rich was murdered ran in the same circles as many close to hillary and top dnc officials .
the police chief who oversaw seth rich s unsolved murder case has socialized and been honored alongside key hillary clinton advisers and even rich s own boss at the democratic national committee .
rich is widely reported to be the source of wikileaks damning 2016 email release that showed the dnc colluding to hand the nomination to clinton at the expense of bernie sanders .
he was gunned down in d.c. 12 days before wikileaks release.on sunday , july 10 , 2016 , at approximately 4:19 am , members of the fifth district dc mpd were patrolling the area when they heard gunshots .
upon arrival on the scene , members located an adult male victim conscious and breathing , and suffering from gunshot wounds .
the victim was transported to an area hospital , where he succumbed to his injuries and was pronounced dead.the decedent was identified as 27-year-old seth conrad rich , of northwest , dc.controversy continues to swirl around the murder of dnc staffer seth rich , that detectives working for the mpd under chief lanier called a botched robbery ( even though nothing of any value appeared to have been stolen from rich s body ) after he was shot several times only blocks from his home.former metropolitan police department chief cathy lanier resigned from her post the month after rich s murder to accept a position running security for the national football league .
she sits on the washington police foundation board alongside heather podesta , the d.c. power broker who was married to clinton campaign chief john podesta s lobbyist brother tony.in 2014 , lanier was honored on elle magazine s list of the ten most powerful women in washington alongside top hillary clinton aide cheryl mills and longtime clinton friend and informal adviser neera tanden .
other honorees included naral pro-choice america president ilyse hogue and obama cabinet official penny pritzker.lanier did attend elle and hugo boss 2015 women in washington power list dinner at the german ambassador s house .
here she is chatting with clinton crony and virginia governor terry mcauliffe.who else was at the dinner ?
none other than amy dacey , the ceo of the democratic national committee at the time of seth rich s murder , who resigned one month after the killing as the dnc was rocked with scandal.who else was at the dinner ?
none other than then-dnc chairwoman debbie wasserman schultz .