sofia ( reuters ) - bulgaria has frozen assets and property and bank accounts belonging to businessman and media owner ivo prokopiev , who said the state was trying to silence the country s independent media .
the commission for illegal assets forfeiture is preparing to file a claim against prokopiev and his businesses to seize assets and property worth 199 million levs ( $ 119 million ) , which it believed were derived from a rogue privatization of a plant 17 years ago , said the commission s chairman , plamen georgiev .
bulgaria , one of the european union s poorest and , according to transparency international , its most corrupt country , set up the commission in the 2000s to confiscate the illegally obtained assets of corrupt businessmen and officials and organized crime bosses .
prokopiev , 46 , denied any wrongdoing .
he said the commission has been used to intimidate the journalists at the influential financial newspaper capital and the news website dnevnik .
he is the majority owner of both .
he also said a bulgarian court had ruled in 2004 that nothing was wrong with the privatization of mineral maker kaolin , the basis of the accusations against him .
we are witnessing how a state institution with very wide powers is being used as a bat and an instrument for repression , prokopiev told a news conference .
we do not have any doubt about the ultimate goal of this .... to subdue the editorial position of two of the few independent media in bulgaria .
georgiev told a news conference a regional court in bulgaria had frozen shares and stakes of prokopiev in over 40 companies on commission s request , but said the actions would not impede the work of the news organizations .
five right-wing political parties that are not represented in the parliament protested against the commission s move .
some political analysts also saw it as an attempt to silence the independent newspapers in the country .
this act really seems to be directed against people who are representatives of free media in bulgaria , said daniel smilov , an analyst with sofia-based center for liberal strategies .
bulgaria ranked 109th out of 180 countries , lower than any eu member , in the 2017 world press freedom index compiled by the paris-based organization reporters without borders .
bulgaria ranked 51st in 2007 , when it joined the eu .