budapest ( reuters ) - hungary has extended a deadline for a u.s.-accredited budapest university founded by george soros , philanthropist financier and prominent critic of prime minister viktor orban s government , to comply with a new education law or face closure .
as hungary prepares for parliamentary elections in early 2018 , the nationalist , right-wing orban , who leads the ruling fidesz party , has launched a national consultation campaign on soros and what he has dubbed the soros plan .
the higher education bill applies to all international universities , not just the soros-founded central european university , but critics say it was clearly targeted at the hungarian liberal , whom orban accuses of planning to bring millions of migrants into europe .
parliament approved to amend the higher education law , which sparked big protests when it was passed in april , to extend the deadline for foreign universities to meet conditions for operating in hungary until end-2018 from end-2017 .
justice minister laszlo trocsanyi said in the bill that the legislation wanted to create a level playing field for all institutions of higher education .
critics say orban s efforts against soros and foreign-accredited universities are part of an election campaign strategy to whip up support among hungarians who also hold anti-immigration views and fear perceived foreign interference .
soros , 87 , lives in the united states but funds a number of initiatives in his home country , including civil rights and refugee rights ngos .
he has heavily criticized orban s government .
i admire the courageous way hungarians have resisted the deception and corruption of the mafia state orban has established , soros said in june .
opponents to the higher education bill said it was an attack on academic freedom , provoking big protests in budapest in the spring and causing orban s approval ratings to drop .
although polls show fidesz approval rating to be only around 30 percent at present , it is still predicted to win over the deeply divided opposition .
ceu said in a statement on tuesday that it has taken all steps to fulfill the conditions of the amended hungarian higher education law .
it also said the extension of the deadline for compliance is an unnecessary delay that subjects the university to a further year of legal uncertainty .