robert fantina counterpunchalthough the united states is still ten months from its next exercise in electoral futility , most polls do not indicate what former secretary of state hillary clinton is most anxious to see : a runaway victory for her candidacy .
it is a good sign that , despite the fact that she has no real contrasting opponent on the democratic side , the coronation she expected isn t going to happen.one might say that this writer focuses too much on mrs. clinton s adoration of israel .
but by looking at her comments about that apartheid nation , one gets a clear view of some broader , very troubling perspectives that mrs. clinton seems to hold.on january 6 , an opinion piece appeared in the jewish journal , written by mrs. clinton .
it is a fawning , maudlin essay , typical of the writing of anyone seeking national political office in the u.s. who knows they must pay homage to their israeli lord and master .
a few points from this essay tell much about mrs. clinton .
i m especially concerned about the new wave of violence inside israel itself brutal stabbings , shootings , and vehicle attacks that seek to sow fear among the innocent .
the number of palestinians killed in the west bank alone by settler and iof ( israel occupation force ) terrorists is at a ten-year high .
why is mrs. clinton not especially concerned about the continuing wave of violence against palestinians , in an area that even the u.s. says israel occupies illegally ?
do not these vicious attacks seek to sow fear among the innocent ?
only a two-state solution negotiated between the parties can provide palestinians independence , sovereignty , and dignity , and provide israelis the secure and recognized borders of a democratic jewish state .
why , oh why , does mrs. clinton continue to make this ridiculous statement ?
the borders of the jewish state are recognized by most of the world , including the united nations , and consist of those determined prior to 1967 .
there is nothing to negotiate .
does mrs. clinton disdain international law ?
it appears that she feels israel , like the u.s. in its international dealings , is , indeed , above the law .
bibi first : hillary clinton will never tell israel no .and this writer must point out , once again , that negotiations , which have proceeded on and off for twenty years or so , can only be effective when each side wants something the other has , that it can only obtain by surrendering something it has .
israel wants all of palestine , and takes it , piece by piece , with complete impunity .
why should palestine agree to pointless negotiations ? mrs .
clinton refers to the secure and recognized borders of a jewish state , but does not seem to consider the secure and recognized borders of a palestinian state .
we must continue to fight against global efforts to delegitimize israel .
the boycott , divestment , and sanctions movement , known as bds , is the latest front in this battle .
bds demonizes israeli scientists and intellectuals even young students and compares israel to south african apartheid .
that s wrong and this campaign should end .
the most significant efforts to delegitimize israel are made by israel itself .
its racist society , wherein israeli jews have more rights than anyone else in israel ; its apartheid system of segregation ; its complete disdain for the human rights of the palestinians ; the racist , murderous statements made by government officials all further delegitimize the country , and demonize it , and rightly so .
israel is often compared to south african apartheid , and the comparison is valid.and it is not just in the context of palestine and israel that mrs. clinton demonstrates either gross ignorance , or gross dishonesty .
her essay also contained these pearls of wisdom : we must work with our friends and partners to deny isis territory in the middle east , dismantle the global infrastructure of terror , and toughen our defenses at home .
we can t just contain isis we must defeat isis .
is that really the u.s. s goal ?
garikai chengu , a researcher at harvard university , suggested in september of 2014 that isis is made-in-the-usa , an instrument of terror designed to divide and conquer the oil-rich middle east and to counter iran s growing influence in the region .
in a june , 2015 column in the guardian , associate editor seumas milne said this : [ t ] he u.s. and its allies weren t only supporting and arming an opposition they knew to be dominated by extreme sectarian groups ; they were prepared to countenance the creation of some sort of islamic state despite the grave danger to iraq s unity as a sunni buffer to weaken syria .
continue this article at counterpunch read more 2016 election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files