prague ( reuters ) - czech lawmakers voted on wednesday to let police bring fraud charges against andrej babis , the leading candidate to become prime minister in next month s elections .
babis , a billionaire businessman and founder of the poll-leading ano party , denies allegations that he hid ownership of one of his firms to receive a 50-million czech crown ( $ 2.29-million ) eu subsidy meant for small business in 2008 .
the 63-year-old former finance minister has dismissed a police investigation into the case as a ploy by political and business adversaries to chase him out of politics .
you will not silence me , intimidate me , stop me .
and you will not get rid of me , babis told parliament before mps overwhelmingly voted to lift the immunity from prosecution granted to lawmakers .
he ended up backing the motion himself , saying he wanted to clear his name , though other ano party deputies boycotted the vote .
so , give me up .
i ask you to lift my immunity so that the truth can be revealed , he told the lower house .
wednesday s decision , backed by 123 to four , does not stop babis from standing in the oct. 20-21 election .
but it could dent his support .
several potential coalition partners have said they could not work with a prime minister charged with a crime .
babis s ano party , a junior member in a social democrat-led government , leads opinion polls by a double-digit margin - though there have been no major surveys taken since the police requested his immunity be lifted on aug. 10 .
the party has promised to revamp politics and root out what babis calls mafia-like networks of business and political interests .
governments led by the traditional parties - the center-right civic democrats and the center-left social democrats - brought the country into nato and the european union but lost many voters in recent years amid a series of corruption scandals .
babis s adversaries argue he got rich in the environment that he now criticizes , often doing business with the state .
his agrofert group is the biggest czech private employer with more than 30,000 staff .
the subsidy under investigation , was paid for building a conference center near prague called stork nest , before babis entered politics .
the police investigation is expected to last well beyond the october vote and babis will win immunity again if reelected to parliament , as expected , which would force the police to ask again for permission to charge him .