sydney ( reuters ) - a citizenship crisis that robbed australian prime minister malcolm turnbull of his one-seat majority will claim another politician , with the senate president on wednesday saying he will resign after confirming he was a dual national .
stephen parry , the leader of the upper house and a member of turnbull s liberal party , said he will submit his resignation on thursday after he being told that along with his australian citizenship he also held british citizenship by descent .
parry s father was born in britain before moving to australia as a boy in 1951 , which automatically gave parry citizenship by descent .
under the constitution a politician must only hold australian citizenship to be eligible to be elected to the national parliament .
i wish my successor all the best and trust that she or he will continue the reforms that i have commenced , parry said in a statement .
parry s resignation follows last week s high court ruling that the deputy prime minister , barnaby joyce , was ineligible to sit in parliament as he held dual australia-new zealand citizenship when elected .
the ruling meant the government lost its one-seat majority in the lower house and must now rely on independents for its political survival .
joyce has since relinquished his new zealand citizenship and will re-contest his seat at a dec. 2 by-election .
joyce was one of a group of lawmakers , known as the citizenship seven , whose eligibility to sit in parliament was thrown into doubt in recent months when it was found they were dual citizens .
the high court last friday also ruled four other politicians ineligible to sit in parliament due to dual citizenships .
turnbull does not control the senate , and parry s departure will not change the dynamics of the upper house where seats are assigned to party alternatives when an incumbent resigns .
turnbull has flagged potential changes to the constitution , noting that more than half of australia s population of 24 million was either born overseas or has a parent who was born overseas .
a national referendum would be needed to change the constitution .