everyone laughing after trump rebranded cnn as # veryfakenews .
then they go on their networks saying how `` dangerous '' and `` not funny '' it was pic.twitter.com/d3iiavh5vl asa j ( @ asamjulian ) february 17 , 2017those who accuse cnn and other mainstream media outlets of fake news will probably revel in a recent decision by a federal judge in atlanta , georgia .
while judge orinda evans didn t all out declare that cnn was peddling in falsehoods , she did take aim at the network in an initial judgment in favor of a former hospital ceo who sued cnn accusing them of purposely skewing statistics to reflect poorly on a west palm beach hospital .
judge evans didn t mince words in her 18-page order allowing the case to move forward , and dismissing cnn s attempt to get it thrown out of court.davide carbone , former ceo of st. mary s medical center in west palm beach , filed a defamation lawsuit against cnn after they aired what he claims were a series of false and defamatory news reports regarding the infant mortality rate at the hospital .
cnn s report said the mortality rate was three times the national average .
however , mr. carbone contends that cnn intentionally manipulated statistics to bolster their report .
he also claims that cnn purposely ignored information that would look favorable to the hospital in order to sensationalize the story .
in our case , we contended that cnn essentially made up its own standard in order to conduct an apples to oranges comparison to support its false assertion that st. mary s mortality rate was 3 times higher than the national average .
accordingly , the case against cnn certainly fits the description of media-created fake news .
said carbone s attorney l. lin wood , in a statement to lawnewz.com.wood says that as a result of cnn s story carbone lost his job and it became extremely difficult for him to find new employment in the field of hospital administration .
false and defamatory accusations against real people have serious consequences .
neither st. mary s or mr. carbone did anything to deserve being the objects of the heinous accusation that they harmed or put babies and young children at risk for profit , wood said.on wednesday , federal district judge orinda evans ruled that the case could move forward , even ruling that she found that cnn may have acted with actual malice with the report a standard necessary to prove a defamation claim .
the court finds these allegations sufficient to establish that cnn was acting recklessly with regard to the accuracy of its report , i.e. , with actual malice , the order reads .
cnn had tried to get the case dismissed .
lawnewz