congress will vote on a new spending bill in just a few days so they d better get crackin so they can read the 2,009 page bill before they vote on it , right ?
you can bet that when the vote comes on this bad deal that most of those voting on it have no idea what s in it .
it s a typical pork-filled spending bill that throws the american taxpayer under the bus .
the republicans caved on letting obama send 10,000 syrian refugees for the taxpayers to support .
republicans are spineless sellouts the new spending deal reached early wednesday morning spans more than 2,000 pages , spends $ 1.149 trillion and lawmakers will have only a few days to digest it all before they re asked to vote on the legislation , which lays out congress s priorities for the rest of fiscal year 2016.it works out to nearly $ 572 million per page , with lawmakers splashing money throughout the government , boosting both popular and unpopular programs alike , thanks to a spending hike agreed to in october s budget deal .
that means even the irs , which the gop had targeted year after year for cuts , will finally see an increase in 2016 .
negotiators agreed to a $ 290 million boost , though the extra money is required to be spent on taxpayer services and fraud detection .
it s still $ 1.7 billion less than president obama asked for the tax agency.the biggest fights came on policy disputes , where the gop won a few of its priorities , but caved on far more .
the bill allows mr. obama to follow through on his plans to resettle 10,000 syrian refugees in the u.s. this fiscal year , but does give him new powers to require some visitors from visa waiver program countries to face extra scrutiny if they ve been to iraq or syria recently .
the goal is to try to weed out foreign fighters who may have trained with the islamic state.republicans maintained a ban on federal funding of gun control research , turning back an effort by democratic leaders to force studies in the wake of this year s mass killings.in a slap at former secretary of state hillary clinton , the bill also prohibits the state department from spending money to maintain private email accounts .
mrs. clinton exclusively used an email server kept at her home in new york during her time in office , thwarting open-records requests and spawning the scandal that s ensnared her presidential campaign this year.leaders of both parties will have to round up the votes to pass the measure this week , and both sides are describing it as a compromise that they can t afford to pass up .
this package reflects conservative priorities in both funding and policy including support for critical areas such as our national defense , halting many harmful regulations , and trimming wasteful spending .
but it also represents a compromise that members on both sides of the aisle can and should get behind , said rep. hal rogers , chairman of the house appropriations committee.the bill was released at 2 a.m. wednesday morning , meaning that if gop leaders stick to their three-day pledge it shouldn t be voted on in the house until friday at the earliest.that would still require reading a page every two minutes , continuously over the next couple of days , in order to get through the bill before the vote.read more : wt