beirut ( reuters ) - the former al qaeda branch in syria has pledged to keep fighting government forces and their russian and iranian allies , and denounced ceasefire talks in kazakhstan .
russia , iran and turkey agreed on friday to deploy observers on the edge of a de-escalation zone in syria s idlib province , which is largely under the control of islamist insurgents .
while they hailed the agreement as a breakthrough after months of talks in the kazakh capital astana , they gave few details .
the move falls under a broader deal in which they would set up four such zones across syria .
the de-escalation plan has eased fighting in parts of western syria between rebel factions and government forces loyal to president bashar al-assad .
but the ex-nusra front said the astana process amounted to the surrender of rebel-held pockets , and what had started with a ceasefire would end with restoring bashar s rule to the areas .
the group cut ties with al-qaeda last year , rebranded , and now spearheads the tahrir al-sham jihadist alliance , controlling parts of the northwestern idlib province , on the border with turkey .
at least two million people live in idlib , the largest populated area held by rebels - including some nationalist free syrian army factions that have taken part in the astana talks .
idlib s has population ballooned as thousands of civilians and fighters have left areas the syrian army seized , with the help of russian jets and iran-backed militias .
tahrir al-sham criticized fsa rebels who have attended the astana meetings , which began with moscow-led diplomatic efforts separate from u.n.-based peace talks in geneva .
we fear the day will come when those factions will line up alongside russian warplanes and fight those who reject assad and his regime , it said in its statement .
bouthaina shaaban , a senior aide to assad , said on friday that attempts to divide syria had failed , and repeated the government s vow to take back the entire country , including idlib and other areas .
assad has gained the military upper hand against an array of rebel groups , including some that have received backing from the united states , turkey and gulf monarchies .
damascus views any presence of turkish forces as illegitimate , syrian state news agency sana cited a foreign ministry source as saying on saturday .
the deal for idlib is temporary .
its main goal is reviving the old damascus-hama-aleppo road ... and for all kinds of traffic to flow to aleppo , the source said .
the government took full control of aleppo city , east of idlib , last year in a major blow to rebels .
critics have described the de-escalation plan as de facto partitioning of syria after years of multi-sided conflict .
moscow , tehran , and ankara deny this and say the zones will be temporary , although they could extend beyond the initial six-month term .