how many times have the press and the left admonished trump for saying we need to do a better job of vetting the refugees coming into america ?
call me racist , but the threat of polio , measles , tb and this horrific flesh eating disease all seem like pretty good reasons to re-evaluated our open borders to muslim refugees position the syrian refugee crisis has precipitated a catastrophic outbreak of a flesh-eating disease that is spreading across the middle east and north africa , according to research published on thursday in the scientific journal plos .
largely missing from news media coverage is that the same news-making scientific report warned the ongoing violence in syria has created a setting in which we have seen the re-emergence of polio and measles , as well as tuberculosis , hepatitis a , and other infections in syria and among displaced syrian refugees .
indeed , in 2013 the world health organization documented new cases of vaccine-preventable diseases such as measles , reporting that year alone the number of confirmed measles cases in syria reached 139 , as compared to no documented cases in 2010 and 2011.the who reported that 2013 saw syria s first outbreak of polio since 1999 .
according to an april 2015 who report , 35 children were subsequently paralysed by polio before the start of a new vaccine campaign.in november , 2014 plos documented the spread of measles from among the syrian refugee population.regarding the flesh-eating disease , leishmaniasis , plop warned in its latest report , we may be witnessing an epidemic of historic and unprecedented proportions , but it has largely been hidden due to lack of specific information .
the plop journal reported leishmaniasis is now affecting hundreds of thousands of refugees and has spread to iraq , lebanon , jordan , libya and yemen .
in yemen alone , 10,000 new cases have been reported annually , the journal reported .
additionally , the number of cases of cl ( cutaneous leishmaniasis ) has most likely been severely underreported due in part to constraints on collecting data from violence-torn regions , plop warned .
few countries have mandated reporting of cl and the resultant weak reporting system promotes a lack of disease awareness and public policies for treatment and prevention , the report added .
due to the violence , syrians have been forced to flee from their homes and seek refuge across the middle east , north africa , and , more recently , europe , the journal documented.volcano-like ulcersleishmaniasis , meanwhile , is a disease caused by protozoan parasites .
it is spread almost entirely by sandflies , including those present in the u.s.there are three main types of the disease : cutaneous , mucocutaneous , and visceral leishmaniasis.cutaneous is the most common form among syrians .
it manifests in skin sores that typically develop within a few weeks or months from a sand fly bite .
the sores can initially appear as bumps or nodules and may evolve into volcano-like ulcers.mucocutaneous leishmaniasis causes skin ulcers like the cutaneous form , as well as mucosal ulcers that usually damage the nose and mouth.visceral leishmaniasis , which has also been found among syrian refugees , is the most serious form and can be fatal .
it damages internal organs , usually the spleen and liver , and also affects bone marrow.threat to u.s. ? refugees who enter the u.s. must undergo medical screening according to protocols established by the centers for disease control and prevention , or cdc .
each refugee must submit to a physical examination , including a skin test and possibly a chest x-ray to check for tuberculosis , as well as a blood test for syphilis.the blood tests do not currently look for leishmaniasis .
clearly , an attending doctor could easily spot a patient with obvious skin ulcers .
however , leishmaniasis can not be detected upon physical examination if the patient is asymptomatic , as can be the case for years.in december , dr. heather burke , an epidemiologist from the cdc s immigrant , refugee , and migrant health branch , explained to breitbart jerusalem that there is generally a window of three to six months from the initial physical examination until a refugee departs for the u.s.she said a medical examination is valid for six months , and explained that patients undergo a second examination just prior to departure a quicker fitness to fly screening .
while she conceded that this final examination is not thorough , she said it would pick up any visible skin lesions .
burke told breitbart jerusalem that she is not aware of a single case of leishmaniasis entering the u.s. via syrian refugees.dr .
jane orient , executive director of the association of american physicians and surgeons , warned that most doctors in the u.s. know nothing about leishmaniasis .
we d all need to refer patients to tropical diseases specialists , she told breitbart jerusalem in december .
the treatments are toxic and expensive , and some are not widely available .
for orient , the only sensible public health policy is for all refugees to pass through a quarantined place like ellis island .
officials need to know where they ve been and what diseases occur there .
we need sophisticated , reliable screening methods and excellent vector control in any areas where refugees stay .
for entire story : breitbart news