geneva/london ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president robert mugabe has been removed as a goodwill ambassador , the world health organization said on sunday , following outrage among western donors and rights groups at his appointment .
who director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus named mugabe to the largely ceremonial post at a meeting on wednesday in uruguay on chronic diseases attended by both men .
at the time , tedros praised zimbabwe as a country that places universal health coverage and health promotion at the center of its policies to provide healthcare to all .
but tedros said in a statement that he had listened to those expressing concerns and heard the different issues raised .
over the last few days , i have reflected on my appointment of h.e .
president robert mugabe as who goodwill ambassador for ncds ( non-communicable diseases ) in africa .
as a result i have decided to rescind the appointment , tedros said .
the decision had been taken after consultation with the harare government and was in the best interests of the world health organization , he said .
jeremy farrar , a global health specialist and director of the wellcome trust charity and the ncd alliance , representing health groups combating chronic diseases , welcomed the reversal .
dr tedros deserves all our support to ensure he and who build a global health movement that is inclusive and works to improve health for everyone , farrar said in a statement .
zimbabwean foreign minister walter muzembi accepted the move while insisting that who had benefited tremendously from having nominated mugabe and the media buzz it brought to health issues .
so on the balance , it is wiser to let go , and help who focus on its mandate while we focus zimbabwe on its membership obligations , muzembi said in a government statement .
several former and current who staff had said privately they were appalled at the poor judgment and miscalculation by tedros , elected the first african head of who in may .
mugabe was head of the african union when the bloc endorsed tedros - a former health and foreign minister of ethiopia - over other african candidates for the top post , without any real regional contest , they said .
mugabe , 93 , is blamed in the west for destroying zimbabwe s economy and for numerous human rights abuses during his 37 years leading the country as either president or prime minister .
britain had said mugabe s appointment as a goodwill ambassador was surprising and disappointing and that it risked overshadowing the who s global work .
the united states , which has imposed sanctions on mugabe for alleged human rights violations , also voiced disappointment .
he ( tedros ) has to remember where his funding comes from , said one health official who declined to be identified .
the trump administration , which is already questioning financial support for some united nations agencies , is who s largest single donor .
who is struggling to recover a reputation tarnished by its slowness in tackling the ebola epidemic that killed more than 11,000 people in west africa from 2014-2015 under tedros predecessor , margaret chan .
the agency is now grappling with a massive cholera outbreak in yemen that has infected some 800,000 people in the past year and a plague outbreak in madagascar that has killed nearly 100 in two months .