paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron fought off accusations of favoring the rich on tuesday after making good on a campaign pledge to scrap france s wealth tax - a symbol of social justice that has scared off thousands of millionaires from french shores .
macron s move to replace the tax with a levy targeting only real estate in last week s 2018 budget was used by political opponents to brand him the president of the rich , a label the ex-rothschild banker has been struggling to shake off since taking office in may .
in a visit to a whirlpool factory in his native town of amiens , scene of a showdown six months ago with his then far-right challenger marine le pen in the presidential election contest , macron defended the policy .
it s all well and good to want to spread wealth , but you first need to produce , to create wealth before redistributing , that s how it works , he told journalists .
after many european countries abolished their own , france was left as the only eu member with a wealth tax , a charge introduced by the socialists in the 1980s which was levied on individuals with assets above 1.3 million euros ( $ 1.5 million ) .
that led to thousands of rich french families to move to countries such as belgium to avoid paying the tax , including most famously green card actor gerard depardieu and members of the mulliez family , owners of the auchan supermarket chain .
prime minister edouard philippe has estimated some 10,000 people with 35 billion euros worth of assets left in the past 15 years .
but coming after the government s decision to cut a housing allowance enjoyed by millions of poorer french people , the move on the wealth tax - which will cost the treasury 3.2 billion euros in lost revenue - has sparked outrage in opposition ranks .
the better-off will be those who get richer while they sleep , former socialist finance minister michel sapin said , quoting late president francois mitterrand , who introduced the wealth tax .
more worryingly for macron , the move has also caused unease within his own centrist majority , which will start discussing the budget bill in parliament later this month .
yachts , private jets , race horses , races cars or gold ingots are no longer included in the new wealth tax .
that can t be , joel giraud , an allied lawmaker charged with steering the budget through parliamentary committees told le parisien daily .
these kinds of symbols must be taxed much more .
a yacht is bling-bling .
it isn t productive for the economy , he said .
while leaving the door open to raising specific levies on yachts or cars , finance minister bruno le maire warned lawmakers not to hit a luxury sector in which france is a leader : and why not tax jewellery , furs and wine cellars ?
he asked .
( $ 1 = 0.8501 euros )