another bit of news from the past has come back to haunt donald trump s already imploding campaign.only days after an entertainment tonight clip went viral showing donald trump talking about how he will be dating the 10-year-old girl he just met in ten years , the chicago tribune dug into their own archives to find another disturbing news blurb quoting trump speaking to a pair of 14-year-old girls in 1992 .
in a december 1992 wire brief in the chicago tribune , trump is described as having spotted a youth choir singing christmas carols at the plaza hotel in manhattan , the tribune reported .
he asked two girls how old they were .
when they said they were 14 , trump , then 46 , replied , wow !
just think in a couple of years , i ll be dating you .
here s the news clipping via the chicago tribune .
the bit about trump is at the lower right hand corner under the yellow highlight.there you have it .
donald trump jumped from disgustingly talking about him dating a 10-year-old girl in ten years to directly telling two 14-year-old girls that he will be dating them in two years .
for the record , both girls would still be considered minors under the law .
furthermore , trump s own daughter ivanka was 11-years-old at the time , which makes these revelations even creepier.trump has been under fire for over a week now since his remarks about groping women came to light .
accusations of sexual assault from multiple women , including miss teen usa contestants who have revealed that trump walked in on them in their dressing room to see them naked , have flooded the media ever since and the republican nominee is struggling to explain himself and his predatory behavior.these revelations also give more credibility to a child rape case that trump is currently embroiled in , which goes to a status conference in december that trump must attend .
the lawsuit was filed by a woman only known as jane doe , who says trump raped her in 1994 when she was 13 years old.and given the fact that trump apparently likes openly hitting on underage girls , it sounds like jane doe has a case.donald trump is a sick man and a pervert who should not be anywhere close to being president of the united states .
but republicans chose him to be their leader and now america is living a nightmare that can only end if trump and the gop loses by a total landslide on november 8th.featured image : spencer platt/getty images