yeah putting the federal government in charge of our entire police force , sounds like a great idea al .
we re waiting for al to call for an all black police force next you know , in the name of fairness .
rev .
al sharpton called for national policing legislation akin to the civil rights act this morning at the kickoff his national action network s annual convention , just after the arrest of a white south carolina police officer for murder in the shooting of an unarmed black man .
there must be national policy and national law on policing , mr. sharpton said .
we can t go from state to state , we ve got to have national law to protect people against these continued questions .
mr. sharpton s comments , coming on the heels of multiple instances of police killings of unarmed men of color around the country , were met with applause from the crowd and from the dais , which was packed with elected officials including mayor bill de blasio , congressman charles rangel , attorney general eric schneiderman , city comptroller scott stringer and state comptroller thomas dinapolithe convention kickoff , which featured a ribbon cutting with the lawmakers , came just hours after it was announced last night that north charleston , s.c. , police officer michael t. slager would be charged with murder in the death of walter scott who can be seen in a widely publicized video running away from mr. slager , while the officer shoots into the man s back repeatedly .
the video offers a markedly different story than the one mr. slager first offered up : that scott had stolen his taser and left him in fear for his life.mr .
sharpton praised the city s mayor and police chief for bringing the charges , but said the nation couldn t rely on the judgement of local officials .
we commend them , but we can not have a justice system that hopes we have a mayor in the right city or a police chief , he said .
we have to have one policy that is national .
mr. sharpton later noted that the comparatively small town s officials had been braver than police leaders in bigger cities .
he has been vocal about his belief that new york city police daniel pantaleo should have been charged with a crime in the death of an unarmed black staten island man , eric garner .
a grand jury declined to indict mr. pantaleo , spurring protests throughout the city.that death , too , was captured in a widely published video .
and though the footage did not lead to any charges , mr. sharpton said today the national legislation should focus on cameras as well as accountability .
he compared the fight for police reform to the civil rights struggle , noting that activists did not try to fix discrimination in individual states or cities .
they fought for a national civil rights act , a national voting rights act .
it s time for this country to have national policing , mr. sharpton said.after the ribbon cutting , mr. de blasio whose first year in office was dominated by an effort to reform police-community relations after garner s death and a subsequent city hall feud with police union leadership said he agreed some kind of national standard should be set .
it s a broad point he s making , and i think he way he made the analogy to the voting rights act is the right one .
we ve got to figure out how to create the right relationship between police and community , mr. de blasio told reporters .
the vast majority of police do their job well and want to work more closely with the community .
obviously community residents want to work more closely with the police .
but we have to create more of a national standard that says we all have to be on the same page .
the relationship between mr. de blasio and mr. sharpton was fodder for his woes with police unions last year : they took umbrage when mr. sharpton was seated next to the mayor and police commissioner bill bratton at a city hall round table , and dismissed mr. sharpton as divisive .
a poll later showed voters didn t like the approaches of either mr. sharpton or the union leaders and rank-and-file officers who later turned their backs on mr. de blasio at the funeral for two slain officers.today , mr. sharpton offered a full-throated defense his relationship with the mayor , saying it was based not on political power but on a long history of working together , citing mr. de blasio s support on issues like wage increases and the silent march against stop , question and frisk before his election .
he marched with us when other candidates wouldn t. so don t begrudge us for knowing somebody that we always knew , and that was there in the trenches with us , mr. sharpton said , saying he had never asked for favors or back room deals only access and policy changes .
there s nothing in the back room we want .
we want everything out front .
via : the observer