washington ( reuters ) - a republican-controlled u.s. house of representatives panel approved legislation to privatize the u.s. air traffic control system on thursday as part of a six-year bill to authorize funding for the federal aviation administration .
democrats failed in their attempt to amend the legislation to retain the flight service as part of the faa .
by a 32-26 vote along party lines , the house transportation and infrastructure committee sent the measure to the floor for consideration by the full house .
republicans , including committee chairman bill shuster of pennsylvania , say air traffic control must be transferred to the private sector to protect the system from deficit reductions and government shutdowns and to ensure timely upgrade of decades-old technology .
“ our proposal ensures that the air traffic organization can operate as a high-tech service provider , not as a huge bumbling bureaucracy , ” shuster said at a hearing to mark up the legislation for full house consideration .
the failed democratic amendment to keep air traffic control within the faa would have made faa funding mandatory , protecting it from political squabbles over the budget .
it would also have required reforms to ensure adequate controller staffing and the more efficient faa adoption of new technology .
“ the only guarantee with privatization is years of transition costs and litigation , ” said representative peter dafazio , the top democrat on the committee , who had introduced the amendment .
“ regrettably , including this controversial proposal in this legislation is likely to hold up enactment of the rest of the bill. ” the committee also rejected a proposed democratic amendment that would have lifted existing restrictions on the ability of the u.s. transportation department to regulate air shipments of lithium batteries , seen by safety experts as dangerous fire hazards when transported as cargo .
over the objections of democrats , the panel approved a measure directing the faa to authorize package delivery by commercial drones within a year and to establish a pilot program for testing a traffic management system for unmanned aircraft .
the faa expects to issue commercial drone regulations late this summer , but drone advocates fear the rules will not accommodate sophisticated technologies needed for package delivery .
also accepted was a republican amendment to encourage uber-style flight sharing by allowing private pilots to use the internet to find multiple passengers willing to share flight expenses .