can you imagine ?
this man goes for a knee replacement and returns home to find the city had demolished his house !
talk about big brother !
a long island town hall ordered the demolition of a local resident s house while he was recuperating from knee surgery in florida .
philip williams headed to florida last december to escape the winter and undergo an operation .
but by the time he returned home in august , his home in west hempstead , long island had been razed to the ground .
all that remained was an empty lot , covered in grass .
speaking to cbs news , mr williams , who is 69 , said : you don t expect to leave and get surgery and come back to find everything gone .
i m outraged .
they shouldn t be able to do that .
this was preventable .
it s unjust and a tremendous disservice to me .
neighbors complained to the local town officials that the house , which was built in the 1920s , was in poor condition and not properly maintained .
the town sent a number of registered letters to williams , but he claims he never saw any of them as he was in florida recovering from surgery .
he has instructed local lawyer bradley siegel to sue the town for compensation .
the town claims it wrote to williams in october and november , before he went to florida for knee replacement surgery .
he insists he never read the notices .
town spokeswoman susan trenkle-pokalsky said : hempstead town followed all proper procedures with regard to property owner notification relating to proceedings .
the structure posed a danger to the public and was taken down in accordance with the law .
williams denied that he had abandoned the house and said that it contained his late-wife s jewelry , personal possessions as well as trees that his parents had planted in the 1940s .
everything was removed from the site following the demolition .
he said he wants an explanation from the town on why it knocked down his home and where his personal belongings now are .
social media users condemned hempstead town for its actions .
one claimed it had made a major mistake : did they even bother to look if there was lien a foreclosure , civil case pending ?
how hard is it to investigate the status of the owner ? .
hey hempstead you just guaranteed this man a nice payout .
instead of hempstead .
he will be moving to harbor town soon enough .
read more : daily mail