moscow ( reuters ) - the kremlin said on monday that talks with saudi arabia over moscow supplying riyadh with advanced s-400 air defense missile systems had gone well so far despite talk of a possible u.s.-saudi arms deal .
russian president vladimir putin hosted saudi arabia s king salman for talks at the kremlin last week during which saudi arabia said it had signed a memorandum of understanding on the purchase of the s-400s .
a day later , the pentagon said the u.s. state department had approved the possible sale of a thaad anti-missile defense system to saudi arabia at an estimated cost of $ 15 billion .
when asked whether a possible u.s. deal with riyadh might affect the russian arrangement , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov , on a conference call with reporters , said talks had been progressing well .
we can speak only for ourselves , said peskov .
( but ) contacts to implement this contract have been very positive and have had very good preliminary results .
maria vorobyova , an official at a russian government agency dealing with military and technical cooperation , was cited earlier on monday as saying that a firm agreement had been reached with saudi arabia on the s-400s .
an agreement has been reached with the kingdom of saudi arabia to deliver the s-400 air defense system , anti-tank kornet-em rocket systems , tos-1a ( multiple rocket launcher ) systems , ags-30 automated grenade launchers , and kalashnikov ak-103 assault rifles , the ria news agency cited her as saying .
russia also signed a contract last week for saudi to produce the ak-103 rifles under license along with ammunition .
saudi arabia is a longstanding u.s. ally in the middle east and its arms deals with moscow have caused disquiet in washington .
when asked about fears that saudi arabia could use the s-400 system against iran , a russian ally , peskov said moscow s decision to offer the missiles to riyadh was not aimed at any third party .
military technical cooperation between moscow and riyadh is absolutely self-contained and does not target third countries in this region or other regions of the world , said peskov .
therefore we are confident that this cooperation should not be a worry for anyone .