there s so much to this effort to close gitmo that it s hard to know where to begin .
first of all , one of obama s campaign promises was to close gitmo .
here we are late in his second term and he s still doing everything he can to close this prison for terrorists .
we ve dumped millions into the facility , even building a $ 750,000 soccer field .
the republicans have been blocking obama s efforts but it s looking more and more like an executive order will be the only way gitmo will close .
the second aspect of this obama plan is that obama may give gitmo back to cuba .
raul castro voiced a desire to have gitmo returned back in january : cuba president raul castro said that if the united states wants to smooth relations , then the united states must first turn over guantanamo bay .
the reestablishment of diplomatic relations is the start of a process of normalizing bilateral relations , but this will not be possible while the blockade still exists , while they don t give back the territory illegally occupied by the guantanamo naval base , mr. castro said , ap reported.gitmo was established by the united states in 1903 .
cuba has been demanding the united states give it over to its authority for decades.i wouldn t put it past obama to give guantanamo bay back to cuba .
this is clearly a political move by obama who s protecting his legacy over the safety and security of the american people .
can you imagine having these terrorists housing in the city you live in ? the pentagon is expected to release a plan next week on president obama s years-long effort to close the guantanamo bay detention center that suggests a colorado prison dubbed the alcatraz of the rockies as one suitable site to relocate expected life-long detainees , obama administration officials say.obama made a campaign promise in his 2008 white house bid to close the facility , arguing the move would be in the united states best financial , national security and foreign policy interests and in the name of justice considering some of the detainees have been held for nearly nine years without trial or sentencing.however , critics of the promise , including many republicans , fear transferring detainees to the u.s. mainland as part of an overall closure plan poses too much of a homeland security risk .
they also say the president has yet to submit a closure plan and have been critical of the administration recently allowing some known terrorists to return to the middle east.the florence , colo. , prison is among seven u.s. facilities in colorado , kansas and south carolina being considered.the pentagon plan represents a last-gasp effort by the administration to convince staunch opponents in congress that dangerous detainees who can t be transferred safely to other countries should be housed in a u.s.-based prison .
read more : fox news