as millions of dollars of union dues flow into the democrat coffers , it could be all for naught , as union members plan to cast their votes for donald trump democrats are worried as more and more union members are supporting donald trump for president.a recent afl-cio poll found that trump has more support than hillary and bernie sanders combined.95 % of union donations flow to democratic candidates and causes .
gateway pundittrump is resonating with voters who are struggling to make ends meet and who are seeing their friends jobs shipped abroad , says john cakmakci , president of united food and commercial workers union local 951 in michigan .
and some of those voters are union members .
trump s populist positions on trade and his rejection of washington politics have earned him votes across the rust belt , where several battleground states are key to winning the election in november donald trump jr. explains the blue-collar billionaire s appeal with voters : working america , the political organizing arm of afl-cio , wanted to find out whether trump s rightwing message appealed to workers outside cleveland and pittsburgh .
after interviewing about 1,689 working-class americans living in households earning less than $ 75,000 , they found out that trump was in fact the favored candidate .
of the 800 voters who had decided on a candidate at the time of the interview , about 300 favored trump .
combined , the two democratic candidates appealed to fewer workers 174 chose clinton and 95 chose sanders .
while most of trump s support comes from the staunch republican base , one in four democrats who chose a candidate showed a preference for trump , said working america s report.the majority of respondents said they supported the candidate because of his pugnacious personality rather than for , say , his position on trade.on tuesday , jared szczesny , a card-carrying member of the united automobile , aerospace and agricultural implement workers of america union ( uaw ) , will cast his vote for trump in pennsylvania s primary .
in 2008 and 2012 , uaw endorsed president obama .
this time uaw has yet to endorse a candidate , but is likely to back a democrat.szczesny , 31 , has never attended a trump rally .
he works seven days a week and has not been able to find the time .
however , back in october , he picked up trump s book the art of the deal .
when he finished it , he knew that trump had his vote.via : the guardian