islamabad ( reuters ) - bomb blasts killed a pakistani army officer and three soldiers searching for the kidnappers of a freed u.s.-canadian family in a tribal region bordering afghanistan , pakistani and u.s. officials said .
pakistan s army said the attacks in kurram tribal district on sunday also wounded three soldiers during the search for those who held american caitlan coleman , her canadian husband , joshua boyle , and their three children hostage .
the family were freed on wednesday when the pakistani army shot out the tires of a vehicle carrying the family during a rescue based on intelligence shared by u.s. authorities .
a local government official , baseer khan , said an improvised explosive device exploded when a military bomb disposal squad was scanning the route , and the other two bombs went off when an army team reached the site .
the pakistani taliban claimed responsibility .
these personnel were searching for the kidnappers of a u.s. citizen and her family , said david hale , u.s .
ambassador to pakistan , in a statement .
we remain extremely grateful for the pakistani military s quick response and successful humanitarian operation allowing caitlan coleman and her family to return home safely .
the family s rescue has been hailed by u.s. president donald trump as a positive moment for u.s.-pakistan relations , which have frayed in recent years amid washington s assertions that islamabad has not been doing enough to tackle taliban-linked haqqani militants who are believed to be on pakistani soil .
coleman and boyle were held by haqqani militants who kidnapped them while backpacking in afghanistan in 2012 .
the pakistani army has indicated that the captors were tracked shortly after entering from afghanistan , although it remains unclear whether the family were kept in afghanistan for all five years , or in pakistan for some of the time .
haqqani militants , once termed by a u.s. general a veritable arm of pakistan s top spy agency , the inter service intelligence ( isi ) , operate on both sides of the long porous border .
boyle , in a video statement released by the pakistani military , called his captors criminals and pagans who had nothing to do with islam .
boyle described the operation to free his family as incredibly professional .
i did see the truth , and the truth was that car was riddled with bullets , he said .
the isi and the army got between the criminals and that car to make sure that the prisoners were safe , my family was safe .