london ( reuters ) - british brexit minister david davis said on monday the government would allow parliament the opportunity to debate , scrutinize and vote on any final brexit agreement , offering a concession to conservative party rebels .
prime minister theresa may is under pressure to offer a meaningful vote on any deal for britain s departure from the european union .
members of her own party are willing to vote against the government to stymie a bill which she says is needed to sever ties with the bloc .
i can now confirm that once we ve reached an agreement we will bring forward a specific piece of primary legislation to implement that agreement , davis told parliament .
this also means that parliament will be given time to debate , scrutinize and vote on the final agreement we strike with the european union .
this agreement will only hold if parliament approves it .
may s blueprint for britain s exit from the eu faces a crucial test starting on tuesday , when lawmakers will debate the eu withdrawal bill that she says is crucial to give companies confidence that the rules will not change after brexit .
lawmakers have proposed 186 pages of amendments to the bill , which largely copy and paste eu rules and regulations into british law but also , critics say , hand the government wide-ranging powers and cut parliament out of some brexit planning .
davis said the government would allow parliament the chance to vote on a withdrawal agreement and implementation bill once it has secured a brexit deal with the european union , which both sides aim to do by late next year .
this confirms that the major policies set out in the withdrawal agreement ( with the eu ) will be directly implemented into uk law by primary legislation , he said .
primary legislation means making law by acts of parliament or statute .
some lawmakers welcomed the move , but others said the change in procedure would mean that if britain failed to negotiate a deal with the eu , parliament would have no say , and that there would not be time for a proper chance to have sway over a deal .
hasn t he just given the game away on what a sham offer this is ?
totally worthless to parliament , essentially trying to buy off people , chris leslie , a member of the opposition labour party and a pro-eu campaigner , said .