beirut ( reuters ) - air strikes killed 19 people in a village in syria s rebel stronghold of idlib overnight , a rescue service there and the syrian observatory for human rights said on wednesday .
the strikes pounded maar shureen in the northwestern idlib province and injured 25 other people , the britain-based observatory said .
the dead included seven children , it said .
the war monitoring group added that syrian government or russian aircraft had struck the village .
russia s defence ministry denied involvement , saying in a statement carried by ria news agency that its jets had not flown in that area .
there was no immediate comment from the syrian military , which says it only targets militants .
idlib s civil defense , a rescue service known as the white helmets which operates in rebel territory , said on social media that fierce bombing killed 19 people overnight .
there were two consecutive strikes ... the second strike came shortly before rescue teams arrived , mustafa youssef , who heads the idlib civil defense , said .
the damascus government lost idlib after insurgents took over the provincial capital in 2015 .
it has since become the only province fully under opposition control , and the most populated insurgent-held part of syria .
hayat tahrir al sham , the islamist alliance spearheaded by the former al-qaeda affiliate in syria , is the dominant rebel force in idlib .
this has raised fears among some civilians and other rebel factions that the province could come under attack and turn into a major battlefield .
thousands of civilians and fighters have poured into idlib in the past year , bussed out of towns and cities which syrian troops seized with the help of russia and iran-backed militias .
government forces and their allies stepped up air strikes against opposition towns in the hama countryside and the southern part of idlib , rebels said last week .
the province , bordering turkey , is part of russian-brokered de-escalation agreements that seek to shore up ceasefires in parts of western syria .
turkey , which had long backed some syrian rebel factions , set up observation posts in idlib in october under a deal with russia and iran to reduce fighting there .
turkish president tayyip erdogan has said the military operation in idlib was largely completed .
the deployment was also seen partly aimed at containing kurdish influence nearby in northern syria .