people who owe their lives to the affordable care act ripped donald trump a new one on wednesday for referring to them as victims of the healthcare program.only one day after sticking his foot in his mouth by bragging about himself and attacking one of our allies instead of honoring those who died on d-day 73 years ago , trump decided to do it again while announcing a visit to ohio.trump declared that he would be meeting with obamacare victims , which immediately pissed off all the people who rely on the affordable care act.getting ready to leave for cincinnati , in the great state of ohio , to meet with obamacare victims and talk healthcare & also infrastructure !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 7 , 2017obamacare and the affordable care act are the same program and even conservatives rely on it .
the program has saved lives and given tens of millions of americans access to health insurance that they previously could not afford.trump has repeatedly tried to strip healthcare away from millions of americans by pushing for repeal of the law and his administration has been chipping away at the affordable care act to make it weaker so that trump can sit on his ass and tweet about how the program is failing .
those who have insurance thanks to obamacare were quick to jump down trump s throat and reminded him that s he s the one who is victimizing people.obamacare victims ?
that s rich coming from someone who is pushing hard to yank 23m citizens off of healthcare .
adam best ( @ adamcbest ) june 7 , 2017you are sabotaging obamacare and don t care about the collateral damage .
you , donald trump , are creating those victims .
adam best ( @ adamcbest ) june 7 , 2017you are so wrong .
obamacare saved my mother s life .
she had breast cancer , was discriminated against most of her life by insurance co s. adam best ( @ adamcbest ) june 7 , 2017ohio just lost anthem thanks to trumpcare .
these are trumpcare victims .
even our gop gov opposes trumpcare .
obamacare helped 100,000s here david pepper ( @ davidpepper ) june 7 , 2017how about you talk about how your charity and that of your son eric cheated donors out of helping cancer patients ?
jeremy greenfield ( @ jdgreenfield ) june 7 , 2017the insurance companies are explicitly blaming trump for market troubles : https : //t.co/3zqx6c5pvd windhorse ( @ windhorse_1 ) june 7 , 2017mr .
president i have crohn s disease .
obamacare for me is great insurance coverage on par with anything i ve had in group , not a victim don kramer ( @ donkrameratl ) june 7 , 2017too bad you don t care about the people that will lose their insurance under ryancare .
you just want the tax cut .
sad .
dave hogg ?
( @ stareagle ) june 7 , 2017you are a liar and are going to kill more people than help .
resign .
robin ( @ puppymnkey ) june 7 , 2017victims ?
like my mom who had cancer and only got covered because of obamacare ?
alexandra jamieson ( @ deliciousalex ) june 7 , 2017actually , they are soon-to-be victims of wealthcare pushed by you and your heartless and vampiric oligarchs .
geesubay ( @ geesubay ) june 7 , 2017hey as * hole , i m an obama care victim .
u know what it did for me ?
saved my life which is more than i can say about your proposed death panel karen hunter ( @ kalamity_k ) june 7 , 2017if donald trump gets his way , obamacare will be repealed and millions of americans , including many conservatives , will lose their healthcare .
at that moment , millions of americans really will be victims .
but they won t be victims of obamacare , they ll be victims of trumpcare.featured image : win mcnamee/getty images