new york ( reuters ) - warren buffett bemoaned the “ negative drumbeat ” on the u.s. economy from presidential candidates in his annual berkshire hathaway inc shareholder letter on saturday , saying they are misleading americans into believing their children will be worse off than they are .
“ it ’ s an election year , and candidates can ’ t stop speaking about our country ’ s problems ( which , of course , only they can solve ) , ” buffett wrote , italicizing “ they ” for emphasis .
as a result of their dour outlook on the u.s. economy , many americans now believe that their children will not live as prosperously as they themselves do , the 85-year-old buffett said .
“ that view is dead wrong : the babies being born in america today are the luckiest crop in history , ” buffett said .
buffett did not single out any presidential candidates by name .
the billionaire in december officially threw his backing behind hillary clinton , a democrat .
“ during presidential elections where no incumbent is running , both sides who are running for president always say they are the ones to solve the nation ’ s problems and point out what those problems are , ” said bill smead , who invests $ 2.1 billion at smead capital management in seattle .
republican presidential candidate donald trump , who won new jersey gov .
chris christie ’ s endorsement on friday , has offered a bleak assessment of the u.s. economy , repeatedly saying it is in a “ bubble ” that he hopes will pop before he takes office .
“ i don ’ t want to inherit all this stuff , ” he has said .
in his letter , buffett said “ some commentators bemoan our current 2 percent per year growth ” in real gross domestic product , “ and , yes , we would all like to see a higher rate. ” but he said america ’ s population is growing about 0.8 percent per year , and that 2 percent gdp growth equates to a 1.2 percent per capita growth rate .
“ that may not sound impressive , ” buffett said .
“ but in a single generation of , say , 25 years , that rate of growth leads to a gain of 34.4 percent in real gdp per capita. ” buffett , whose home in omaha , nebraska sits on less than an acre , said society has advanced significantly since he grew up during and after the great depression .
“ all families in my upper middle-class neighborhood regularly enjoy a living standard better than that achieved by john d. rockefeller sr. at the time of my birth , ” he said .
“ his unparalleled fortune couldn ’ t buy what we now take for granted , whether the field is – to name just a few – transportation , entertainment , communication or medical services .
rockefeller certainly had power and fame ; he could not , however , live as well as my neighbors now do. ” all told , buffett said it is not a good idea to listen to these presidential candidates ’ negative outlooks .
“ for 240 years it ’ s been a terrible mistake to bet against america , and now is no time to start , ” he said .
“ america ’ s golden goose of commerce and innovation will continue to lay more and larger eggs .
america ’ s social security promises will be honored and perhaps made more generous .
and , yes , america ’ s kids will live far better than their parents did. ” ( reporting by jennifer ablan and jonathan stempel ; editing by nick zieminski ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .