beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon can no longer handle vast numbers of syrian refugees , its president said on monday , urging world powers to help them return to the calmer parts of their war-torn homeland .
more than six years into the syrian war , 1.5 million refugees who fled the violence now account for a quarter of lebanon s population .
lebanese president michel aoun told international envoys he wanted to find ways for them to return safely but would not force people back to places where they could face persecution .
my country can not handle it anymore , aoun told representatives of the european union , the arab league and the five permanent members of the u.n. security council at a meeting in beirut , his media office said .
the long-term presence of refugees is a particularly sensitive issue in lebanon where some politicians say the influx of mainly sunni syrians might destabilize the delicate sectarian balance with christians , shi ite muslims and others .
as the syrian government regains more territory from rebels and militants , calls have increased in lebanon for syrians to return .
a series of ceasefire deals has reduced fighting to some extent in parts of western syria .
but rights groups have warned against forcing people back to a country still at war , and refugees have often said they fear facing arrest or conscription into the army .
the u.n. refugee agency does not yet consider syria safe for refugee to return to .
lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri has said there can be no forced returns .
aoun told the envoys there were parts of syria not currently at war and territory where calm has returned , a spokesman said .
the return of displaced to stable and low-tension areas must be carried out without attaching it to reaching a political solution , the president s twitter account said .
aoun said it was in the everyone s interest to solve the refugee crisis so that political , economic and social problems in lebanon do not get out of hand .
officials at the meeting thanked lebanon for its generosity in hosting refugees .
they expressed their full understanding of the concerns that are being voiced , a statement from the envoys said .
a return of refugees to their country of origin must take place in safety , dignity and voluntarily , in accordance with principles of international law , it said .