barcelona ( reuters ) - the first of hundreds of catalan mayors summoned to answer questions on why they have backed a banned oct. 1 referendum on independence from spain appeared before the state prosecutor on tuesday amid cheers and chants from supporters .
the first three mayors to declare exercised their right to remain silent , the association of municipalities for independence ( ami ) said .
years of separatist feeling in the industrial northeastern region will come to a head in less than two weeks as the fiercely pro-independence regional government calls a referendum on splitting from spain .
madrid has declared the referendum illegal and the constitutional court has suspended the vote that was approved by the regional government earlier this month .
on tuesday , police continued their search for ballot boxes , voting papers and campaign leaflets , raiding the offices of spain s biggest private delivery company unipost in several catalan cities and clashing with protesters .
so far , 745 of 948 municipal leaders have said they will provide venues for the referendum .
voting is not a crime , said marc solsona , mayor of the town of mollerussa , one of nearly 750 mayors facing charges of civil disobedience , abuse of office and misuse of public funds , as he left the state prosecutor s office in barcelona .
i m just the mayor and i have to serve my people .
i am committed to the people being able to vote on oct. 1 in accordance with the law passed by the catalan parliament and what happens to me is not important , he said .
solsona smiled , kissed and gripped hands with dozens of clapping supporters gathered outside the state prosecutor s office as he entered to chants of you are not alone .
we consider ourselves privileged to have a mayor who represents the townspeople above any other interests - political or financial , said 63-year-old pensioner angel tena , who had traveled to barcelona to support the mayor .
spain s civil guard , a national police force , on tuesday seized over 45,000 envelopes packed in cardboard boxes that the catalan government was ready to send to notify people around the region about the referendum , the spanish interior ministry said .
while police raided the unipost offices in terrassa , dozens of people gathered outside chanting out with the occupying forces , handing out voting papers , flying catalan flags , and laying carnations on police cars .
later on protesters scuffled with catalan police called in to move protesters preventing the civil guard from leaving the premises , according to reuters footage .
the police hit several protesters outside the offices with truncheons .
unipost confirmed the raid without giving further details .
although polls show less than half of catalonia s 5.5 million voters want self-rule , most in the wealthy northeastern region want the chance to vote on the issue .