the bitter battle for the presidency is over .
democratic candidate hillary clinton lost .
but the republican party is far from done with the former secretary of state , according to utah gop rep. jason chaffetz , chairman of the house oversight and government reform committee.asked thursday on nbc if president-elect donald trump should make good on the lock her up chants that became commonplace at the gop candidate s rowdy events , new jersey gov .
chris christie , who is leading trump s transition team , said , politics are over now .
people have spoken .
time to unite the country .
but the investigations into clinton s email practices at the state department are on track to continue regardless .
according to the washington post , chaffetz said it would be totally remiss of us to dismiss probes of clinton s practices just because she fell short of winning the white house .
i still have a duty and obligation to get to the truth about one of the largest breaches of security at the state department , he said .
tens of thousands of documents still have not been turned over to congress .
chaffetz continued , a trump administration would be cooperative in getting these floodgates to open as they should .
the utah lawmaker indicated he doesn t anticipate calling on clinton to testify , though the committee he leads could pull other former and current state department staffers in for more questioning.maryland rep. elijah cummings , the top democrat on the house oversight and government reform committee , said it is extremely disappointing to learn that chaffetz plans to continue investigating clinton for years to come .
after everything our country has just been through and particularly given that donald trump and [ house speaker ] paul ryan have both called for healing our nation s divisions i think the american people deserve more from congress than to continue squandering taxpayer dollars on these baseless republican accusations and partisan attacks , cummings said.read more : blaze