kigali ( reuters ) - a prominent critic of rwanda s president appeared in court alongside her mother and sister on friday , all charged with forgery and inciting insurrection .
diane shima rwigara is accused of faking the registration papers she filed to stand against president paul kagame in an august election .
she was eventually barred from running and kagame went on to win with 98.8 percent of the vote .
rwigara , 35-year-old accountant , has repeatedly accused kagame of stifling dissent and criticized his rwandan patriotic front s tight grip on the country since it fought its way to power to end rwanda s 1994 genocide .
on friday , she told the packed court room she had been forced to appear without her lawyer because authorities had not told him about the hearing in time .
rwigara , her mother adeline and sister anne , have said charges against them are politically motivated .
kagame has been widely praised for restoring stability but rights groups say he has muzzled independent media and suppressed opponents - accusations he dismisses .
rwanda last month charged another opposition official and eight others with forming an armed group and seeking to overthrow the government .
rwigara , her mother and sister were first taken from their home in the rwandan capital on aug. 30 on tax evasion allegations related to the family s tobacco company .
the tax accusations did not appear on the charge sheet and prosecutors did not give details on the insurrection charge .
rwigara s sister anne said they had not had enough access to their lawyer .
how can a lawyer defend the case he doesn t know ?
she told the judges .
he came [ last ] friday and he was only allowed five minutes to discuss with us and on sunday when he came back he was not allowed to see us .
rwigara s mother is also charged with discrimination and sectarianism .
prosecutor michel nshimiyimana said the rwigaras lawyer , buhuru pierre celestin , had been informed .
the judges set the next hearing for monday .