jakarta ( reuters ) - the u.s. government had intimate knowledge of the mass killing of alleged communists in indonesia in the mid 1960s even as it failed to publicly reveal the slaughter , newly declassified u.s. documents show.the documents also reveal that indonesian army intermediaries told western embassies they were considering toppling then president sukarno less than a fortnight after the killing of six generals by rebel military personnel that sparked the bloodletting .
the murder of the generals on sept. 30 , 1965 , is still widely depicted as an attempted communist coup against sukarno .
the murders were used as a pretext for an anti-communist pogrom by indonesia s military and islamic groups that led to at least 500,000 deaths .
one of the worst massacres of the 20th century , the killings in 1965 and 1966 have never been officially investigated and perpetrators have never faced justice .
indonesia , the world s largest muslim-majority country , still has periodic bouts of anti-communist hysteria .
last month , a meeting by human rights activists and victims of the anti-communist purge was shut down after islamists and nationalists rioted outside the venue .
one cable from the u.s. embassy in jakarta to the department of state , written three months after members of the communist party , the pki , were first targeted , said there were an estimated 100,000 pki deaths .
in medan , on the island of sumatra , clerics from the muslim group muhammadiyah urged members to kill communists , according to a telegram from the u.s. consul .
conscious pki members are classified as lowest order of infidel , the shedding of whose blood is comparable to killing chicken , the consul said in one report .
muhammadiyah youth group chairman dahnil anzar said the documents showed nothing new but such conflict should not happen again .
a u.s. consular officer in the city of surabaya , in east java , said in a telegram members of ansor , the youth wing of the nahdlatul ulama islamic organization , were responsible for widespread slaughter and they thought killing communists was a ticket to heaven .
army is quietly releasing nightly 10 to 15 prisoners to muslims for execution , the official in surabaya said in another dispatch .
abdul rochman , secretary general of ansor , told reuters that the group s involvement in the killings of 1965 was a form of self-defense .
( the pki ) carried out provocative activities like aggressive recruitment and went further by insulting our imams , poisoning and killing our members , burning mosques , he said .
we believe the nu s reaction was relatively measured and not disproportionate .
indonesia s chief security minister , wiranto , declined to answer questions .
army deputy chief of staff , h siburian , said he had not seen the documents so could not comment .
concern about left-wing policies rochman , from nu s ansor , said he supported any move for dialogue and reconciliation .
we must make sure all voices are heard - nu s voice , the victims voices , the children of suspected communists .
phelim kine , deputy asia director of human rights watch , said redress for victims was long overdue .
the u.s. embassy did not respond to requests for comment .
while the documents do not solve the mystery of why the six generals were killed on sept. 30 , they do show that the united states and its indonesian military allies were deeply concerned about sukarno s left-wing policies and ties to the communists .
then u.s. ambassador marshall green wrote on oct. 12 , 1965 , that the army had approached western embassies through an intermediary and said they were considering a quick move to overthrow sukarno , although no final decision was made .
in the event of such a coup , green says the united states could help with anything from covert operations and assistance [ to ] transport , money , communications equipment , or arms .
in january 1967 , major general sjarif thajeb told a u.s. embassy official sukarno planned to accuse foreigners and their little army friends of orchestrating the sept. 30 killings .
the president s plan had galvanized the military hawks to oust sukarno by march .
army general suharto became acting president in march , ushering in three decades of military dictatorship .