paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron wants to scrap rules allowing some state rail workers to retire on a full pension up to 10 years before most other french workers .
the reform plan risks inflaming tensions with labor unions who led the biggest strikes of recent decades in 1995 against a similar proposal that the government of the time floated before abandoning it and losing power .
macron has said his government will embark on overhauling france s myriad pension schemes in early 2018 , creating a single system for all .
the shake-up of the pension scheme tailored for the sncf state rail group would affect nearly 200,000 employees , in particular train drivers who can retire as early as age 52 , a decade before the pension age of 62 .
macron first outlined the idea in an internal sncf publication in july .
he said he wanted a draft legislation presented early in 2018 and a reform that would be effective by mid-2018 or early 2019 .
asked about the president s plan for the sncf s pensions on wednesday , government spokesman christophe castaner said it fell within the wider pension reform package .
that s the track the president wants to take , castaner told a weekly news briefing .
macron , a 39-year-old former investment banker , was elected on a promise to push through far-reaching social and economic reforms , a program that has drawn increasing public opposition since he took office four months ago .
his government last thursday presented plans to ease labor regulations with only one of the three biggest unions threatening protests .
but tougher tests may lie ahead , including overhauling employment insurance this autumn and then pension reforms .
in 1995 , plans to abolish a pension scheme specific to sncf workers sparked the biggest wave of street protests and public transport strikes in recent french history .
those protests , including a three-week rail strike , ultimately led to the reform being abandoned , the resignation of then prime minister alain juppe and an election where voters replaced the right-wing government with a socialist one in 1997 .
macron said on the campaign trail he wanted to smooth out the big differences between the pensions of state and private sector employees , while keeping the pension age at 62 .
beyond the sncf , that will mean reforming the generous pensions of big state-owned companies such as utility edf , whose unions have fiercely defended their privileges .