kuwait ( reuters ) - qatar s emir said on tuesday he hoped a summit of the gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) in kuwait would help maintain stability in the region , al-jazeera tv said , though three arab heads of state involved in a rift with qatar stayed away .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates ( uae ) and bahrain sent ministers or deputy prime ministers to the annual event .
the countries and non-gcc member egypt have imposed economic , diplomatic and trade sanctions on qatar in a dispute that began in june .
qatar s emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani said the summit took place in highly sensitive circumstances .
he and kuwait s emir sheikh sabah al-ahmad al-jaber al-sabah were the only heads of state to attend the meeting .
i am full of hope that the summit will lead to results that will maintain the security of the gulf and its stability , tamim said , according to the doha-based al-jazeera .
sheikh sabah said in a speech at the end of the summit : we proved once again the resilience of our gulf institution and its ability to be steadfast , simply by holding into the mechanism of convening these meetings .
in his opening speech , the kuwaiti ruler called for a mechanism to be set up in the western-backed grouping to resolve disputes among its members .
relations within the gulf have soured since the four arab states accused qatar of supporting terrorism .
qatar denies the charges .
kuwait , which had spearheaded unsuccessful mediation efforts since the rift began , had hoped the summit would give leaders a chance to meet face-to-face , two gulf diplomats said .
earlier , the uae said it would set up a bilateral cooperation committee with saudi arabia , separate from the gcc , on political , economic and military issues .
uae president sheikh khalifa bin zayed al-nahyan said the new committee would be chaired by abu dhabi s crown prince , sheikh mohammed bin zayed al-nahayan , mohammed bin zayed , state news agency wam reported .
saudi arabia has not yet commented .
the proposal coincides with an escalation in a conflict in yemen that involves saudi arabia and uae .
veteran former president ali abdullah saleh was killed in a roadside attack on monday after switching sides in the war and abandoning his iran-aligned houthi allies in favor of a saudi-led coalition .
the gcc was founded in 1980 as a bulwark against bigger neighbors iran and iraq .