marseille , france/paris ( reuters ) - two women were stabbed to death and their assailant shot dead by a soldier in the southern french port city of marseille on sunday in what officials described as a likely terrorist act .
police sources said the suspect had shouted allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) in arabic as he attacked the women , aged 17 and 20 , at marseille s main railway station .
two police sources said one had her throat slit while the other was stabbed in the chest and stomach .
an islamic state militant was responsible for the attack , the group s amaq news agency said .
the assailant was shot dead by a soldier from a military sentinelle patrol , a force deployed across the country as part of a state of emergency declared after islamist attacks that began almost two years ago .
we have until now managed to avoid such dramatic incidents ( in marseille ) .
i think it was a terrorist attack and the individual who was killed seems to have had several identities , marseille mayor jean-claude gaudin told reporters .
paris was rocked in 2015 by multiple attacks that killed 130 people .
in 2016 a gunman drove a truck into a crowd celebrating bastille day in nice , killing 86 people .
both of these attacks were claimed by islamic state .
other countries , including britain , germany and belgium , have also suffered attacks by militants using knives , guns , explosives and driving vehicles at crowds .
some 200 police officers cordoned off the area and all roads were closed to traffic .
a witness told reuters she saw a man take out a knife from his sleeve and then stab a young girl and then a second woman , shouting what could have been allahu akbar .
speaking in marseille , interior minister gerard collomb said the man had initially killed one woman and looked to be running away before returning to attack a second woman and then rush toward soldiers from the sentinelle force who arrived on the scene quickly and shot him dead .
two police sources said the attacker had been carrying a butcher s knife , was around 30 years old and of north african appearance .
one source said he was known to police for common law crimes , while another said digital analysis of fingerprints had come up with several aliases .
this could be an act of terrorism , but we can not confirm it fully at this stage , collomb told reporters .
french troops are part of a u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state in syria and iraq and has thousands of soldiers in west africa fighting al qaeda-linked militants , operations that have made these groups urge their followers to target france .
security forces have increasingly been targeted by militants in knife attacks .
a man wielding a knife attacked a soldier in a paris metro station on sept. 15 .
president emmanuel macron said on twitter he was disgusted by this barbaric act and praised the calmness and efficiency of security forces .
french lawmakers are due to vote on a much-criticized anti-terrorism law on tuesday , which would see france come out of its state-of-emergency in november , although some of the powers would be enshrined into law .
the number of military personnel on the ground is also due to be reduced slightly , although the force is being adapted to make it more mobile and its movements less predictable .
the presence of sentinelle soldiers , their speed and efficiency ensured that the death count was not bigger , police union official stephane battaglia told reuters .