21st century wire says we ve said it many times during the last two years here at 21wire and on the sunday wire radio show that the present anti-russia hysteria being rolled out in the us and britain is simply a cheap facade to gin up a new arms race .
not small ticket items , but big ticket items including the next generation of next generation tactical nuclear weapons .
the only problem is : the out-of-control rhetoric , mixed with washington s careless and belligerent military posturing might inadvertently lead to belligerent military action.watch us army chief of staff gen. mark milley last week , threatening to destroy any enemy , anytime , meaning russia .. general milley performed his duty for the corporations .
all smiles at the agm .
indeed , business has never been better .
bravo , encore !
says lockheed martin , boeing , northrop grumman , raytheon , general dynamics , bae systems , airbus and general electric.when will it end ?
how much profit is enough for the us defense industry ? the sad truth : it s never enough mark perry politicoduring the battle of the wilderness in 1864 , a unit of robert e. lee s army rolled up some artillery pieces and began shelling the headquarters of union commander ulysses s. grant .
when one of his officers pleaded that grant move , insisting that he knew exactly what lee was going to do , grant , normally a taciturn man , lost his temper : oh , i am heartily tired of hearing about what lee is going to do , he said .
some of you always seem to think he is going to turn a double somersault , and land in our rear and on both of our flanks at the same time .
go back to your command and try to think what we are going to do ourselves , instead of what lee is going to do .
the story was recalled to me a few weeks ago by a senior pentagon officer in citing the april 5 testimony of army leaders before a senate armed services subcommittee .
the panel delivered a grim warning about the future of the u.s. armed forces : unless the army budget was increased , allowing both for more men and more materiel , members of the panel said , the united states was in danger of being outranged and outgunned in the next war and , in particular , in a confrontation with russia .
vladimir putin s military , the panel averred , had outstripped the u.s. in modern weapons capabilities .
and the army s shrinking size meant that the army of the future will be too small to secure the nation .
it was a sobering assessment delivered by four of the most respected officers in the army including lt. gen. h.r .
mcmaster , his service s leading intellectual .
the claim is the prevailing view among senior army officers , who fear that army readiness and modernization programs are being weakened by successive cuts to the u.s. defense budget.but not everyone was buying it .
this is the chicken-little , sky-is-falling set in the army , the senior pentagon officer said .
these guys want us to believe the russians are 10 feet tall .
there s a simpler explanation : the army is looking for a purpose , and a bigger chunk of the budget .
and the best way to get that is to paint the russians as being able to land in our rear and on both of our flanks at the same time .
what a crock .
( ) the fight over the army panel s testimony is the latest example of a deepening feud in the military community over how to respond to shrinking budget numbers .
at issue is the military s strategic future : facing cuts , will the army opt to modernize its weapons arsenal , or defer modernization in favor of increased numbers of soldiers ?
on april 5 , the army s top brass made its choice clear : it wants to do both , and russia s the reason .
but a growing chorus of military voices says that demand is both backward and dangerously close-minded that those same senior military officers have not only failed to understand the lessons of afghanistan and iraq and embrace service reform , they are inflating foreign threats to win a bigger slice of the defense budget continue this story at politico.comread more russia news at : 21st century wire russia files