brasilia ( reuters ) - the former finance minister under brazil s luiz inacio lula da silva on wednesday accused the ex-president of receiving bribes from contractor odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] , adding to a list of corruption accusations that threaten lula s ability to run for president in 2018 .
lawyers for the former finance minister , antonio palocci , said he told prosecutors that lula accepted odebrecht s purchase of land for an institute in his name , a country house in sao paulo state and 300 million reais ( $ 97 million ) to be used after he left office .
a representative for lula said in a statement that palocci , who was arrested a year ago in a corruption investigation , was lying and making accusations without evidence to secure a favorable deal with prosecutors to reduce his sentence .
such testimony from a close confidant could be damning for lula , who intends to run for president again next year if he can successfully appeal a conviction that would bar him from standing .
lula faces four additional trials .
separately on wednesday , brazil s top prosecutor , rodrigo janot , charged lula , ex-president dilma rousseff and a former minister with obstruction of justice related to lula s nomination as rousseff s chief of staff in 2016 .
the nomination , later struck down by the supreme court , would have shielded lula from prosecution by lower courts .
it was the second charge from janot in two days .
on tuesday he accused lula , rousseff and six other members of their workers party for allegedly forming a criminal organization to carry out corruption and other crimes involving state-controlled oil company petrobras .
lula and rousseff deny the charges .
palocci leveled his accusations in two hours of testimony on wednesday as part of a probe into allegations that lula accepted the land for the institute .
it was a blood pact and a package of bribes that included payment for a property , an estate ranch and 300 million reais that gradually were made available according to a spreadsheet delivered by the contractor , said adriano bretas , one of palocci s lawyers .
tracy reinaldet , another of palocci s lawyers , said the agreement was made during the transition from lula into rousseff s first term .
palocci also served as rousseff s chief of staff initially but was forced to resign due to corruption allegations .