washington ( reuters ) - house of representatives speaker paul ryan vowed on thursday to speak out against republican presidential campaign rhetoric that could mislead voters about the party and its conservative principles , but stopped short of criticizing front-runner donald trump directly .
on a day when his former presidential running mate mitt romney denounced trump , ryan said he “ laughed out loud ” this week when trump warned that the speaker could pay a big price for not getting along with him if he becomes the party nominee .
“ here ’ s what i can control .
if i see episodes where conservatism is being disfigured , if i see comments that mislead the people as to who we are as republicans , i ’ m going to speak out on those , ” said ryan .
the speaker has already admonished trump for failing to disavow support from ku klux klan leader david duke .
“ i ’ m going to speak out for who i am and what i believe and what we as house republicans believe , and what conservatism is as we understand it , ” he told reporters .
romney , the republican presidential nominee in 2012 , delivered a blistering rebuke of trump on thursday , saying the real estate developer and former reality television star was “ a phony , a fraud. ” ryan , who was romney ’ s vice presidential running mate in their failed attempt to unseat president barack obama , said he did not know the content of the speech in advance .
“ mitt romney is one of our party leaders .
he cares deeply about the future of the republican party and the country , ” he said .
“ these are the kinds of things that happen in a competitive republican primary. ” ryan said his role as house speaker and chairman of the republican presidential nominating committee would be to provide a bold republican policy platform capable of offering voters substance on important issues including jobs and the economy .
he said he would reach out to each republican presidential candidate to talk about the agenda .
but ryan said he does not know trump .
“ we ’ re going to obviously get to know each other if he gets the nomination .
and we ’ ll cross those bridges when we get to it , ” the speaker said .
“ i ’ m a good-natured guy , so i get along with everybody . ”