kathmandu ( reuters ) - nepalis began voting for a new parliament on sunday with the army on alert on sunday as a series of small blasts blamed on a rogue maoist group reminded the himalayan nation of the violence and instability it is hoping to leave behind .
more than a decade after the end of a civil war between maoist peasant guerrillas and security forces , nepal is hoping this election - the first parliamentary polls since 1999 - will complete its long journey from a monarchy to become a federal republic .
a second phase of the election will take place on dec. 7 , and the election commission has said that the final results probably won t be known for several days because of the cumbersome counting procedures .
a maoist splinter group was behind a series of small blasts in the run up to the polls , army spokesman nain raj dahal said , adding that security forces have defused around 30 improvised explosive devices since friday .
for all the security concerns , voting was largely incident-free .
except for some minor complaints from a few places , polling in all areas is smooth and peaceful so far , ila sharma , a member of the election commission told reuters .
suresh balsami was the first voter at kagatigaun polling center , about an hour s drive mostly on a dusty and winding road from capital kathmandu .
i voted for peace , development and prosperity of the country , said the 32-year-old bus driver , as other voters began to trickle into the polling center in a public school ringed by pine trees .
candidates have used everything from mules to drones flying their party flags to reach voters in remote areas with no roads , according to media reports .
nepal voted in 2008 and 2013 for a constituent assembly , which doubled as parliament , to write a post-monarchy charter that plotted the course to becoming a federal republic .
more than 15 million eligible voters will pick a 275-member legislature , the first under a new constitution agreed after years of wrangling .
simultaneously , voters will choose representatives to seven provincial assemblies for the first time since nepal abolished the monarchy in 2008 .
the centrist nepali congress party , considered a pro-india group , has formed a loose electoral alliance with the madhesi parties from the country s southern plains bordering india and former royalists .
facing the alliance is a tight-knit left coalition between the former maoist rebels and the main opposition communist uml party , perceived to be closer to china .
wedged between india and china , nepal needs to balance ties , but the outcome of the election could determine which of the asian giants gets the upper hand in the battle for influence in the buffer state .
both are looking to benefit from nepal s potential as a source of hydropower .
home to mount everest , and one of the poorest countries in the world , nepal depends on tourism and aid .
more than one-fifth of its 28 million people survive on less than $ 1.90 a day , and parts of the country are still recovering from a devastating earthquake that killed 9,000 people in 2015 .
rita shrestha , a 49-year-old housewife whose house was damaged in the tremor , rued the slow pace of reconstruction .
we need roads , water supply , electricity , health care and jobs so our children are not forced to go abroad to work , shrestha , wrapped in a red woollen shawl , told reuters after casting her vote .
millions of young nepalis work mainly as laborers in the middle east , korea and malaysia .