this story is so stupid it hurts students at western washington university in bellingham , wa got an early thanksgiving holiday .
the university president abruptly cancelled all classes early tuesday morning , shutting down the campus .
why was this extreme action taken , you ask .
was it some sort of terrorist threat or possible mass shooting ?
nope , not even close .
it seems someone said a mean thing to a black student on a social media site.the register-guard reports that president bruce shepard sent an urgent e-mail out to all students at 6am tuesday morning , canceling all classes .
the reason given was a racist thread on yik yak concerning the school s mascot .
i need to be very clear here : we are not talking the merely insulting , rude , offensive commentary that trolls and various other lowlifes seem free to spew , willy nilly , although there has been plenty of that , too .
no , this was hate speech , wrote shepard in the e-mail.gee , isn t insulting , rude , offensive trolling the very definition of hate speech ? while shepard , and even the reporter covering the story , keep referring to threats being issued against minority students , that doesn t actually appear to be the case.a series of threats against minorities were posted over the weekend on yik yak , an anonymous social media platform popular among college students.the posts mentioned almost every ethnic group , including blacks , muslims , jews and american indians , blaming them for an effort on campus to debate changing the university s mascot , a viking .
the threats came days after some student leaders suggested that the mascot is racist .
the posts did not mention a specific action against the students.how can it be a threat if it doesn t mention a specific action ? most of the online comments contained racist language and profanity , making fun of the mascot debate and the students who proposed it .
one post called black students crying babies and another complimented the school for having an overtly aryan mascot.sifting through that noise , you can see that the worst thing posted was that a black person was being a crybaby .
that s not even a racist insult .
basically a 15,000-student university was shut down over a very mild flame war.if you think i m leaving something out , feel free to read the source article .
i swear that s all there is .
even the cops don t think there is anything to this : law enforcement officials do not believe there is a threat to general campus security , but shepard said a threat to any western student is an attack on the whole college community .
the decision to cancel classes was precautionary and to make sure students were safe , he said .
the school s thanksgiving break officially begins wednesday .
with disturbing social media content continuing through early this morning , students of color have advised me of their very genuine , entirely understandable , and heightened fear of being on campus , wrote shepard .
we take the feelings of safety of our students very , very seriously .
oh , i get it now , there wasn t any sort of actual threat , somebody s feelings got hurt .
and what were those hurt feelings all about ?
well , this : some students do not believe a white european man is a good representation of their school so it s racist to call someone a baby for not wanting a viking mascot , but not racist to say a white european man shouldn t represent the school ?
that makes as much sense as anything else going on here , i guess.black students don t want a white mascot because they think it s racist and complained about it on social media .
white students told them to stop whining , which the black students took as racial hostility .
the black students complained to the school that this perceived hostility made them feel unsafe and the gutless president cancelled all classes to placate their irrational fears .
welcome to the black lives matter version of america.via : downtrend