washington ( reuters ) - donald trump , leading the pack for the republican presidential nomination , has reached out to house of representatives speaker paul ryan , it was disclosed on wednesday , even as some republicans strategized over how to potentially knock the billionaire businessman ’ s campaign off its stride .
the trump campaign contacted ryan ’ s office late on monday , a spokeswoman for ryan said , on the eve of the super tuesday nominating contests in which hundreds of delegates were at stake for the republican candidates .
the trump overture also came a day before the republican speaker publicly admonished trump over his failure to repudiate the backing of his candidacy by a white supremacist group .
trump responded with a warning to ryan .
“ we have heard from the ( trump ) campaign , but the two have not yet spoken , ” ryan spokesman brendan buck said in a statement released on twitter on wednesday , one day after trump swept victories in seven of the 11 states that held republican nominating contests on the biggest day in the primary season .
ryan spokeswoman ashlee strong did not describe the subject or details of trump ’ s overture to the speaker .
after months of shrugging off trump ’ s candidacy , republicans are now grappling with the distinct possibility that he may be their party ’ s nominee to take on the democrats , likely led by hillary clinton , in the nov. 8 presidential election .
a republican senator who asked not to be identified , and a senior aide to another republican senator , told reuters that many private conversations were underway on capitol hill about finding ways to slow or stop trump .
“ people are leaning on people everywhere , ” to convince ohio governor john kasich to exit the race so the party can unify around a single trump alternative , either senator marco rubio or senator ted cruz .
kasich , however , was expected to stay in at least until the ohio primary on march 15 .
at the core of such conversations , said the aide and another senior senate republican aide , who also asked not to be identified , is avoiding a deadlock at the republican convention , which “ would forever result in the loss of our base , ” said one of the aides .
ryan has until this week avoided commenting on the presidential race .
on tuesday he said any republican nominee must reject any group “ built on bigotry. ” the remark was aimed at trump after trump did not immediately repudiate support from a white supremacist group over the weekend .
trump fired back at ryan in a news conference in florida on tuesday night , warning the speaker would pay “ a big price ” if he stood in trump ’ s way .
ryan ’ s office did not say on wednesday when the two men might talk .
but ryan ’ s spokesman said the speaker planned to be in touch with all of the republican presidential candidates soon to discuss the conservative policy agenda .
( reporting by susan cornwell and richard cowan ; editing by kevin drawbaugh and leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .