algiers/paris ( reuters ) - president emmanuel macron , visiting algeria , said on wednesday he would not be held hostage by france s colonial involvement there and urged young algerians to build for the future and not dwell on past crimes .
the relationship is scarred by the trauma of the 1954-1962 independence war in which the north africa country broke with france .
hundreds of thousands of algerians were killed and both sides used torture .
macron was in the capital algiers for talks with president abdelaziz bouteflika and senior officials , a rite of passage for all new french presidents .
many in algeria had wondered whether macron would offer an official apology for the past given his statement earlier this year when he described france s colonial rule as a crime against humanity .
but he did not go any further than his predecessor , francois hollande , who sought a more conciliatory tone but stopped short of saying sorry .
instead , macron s message to young algerians was not to harbor grudges from the past but look to the future .
i ve already said we need to recognize what we did , but algeria s youth can t just look to its past .
it needs to look forward and see how it will create jobs , macron said , answering questions from people as he walked through downtown algiers .
i m not here to judge those in the past .
there have been crimes and there were people that also did good things .
your generation must not allow this .
it s not an excuse ( to blame the past ) for what is happening today , he said .
when asked by reporters about the past , a visibly annoyed macron , said it was time to stop asking questions from 20 years ago .
these benchmarks block our bilateral relationship .
they don t interest me because the ambition i have for the relationship between algeria and france has nothing to do with what was done for decades .
it s a new story that s being written , he told a news conference .
facing high unemployment , low oil prices , austerity and political uncertainty , algeria s youth is likely to warm to macron s call to look to the future more than the war veterans .
an inter-governmental forum presided by the countries prime ministers will take place in paris on thursday to discuss how to develop an economic roadmap .
economic ties between the two countries have marginally progressed since 2012 and france is now behind china as the main partner .
annual trade stands at about 8 billion euros compared with 6.36 billion five years ago .
more than 400,000 algerians are given visas for france annually , almost twice as many as in 2012 .
while walking near the university , young algerians came out in force , calling out : visas , please !
highlighting just how divided opinion remains some others called out : go home !
we don t want you here .
this morning i saw too many people simply asking me for visas .
that s not a life project , macron told reporters .
franco-algerian relations are also a sensitive subject in france .
macron past condemnation of france s colonial rule angered many at home .
there must be no taboos between us .
but there has to a be a project for the future and i think the algerians must build their future from algeria , macron said responding to more questions in the streets .
but the thorny issues are unlikely to disappear just yet .
excuse me but france will have to apologize for the martyrs we lost , said a woman who gave her name as nadia .