the wife of fox news co-owner james murdoch , made no secret of her dislike for steve bannon back in april of 2017 : enough of president bannon .
president jarvanka preferable .
kathryn murdoch ( @ kathrynamurdoch ) april 5 , 2017are the murdoch family about to be sorry they ever wished for steve bannon to be fired or to resign from his position ?
according to axios : steve bannon is about to becoe a very big threat to the murdoch brothers conservative-leaning network news monopoly.unshaven and working from home in cargo shorts as he moves into bannon the barbarian mode , steve bannon is thinking bigger than breitbart.axios jonathan swan hears bannon has told friends he sees a massive opening to the right of fox news , raising the possibility that he s going to start a network.bannon s friends are speculating about whether it will be a standalone tv network , or online streaming only .
before his death in may , roger ailes had sent word to bannon that he wanted to start a channel together .
bannon loved the idea : he believes fox is heading in a squishy , globalist direction as the murdoch sons assume more power .
now he has the means , motive and opportunity : his chief financial backer , long island hedge fund billionaire bob mercer , is ready to invest big in what s coming next , including a huge overseas expansion of breitbart news .
on day 1 , bannon declared he s taking his west wing infighting to the outside , telling bloomberg businessweek s josh green that he s going to war for trump against his opponents on capitol hill , in the media , and in corporate america .
the reality is that bannon will go nuclear on former colleagues he calls west wing democrats : economic adviser gary cohn , jared and ivanka ( javanka , as he calls them ) and deputy national security adviser dina powell.the revved-up breitbart operation is also likely to target speaker ryan , as it did before trump.why it matters : the country s national political conversation is about to get even uglier , if you can imagine .
it s going to be dark , and toxic , with a fight on the right that may be more bitter and personal than hostilities between republicans and democrats.will steve bannon be more useful to the conservative movement on the outside ?
will he use his experiences in the white house and his vast knowledge in the world of conservative media to build a media empire that could crush the murdoch s fox news network ?
many americans will be wondering will bannon hire bill o reilly , the one man who kept fox news at the top of the ratings for over a decade ?
president trump wished steve bannon well in his return to breitbart news .
is it possible trump knew of bannon s plans to build a right-leaning media empire that could take down the leftist fake news monopoly we currently see in america ? 100 percent fed up with the liberal sons of rupert murdoch now firmly at the helm of what once was a conservative-leaning alternative to leftist cable news shows like cnn , msnbc and the mainstream media news outlets , there is a very good chance americans are witnessing the end of a significant era where fox news ruled the ratings and liberal-run propaganda networks only dreamed of the kind of revenue they were pulling down.it is difficult to exaggerate the significance of fox news sacking of bill o reilly.not only was he the single most dominant public figure in america s vast conservative media environment , his removal signals the growing power of james and lachlan murdoch in the world s most powerful media empire , their father rupert murdoch s 21st century fox.o reilly was dismissed overnight following allegations of sexual harassment by at least six women .
it has been reported that lachlan s wife sarah murdoch helped influence the decision .
last year the former fox news creator , roger ailes , was sacked in similar circumstances , going on to advise donald trump s presidential campaign.murdoch s support for trump distinguishes him from some of his children , including james , who told more than one friend of his dismay that his father was backing the trump candidacy .
james s wife , kathryn , backed hillary clinton during the campaign and has been a vocal critic of the new president on twitter .
in september kathryn tweeted : a vote for trump is a vote for climate catastrophe , while on the night of the president s stunning election victory she wrote : i can t believe this is happening .
i am so ashamed .
james and kathryn are committed environmentalists : she is on the board of the environmental defense fund , which a fox news report recently labelled a leftwing group , while james wrote in the washington post in 2009 that conservation-minded conservatives were missing in the heated partisanship of today s politics .
financial timesjames murdoch s wife works for the clinton climate initiative .
she is an outspoken hater of president trump on twitter and much of her hate is directed at his refusal to accept that man-made climate warming cooling change is settled science .
here are a few examples of the hate she spews for donald trump on twitter : '' an angry reflex in search of an idea '' sums up a lot https : //t.co/sof1zb4paw kathryn murdoch ( @ kathrynamurdoch ) march 28 , 2017will sean hannity leave the left-leaning fox news for a less hostile environment ?
will bannon put greta vansusteran back on the air ?
how long will conservatives like jesse watters and judge jeanine stick around the sinking ship with radical leftist personalities like shep smith , juan williams and geraldo rivera covering the side of news that the murdoch brothers and their trump-hating wives approve of ?