washington ( reuters ) - pete domenici , a former minor league baseball pitcher who became a major league power player in the u.s. senate on energy and budget issues and new mexico ’ s longest-serving senator , died on wednesday in albuquerque at age 85 .
domenici , a republican , served as chairman of the budget committee and energy and natural resources committee during his 36 years in the senate before deciding not to seek re-election in 2008 due to a degenerative brain disease .
brandi sanchez , a spokeswoman for his son ’ s law firm in albuquerque , confirmed the death of the former senator .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell wrote on twitter that the senate was saddened to learn of “ the passing of our friend senator pete domenici. ” domenici , the son of italian immigrants , was a key player in a 1997 balanced budget measure negotiated with democratic president bill clinton and was a prominent supporter of nuclear energy .
he also fought for greater health insurance coverage for people with mental illness .
his daughter clare , one of his eight children with wife nancy , was diagnosed with schizophrenia .
domenici was instrumental in the senate in securing republican president ronald reagan ’ s 1981 tax cuts , republican president george h.w .
bush ’ s 1990 tax hikes and the 1997 budget deal reached between clinton and republicans .
he was considered a leading “ deficit hawk. ” domenici was a pragmatic conservative republican who was able to work with senate democrats like edward kennedy of massachusetts .
“ my success as a senator has come only through working together with my senate colleagues from all parties - they know that and i know that , ” he said in 2007 .
that success came after friends urged domenici not to go into politics to spare him from personal attacks .
“ obviously , i didn ’ t listen to them , ” he said .
“ and i ’ m glad i didn ’ t .
i have found politics to not be as harsh as my friends predicted .
for the most part , it ’ s been just the opposite. ” domenici was not in good health in his final years in the senate .
in october 2007 , at age 75 , he announced his decision not to seek a seventh six-year term in the senate the following year due to progression of the incurable brain disorder called frontotemporal lobar degeneration .
in february 2013 , domenici at age 80 acknowledged he had fathered a child out of wedlock in the 1970s with the daughter of paul laxalt , who at the time was one of his colleagues in the senate .
domenici and michelle laxalt , who was 24 at the time , made the admission because they said they feared the information would be made public to try to smear domenici ’ s reputation .
she became an influential washington lobbyist .
domenici was born in 1932 in albuquerque , new mexico .
he graduated from the university of new mexico in 1954 and then pitched for the albuquerque dukes , a minor league club for the brooklyn dodgers .
“ if he had a better curveball , he probably never would have been in the senate , ” ari fleischer , a former white house spokesman and domenici aide , told usa today in 2007 .
after baseball , domenici became a math teacher , lawyer and albuquerque city commissioner before being elected to the u.s. senate in 1972 , becoming new mexico ’ s first republican senator in 38 years .
he was a powerful advocate for his state in congress and helped steer money to u.s. energy department nuclear facilities such as the los alamos national laboratory .
george h.w .
bush considered making domenici his vice presidential running mate in 1988 before choosing dan quayle , a less prominent senator .
near the end of his political career , the senate ethics committee admonished domenici in april 2008 for creating “ an appearance of impropriety that reflected unfavorably upon the senate ” when he telephoned the top federal prosecutor in new mexico to ask if an indictment in a politically sensitive corruption case would come before the november 2006 elections .