seoul ( reuters ) - decorated by pyongyang but blacklisted abroad , two scientists pictured with north korea s leader ahead of sunday s nuclear test play vital roles in the reclusive country s pursuit of a powerful weapon capable of striking the united states , experts say .
north korea s sixth nuclear test on sunday showed the country has either developed a hydrogen bomb - which has vastly more destructive power than atomic bombs - or was very getting close to obtaining one .
photos released by the official kcna news agency just hours before the test showed two men standing alongside leader kim jong un as he inspected a new peanut-shaped warhead : ri hong sop , head of north korea s nuclear weapons institute , and hong sung mu , deputy director of the ruling workers party of korea s munitions industry department .
several north korea leadership experts say they are part of a cadre of weapons experts at the frontline of the young leader s stated ambition : developing an intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) that can carry a nuclear weapon to the united states .
compared to his father kim jong il and grandfather kim il sung who preferred small working groups and middle managers to deal with weapons programs , the 33-year-old leader has been more personally involved with these scientists , the experts say , citing his frequent appearances with the technocrats at state events , weapons tests and field inspections .
it appears that hong is spearheading the nuclear development program as a senior party official and ri is in charge of nuclear tests such as hydrogen bombs on a working level , said yang moo-jin , professor at the university of north korean studies in seoul , who monitors the country s hierarchy and leadership .
reuters could not independently confirm the precise role of the two men .
the north korean government does not provide foreign media with a contact point in pyongyang for comment by email , fax or phone .
the north korean mission to the united nations was not immediately available for comment .
the two scientists have become increasingly high profile as pyongyang s weapons programs have advanced at a rapid pace under kim s leadership , a reuters review of north korean state media showed .
in january 2016 , hong and ri were the first and second in line to receive medals personally awarded by kim at a ceremony to mark the country s fourth nuclear test , state tv footage showed .
two months later , they accompanied a smiling kim inspecting a silver-colored sphere , which the north said was a miniaturized warhead capable of being fitted to an icbm .
the wider group of weapons technocrats includes a trio of rocket scientists who have accompanied kim on several crucial missile launches , including two july icbm test launches that showed much of the u.s. mainland was now within range .
experts say kim s hands-on approach may have contributed to faster development of its nuclear weapons and missiles , while allowing the scientists to develop personal links to the leader .
( kim ) jong un goes out of his way to show they have a personal closeness to him , said michael madden , an expert on the north korean leadership , pointing to kim s frequent appearances with cadres engaged with its weapons program .
it s likely linked to the fact that ( the scientists ) are making huge accomplishments in this area , and thus making big accomplishments for kim jong un as leader of north korea .
like the three rocket scientists , ri and hong have been blacklisted in recent years by the united nations , the united states or south korea for their roles in north korea s weapons programs .
the united nations blacklisted ri in 2009 citing his involvement in the production of weapons-grade plutonium , while an expert un panel this year noted hong s key role in the country s nuclear program as it recommended he also be sanctioned .
ri is a former director of yongbyon nuclear research centre , north korea s main nuclear facility north of pyongyang .
yongbyon operates the country s first nuclear reactors and its only confirmed uranium enrichment facility .
siegfried hecker , a nuclear science professor at stanford university and one of the last americans to visit yongbyon , recalled meeting ri during his several visits there between 2004 and 2008 .
in one of these visits , ri showed hecker around the plutonium reactor and the radiochemical lab there .
ri stated with pride that north korea s nuclear researchers have mastered plutonium production with no outside help , hecker said in a 2006 report about his yongbyon visit to standford s center for international security and cooperation .
hecker did not immediately respond to requests for comment about ri or the north korean nuclear program .
in a statement carried by kcna hours before the sixth test , kim said all components of the hydrogen bomb were homemade , allowing north korea to produce nuclear weapons as many as it wants .
hong is a former chief engineer at yongbyon and has been at the ruling party s munitions department since the mid-2000s .
he rose to prominence after kim jong un took power in december 2011 following the death of his father , according to south korean government database .
hong , 75 , has been seen accompanying kim on nuclear tests and long-range missile launches since 2012 , the south korean database and pictures released by kcna show .
he was educated in central and eastern europe and possibly in russia as well , while ri attended seminars abroad , north korea leadership expert madden said .
they are top-level officials and the last generation of those who studied in the old communist world in the good old days , he said .