washington ( reuters ) - the recent warning from north korea s foreign minister of a possible atmospheric nuclear test over the pacific ocean should be taken literally , a senior north korean official told cnn in an interview aired on wednesday .
the foreign minister is very well aware of the intentions of our supreme leader , so i think you should take his words literally , ri yong pil , a senior diplomat in north korea s foreign ministry , told cnn .
north korean foreign minister ri yong ho said last month pyongyang may consider conducting the most powerful detonation of a hydrogen bomb over the pacific ocean amid rising tensions with the united states .
the minister made the comment after president donald trump warned that north korea , which has been working to develop nuclear-tipped missiles capable of hitting the united states , would be totally destroyed if it threatened america .
cia chief mike pompeo said last week that north korea could be only months away from gaining the ability to hit the united states with nuclear weapons .
experts say an atmospheric test would be a way of demonstrating that capability .
all of north korea s previous nuclear tests have been conducted underground .
trump next week will make a visit to asia during which he will highlight his campaign to pressure north korea to give up its nuclear and missile programs .
despite the bellicose rhetoric , white house officials say trump is looking for a peaceful resolution of the standoff .
but all options , including military ones , are on the table .
the u.s. navy said on wednesday a third aircraft carrier strike group was now sailing in the asia-pacific region , joining two other carriers , the ronald reagan and theodore roosevelt .
navy officials said the nimitz , which was previously carrying out operations in support of the fight against islamic state in iraq and syria , would be ready to support operations in the region before heading back to its home port .
it said the movement had been long planned .
a leading south korea opposition figure , hong jun-pyo , head of the conservative liberty korea party , told reuters in washington on wednesday he backed trump s tough stance .
hong said he had met with members of congress and the administration and told them a majority of south koreans wanted u.s. tactical nuclear weapons , which were withdrawn from the korean peninsula in 1992 , returned , or for south korea to develop a nuclear capability of its own .
the only way to deal with the situation is by having a nuclear balance between the north and the south , said hong , the runner-up in south korea s 2017 presidential election .
reintroducing nuclear weapons remains unlikely , not least because it would undermine demands from seoul and washington for north korea to abandon its nuclear programs .
trump spoke during his election campaign about the possibility of south korea and japan acquiring nuclear weapons , but administration officials have played down the remarks and given no indication of any plan to redeploy tactical weapons .
on wednesday , trump was asked whether he would visit the tense demilitarized zone dividing north and south korea during his asia tour and responded enigmatically .
i d rather not say , but you ll be surprised , he told reporters .