jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel said on tuesday that the hezbollah guerrilla group , its most potent enemy in neighboring lebanon , had gained control over that country s u.s.-sponsored conventional military , signaling both would be in israeli gunsights in any future war .
defence minister avigdor lieberman s remarks were a hard tack from more measured recent israeli estimates that the lebanese army maintained autonomy even if some of its troops cooperated with the better-armed , iranian-aligned guerrillas .
outlining potential threats in lebanon , where israel last fought a war against hezbollah in 2006 , lieberman said in a speech : we are no longer talking about hezbollah alone .
we are talking about hezbollah and the lebanese army , and to my regret this is the reality .
the lebanese army has turned into an integral part of hezbollah s command structure .
the lebanese army has lost its independence and become an inseparable part of the hezbollah apparatus , lieberman said .
there was no immediate response from lebanon , which is formally in a state of war with israel , nor from the u.s. embassies in beirut and tel aviv .
the lebanese army has previously said it operates independently from hezbollah , most recently during an operation against islamic state militants at the lebanese-syrian border , during which the army said there was absolutely no coordination with hezbollah fighters who attacked is from the syrian side .
hosting lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri in july for aid talks , u.s. president donald trump praised beirut s efforts to stem the spread of islamic state and pledged continued help from washington .
america s assistance can help ensure that the lebanese army is the only defender lebanon needs , trump said .
the pentagon said washington has provided lebanon with more than $ 1.5 billion in military assistance since 2006 , and that u.s. special forces have been providing training and support for the lebanese army since 2011 .
strengthening the laf ( lebanese armed forces ) also advances a range of u.s. interests in the middle east that includes not only countering the spread of isis ( islamic state ) and other violent extremists but also stemming the influence of iran and hezbollah in the region , pentagon spokesman eric pahon said .
while welcoming u.s. action against islamic state , israel sees iran , hezbollah and their allies as the greater threat and worries about their entrenchment in syria as they help president bashar al-assad beat back a more than six-year-old rebellion .
lieberman said israel sought to avoid going to war again on its northern front , which , he predicted , would include syria .
in anything that transpires , it will be one theater , syria and lebanon together , hezbollah , the assad regime and all of the assad regime s collaborators , he said .