yangon ( reuters ) - rohingya muslims are not native to myanmar , the army chief told the u.s. ambassador in a meeting in which he apparently did not address accusations of abuses by his men and said media was complicit in exaggerating the number of refugees fleeing .
the u.n. human rights office said on wednesday myanmar forces had brutally driven out half a million rohingya from northern rakhine state to bangladesh in recent weeks , torching homes , crops and villages to prevent them from returning .
thousands of rohingya were leaving the state on thursday , aiming to reach bangladesh by boat , citing a shortage of food and fear of repression , residents said .
a myanmar official said people were leaving but he dismissed the suggestion hunger and intimidation were factors .
the army chief , senior general min aung hlaing , gave his most extensive account of the rohingya refugee crisis aimed at an international audience in the meeting with ambassador scot marciel , according to a report posted on his facebook page .
the general is the most powerful person in buddhist-majority myanmar and his apparently uncompromising stance would indicate little sensitivity about the military s image over a crisis that has drawn international condemnation and raised questions about a transition to democracy under nobel laureate aung san suu kyi .
the military campaign is popular in myanmar , where there is little sympathy for the mostly stateless rohingya , and where buddhist nationalism has surged .
min aung hlaing , referring to rohingya by the term bengali , which they regard as derogatory , said british colonialists were responsible for the problem .
the bengalis were not taken into the country by myanmar , but by the colonialists , he told marciel , according to the account of the meeting posted on thursday .
they are not the natives .
coordinated rohingya insurgent attacks on some 30 security posts on aug. 25 sparked a ferocious military response .
the u.n. rights office said in its report , based on 65 interviews with rohingya who had arrived in bangladesh , that abuses had begun before the aug. 25 attacks and included killings , torture and rape of children .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley last month denounced a brutal , sustained campaign to cleanse the country of an ethnic minority and called on countries to suspend providing weapons to myanmar until its military put sufficient accountability measures in place .
the european union and the united states are considering targeted sanctions against myanmar s military leaders , officials familiar with the discussions said this week .
suu kyi was swept into office last year after winning an election , but the military holds immense power , including exclusive say over security .
u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al-hussein has described the government operations as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing and said the action appeared to be a cynical ploy to forcibly transfer large numbers of people without possibility of return .
min aung hlaing did not refer to such accusations , according to the published account , but said the insurgents had killed 90 hindus and 30 rohingya linked to the government .
insurgent opposition to a citizenship verification campaign , which used the term bengali , was behind the aug. 25 attacks that sparked the violence , he said .
local bengalis were involved in the attacks under the leadership of arsa .
that is why they might have fled as they feel insecure , he said , referring to the arakan rohingya salvation army insurgents .
the native place of bengalis is really bengal , he said .
he said it was an exaggeration to say a very large number were fleeing to bangladesh and there had been instigation and propaganda by using the media from behind the scene .
he did not elaborate but said the real situation had to be relayed to the international community .
u.n. political affairs chief jeffrey feltman is due to visit on friday .
rohingya residents of rakhine said up to 10,000 people had left on wednesday and thursday .
one resident , a teacher , said there had been no military offensive recently but people were going .
there s no work , nowhere to get food and the government isn t helping , said the teacher , who , like the first resident , declined to be identified .
rakhine state s secretary , tin maung swe , said people were leaving every day to join relatives already in bangladesh .
nobody is starving in death in myanmar .
the government is trying to support those in need , he said .
they can fish or catch shrimps in the creeks near their villages .
no one s killing them or intimidating them .
suu kyi , in a televised address , spoke about the importance of humanitarian assistance for all people in rakhine and said the government would accept refugees back .
she said aid groups , international organizations and myanmar expatriates would help with the long-term development of the state .
she did not refer to accusations of rights abuses by the army .