the donald trump administration has to be the whiniest in history .
of course , they are all a bunch of spoiled , moneyed , grown up brats , so this is no surprise .
once a trust fund baby who appreciates nothing and was born with a silver spoon in your mouth , and there s no turning back .
you either become a decent person because you had decent parents and morals and values plus a basic sense of awareness and decency yourself , or you become a rich asshole .
trump being trump , of course , picked other rich assholes like himself .
case in point united nations ambassador nikki haley.now , i know that haley is awful .
i live in south carolina and lived under the tyranny of her governorship until trump scooped her up to work in his administration .
therefore , her 4th of july tweet came as no surprise to me .
since the nutjob who runs north korea is an ever-increasing nuclear threat , all relevant hands had to be on deck on independence day , since there had been yet another north korean ballistic missile test less than 24 hours before .
this one is especially grave , since there is every possibility that it could strike our nation .
however , what is nikki haley worried about ?
certainly not kim jung-un .
no .
she is worried about having to work on the holiday .
ambassador haley tweeted : spending my 4th in meetings all day .
# thanksnorthkorea nikki haley ( @ nikkihaley ) july 4 , 2017luckily , the good people of twitter were on the job for this one , as per usual .
they instantly railed haley , and made her remember just what independence day and patriotism are all about : what job did you think you were signing up for , exactly ?
clara jeffery ( @ clarajeffery ) july 4 , 2017this is your job 24/7 until you 're out .
you want a vacation ?
quit .
we need public servants .
serve or leave .
pete forester ? ?
( @ pete_forester ) july 4 , 2017kim jong-un rubs his hands together and says , `` excellent .
inconveniencing nikki haley was the entire purpose of the missile launch . ''
https : //t.co/enyriwxod5 the rude pundit ( @ rudepundit ) july 4 , 2017full day working with adults with disabilities @ nikkihaley , for a whole lot less than you make .
your whining is pitiful .
molly lamountain ( @ canineasylum ) july 4 , 2017 .
kudos .
spending a holiday working for american security is unprecedented .
pic.twitter.com/qpqernnd0i jake query ( @ jakequery ) july 4 , 2017and that s just for starters .
this woman is just like the rest of the trump administration self -absorbed , completely unqualified for the job she holds , and uninterested in performing it for any reason other than advancing a political profile.happy independence day , indeed , america .
hope you enjoyed it .
with these fools in charge , it very well may be our last.featured image via drew angerer/getty images