hodeidah , yemen ( reuters ) - one of the latest victims of the cholera epidemic that has killed more than 2,000 people in yemen had yet to even take her first breath .
her mother safaa issa kaheel , then nine months pregnant , was brought into a crowded clinic in the western port city of hodeidah by her husband , who had to borrow the travel fare from a neighbor .
my stomach started hurting more and more , said kaheel , 37 , a hydrating drip hooked into her arm .
once there , she was referred by nurse hayam al-shamaa for an ultrasound scan which showed her baby had died of dehydration - one of 15 to perish in the womb due to cholera in september and october , according to doctors at the city s thawra hospital .
i felt like death , kaheel said , her voice strained .
thank god i survived the ( delivery ) , but my diarrhea hasn t stopped .
the red cross has warned that cholera , a diarrheal disease that has been eradicated in most developed countries , could infect a million people in yemen by the end of the year .
two and a half years of war have sapped yemen of the money and medical facilities it needs to battle the contagion , to which aid agencies and medics say the poor , the starving , the pregnant and the young are most vulnerable .
the cholera ward is full of children - some writhing in agony , others eerily still .
the blanket over one boy too weak to move rises and falls with his shallow breathing .
save the children said in august that children under 15 represent nearly half of new cases and a third of deaths , with malnourished children more than six times more likely to die of cholera than well-fed ones .
millions of yemenis are struggling to find food and the baking desert plains around hodeidah are hotspots both of hunger and sickness .
yemen s war pits the armed houthi movement against the internationally recognized government of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi , which is backed by a saudi-led coalition that has launched thousands of air strikes to restore him to power .
at least 10,000 people have been killed in the conflict .
the country s health sector has been badly battered while a struggle over the central bank has left public sector salaries for doctors and sanitation workers unpaid .
soumaya beltifa , spokesperson for the red cross in sanaa , warned that a lack of funds and health personnel were blunting efforts to eradicate the disease , making it unlikely yemen would be healthy again soon .
the cholera epidemic has become a norm , leading to complacency in dealing with the disease , not only by civilians but also from the various ( aid ) organizations , she warned .