colombo ( reuters ) - long delays in sri lanka s post-war reconciliation is not without cost , and its government should implement measures to resolve outstanding issues , the united nations said on monday .
president maithripala sirisena s government in 2015 agreed with the u.n. to investigate alleged war crimes in the final phase of a 26-year civil war .
it then requested a two-year extension to fulfill that commitment .
both sides in the conflict - the government military and the separatist liberation tigers of tamil eelam - were equally responsible for war crimes , according to the u.n .
the government has agreed to establish a special court to investigate the alleged crimes and return land occupied by the military in the north .
however , much of the process has been delayed by the government amid worries it will lose popularity among sinhala buddhists , sri lanka s majority community , analysts say .
after a two-week fact-finding mission , u.n. special rapporteur pablo de greiff said such delays raise questions about the determination of the government to undertake a comprehensive transitional justice program .
long delays between the acknowledgment of obligations to establish transitional justice measures and the fulfillment of these involves risks : no one should be under the impression that waiting is a costless alternative , he told reporters in colombo after concluding his mission .
he also said the process has been increasingly ethnicized .
as a result , transitional justice is represented as if it were essentially a threat to the majority community , of interest to one of the minorities only and all others left at the margins , he said .
many sri lankans oppose foreign involvement , and supporters of former president mahinda rajapaksa believe the u.n. resolution on the need to investigate war crimes aims to punish the military unfairly .
the international community has urged a judicial process to hold out a realistic prospect of punishment for senior figures in rajapaksa s government and military , as well as tamil tiger rebels , who waged a bitter final battle in which the u.n. has said up to 40,000 people were killed .