former cia agent , clare lopez has been ringing the alarm bells about the islamic influence by members of obama administration for quite some time now .
[ see video below .
] clare lopez is a former cia officer , and she is risking her professional career to call out president barack obama in the biggest way possible.lopez is well respected in the intelligence community and worked in the reagan white house .
after two decades in the field with the cia , and as an instructor for special forces and intelligence students , lopez is now with the center for security policy managing the counter-jihad and shariah programs.now , she is claiming obama is why america has completely switched sides during the war on terrorism .
america is now supporting the enemy , especially through the muslim brotherhood.lopez has been unwilling to speak in public , but has confined with a few members of the house of representatives her serious concerns about obama s motivations about foreign policy decisions.lopez noted that the war on terrorism has always been about stopping the spread of shariah islamic law , until obama started to make major changes which clearly supported the muslim brotherhood s jihadist interests.she said the global war on terror had been an effort to stay free of shariah , or repressive islamic law , until the obama administration began siding with such jihadist groups as the muslim brotherhood and its affiliates.the transition was easy for obama , who already hates american values and principles as an ideologically radical why the switch ? lopez explained , when the so-called arab spring appeared in late 2010 , it was time to bring down the secular muslim rulers who did not enforce islamic law .
and america helped .
and why would obama want to do that ? as she told wnd earlier this month , lopez believed the muslim brotherhood has thoroughly infiltrated the obama administration and other branches of the federal government.she also came to the conclusion obama had essentially the same goals in the mideast as the late osama bin laden : to remove american power and influence , including military forces , from islamic lands .
the former cia operative said , as israel fought enemies on all sides to remain free , secure and jewish , america began to move away from israel and toward its muslim enemies .
and , as iran moved inexorably toward a deliverable nuclear weapons capability , america helped .
in addition , lopez claims that the only reason obama approved of the killing of osama bin laden is he simply couldn t ignore the chance without looking suspicious .
the opportunity presented himself , and he couldn t delay it any longer .
via : top right newshere is clare lopez in 2009 talking about the white house being infiltrated by islamic supporters : h/t freedom daily