the gop doesn t know it yet , but they need trump more than he needs them donald trump will not be the republican presidential nominee in 2016 .
he does not have the infrastructure , he does not have the organization , he does not have the discipline .
so why are so many republican thoughtleaders intent on casting him from the race like a leper ? why does senator sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) say that trump should be disqualified from the race ?
why does governor rick perry ( r-tx ) say that trump is a cancer on conservatism that must be discarded , a barking carnival act ?
why does senator sen. john mccain ( r-az ) deride trump s supporters as crazies , while the rest of the republican establishment nods silently ? is any of this smart ? the answer , of course , is no .
alienating trump s voting base will lead trump to run third party , destroying any opportunity for republicans to beat hillary clinton .
establishment characters calling curses from the heavens down upon trump grants him credibility with the same group of conservatives who believe that establishment attacks are a badge of honor .
if those conservatives feel trump is treated unfairly , it will widen the gap between the donors in the republican party and the base of the republican party.republicans should , instead , see trump s presence in the race as a grand opportunity .
that s because it is an opportunity .
here are seven reasons why : trump is a stalking horse .
let s imagine that you could design a candidate who would draw nearly 100 % of the media attention at the beginning of a race , long before polls mattered or primaries were scheduled to take place .
let s also imagine that this candidate had no real shot at winning any of those primaries , and that the candidate would eventually either blow himself out or fade away after the curiosity factor worked its way through the public system .
wouldn t you , as a rival candidate , beg for such a candidate to enter the race ?
after all , it would give you the ability to raise money quietly , do grassroots work without media scrutiny ; it would force the media to lavish its attention on your rivals across the political aisle while spending their focus on this big name candidate .
that candidate is trump .
according to polls from colorado , iowa , and virginia this week , hillary clinton loses to rubio , governor scott walker ( r-wi ) , and former governor jeb bush ( r-fl ) .
does that happen if the media spend all their time and effort debunking those three candidates ?
or does it happen because the media are so distracted by trump that the other three get an opportunity to fly under the radar ?
barack obama was able to use hillary clinton s high name recognition in 2008 to fly under the radar all the way to the nomination ; by the time hillary tried to define him , it was too late .
other republicans could do the same here.trump generates attention .
former new york mayor rudy giuliani recently pointed out , trump is in that debate , it s going to get three times the audience .
that s exactly right .
primary debates aren t exclusively designed to help republicans pick their candidate the debates are also designed to allow future general election voters to get first impressions of the other candidates .
the more direct contact between voters and candidates without the filter of the media , the better .
furthermore , republicans have been caught in the vice of media malpractice when it comes to issues like illegal immigration : the media won t cover such issues unless a republican makes a mistake , in which case the cameras descend en masse .
trump solves that conundrum : he says outrageous things , the media show up , and the other candidates get a chance to speak rationally on topics the media nearly always ignore .
never underestimate the benefit of someone who can bring busloads of media down to laredo , texas just to listen to him talk.trump draws contrast with other candidates .
so , you don t like trump .
then you should love trump in the race , given that he offers the greatest opportunity to his rivals to draw a contrast .
senator sen. lindsey graham ( r-sc ) is charmless and vanilla as a politician and even he has become likeable in response to trump .
if governor rick perry ( r-tx ) seeks to become a beloved figure in mainstream media circles , all he has to do is continue to attack trump .
if jeb bush doesn t like trump s position on immigration , trump provides him a painless opportunity for a sister souljah moment .
free debate is the essence of primary season .
embrace it , or fall to the power of trump.trump attacks the media .
in 2012 , newt gingrich played the designated anti-media attack dog .
he did it well , and he did it effectively : it moved him to the top of the polls .
trump does the same now .
he has rhetorically punched members of the media ranging from cnn s anderson cooper to msnbc and telemundo s jose diaz balart .
he seems uncowed by media pressure in fact , he embraces it .
were trump not attacking the media , someone else would have to do it .
thankfully , other republicans like carly fiorina have jumped on the anti-media bandwagon , and are punching just as effectively or even more effectively than the donald.trump channels anger .
republicans seem pathologically fearful of the anger of their base .
taught by the media that angry white men can not fuel a party , they instead insist that they will out-compassion the left , a foolhardy proposition given that the left s only calling card is compassion .
never mind that the left has consistently fueled its campaigns with rage against george w. bush , white privilege , sexism , and other built-up monsters .
the right has internalized criticisms that it must never humor the justified anger of its base .
not trump .
trump embraces the feeling of frustration from the base , and does so in unapologetic fashion .
that unapologetic nature is attractive to conservatives who feel as though they have elected republicans , then watched those same republicans surrender again and again .
other republicans should watch trump s outrage-channeling and take notes.trump doesn t buy into foolish demographic arguments .
for years , the establishment republicans have been telling the base to shut up on immigration ; if they don t , the argument goes , then hispanics will vote heavily democrat , shutting republicans out of political power .
immediately after the 2012 election , for example , charles krauthammer wrote , they should be a natural republican constituency : striving immigrant community , religious , catholic , family-oriented and socially conservative ( on abortion , for example ) .
the principle reason they go democratic is the issue of illegal immigrants .
this is nonsense .
hispanic immigrants lean heavily left on most major issues .
more importantly , running from the immigration issue , and thereby alienating the republican base , doesn t move republicans closer to victory : mitt romney could have won 69 percent of the hispanic vote in 2012 and still have lost .
romney lost not because hispanics didn t vote his way , but because white turnout was too low , and because he didn t drive outsized turnout from evangelical christians , among others .
as sean trende of realclearpolitics told politico today , certainly the gop shouldn t be antagonistic to hispanics , but the big question is how much outreach should they do before they start to turn off working-class white voters .
because from an electoral college numbers perspective , the net gain in embracing some form of immigration reform just isn t there .
trump doesn t suck money out of the race .
for all the talk of trump as a distraction , he certainly doesn t suck money out of the republican race : in his last fec filing , filed last week , trump had drawn just over 60 donors .
he s self-funding.trump is doing a lot of good for the republican party in terms of exposure , media misdirection , and issue-raising ; he s firing up the base , allowing his opponents to draw contrasts with him , and he s doing it all without tapping out those who want to give cash .
if republicans can t beat him , what chance do they have of touching hillary clinton ?
they ought to stop whining and start taking notes or at least making hay while the media sun shines on the donald.via : ben shapiro brietbart news