green party presidential nominee jill stein has filed a lawsuit in federal court over the recount efforts in pennsylvania .
according to the complaint filed by stein , pennsylvania elections are a national disgrace .
voters are forced to use vulnerable , hackable , antiquated technology banned in other states , then rely on the kindness of machines , the complaint reads .
there is no paper trail .
voting machines are electoral black sites : no one permits voters or candidates to examine them .
stein filed her lawsuit on monday in the u.s. district court for the eastern district of pennsylvania .
the suit questions if votes in the keystone state were counted accurately and alleged that electronic voting machines in the state had serious cyber security problems .
in the 2016 presidential election , rife with foreign interference documented by american intelligence agencies and hacks of voter rolls in multiple states , voters deserve the truth , reads the lawsuit.stein was forced to drop her original bid for a recount in pennsylvania on saturday when a judge attached a $ 1 million price tag after donald trump requested a $ 10 million bond .
petitioners are regular citizens of ordinary means .
they can not afford to post the $ 1,000,000 bond required by the court , stein s attorney wrote in a court filing.on sunday , stein tweeted that she was not done yet , though.on monday , i will escalate # recount2016 in pa and file to demand a statewide recount on constitutional grounds .
the people deserve answers .
dr. jill stein ( @ drjillstein ) december 4 , 2016recounts in wisconsin are already underway and early monday morning , u.s. district judge mark goldsmith ordered recounts in michigan to begin at noon.trump won all three of these battleground states by narrow margins .
despite the fact that the recounts are unlikely to change the outcome of the election , trump has fought against them vehemently , making many people wonder what the hell he is so afraid of .
trump unleashed multiple twitter rants railing against stein s push for recounts , and in one of these , he managed to unwittingly make the case for the recount efforts by claiming voter fraud .
sad.featured image via drew angerer/getty images