tallinn/vilnius ( reuters ) - from planes , radars and ships in the baltics , nato officials say they are watching russia s biggest war games since 2013 with calm and confidence , but many are unnerved about what they see as moscow testing its ability to wage war against the west .
nato believes the exercises , officially starting on thursday in belarus , the baltic sea , western russia and the russian exclave of kaliningrad , are already underway .
it says they are larger than moscow has publicized , numbering some 100,000 troops , and involve firing nuclear-capable ballistic missiles .
codenamed zapad or west , nato officials say the drills will simulate a conflict with the u.s.-led alliance intended to show russia s ability to mass large numbers of troops at very short notice in the event of a conflict .
nato remains calm and vigilant , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg said last week during a visit to an estonian army base where british troops have been stationed since march .
but lithuania s defense minister raimundas karoblis was less sanguine , voicing widely-felt fears that the drills risk triggering an accidental conflict or could allow moscow to leave troops in neighboring belarus .
we can t be totally calm .
there is a large foreign army massed next to lithuanian territory , he told reuters .
some western officials including the head of the u.s. army in europe , gen. ben hodges , have raised concerns that russia might use the drills as a trojan horse to make incursions into poland and russian-speaking regions in the baltics .
the kremlin firmly rejects any such plans .
russia says some 13,000 troops from russia and belarus will be involved in the sept. 14-20 drills , below an international threshold that requires large numbers of outside observers .
nato will send three experts to so-called visitor days during the exercises , but a nato official said these were no substitute for meeting internationally-agreed norms at such exercises that include talking to soldiers and briefings .
moscow says it is the west that threatens stability in eastern europe because the u.s.-led nato alliance has put a 4,000-strong multinational force in the baltics and poland .
wrong-footed by moscow in the recent past , with russia s seizure of crimea in 2014 and its intervention in syria s war in 2015 , nato is distrustful of the kremlin s public message .
in crimea , moscow proved a master of hybrid warfare , with its mix of cyber attacks , disinformation campaigns and use of russian and local forces without insignia .
one senior european security official said zapad would merge manoeuvres across russia s four western military districts in a complex , multi-dimensional aggressive , anti-nato exercise .
it is all smoke and mirrors , the official said , adding that the soviet-era zapad exercises that were revived in 1999 had included simulated nuclear strikes on europe .
nato officials say they have been watching russia s preparations for months , including the use of hundreds of rail cars to carry tanks and other heavy equipment into belarus .
as a precaution , the u.s. army has moved 600 paratroopers to the baltics during zapad and has taken over guardianship of the airspace of lithuania , latvia and estonia , which lack capable air forces and air defense systems .
russia s military show of force raises some uncomfortable questions for the alliance because nato can not yet mass large numbers of troops quickly , despite the united states military might , nato officials and diplomats said .
nato , a 29-nation defense pact created in 1949 to deter the soviet threat , has already begun its biggest modernization since the cold war , sending four battalions to the baltics and poland , setting up an agile , high-readiness spearhead force , and developing its cyberspace defenses .
but nato has deliberately taken a slowly-slowly approach to its military build-up to avoid being sucked into a new arms race , even as russia has stationed anti-aircraft and anti-ship missiles in kaliningrad , the black sea and syria .
the last thing we want is a military escalation with russia , said one senior nato official involved in military planning , referring to zapad .
in the event of any potential russian incursion into the baltics or poland , nato s new multinational forces would quickly need large reinforcements .
but a 40,000-strong force agreed in 2015 is still being developed , officials say .
lithuania s karoblis said he hoped to see progress by the next summit of nato leaders in july 2018 .
baltic politicians want more discretion given to nato to fight any aggressor in the event of an attack , without waiting for the go-ahead from allied governments .
during zapad , nato is taking a low-key approach by running few exercises , including an annual sniper exercise in lithuania .
only non-nato member sweden is holding a large-scale drill .
nato deputy supreme allied commander europe james everard told reuters there was no need to mirror zapad .
it s not a competition , he said during a visit to nato forces in latvia .