seoul ( reuters ) - ten north koreans , including a four-year-old child , have been detained in china , where they face being deported back to the north , two sources with direct knowledge of the situation told reuters .
the group was trying to defect to south korea but were detained by chinese police in the northeastern city of shenyang in liaoning province , according to the sources , both of whom requested anonymity citing the sensitivity of the situation .
china s foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said in a daily news briefing on tuesday she was unaware of details of the case .
she said china consistently upholds the handling of such matters in accordance with domestic and international law and humanitarian principles .
one of the two sources told reuters on tuesday he was able to confirm the group was in shenyang until monday morning , but they seem to have been transferred elsewhere since then .
the man only wanted to be identified by his surname lee because his wife and four-year-old son were among the detained 10 .
i told her to call again and was waiting and hoping she would find a safe place somewhere , but she never called me back , lee said .
the group consisted of seven women and three men , lee said .
his wife and son had met the rest of a group at a safe house in shenyang , but lost contact with him on saturday , lee said .
a second source with direct knowledge of the situation confirmed the detention and said that china appeared to have intensified its crackdown on north korean defectors in china , especially in the past two months .
the new york-based non-governmental organization human rights watch said in september that it had documented the arrests of 41 north koreans in july and august alone - compared to the 51 cases the organization had identified over the july 2016 to june 2017 period .
make no mistake : sending them back across the border makes beijing complicit in the torture , forced labor and , in some cases , executions that others sent back to north korea have faced , phil robertson , deputy asia director for human rights watch , said in a statement about the most recent detention .
china should release this group of 10 north koreans and let them proceed to a third country where they can receive the protection they urgently need , robertson said .
china says north korean defectors are illegal migrants who flee their country for economic reasons , and does not treat them as refugees .
north korea calls them criminals and describes those who try to bring them to south korea as kidnappers .
the vast majority of north koreans who escape to china defect to south korea where over 31,000 of them have resettled , according to south korean government data .
safe passage for defectors fleeing oppressive north korea often depends on their ability to make the grueling and at times dangerous trip across rural china without being detected .
south korean foreign ministry spokesman roh kyu-deok said seoul was closely monitoring the latest case of the 10 north koreans in china .
we re making diplomatic efforts with related countries so that the defectors will not be forcibly repatriated , roh said , declining to provide details citing safety concerns and cooperative relations with those countries .
an official at the south korean consulate in shenyang said they had checked with local police regarding the whereabouts of the group , but had been unable to reach them .
the official said it had become even tougher for defectors to cross the border into china following tightened security around the chinese communist party congress last month .
last week , seoul and beijing agreed to move beyond a year-long stand-off over the deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system in south korea - a factor which some observers worry may make seoul more reluctant to raise the issue of deportations .
north korean defectors and people working in the field are worried that south korea isn t raising this issue with beijing as strongly as before , as they are trying to improve relations , said the second source with direct knowledge of the group detained in shenyang .
( this version of the story was refiled to correct age of child in paras 1 and 4 to four )