nothing about this man surprises most of us anymore .decoding obama s speech reveals some startling revelations and i will bless them that bless thee , and curse him that curseth thee : and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed .
genesis 12:3 ( kjv ) in one press conference after another , when referring to the muslim terror super-group isis , united states president barack obama will use the term isil instead of their former name isis or current name islamic state .
have you ever wondered about that ?
we have.isil stands for the islamic state of iraq and levant .
now , to us westerners we don t really make much of a distinction , do we ?
no , honestly from our perspective its all about the same .
but how would a muslim living in the middle east view it ?
just what is the levant anyway ?
let s take a look.the geographical term levant refers to a multi-nation region in the middle east .
it s a land bridge between turkey to the north and egypt to the south .
if you look on a map , however , in the near exact middle of the nations that comprise the levant , guess what you see ?
come on , guess ! it s israel.when barack obama refers over and over to the islamic state as isil , he is sending a message to muslims all over the middle east that he personally does not recognize israel as a sovereign nation , but as territory belonging to the islamic state.listen as obama painstakingly spells out the letters i-s-i-l so there is no doubt in your mind : now you know why obama says that he has no plan , no goal , and no stated aim for dealing with isis .
but he does have a plan , and it s a really nasty , diabolical one .
obama s plan is to drag his feet for as long as he can , doing only the bare minimum that congress forces him to do .
his plan to buy isis as much time as possible to make as many gains as they can.and it s working.the islamic state has garnered millions of dollars , a vast cache of weapons , and in their latest foray have captured syrian fighter jets .
with each passing day that obama fulfills his stated aim of doing nothing , the islamic state grows by leaps and bounds .
the ultimate goal , of course , has not changed and will never change.the ultimate goal is the destruction of israel.now you know a little bit more why obama chooses his words so carefully , and what s really in a name .
shakespeare had it right.terrorist experts refer to islamic terror group as isis yesterday during this recent analysis of the strength of isis : via : nowtheendbegins