washington - republican ted cruz on friday denounced an article in the national enquirer tabloid claiming he had extramarital affairs as “ complete and utter lies ” and accused rival donald trump of being the source of the story .
the story took the republican presidential race to a new level of personal rancor and trump issued a statement saying he was not responsible for it .
“ i have nothing to do with the national enquirer and unlike lyin ’ ted cruz i do not surround myself with political hacks and henchman and then pretend total innocence , ” trump said .
cruz , a u.s. senator from texas , addressed the enquirer story at a news conference in wisconsin , saying , “ let me be clear .
this national enquirer story is garbage .
it is complete and utter lies .
it ’ s tabloid smear and it is a smear that has come from donald trump and his henchmen. ” trump ’ s statement pointed to other articles the enquirer , a tabloid known for its gossip and unflattering celebrity photos , had been correct about in the past .
“ ted cruz ’ s problem with the national enquirer is his and his alone , and while they were right about o.j .
simpson , john edwards , and many others , i certainly hope they are not right about lyin ’ ted cruz , ” the billionaire new york developer said .
trump and cruz have sparred in recent days about their wives as they battle to be the republican nominee in the nov. 8 election .
earlier this week trump accused cruz of posting a nude photo of trump ’ s wife , melania , on twitter .
cruz denied having any role in the photo being circulated on the internet and trump responded by threatening to “ spill the beans ” on cruz ’ s wife .
cruz said the enquirer story was evidence that trump is unfit to be president .
“ this man would be an embarrassment , ” he said .
the enquirer published blurred images of five women with whom it said cruz has had affairs but did not name them .
two women who appeared to be pictured in the enquirer stepped forward on friday and called the article false .
the national enquirer could not immediately be reached for comment on the story .
cruz ’ wife , heidi cruz , was campaigning with him on friday and he gave her a hug and kiss before he began a town hall event .
she sat off stage smiling while he spoke .
this is not the first time a presidential candidate has been accused of extramarital sex .
during the 1992 campaign , gennifer flowers came forward to detail an affair she had with bill clinton .
subsequently , more women admitted to having affairs with him , including then-white house intern monica lewinsky .
former colorado senator gary hart , a democrat , had his 1988 presidential campaign derailed when reports surfaced that he was having an affair .
former north carolina senator john edwards admitted to having an affair with a campaign photographer during his 2004 campaign , although the public did not learn about the romance until after he was defeated .
the enquirer ’ s cruz story exploded on the social media site twitter overnight on thursday .
by thursday afternoon , # cruzsexscandal was a worldwide trending topic on twitter .