why is explaining our constitution to liberals is like explaining algebra to a two year old ?
shouldn t government officials who are being paid by we the taxpayer have a basic understanding of how our constitution and the basic rights it affords us citizens ? the left , from the white house on down , has scrambled to make the horrific islamic terrorist attack on the lbgt community in orlando , which left 49 innocents dead and injured 53 others , all about gun control and those evil christians.honing in on their indictment of the gun , the left has exploited the tragedy in effort to pass anti-american gun legislation , much like senator dianne feinstein s proposed ( and failed ) measure to ban those who have been named on the terror watchlist within the last five years from their second amendment right to purchase a firearm.no due process necessary ; and not to mention , the terror watchlist is a train-wreck : naming journalists , politicians , cub scouts and right wing extremists to their list of suspects .
in light of this push , south carolina representative trey gowdy re-upped his complete domination of the issue to his facebook page .
can you name another constitutional right that is chilled until we find out it is chilled , and then we have to petition the government to get it back ?
is there another constitutional right we treat the same way for american citizens as we do the second amendment ?
wrote gowdy , captioning the video.watch video gowdy posted on his facebook page here : what process is currently afforded an american citizen before they go on that list ?
asked gowdy.after being told that there isn t one , but , rather , only a process to petition to get off the list after finding out that one has been put on it , gowdy pushed back .
hard .
i m actually talking about due process , which is a phrase we find in the constitution .
he quipped , that you can not deprive people of certain things without due process .
he continued hammering the liberal : can you name another constitutional right that is chilled until we find out it is chilled , and then we have to petition the government to get it back ?
he asked .
is that true with the first amendment ?
without a coherent rejoinder to him , gowdy persisted : if we re fine with doing it with the second amendment , how about the first ?
how about we not let them set up a website or a goggle account ?
how about we not let them join a church until they can petition the government to get off the list .
how about not getting a lawyer ?
how about the sixth amendment ?
how about you can t get a lawyer until you petition the government to get off the list ?
or my favorite : how about the eighth amendment ?
we are going to subject you to cruel and unusual punishment until you petition the government to get off the list ?
is there another constitutional right that we treat the same way , for american citizens , that we do for the second amendment ?
he asked .
via : daily wiretrey gowdy asks another brilliant question every one of our gun-grabbing legislators should have to answer :