tunis ( reuters ) - month-long u.n.-backed talks aimed at bridging differences between rival libyan factions ended on saturday with no discernable progress towards stabilizing the country and paving the way for elections .
a month ago u.n. envoy ghassan salame , the latest in a series of libya envoys since a 2011 nato-backed uprising ended muammar gaddafi s 42-year rule , announced a one-year action plan for a transition toward presidential and parliamentary elections .
since then the u.n. has hosted in tunis delegations from rival parliaments from eastern libya and tripoli , which are meant to draw up amendments to a previous u.n.-mediated plan signed in december 2015 .
but at the end of a second round of talks salame said only that discussions would continue , without giving a new date .
there are some area of consensus ... but there are parts which need discussions with the political leaderships inside libya , salame told reporters , without giving details .
delegates will return to libya on sunday , the u.n. mission said in a statement .
salame will go to tripoli next week to discuss how to move the talks forward , a u.n. source added .
the north african country has been in turmoil since gaddafi s downfall gave space to islamist militants and smuggling networks that have sent hundreds of thousands of migrants to europe .
political and military fractures have left the country mired in conflict and the opec member s economy in freefall .
rival parliaments and governments have vied for power .
the u.n. tried a similar approach in 2015 of hosting libyans in luxury hotels abroad but the deal never won support from the power-brokers and factions aligned with military commander khalifa haftar that control eastern libya .
haftar is just one of many players in libya controlled by armed groups divided among political , religious , regional and business lines .
a u.n. source said a major obstacle at the tunis talks had been how to integrate haftar , who is opposed by many in western libya , in any deal and whether he would control a future national army .
western states have tried to work with the u.n.-backed government of national accord ( gna ) in tripoli , but it has been hamstrung by internal splits and been unable to halt a slide in living standards or tame the power of armed groups .
under the new u.n. plan , once amendments have been agreed a national conference is meant to approve the members of a transitional government that would run the country until elections .