cairo ( reuters ) - suspected militants shot dead at least nine truck drivers in egypt s sinai region late on thursday when they targeted a transport convoy , setting the vehicles on fire , medical and security sources said on friday .
egypt s security forces have since 2014 been battling an islamic state affiliate in northern sinai , where militants have mostly hit police and soldiers but also occasionally targeted infrastructure and businesses .
two security sources in al-arish , the area capital , said armed men attacked the convoy , which was carrying coal to a cement factory .
the bodies of the truck drivers , all shot to death , were taken to the morgue of suez public hospital , four medical sources said .
a military spokesman said there was no official statement .
an interior ministry official did not respond to a request for information .
no group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack .
they have threatened us repeatedly , asking that we don t work for the army s companies .
we informed the factory management of the threats and asked them for more protection , one local truck driver , ismail abdel-raouf , told reuters .
hundreds of police and soldiers have been killed since the insurgency quickened pace in northern sinai after the 2013 ouster by the military of then-president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood during massive protests against his rule .
a home-grown jihadist group , ansar bayt al-maqdis , declared allegiance to islamic state in 2014 and has since tried to spread outside the peninsula by targeting christians with attacks on churches on the mainland .
president abdel fatah al-sisi , who presents himself as a bulwark against militants in the middle east , has said islamic state fighters might try to enter libya and egypt after their defeats in iraq and syria .
security forces have also faced attacks in the western desert region bordering libya , where security sources say a former egyptian special forces officer turned jihadist allied to al qaeda was responsible for an ambush on a police operation last month .