moscow ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin said on thursday he faced no credible high-profile political opponents as he prepared to run for re-election in march , but would work to try to create a more balanced political system .
putin , whom critics have accused of using state tv , the courts and the police to demonize and marginalize the liberal opposition , said earlier this month he would run for re-election in march 2018 - a contest he seems sure to win comfortably and extend his grip on power into a third decade .
but in a sign the former kgb officer is keen to strengthen his role as a father of the nation figure rather than as a party political figure , putin said he planned to run as an independent candidate and garner support from more than one party .
the ruling united russia party has traditionally backed putin and is likely to do so again this time , but putin clearly wants to generate a higher turnout by styling himself as someone who is above the often grubby fray of russian party politics .
putin said it was too early to set out his electoral program , but named priority issues , aside from helping forge what he called a flexible political system , as nurturing a high-tech economy , improving infrastructure , healthcare , education , productivity and increasing people s real incomes .
putin , 65 , has been in power , either as president or prime minister , since 2000 , longer than veteran soviet leader leonid brezhnev and outstripped only by dictator josef stalin .
with an approval rating of around 80 percent if , as expected , he wins what would be a fourth presidential term , he will be eligible to serve another six years until 2024 , when he turns 72 .
putin said he was aware he faced no real competition .
the political environment , like the economic environment , needs to be competitive , putin told an audience of more than 1,600 russian and foreign reporters gathered in a moscow conference hall for his annual news conference .
i will strive for us to have a balanced political system .
he said he regretted the lack of competition , but accused his political opponents of failing to come up with any positive ideas to tackle russia s problems .
it s important not to just make noise on public squares and speak about the regime , said putin .
it s important to propose something to make things better .
but when you start to compare what the leaders of the opposition are proposing , especially the leaders of the non-systemic ( liberal ) opposition , there are a lot of problems .
opposition leader alexei navalny , who is unlikely to be allowed to run against putin due to what he says is a trumped up criminal conviction , posted an instant riposte on social media .
he said he had launched his own program this week but accused putin of doing his best to ignore it .