harare ( reuters ) - new president emmerson mnangagwa on thursday called for the removal of western sanctions on members of zimbabwe s ruling elite and said elections due in 2018 were nearer than you expect .
the united states maintains a travel and economic embargo on several zanu-pf party officials , top military figures and some government-owned firms .
it imposed it during former president robert mugabe s rule over what it called violations of human rights and democracy .
the eu lifted most of its sanctions in 2014 but kept them on mugabe and his wife grace .
we call for the unconditional lifting of the political and economic sanctions , which have crippled our national development , mnangagwa told a meeting of the zanu-pf central committee in downtown harare .
we realize that isolation is not splendid or viable as there is more to gain through solidarity , mutually beneficial partnerships .
mnangagwa , 75 , became leader of the southern african nation last month after the military and ruling zanu-pf turned against mugabe , who had ruled the country for 37 years and was thought to be grooming his wife to succeed him .
in the latter half of mugabe s rule , the economy collapsed , especially after violent and chaotic seizures of thousands of white-owned commercial farms .
the issuance of billions of dollars of domestic debt to pay for a bloated civil service triggered a collapse in the value of zimbabwe s de facto currency and hyperinflation .
the international monetary fund has promised to send a staff mission to zimbabwe soon to meet with officials of the new government and assess the country s fiscal and economic situation .
the international community will also be closely watching the next elections in 2018 .
the vote is due at the end of july in 2018 but there is talk it could be brought forward to as early as march .
government will do all in its powers to ensure that the elections are credible , free and fair .
these elections are nearer than what you expect , mnangagwa said without elaborating .
the ruling and opposition parties have said they will ask electoral authorities to extend next week s voter registration deadline into february after the de facto military coup last month disrupted the registration process .
mnangagwa will be confirmed as party leader and its candidate for the presidential elections at a special one-day congress on friday with mugabe absent .
the 93-year-old former leader reportedly visited a hospital in singapore for medical checks this week .
in comments suggesting he intends to draw a line under years of endemic corruption and impunity , mnangagwa said he would name and shame those who failed to return stolen public funds after a three-month amnesty ending in february next year .
he is under pressure to deliver , especially on the economy , which is in the grip of severe foreign currency shortages .
i have given three months for those who have taken money out of this country to bring it back , the president said .
i didn t say that without knowledge .
i have a list of who took money out , so in march when the period expires , those who have not heeded my moratorium , i will name them and shame them , he said to loud applause .
separately , former zimbabwe finance minister ignatius chombo faced new corruption charges on thursday .