kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian police clashed with backers of opposition leader mikheil saakashvili on sunday and prevented them from forcing their way into kiev s october palace after a rally against president petro poroshenko .
the confrontation , which included the firing of tear gas canisters , was the latest chapter in the former georgian president s stand-off with ukrainian authorities that led to his detention and release from custody last week .
the october palace , a cultural center , became a symbol of revolt when it was a key location in the 2013-14 pro-european uprising that ousted a moscow-backed president and installed poroshenko , who promised to eliminate widespread corruption .
saakashvili , president of his native georgia in 2004-2013 , moved to ukraine after an uprising there and served as a regional governor in 2015-16 before falling out with poroshenko , whom he accuses of failing to stamp out endemic graft and being corrupt himself .
poroshenko denies the accusations .
sunday s scuffles at the october palace were an offshoot of a larger , peaceful opposition rally in which several thousand people marched through central kiev earlier in the day , calling for poroshenko s impeachment .
the situation was relatively calm at the palace after darkness fell with a large number of riot police blocking the entrance to the center , whose doors protesters had earlier tried to break through , some throwing stones and other objects .
we have to be calm , keep the peace , saakashvili told a few hundred of his supporters , who remained outside the building .
no serious injuries were reported in the clashes .
saakashvili accused the authorities of engineering the situation to provoke violence .
earlier , he had called on protesters to set up a headquarters in the building .
but later , he condemned any attempt to seize administration buildings .
interior ministry adviser anton gerashchenko held saakashvili responsible for the clashes .
despite all the provocations as a result of which mikheil saakashvili wants to spill the blood of ukrainians , he has not succeeded , he said in a post on facebook .
the comments continue a long-running blame game that has included prosecutor s accusing saakashvili of assisting a criminal organization , charges he says are trumped up to undermine his campaign to unseat poroshenko .
police said the attempt to charge into the october palace occurred while a children s concert was going on inside .
ukrainian lawmaker serhiy leshchenko , who attended the rally , joined other opposition mps in condemning saakashvili s actions .
this behavior could destroy the remnants of trust among like-minded political associates and alienate society , he said on facebook .