abuja ( reuters ) - president muhammadu buhari on monday sacked nigeria s most senior civil servant after an investigation into graft allegations , the highest profile casualty of the anti-corruption pledge that helped bring him to power .
he ordered an investigation into babachir lawal , an ally and one of his first appointments , after lawmakers in a separate probe alleged that he inflated the value of contracts for humanitarian aid projects in parts of the northeast ravaged by boko haram as part of a suspected kickback scheme .
the president accepted the recommendation of the panel to terminate the appointment of mr lawal , presidential spokesman femi adesina said in a statement .
secretary to the government of the federation lawal , who has denied wrongdoing , did not immediately respond to phone calls and a text message requesting a comment .
buhari s two presidential spokesmen declined to comment on whether there were plans to prosecute lawal .
the director general of the national intelligence agency ( cia ) , ambassador ayo oke , was also sacked on monday in connection with the discovery of large amounts of cash in foreign and local currencies by the financial crimes agency in a residential apartment in lagos this year , adesina said .
the discovery of more than $ 43 million in cash was investigated by the same panel , led by the vice president , as had looked into lawal , but any connection between the two cases has not been made clear .
both men were suspended in april .
the nia had insisted it was the owner of the money .
the agency , nigeria s equivalent of the cia , could not be immediately reached for comment on monday .
buhari took office in may 2015 after winning an election largely on his promise to end the endemic corruption that has stunted development in africa s biggest economy , but there have been no major convictions .
a number of former government officials have faced criminal charges related to alleged corruption since buhari came to power .
the opposition people s democratic party , in power for 16 years prior to buhari taking office , has accused the president of focusing on its members .