21st century wire says us defense secretary ash carter is the latest washington defense insider to suffer from that common american condition known as strangelove syndrome .
.
ash carter ( above ) alongside peter sellers as the enigmatic and satirical menace dr. strangelove.is this the new american mediocrity displaying its ignorance out of washington dc , or is there more to it ?
is washington going into full cold war-esque strangelove mode again ? rtbeijing has accused us defense secretary ashton carter of having a cold war mentality , following his statement that china risks creating a great wall of self-isolation over its actions in the south china sea.speaking at a daily news briefing on monday , chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said carter s remarks laid bare the stereotypical us thinking and us hegemony .
indeed , there are some in the us who live physically in the 21st century , but whose minds are stuck in the cold war era , she said , as quoted by ap.china has no interest in any form of cold war , nor are we interested in playing a role in a hollywood movie written and directed by certain us military officials .
however , china has no fear of and will counter any actions that threaten and undermine china s sovereignty and security , hua continued.the remarks come just days after us defense secretary ashton carter said that china risks creating a great wall of self-isolation through its military expansion in the south china sea and its alleged hacks on us companies .
china s actions could erect a great wall of self-isolation , carter told graduating officers at the us naval academy in annapolis , maryland , on friday .
countries across the region allies , partners , and the unaligned are voicing concerns publicly and privately at the highest levels .
carter went on to state that the us continues to be concerned about beijing s actions in the disputed south china sea , where it has laid claim to almost the entire region continue this story at rtwatch 21wire s patrick henningsen join in on crosstalk s heady discussion on us foreign policy here :