berlin ( reuters ) - members of germany s social democrats ( spd ) will likely approve a renewed coalition with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives if party leaders present a convincing proposal , a member of the party s executive leadership said on saturday .
niels annen of the spd , in an interview with the passauer neue presse newspaper , called for quick action to form a new german government given a range of crises around the world , and said a grand coalition was an option that could not be excluded .
spd leader martin schulz on friday agreed to hold talks with merkel about reviving their outgoing coalition government , but said no decisions had been made and party members would have the final say on any deal .
but he suggested that governing could help the spd achieve its political aims and told the party s youth wing - which rejected another grand coalition at a party conference - that he expected their loyalty and constructive cooperation .
annen said the spd needed to hear from the failed chancellor about how she envisioned the future government before agreeing to another four-year tie-up with conservatives .
the center-left spd had vowed to go into opposition after suffering its worst result in 70 years in september s election , but came under intense pressure , including by german president frank-walter steinmeier , to rethink its position and help avert a disruptive repeat poll in europe s largest economy .
schulz said party leaders agreed to talks out of a sense of responsibility to germany and europe after merkel s attempt to form a government with two smaller parties collapsed on sunday .
germany urgently needs a predictable and reliable government .
a grand coalition could be an option and we should not exclude it , annen told the newspaper , adding that the spd was focused on what is good for the country .
he welcomed plans to take any coalition agreement to members for a vote , and said the party should continue its restructuring efforts after the september election setback .
i m certain , if the spd leadership makes a convincing proposal , it will be able to convince the membership , he said .
annen cited citizens insurance and better protection for renters as issues to hash out with conservatives .
spd deputy leader ralf stegner told the funke newspaper group that schulz would retain his leadership role , saying he continued to enjoy strong support within the party .
there is absolutely no doubt that martin schulz will be re-elected as party chairman with a good result , he said .