the fundamental transformation of america is almost complete .
even barack hussein obama must be surprised by how few hurdles have been placed in his way in less than 24 hours , our leftist us supreme court delivered not one , but two sucker punches to the heart of america .
the acts of these radical judicial activists will have a dramatic effect on our society and culture in the united states of america .
the supreme court declared friday that same-sex couples have a right to marry anywhere in the united states.gay and lesbian couples already could marry in 36 states and the district of columbia .
the court s 5-4 ruling means the remaining 14 states , in the south and midwest , will have to stop enforcing their bans on same-sex marriage.the outcome is the culmination of two decades of supreme court litigation over marriage , and gay rights generally .
justice anthony kennedy wrote the majority opinion , just as he did in the court s previous three major gay rights cases dating back to 1996 .
it came on the anniversary of two of those earlier decisions .
no union is more profound than marriage , kennedy wrote , joined by the court s four more liberal justices.the four dissenting justices each filed a separate opinion explaining their views .
but this court is not a legislature .
whether same-sex marriage is a good idea should be of no concern to us , chief justice john roberts wrote in dissent .
roberts read a summary of his dissent from the bench , the first time he has done so in nearly 10 years as chief justice.justice antonin scalia said he is not concerned so much about same-sex marriage , but about this court s threat to american democracy .
justices samuel alito and clarence thomas also dissented.the ruling will not take effect immediately because the court gives the losing side roughly three weeks to ask for reconsideration .
but some state officials and county clerks might decide there is little risk in issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples.the cases before the court involved laws from kentucky , michigan , ohio and tennessee that define marriage as the union of a man and a woman .
those states have not allowed same-sex couples to marry within their borders and they also have refused to recognize valid marriages from elsewhere.just two years ago , the supreme court struck down part of the federal anti-gay marriage law that denied a range of government benefits to legally married same-sex couples.the decision in united states v. windsor did not address the validity of state marriage bans , but courts across the country , with few exceptions , said its logic compelled them to invalidate state laws that prohibited gay and lesbian couples from marrying.the number of states allowing same-sex marriage has grown rapidly .
as recently as october , just over one-third of the states permitted same-sex marriage.there are an estimated 390,000 married same-sex couples in the united states , according to ucla s williams institute , which tracks the demographics of gay and lesbian americans .
another 70,000 couples living in states that do not currently permit them to wed would get married in the next three years , the institute says .
roughly 1 million same-sex couples , married and unmarried , live together in the united states , the institute says.via : ap news