beijing ( reuters ) - china on monday signaled it would again block an indian request at the united nations to blacklist the head of a pakistan-based militant group because there was no consensus , a move likely to cause recrimination in new delhi .
india , backed by the united states , has been trying to get maulana masood azhar on a u.n. list of groups with ties to al qaeda , blaming his group for a series of attacks in india , including one on its parliament in 2002 and another last year on an airbase .
but china , a member of the u.n. security council , has repeatedly put a technical hold on the indian request , the latest of which is due to end this week .
such decisions must be based on cast-iron evidence and fully backed by members of the u.n. panel charged with implementing resolutions relating to sanctions on militant groups and individuals , foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said .
china proposed a technical hold , the aim of which was to give more time for the committee members to discuss it and for relevant parties to have further consultations , hua told a daily news briefing .
but regrettably , the committee has yet to reach consensus .
the wrangling over masood azhar , a longtime indian foe , has become a thorny issue in ties between china and india , which fears beijing is disregarding its concerns over terrorism .
it has also fueled worries that china will stick to its all-weather friend , india s arch-foe pakistan , no matter the weight of evidence against islamabad .
pakistan denies giving material support to militants fighting indian rule in the disputed himalayan region of kashmir besides carrying out attacks elsewhere .
it said it interrogated azhar and his associates in the jaish-e-mohammad group after the january 2016 attack on the pathankot air base but found no evidence linking him to it .
hua said there were clear rules for listing a person or group as a terrorist , and that china has always believed the relevant u.n. committee should operate on the principles of objectivity , fairness and professionalism on this matter .
jaish-e-mohammad has already been blacklisted by the 15-nation security council , but not azhar , an islamist hardliner .