new york ( reuters ) - nearly all of new york city ’ s millionaires would receive big tax cuts under president donald trump ’ s proposed tax overhaul , while more than one-third of moderate- and middle-income families would face increases , according to a government report issued on thursday .
city comptroller scott stringer said trump ’ s overall plan , as proposed during the republican president ’ s campaign , would give more than $ 5 billion of tax cuts to city dwellers .
but almost two-thirds of that would go to those earning more than $ 500,000 , even though they bear just over one-half of the total tax burden .
“ we already have astounding wealth gaps across the city and across the country , ” stringer told a news conference .
“ the trump tax code , if implemented , would only exacerbate it. ” the lower taxes for wealthier residents would be achieved through lower marginal tax rates on ordinary and capital gains income and the elimination of the alternative minimum tax ( amt ) .
last week , u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said trump ’ s objective is a tax cut for the middle class , not the top 1 percent .
he said he is aiming for passage of a comprehensive tax overhaul by the time congress takes its august recess .
stringer ’ s office analyzed tax returns of 365,000 new york city households .
it found that 92 percent of the city ’ s millionaires would receive , on average , a tax cut of at least $ 113,000 .
nearly half of single parents who make $ 25,000 to $ 50,000 would experience a tax increase , it said .
the tax cuts , which would reduce federal revenue by more than $ 2 trillion over 10 years , are driving proposed budget cuts that would leave the city , home to 60,000 homeless people , with a weakened social safety net , stringer said .
“ i find it incredible that this guy , who comes from new york city , who has major investments here , can ’ t see what his proposal will do to his hometown , ” he said .
“ and then when you scratch the surface , you realize that part of his agenda and who benefits from it is donald trump himself. ” based on the limited information available from trump ’ s now-public 2005 federal tax return , his proposal to eliminate the amt would have benefited him by $ 31 million that year .
in contrast , under his tax plan , a single mother raising two children on less than $ 50,000 a year would face a tax increase of $ 464 .