lagos ( reuters ) - four civilians were killed in an attack by suspected boko haram militants on monday in the nigerian city at the center of a conflict with the islamists , a resident and two officials told reuters .
nigeria s army said on monday evening it had repelled the assault on the outskirts of maiduguri , the spiritual birthplace of boko haram .
it was the first major attack on the northeast city since june .
the army statement made no mention of casualties but musa alkali , a resident of the attacked area , molai , told reuters on tuesday he saw four corpses .
boko haram fought their way into molai and burnt three houses before the military fighter jet arrived , he said .
three people were burnt in their houses , ( then ) i saw four dead bodies taken out of the area , said alkali .
he said the fourth person had been shot .
two other people , a local vigilante group commander and a military officer , also told reuters on tuesday that four civilians had died .
they spoke on condition of anonymity because they had been told not to speak to media and feared reprisal .
the military said that none of its troops had lost their lives .
it said the attackers had come with trucks mounted with guns and suicide bombers , and when retreating had set fire to houses and vehicles .
three nigerian military spokesmen did not immediately respond to calls , texts and whatsapp messages seeking comment .
fourteen people were killed in an attack on maiduguri in june when the group struck on the eve of a visit by vice president yemi osinbajo .
the government often says it is on alert for boko haram attacks during the christmas period and other festivals for christians and muslims .
the insurgency has in the past targeted places of worship such as churches and mosques during those times .
embassies regularly warn their nationals to be cautious and avoid public spaces at those times .
president muhammadu buhari s administration has been saying boko haram are almost defeated but the latest attack shows the group s continued ability to stage hit-and-run raids , prompting a renewed government push against the militants .
the nigerian government approved the release of $ 1 billion last week from a state oil fund to help with the fight .
nigeria s long-term plan is to corral civilians inside fortified garrison towns , a move that effectively cedes the rural areas to boko haram .
nigeria replaced its previous military commander of the fight against boko haram after half a year in the post .
military sources told reuters this followed a series of embarrassing attacks by the militants .