geneva ( reuters ) - the top u.n. human rights official said on wednesday he was appalled that iraq had hanged 42 men on sunday , almost certainly without a fair trial , and that he feared more would follow .
the executed prisoners had been convicted of terrorism charges ranging from killing members of the security forces to detonating car bombs .
i am appalled to learn of the execution of 42 prisoners in a single day , u.n. high commissioner for human rights zeid ra ad al hussein said in a statement .
we are extremely concerned at reports that iraq may be planning to expedite the process of executing prisoners already sentenced to death , and that this could result in more large-scale executions in the coming weeks .
zeid said it was extremely doubtful that strict due process and fair trial guarantees , including the men s rights to effective legal assistance and a full appeals process as well as to seek pardon or commutation of their sentence , had been met in every one of the 42 individual cases .
the hangings came after sunni suicide attacks killed at least 60 people near the southern city of nassiriya , a shi ite area , on sept. 14 , prompting shi ite demands for tougher judicial action .
iraqi officials have said that about 1,200 of the estimated 6,000 prisoners held in nassiriya have been sentenced to death , the statement said .
zeid said iraq s use of the death penalty raised massive concerns and he called on the government to establish an immediate moratorium on its use .
members of terrorist groups who were proven to have committed serious crimes should be held fully accountable , he said .
however , iraq s use of anti-terrorism legislation to impose the death penalty for a wide range of acts does not appear to meet the strict threshold of most serious crimes .
no information about those hanged on sunday has been released , such as their names , places of residence , crimes , trials , or date of sentencing , the statement said .
iraqi officials have said all their appeals processes had been exhausted , the statement said .