new york ( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie took a drubbing on social media for his demeanor in an appearance with republican presidential front-runner donald trump at a televised victory speech and news conference on super tuesday .
adding to his woes , six new jersey newspapers called on christie to resign , partly for endorsing trump after dropping out of the race to become the republican party ’ s candidate in november ’ s election .
a christie spokesman , brian murray , declined to comment immediately on the editorial , which appeared in newspapers owned by gannett co inc ( gci.n ) .
christie surprisingly endorsed trump on friday , calling the billionaire new york businessman “ the best person to beat hillary clinton in november. ” some questioned whether christie ’ s enthusiasm was genuine following his appearance at trump ’ s event in palm beach , florida on tuesday night .
trump appeared before tv cameras after news media organizations declared him the winner of some of the state-by-state primaries and caucuses and as super tuesday results continued rolling in .
christie introduced trump , then stood behind and just to the right of the brash billionaire .
the governor stared blankly ahead , at times looking troubled , as trump took reporters ’ questions .
the reaction to christie ’ s demeanor was swift and unforgiving on social media .
“ this is what a man collapsing under the weight of his own shame looks like , ” sean d. illing ( @ sean_illing ) tweeted on tuesday .
“ did # chrischristie look pathetic standing behind # trump , or what ? !
? ” karen walz ( @ khwalz ) tweeted on wednesday .
news website buzzfeed on tuesday evening tweeted a clip of the video footage set to the classic simon and garfunkel song “ sounds of silence , ” with the caption “ hello darkness , my old friend , ” a lyric from the song .
christie spokesman murray would not comment on the social media reaction , saying in an email , “ i ’ ll let you know when we opt to slide down into that muck. ” in the editorial calling on christie to resign , the six newspapers , including the asbury park press , called his endorsement hypocritical .
“ we ’ re disgusted with ( christie ’ s ) endorsement of donald trump after he spent months on the campaign trail trashing him , calling him unqualified by temperament and experience to be president , ” the editorial read .
christie , serving the second of two four-year terms , is not slated to leave office until december 2017 .
( reporting by amy tennery in new york ; additional reporting by gina cherelus in new york ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .