berlin ( reuters ) - the leader of germany s social democrats ( spd ) pledged to have u.s. nuclear weapons withdrawn from german territory if , against the odds , he defeats angela merkel to become chancellor next month .
addressing a campaign rally in trier late on tuesday , spd leader martin schulz also said he , unlike merkel , would resist demands by u.s. president donald trump for nato members to increase their defense spending .
trump wants nuclear armament .
we are against this , schulz said , apparently trying to differentiate his party from merkel s more hawkish christian democratic union ( cdu ) .
as chancellor , i will commit germany to having the nuclear weapons stationed here withdrawn from our country , he said .
about 20 u.s. nuclear warheads are thought to be stationed at a military base in buechel , in western germany , according to unofficial estimates .
the u.s. embassy in berlin said it does not comment on nuclear weapons in germany .
taking advantage of trump s extreme unpopularity in germany , schulz also said he would use the money merkel had earmarked for increased military spending for other purposes .
what to do with our money is the central question of this election , he said , referring to a 30 billion-euro tax surplus .
trump demands that 2 percent of gdp , 30 billion euros , should go to military spending , and merkel agreed to that without asking german citizens .
germany and other nato members had already pledged to raise their defense spending to 2 percent of gross domestic product before trump was elected .
while most of them have increased spending on their militaries , only a few have reached the 2 percent goal , and germany is not one of them .
most recent polls show schulz s party polling at around 24 percent , some 14 percentage points behind merkel .
most expect a booming economy and low unemployment will carry her into a fourth term in sept. 24 elections .
however , with germans historically wary of using military force since world war two , schulz s message may resonate among the spd s core voters .
after 12 years in office , merkel has become increasingly confident on the global stage .
she has pushed for germany to become more militarily self-reliant , partly in response to trump s hinting that he might abandon nato allies if they do not spend more on defense .
earlier this year , merkel said the times when germany could rely on others to defend it were to some extent in the past .