barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia refused on tuesday to bow to the spanish government s demand that it renounce a symbolic declaration of independence , setting it on a political collision course with madrid later this week .
madrid has threatened to put catalonia , which accounts for a fifth of spain s economy , under direct central rule if its regional government does not abandon independence by thursday .
but catalonia s government rejected prime minister mariano rajoy s deadline .
giving in forms no part of this government s scenarios , catalan government spokesman jordi turull said .
on thursday , we won t give anything different than what we gave on monday .
spain s biggest political crisis in decades worsened on monday night when madrid s high court jailed the heads of catalonia s two main separatist groups pending an investigation for alleged sedition .
the catalan government accused madrid of taking political prisoners and tens of thousands of protesters gathered along barcelona s diagonal avenue to call for their release .
people held up lighted candles , whistled and shouted freedom and out with the occupying forces .
there should not be political prisoners in a democratic country in the 21st century .
this country is not democratic .
i m here to support democracy , said alicia cabreriza , a 26-year-old computer programmer from barcelona .
the protests ended peacefully at around 2000 gmt .
catalan leader carles puigdemont , in a tweet following the detentions , said : sadly , we have political prisoners again .
the phrase was an allusion to the military dictatorship under francisco franco , when catalan culture and language were systematically suppressed .
it carries an emotional resonance given fascism is still a living memory for many spaniards .
justice minister rafael catala hit back , saying the jailing of the leaders of the separatist groups , the catalan national assembly and omnium , was a judicial , not a political , decision .
we can talk of politicians in prison but not political prisoners , he said .
these are not political prisoners because yesterday s prison ruling was due to a ( suspected ) crime .
the crisis has deepened divisions at the heart of spain s young democracy , underlining the complex sense of nationhood in the euro zone s fourth largest economy .
in madrid , unionists drape their homes in the national flag , while barcelona apartment buildings are festooned with catalan flags .
street protests of hundreds of thousands of people have been held on both sides of the divide , including in catalonia .
they ve crossed a line , said eulalia l pez , a 54-year-old office worker in barcelona .
she said she and her colleagues would come out onto the streets if madrid went ahead and took control of the region .
european capitals and financial markets have looked on with mounting alarm since oct. 1 , when catalan authorities held a referendum on independence in defiance of a spanish court ban .
anc leader jordi sanchez and omnium chief jordi cuixart are accused by prosecutors of helping to orchestrate pro-independence protests that last month trapped national police inside a barcelona building and destroyed their vehicles .
that same incident also led to catalonia s police chief , josep lluis trapero , being investigated for sedition .
he is accused of failing to order his force to rescue them from the building .
he has not been detained but the high court banned him from leaving spain and seized his passport .
a string of companies , including two major lenders , have decided to move their headquarters outside catalonia since the referendum .
spanish police launched a violent crackdown in an effort to thwart the referendum , using rubber bullets and batons on voters in scenes that shocked spain s european neighbors .
catalan officials say 43 percent of voters still managed to cast ballots with 90 percent in favor of breaking away .
many unionists , however , obeyed madrid and did not vote .
spain s constitutional court , which had suspended the referendum , said on tuesday the law passed by the catalan parliament to hold the vote was void because it broke dispositions of spain s 1978 constitution .
one of catalonia s major foreign investors , volkswagen , said on tuesday that its spanish division , seat , had decided to delay announcing the name of its forthcoming model .
seat , based in martorell in catalonia , had planned to announce the name of its 2018 sport-utility vehicle this month , about a year ahead of the 7-seat model s launch .
with the entire spanish media focused on politics at the moment , we have decided to find a better time , a seat spokesman said , adding the division had also delayed the announcement of an innovation and digitisation agreement .
he did not elaborate .