berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel s social democrat ( spd ) challenger said on sunday his party would not form any alliances after a sept. 24 election unless fair wages , free education , secure pensions and a commitment to a democratic europe were guaranteed .
the spd was trailing merkel s conservatives by 13 points in an emnid poll published on saturday , with 24 percent support .
polls show the most likely coalitions are a re-run of the current conservative-spd alliance or a jamaica tie-up of the conservatives , greens and pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) .
for the first time , spd leader martin schulz on sunday laid out his conditions for joining any coalitions in a video broadcast on the party s website .
specific policies for fair wages , good schools , secure pensions and a democratic europe for peace - that s what i promise you , 61-year-old schulz said .
an spd government would implement these plans .
they re non-negotiable for me .
that s why i want to become german chancellor , he said .
but polls suggest the spd s only option for gaining power would be as a junior partner in another grand coalition with the conservatives under merkel .
schulz has put social justice at the core of his campaign , but that has failed to gain much traction .
germans have generally enjoyed 12 years of prosperity under merkel , and she has trumpeted her economic achievements - such as reducing unemployment - throughout the campaign .
in an interview with the funke newspaper group , schulz said he was against a re-run of the current coalition , an alliance that is always a last resort because it leaves little opposition in parliament .
we re not seeking to continue the grand coalition , he said .
i m running to supersede merkel .
merkel warned supporters at a campaign rally in the northwestern town of delbrueck on sunday that the election result was not yet clear despite her lead in the polls .
a lot of people say the vote is practically decided already ... but it is not , she said , adding that many people would make up their minds in the final days before the vote .
she had on saturday called for a high election turnout , saying : we must fight for every single person to go and vote .
germany s smaller parties narrowed down possible coalition options over the weekend , with both the greens and the fdp saying they could not imagine a jamaica coalition , the name refers to the black , yellow and green colors of the jamaican flag .