we reported about trump making similar comments back in august here .
more than ever , america desires a leader who will keep our nation safe .
while the leftist media cringes at just about everything trump says , his poll numbers continue to climb .
maybe it s not really a mystery why trump is doing so well in the polls maybe america is just 100 % fed up with a weakling in the white house who doesn t appear to have our best interests at heart and we re looking for someone who is actually interested in winning the war on terror sunday on abc s this week , republican presidential candidate donald trump said he would bring back waterboarding as an interrogation technique because he said , i think waterboarding is peanuts compared to what they re doing us .
when asked about a muslim database trump explained , i want a database for the refugees that if they come into the country .
we have no idea who these people are when the syrian refugees start pouring into this country .
we don t know if it s isis .
i definitely want a database and other checks and balances .
we have no idea who s being sent in here .
it could be the great trojan horse of all time .
when they come in .
when i look at the migration and the lines and i see all strong , very powerful looking men , they re men , very few women and children , there s something strange going on .
when asked if we should bring back enhanced interrogation like waterboarding trump said , we have to be strong .
they don t use waterboarding , they used chopping off peoples heads .
they use drowning people .
i don t know if you have seen with the cages , where they put people in cages and they drown them in the ocean and they lift out the cage , and we are taking about waterboarding i would bring it back , yes , i would bring it back .
i think waterboarding is peanuts compared to what they re doing us .
what they did to james foley , when they chopped off his head .
that s a whole different level .
i would absolutely bring back interrogation and strong interrogation .
via : breitbart news