public uproar was at an all-time high at a north carolina school board meeting ( see video below ) over far-left equity training ( see more below on equity training ) for government-school teachers .
allegations were made by furious parents that a teacher forced white and christian students to stand up in class and apologize for their privilege .
is this happening in your child s school ?
equity training is a new thing ( see below ) .
this happened in may and the teacher was finally fired .
with school starting this fall , please be aware of what s going on in your child s classroom : a black english teacher , identified as tarsha clarke , made white students in her class stand up and apologize to non-white students for their white privilege .
at a rockingham school district meeting , a couple of parents stood up and voiced their outrage over the incident and also the fact that the school s administration was trying to sweep it all under the rug.why s the money going to this when the district is broke ? on a side note : rockingham county schools is paying opensource strategic consulting a flat fee of $ 45,000 and will reimburse up to $ 1,500 for travel expenses over the course of the training .
rockingham county commissioners recently cut the county s education allotment by $ 269,000 .
the district faces around a $ 5.7 million shortfall , the report said.two outraged parents spoke : the second parent is nowhere near as calm as the first parent in the clip below .
the first outraged parent who spoke was farren wilkinson : transcript of farren wilkinson s comments : hello , my name is farren wilkinson i just want to shed light on a situation that happened at western rockingham middle school .
where a teacher caused some of her students to stand up and apologize to other students base on their inequal opportunities of education .
so i would like to know how our schools can allow an educator to humiliate bully and degrade children .
this is not a matter of race but a matter of a teacher using fear and the embarrassment of children to satisfy her own personal anger or beliefs .
these children are not responsible nor accountable for any inequalities that are believed to be present , wilkinson said .
the actions of this educator does not provide safe , nurtureing , dynamic and integrative learning .
if she is not held to the standards set by rockingham county schools , how can we expect other children to learn and grow to be productive citizens in society , wilkinson continued , if nothing happens , if she s not repremanded , for these actions , and when the parents call to ask what has been done .
they are being assured that this was taken care of .
but how was it taken care of ?
what did happen ?
what was her training ?
what was her consequences for this action ?
because again , these children are not responsible for any inequalities that may exist in the school system nor should they be publicly humiliated among their peers for her own satisfaction.after wilkinson s testimony , another parent , robert jeremy , who said he had a 9-year-old son , expressed outrage to the school board because of the racism , bigotry , and hate expressed by the teacher against the young child based on his race , christian views , and heterosexuality.transcript of robert jeremy s comments : hello , my name is robert jeremy , he said .
common sense , when did it become a good idea to attack a child at a school because they were white , or they were black , or they were straight , or they were christian ?
or because they believed in something moral that they were taught at home ?
you see i teach my child and my two older daughters family values , christian values .
i teach not to judge somebody by the color of their skin but by the color of their heart .
and my child will not be insulted , reprimanded , corrected because he has a good moral fiber .
ms clarke was fired for this disgusting behavior .
are your kids experiencing this ? what is equity training ?
equity training is a new training and has been pushed on the teachers as a mandatory training done on their own time ! here s more from greenboro.com the reason i know about the equity training is a group of teachers came to us because they felt like they needed help , said rockingham county gop chair diane parnell .
this equity training that was mandated upon them that they got no credit hours for and they must sit through this on their own time was something against their christian principles , and if you take a look at it as i did , those equity training videos , it did seem to be against their principles .
speakers took issue with the training video s stance on topics like white privilege and transgender issues.there is a racial equality institute !