tokyo ( reuters ) - kansai electric power co said on friday it will decommission two 38-year-old reactors at its ohi nuclear plant as japan s electricity industry struggles to cope with new safety standards imposed after the 2011 fukushima disaster .
the widely expected announcement brings to 14 the number of reactors being scrapped since the meltdowns at the fukushima daiichi plant .
more than six years on , japan is still turning away from nuclear power in the face of technical problems , public opposition , court challenges and unfavorable economics .
most of japan s reactors remain shut , with only four operating , while they undergo relicensing processes in a bit to meet new standards set after the fukushima crisis highlighted shortcomings in regulation .
kansai electric will now scrap the no .
1 and no .
2 reactors at the ohi plant , some 86 kilometers ( 53 miles ) from osaka , western japan , where the utility is based .
shut since 2011 , the reactors have capacity of 1,175 megawatts each , began operations in 1979 and were near the end of their standard operating life of 40 years .
a kansai electric spokeswoman said that costs in meeting the new safety standards were not a factor behind the decision , but technical difficulties were .
the containment vessels of these reactors are smaller than other reactors in japan , and a need to beef up the walls to meet the standards would make the work zones even more cramped , making it difficult for prompt repairs in case of troubles , the spokeswoman said .
the move means japan is likely to soon be eclipsed by china as the third biggest nuclear power sector in the world - by reactor numbers - after the united states and france .
japan now has 42 reactors , including the two to be decommissioned at ohi , compared with 38 in china , which has nearly 20 more under construction , while the u.s. and france have 99 and 58 respectively , according to the international energy agency .
kansai electric was the most reliant on nuclear energy among japan s atomic operators , using reactors for nearly half of its electricity generation before the disaster at the fukushima nuclear plant in 2011 , when reactors melted down following a giant earthquake and tsunami .
two other reactors at the ohi site remain closed .
while prime minister shinzo abe s government is keen to restore a power source that provided about a third of electricity supply before the fukushima crisis , japan s public remains deeply skeptical over industry assurances on safety .
anti-nuclear campaigners and residents are increasingly using courts to block restarts and push for plants to close .
a japanese court last week ordered shikoku electric power co not to restart one of its reactors , overturning a lower court decision in the first instance of a higher court blocking the operation of nuclear plant .
residents have lodged injunctions against most nuclear plants across japan .