hillary clinton was dogged throughout her campaign by her decision to set up a private email server in the basement of her suburban new york home to handle communications as secretary of state .
comey said in july that agents found 110 classified emails containing emails that were classified at the time they were sent or received .
that included eight marked top secret .
although comey labeled clinton s behavior extremely careless , he added that it did not warrant prosecution.we do assess that hostile actors gained access to the private commercial e-mail accounts of people with whom secretary clinton was in regular contact from her personal account .
we also assess that secretary clinton s use of a personal e-mail domain was both known by a large number of people and readily apparent .
she also used her personal e-mail extensively while outside the united states , including sending and receiving work-related e-mails in the territory of sophisticated adversaries .
given that combination of factors , we assess it is possible that hostile actors gained access to secretary clinton s personal e-mail account .
james comey on hillary s server lifezette and here is the hilarious version of comey vs. clinton .
enjoy !
all kidding aside even if we assume comey didn t botch the clinton email investigation which is quite an assumption to make , especially considering how outraged so many investigators in the fbi were in the weeks and months following comey s announcement why did the fbi director continue to comment on ongoing investigations ?
why did he continue to feed red meat to wolves on both sides of the aisle in congress ? the fbi , regardless of comey s intentions , has now become a blunt political tool that s being wielded by some of the most dishonest , power-hungry people in the country : politicians .
that s not only foolish and reckless , it s dangerous to liberty and undermines the credibility of a group of people that must appear credible in the minds of the people for justice to be served and for liberty to endure.the american people deserve better from their fbi director , and if comey proves to be incapable of exercising greater prudence , perhaps it s time for someone more careful and considerate to take the helm at one of the world s most powerful government agencies .
-the blaze