havana ( reuters ) - cuban police backed by hundreds of shouting pro-government demonstrators broke up a march by the dissident group ladies in white on sunday , detaining about 50 people hours before u.s. president barack obama was due for a historic visit .
the women and their male supporters carried out their normal sunday demonstration calling for free speech and amnesty for political prisoners after attending roman catholic mass in an upscale neighborhood .
a similar but less intense scene plays out every sunday .
this one was much more raucous , with a larger-than-normal crowd of pro-government demonstrators .
both sides appeared more animated in front of the unusual contingent of foreign journalists , many in town for the first visit by a u.s. president in 88 years .
the ladies marched toward the much larger pro-government crowd , which was shouting : “ these streets belong to fidel , ” referring to retired leader fidel castro .
when the two groups met at an intersection , the ladies tossed leaflets into the air and sat down , at which point police seized them and wrestled them into buses .
most allowed themselves to be taken away but others went kicking and screaming .
as the detainees were driven away , the counter-demonstrators banged on the windows .
some ladies flashed back the l sign for “ liberty , ” formed by a thumb and forefinger .
the dissidents are usually released after a few hours .
such short-term detentions have increased in recent months , according to the dissident cuban commission of human rights and national reconciliation , which has reported 1,000 a month since october , up from a previous monthly average of more than 700 .
obama will meet dissidents at the u.s. embassy on tuesday , heightening tensions between two governments that only restored diplomatic relations last year after a 54-year break .
the leader of the ladies in white , berta soler , has been invited to meet obama .
she was among those detained on sunday .
in a letter dated march 10 , obama promised the ladies he would raise the issues of freedom of speech and assembly with cuban president raul castro .
the cuban government dismisses dissidents as mercenaries seeking to destabilize the country .
many dissidents are funded by u.s. interests , which the cuban government uses to discredit them .
dissidents say they have no choice but to take foreign money since their careers are derailed once they become opponents .
cuba defends its universal healthcare and education as human rights and criticizes the u.s. record on race relations and the guantanamo bay military prison .