nueva fuerabamba , peru ( reuters ) - this remote town in peru s southern andes was supposed to serve as a model for how companies can help communities uprooted by mining .
named nueva fuerabamba , it was built to house around 1,600 people who gave up their village and farmland to make room for a massive , open-pit copper mine .
the new hamlet boasts paved streets and tidy houses with electricity and indoor plumbing , once luxuries to the indigenous quechua-speaking people who now call this place home .
the mine s operator , mmg ltd , the melbourne-based unit of state-owned china minmetals corp , threw in jobs and enough cash so that some villagers no longer work .
but the high-profile deal has not brought the harmony sought by villagers or mmg , a testament to the difficulty in averting mining disputes in this mineral-rich nation .
resource battles are common in latin america , but tensions are particularly high in peru , the world s no .
2 producer of copper , zinc and silver .
peasant farmers have revolted against an industry that many see as damaging their land and livelihoods while denying them a fair share of the wealth .
peru is home to 167 social conflicts , most related to mining , according to the national ombudsman s office , whose mission includes defusing hostilities .
nueva fuerabamba was the centerpiece of one of the most generous mining settlements ever negotiated in peru .
but three years after moving in , many transplants are struggling amid their suburban-style conveniences , reuters interviews with two dozen residents showed .
many miss their old lives growing potatoes and raising livestock .
some have squandered their cash settlements .
idleness and isolation have dulled the spirits of a people whose ancestors were feared cattle rustlers .
it is like we are trapped in a jail , in a cage where little animals are kept , said cipriano lima , 43 , a former farmer .
meanwhile , the mine , known as las bambas , has remained a magnet for discontent .
clashes between demonstrators and authorities in 2015 and 2016 left four area men dead .
nueva fuerabamba residents have blocked copper transport roads to press for more financial help from mmg .
the company acknowledged the transition has been difficult for some villagers , but said most have benefited from improved housing , healthcare and education .
nueva fuerabamba has experienced significant positive change , troy hey , mmg s executive general manager of stakeholder relations , said in an email to reuters .
mmg said it spent hundreds of millions on the relocation effort .
mining is the driver of peru s economy , which has averaged 5.5 percent annual growth over the past decade .
still , pitched conflicts have derailed billions of dollars worth of investment in recent years , including projects by newmont mining corp and southern copper corp. to defuse opposition , president pablo kuczynski has vowed to boost social services in rural highland areas , where nearly half of residents live in poverty .
but moving from conflict to cooperation is not easy after centuries of mistrust .
relocations are particularly fraught , according to camilo leon , a mining resettlement specialist at the pontifical catholic university of peru .
subsistence farmers have struggled to adapt to the loss of their traditions and the very urban , very organized layout of planned towns , leon said .
it is generally a shock for rural communities , leon said .
at least six proposed mines have required relocations in peru in the past decade , leon said .
later this month , peru will tender a $ 2-billion copper project , michiquillay , which would require moving yet another village .
mmg inherited the nueva fuerabamba project when it bought las bambas from switzerland s glencore plc in 2014 for $ 7 billion .
under terms of a deal struck in 2009 and reviewed by reuters , villagers voted to trade their existing homes and farmland for houses in a new community .
heads of each household , about 500 in all , were promised mining jobs .
university scholarships would be given to their children .
residents were to receive new land for farming and grazing , albeit in a parcel four hours away by car .
cash was an added sweetener .
villagers say each household got 400,000 soles ( $ 120,000 ) , which amounts to a lifetime s earnings for a minimum-wage worker in peru .
mmg declined to confirm the payments , saying its agreements are confidential .
built into a hillside 15 miles from the las bambas mine , nueva fuerabamba was the product of extensive community input , mmg said .
amenities include a hospital , soccer fields and a cement bull ring for festivals .
but some residents say the deal has not been the windfall they hoped .
their new two-and-three story houses , made of drywall , are drafty and appear flimsy compared to their old thatched-roof adobe cottages heated by wood-fired stoves , some said .
many no longer plant crops or tend livestock because their replacement plots are too far away .
jobs provided by mmg mostly involve maintaining the town because most residents lack the skills to work in a modern mine .
many villagers spent their settlements unwisely , said community president alfonso vargas .
some invested in businesses but others did not .
they went drinking , he said .
now basics like water , food and fuel - once wrested from the land - must be paid for .
everything is money , margot portilla , 20 , said as she cooked rice on a gas stove in her sister-in-law s bright-yellow home .
before we could make a fire for cooking with cow dung .
now we have to buy gas .
some residents said they have benefited from the move .
the new town is cleaner than the old village , said betsabe mendoza , 25 .
she invested her settlement in a metalworking business in a bigger town .
portilla , the young mom , says her younger sisters are getting a better education than she did .
still , the streets of nueva fuerabamba were virtually deserted on a recent weekday .
vargas , the community leader , said many residents have returned to the countryside or sought work elsewhere .
alcoholism , fueled by idle time and settlement money , is on the rise , he said .
some villagers have committed suicide .
over the 12 months through july , four residents killed themselves by taking farming chemicals , according to the provincial district attorney s office .
it could not provide data on suicides in the old village of fuerabamba .
mmg , citing an independent study done prior to the relocation , said the community previously suffered from high rates of domestic violence , alcoholism , illiteracy and poverty .
while the company considers the new town a success , it acknowledged the transition has not been easy for all .
connection to land , livelihood restoration and simple adaptation to new living conditions remain a challenge , mmg said .
nueva fuerabamba residents continue pressuring the company for additional assistance .
demands include more jobs and deeds to their houses , which have yet to be delivered because of bureaucratic delays , said godofredo huamani , the community s lawyer .
mmg said it stays apace of community needs through town hall meetings and has representatives on hand to field complaints .
while villagers fret about the future , many cling to the past .
flora huamani , 39 , a mother of four girls , recalled how women used to get together to weave wool from their own sheep into the embroidered black dresses they wear .
those were our traditions , said huamani from a bench in her walled front yard .
now our tradition is meeting after meeting after meeting to discuss the community s problems .
graphic : 'relocating a village ' click tmsnrt.rs/2awftbu