( reuters ) - the white house admonished russia on wednesday after it vetoed a united nations plan to continue an ongoing investigation that recently found syria killed dozens of people with chemical weapons and implored the international body to renew the probe .
russia cast a veto at the united nations security council eight days ago , preventing the renewal of a mandate for a mission by the united nations and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) - known as the joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) - that investigates the use of chemical weapons in syria .
russia s attempts to undermine and eliminate the jim show a callous disregard for the suffering and loss of life caused by the use of chemical weapons and an utter lack of respect for international norms , the white house said in a statement .
the jim found that the syrian government of bashar al-assad is to blame for a chemical attack on the opposition-held town of khan sheikhoun that killed dozens of people last april , according to a report sent to the united nations security council last thursday .
this unconscionable attack marks the fourth time that the jim has confirmed that the assad regime used chemical weapons , underscoring the brutal and horrifying barbarism of bashar al-assad and making the protection provided by russia even more egregious , the white house said .
jim was unanimously created by the 15-member u.n. security council in 2015 and renewed in 2016 for another year .
its mandate is due to expire in mid-november .
the united states implores the un security council to renew the mandate of the jim so that we may continue to identify the perpetrators of these horrific attacks and send a clear message that the use of chemical weapons will not be tolerated , the white house said .
in their 14th report since 2011 , u.n. investigators said they had in all documented 33 chemical weapons attacks to date .
twenty-seven were by the government of president bashar al-assad , including seven between march 1 to july 7 .
perpetrators had not been identified yet in six attacks , they said .
the assad government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons .
it said its strikes in khan sheikhoun hit a weapons depot belonging to rebel forces , a claim excluded by u.n. commission of inquiry on syria chairman paulo pinheiro .
that attack led u.s. president donald trump to launch the first u.s. air strikes on a syrian air base .