phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s highest court dissolved the main opposition party on thursday , leaving authoritarian prime minister hun sen clear to extend more than three decades of power in next year s election as rights groups decried the death of democracy .
the government had asked the supreme court to dissolve the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , which was accused of plotting to take power with the help of the united states after the arrest of party leader kem sokha on sept. 3 .
the court ruling also ordered a five-year political ban for 118 members of the opposition party , which had posed a major election threat for hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander who is the world s longest-serving prime minister .
in a televised address , hun sen told cambodians the election would go ahead as normal .
the cnrp rejected the accusations against it as politically motivated .
it did not send lawyers for the court ruling .
democracy was brought to trial and it lost , said mu sochua , a deputy to kem sokha who fled cambodia fearing arrest .
the international community must fulfill its commitments to democracy , human rights and freedoms .
sanctions are the best leverage for negotiation for free , fair and inclusive elections .
western donors , who sponsored elections overseen by the united nations in 1993 in the hope of founding an enduring democracy , had called for kem sokha s release .
but they have shown no appetite for sanctions against cambodia s government , which is now closely allied to china .
the united states and european union missions in cambodia declined immediate comment on the court ruling .
senator john mccain , a leading u.s. republican , said the dissolution of the cnrp meant there was no way the elections scheduled for 2018 can proceed in a manner that is free or fair , and the trump administration should impose sanctions .
the trump administration should move quickly to sanction all senior cambodian government officials responsible for violating human rights and subverting freedom in cambodia , he said in a statement .
u.n. spokesman farhan haq said it was up to the government to provide a free environment without fear for fair elections .
despite ramping up anti-u.s. rhetoric and linking the united states to the alleged plot against him , hun sen lauded u.s. president donald trump at a regional summit at the weekend and said he welcomed his policy of non-interference .
dozens of police manned barriers outside the gold ornamented court in the center of phnom penh on thursday .
there was no sign of protests .
few people on the streets wanted to talk about the ruling , the latest chapter in decades of maneuvering that have kept hun sen and his cambodian people s party ( cpp ) in power across all levels in the country of 16 million .
people are scared to talk amongst themselves , said seang menly , 39 , a driver of one of the rickety tuk-tuks that ply the streets of phnom penh .
in my neighborhood , people who used to give money and food to the cnrp no longer dare to .
hun sen and his defenders say only he can ensure peace .
during his rule since 1985 , cambodia has been transformed from a failed state in the wake of khmer rouge purges and genocide to a lower middle-income country with growth of about 7 percent a year .
life expectancy has risen from 50 to 70 .
the supreme court s decision today is not to end democracy but to deter extremists in order to protect the people and the nation from destruction , said huy vannak , undersecretary of state at the interior ministry .
rights groups condemned the decision by the court , which is headed by a judge who is a member of the ruling party s permanent committee .
they said it left cambodia as a de facto one-party state and rendered next year s election meaningless .
this is the death of democracy in cambodia , said phil robertson of human rights watch .
more than half the cnrp s members of parliament had already fled cambodia , fearing detention in a crackdown on hun sen s critics , civil rights groups and independent media that began last year .
we don t know who is next , an editor at the voice of democracy radio station in phnom penh said .
it was taken off the air in august , but has continued broadcasting through facebook .
the cnrp s parliamentary seats will be redistributed to other government-aligned parties after its dissolution .
the party will also lose control of the councils that it won in local elections in june , when its strong showing in winning more than 40 percent of them made clear the threat it posed to the ruling party next year .
hun sen appealed to cnrp members to join the cpp , saying : you can not even save your party .
how will you save yourself ?
evidence presented against the party included a video from 2013 in which kem sokha said he had help from unidentified americans to win power .
he said he was talking about a democratic election strategy , not a coup .