mogadishu ( reuters ) - more than 200 people were killed by twin bomb blasts that struck busy junctions in the heart of somalia s capital mogadishu , officials said on sunday , marking the deadliest attacks since an islamist insurgency began in 2007 .
president mohamed abdullahi farmaajo declared three days of national mourning and called for donations of blood and funds to victims of saturday s attack .
at least 100 others were wounded .
today s horrific attack proves our enemy would stop nothing to cause our people pain and suffering .
let s unite against terror , he tweeted .
police said a truck bomb exploded outside a hotel in the k5 intersection that is lined with government offices , restaurants and kiosks , flattening several buildings and setting dozens of vehicles on fire .
two hours later , another blast struck the capital s medina district .
we have confirmed 200 civilians died in yesterday s blast .
we understand the death toll is higher than that .
many people are still missing their relatives , abdifatah omar halane , the spokesman for mogadishu s mayor , told reuters .
a spokesman for aamin ambulance service said it knew of more than 250 people wounded during the bombings on saturday .
some people who searched for their relatives just found unrecognizable body parts , its director abdikadir abdirahman told reuters .
in our 10 year experience as the first responder in # mogadishu , we haven t seen anything like this , tweeted the ambulance service , which is reliant on private donations and the only free ambulance service in the city .
we re mourning the loss of 5 somali red crescent volunteers , also killed in this attack , tweeted the international committee of the red cross .
police and emergency workers searched the rubble of destroyed buildings on sunday .
they had recovered dozens of corpses the night before , most of which were charred beyond recognition .
hundreds of people came to the junction in search of missing family members and police cordoned off the area for security reasons .
there was no immediate claim of responsibility , although the islamist militant group al shabaab , which is allied to al qaeda , stages regular attacks in the capital and other parts of the country .
the group is waging an insurgency against the u.n.-backed government and its african union allies in a bid to topple the weak administration and impose its own strict interpretation of islam .
the militants were driven out of mogadishu in 2011 and have been steadily losing territory since then to the combined forces of african union peacekeepers and somali security forces .
but al shabaab retains the ability to mount large , complex bomb attacks .
over the past three years , the number of civilians killed by insurgent bombings has steadily climbed as al shabaab increases the size of its bombs .