london ( thomson reuters foundation ) - self-designed homes based on traditional iraqi architecture could be the solution to the drastic housing crisis facing mosul , where hundreds of thousands are expected to return following the end of three years of islamic state occupation .
an award-winning design would see returning residents create their own neighborhoods in modules that can grow and evolve to suit their needs .
the shape of the housing is completely up to the inhabitants , said ania otlik , the winner of inaugural rifat chadirji prize , which challenged architects to find a practical and sustainable solution to the iraqi city s housing needs .
having one measure that fits all is almost impossible , especially when it comes to such a diverse society ... which varies in religion , culture , background ( and ) family size .
nearly 1 million civilians fled in the three years since islamic state militants took the city , which iraq declared liberated in july , according to the united nations .
iraqi government officials have estimated it will take at least five years and billions of dollars to rebuild mosul .
otlik , a graduate of wroclaw university of science and technology in poland , researched traditional iraqi architectural designs , poring over sketches and schemes to create her housing plan .
each dwelling is constructed around a central patio , providing outside space around which rooms and spaces can be arranged .
the plan of the house can be a little more open when the family decides it this way , or maybe another family is strictly islamic so they will build it in their own traditional way , she told the thomson reuters foundation .
building materials that are easy to source in the battle-scarred city - such as rubble and mud - could be used for construction until more permanent replacements become available , she said .
otlik drew inspiration from her native poland , whose capital warsaw was entirely rebuilt after it was razed by nazi troops during the second world war .
other finalist designs featured garden bridges over the tigris river to provide housing and urban farms , and homes connected via a metro repurposed from a system of subterranean tunnels constructed by islamic state to aid its fighters .
it was not a problem finding a winner , said ahmed al-mallak , founding director of the independent tamayouz excellence award , which oversaw the competition .
mallak hopes the winning designs will influence iraq s construction and housing minister anne nafi aussi and a number of planning officials who are scheduled to attend the formal prize-giving ceremony in jordan s capital amman in december .