habur , turkey ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan threatened on monday to cut off the pipeline that carries oil from northern iraq to the outside world , intensifying pressure on the kurdish autonomous region over its independence referendum .
erdogan spoke shortly after prime minister binali yildirim said ankara could take punitive measures involving borders and air space against the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) over the referendum and would not recognize the outcome .
voting began on monday despite strong opposition from iraq s central government and neighboring turkey and iran - both with significant kurdish populations - as well as western warnings the move could aggravate middle east instability .
erdogan , grappling with a long-standing kurdish insurgency in turkey s southeast , which borders northern iraq , said the separatist referendum was unacceptable and economic , trade and security counter-measures would be taken .
he stopped short of saying turkey had decided to close off the oil flow .
hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil a day come through the pipeline in turkey from northern iraq , but he made clear the option was on the table .
after this , let s see through which channels the northern iraqi regional government will send its oil , or where it will sell it , he said in a speech .
we have the tap .
the moment we close the tap , then it s done .
yildirim said ankara would decide on punitive measures against the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) after talks with iraq s central government .
our energy , interior and customs ministries are working on ( measures ) .
we are evaluating steps regarding border gates and air space .
we will take these steps quickly , yildirim told turkish broadcasters .
iraqi soldiers arrived in turkey on monday night to join a drill on the turkish side of the border near the habur area in the southeast , turkey s military said in a statement .
iraq s defense ministry said the two armies started major maneuvers at the border area .
local media said turkey had blocked access to the krg via the habur border crossing with iraq .
ankara s customs minister denied this , saying habur remained open but with tight controls on traffic , according to the state-run anadolu agency .
however , erdogan later said traffic was only being allowed to cross from the turkish side of the border into iraq .
maruf ari , a 50-year-old truck driver , was one of those who had crossed back into turkey early on monday morning .
he said a closure of the gate would ruin his livelihood .
if the border is closed it will harm all of us .
i m doing this job for 20 years .
i m not making a lot of money .
around 1,000 lira ( $ 285 ) a month .
but if the gate is closed , we will go hungry .
the united states and other western powers also urged authorities in the krg to cancel the vote , saying it would distract from the fight against islamic state .
shares of turkish airlines , which has direct flights to northern iraq , tumbled 6.5 percent , underperforming a 1.78 percent decline in the bist 100 index .
turkey s currency , the lira , also weakened .
turkey took the kurdish television channel rudaw off its satellite service turksat , a turkish broadcasting official told reuters .
turkey has long been northern iraq s main link to the outside world , but sees the referendum as a grave matter for its own national security .
turkey has the region s largest kurdish population and has been fighting a three-decade insurgency in its mainly kurdish southeast .
on saturday , turkey s parliament voted to extend by a year a mandate authorizing the deployment of troops in iraq and syria .
still , ankara is unlikely to make rash moves when it comes to sanctions against the krg , said nihat ali ozcan , a professor of political science and international relations at tobb university of economics and technology .
closing the border gate , cancelling international flights and , at the final step , cutting the pipeline can be discussed , he said .
military pressure can be used directly or indirectly .
the turkish army launched military exercises involving tanks and armored vehicles near the habur border crossing a week ago and they are expected to continue until at least sept. 26 .
additional units joined the exercises as they entered their second stage turkey s military said in its statement that the third phase of the drill would be held on sept. 26 , and that iraqi soldiers who arrived on monday night would join .
the military has also in recent days carried out daily air strikes against kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) targets in northern iraq , where the group s commanders are based .
the pkk launched its separatist insurgency in 1984 , and more than 40,000 people have been killed since .
it is designated a terrorist group by turkey , the united states and european union .
militants in northern iraq launched a cross-border mortar attack into turkey s hakkari province , hitting a temporary residence used by refugees , the interior ministry said .
one refugee was killed and several others were injured , it said .
in the eastern agri province , near the border with iran , individuals thought to be kurdish militants opened fire on a mini-bus carrying foreign nationals , the ministry said .
three people were killed and four wounded in that attack , it said .
( $ 1 = 3.5153 liras )