a cnbc editor said members of the press need to remind themselves that their readers are not as ignorant , as stupid as we think they are during a discussion wednesday on media in the donald trump era .
unbelievable arrogance ! in a panel moderated by katie couric at the aspen ideas festival , a cnbc editor and wall street journal editor gerard baker , the atlantic editor jeffrey goldberg , time editor nancy gibbs and usa today editor joanne lipman delved into the challenges of covering trump and declining trust in the news media.in one portion , couric brought up the problem of confirmation bias in the media .
she s all wrong on this point this just shows how out of touch the media is with americans .
americans want the truth and do not want to be spoon-fed information .
couric is making assumptions that americans are idiiots she s very wrong !
consumers are increasingly gravitating toward outlets that basically tell them what they want to hear , reinforce their beliefs , she said .
a friend of mine said they re seeking affirmation , not information .
so given that , how do you restore trust in the media writ large if people are so divided about which media outlets are actually fair and accurate ?
katie couric : let s move on and talk about sort of the bifurcated nature of the media these days .
consumers are increasingly gravitating toward outlets that basically tell them what they want to hear , reinforce their beliefs .
a friend of mine said they re seeking affirmation , not information .
so given that , how do you restore trust in the media writ large if people are so divided about which media outlets are actually fair and accurate ?
anybody .
nik , you want to take that ? nikhil deogun : sure , and i would say that the i think gerry [ baker ] made a very eloquent argument on the previous point , and it leads to what you re asking about , which is , i think there is a tendency we should not fall under the trap of just holding one person to one standard and everyone else to a different standard .
i do think it s interesting .
three of us have all worked at the wall street journal or work at the wall street journal gerard baker : i did before i left the office this morning.deogun : yes .
exactly .
and our former gerry s predecessor , a couple predecessors ago , paul steiger , used to always remind us , saying , look , i could argue something round or i could argue it flat .
but in the end , stick to the facts .
i think sometimes there s too much of a tendency to interpret a fact to a degree that it goes into opinion .
and i think part of our job is to , again , remind ourselves that our readers are not as readers , viewers , users , are not as ignorant , as stupid as we think they are , and i think part of that is to be more transparent .
part of that is to be more forthcoming about what we know and what we don t know .
first rule we all learned is don t just tell your readers what you know , please tell them what you do not know.the main stream media just doesn t get it !
the american people want the truth no spin !