chicago ( reuters ) - illinois ’ two top republican legislators said on wednesday they will introduce legislation soon to let the state take over the cash-strapped chicago public school system , permit the district to file for municipal bankruptcy and eventually allow for city-wide school board elections .
the plan has the backing of republican governor bruce rauner , who has embraced allowing local governments facing financial turmoil to file for bankruptcy .
but it is strongly opposed by chicago mayor rahm emanuel , who controls the city ’ s schools , the chicago teachers union , and by democratic leaders , who control the legislature .
senate minority leader christine radogno and house minority leader jim durkin , both republican allies of rauner , said a new approach is needed to rescue the chicago public schools ( cps ) from financial mismanagement and near collapse .
rauner told reporters emanuel has failed to address the school district ’ s fiscal woes over the nearly five years he has been mayor .
“ his message to us in state government has been for months , ‘ we have a crisis .
we need $ 500 million .
we want the state to give it to us. ’ that ’ s not a reasonable message .
that ’ s not a reasonable request , ” rauner said .
the nation ’ s third-largest school system has a structural budget deficit topping $ 1 billion and credit ratings that have fallen deep into the “ junk ” level .
the district ’ s current budget has a $ 480 million gap that officials hope to fill with bigger pension funding support from the state .
but the plan has become entangled in a state budget stalemate between rauner and democrats .
the republicans ’ plan would amend an existing law permitting state oversight of fiscally troubled schools to include cps and allow for an independent authority to run the district , while making it clear the state is not liable for school debt .
once solvency is regained , an elected school board would take control .
the plan would also open the door to chapter 9 municipal bankruptcy while protecting general obligation bondholders with a statutory lien .
“ the mayor is 100 percent opposed to governor rauner ’ s ‘ plan ’ to drive cps bankrupt , ” emanuel spokeswoman kelley quinn said in a statement , adding that the state has been shortchanging chicago students .
house speaker michael madigan rejected the plan , pointing to michigan ’ s takeover of the city of flint , which has led to a health crisis from lead-tainted water .
“ the disaster in flint , michigan , is a very timely example of how reckless decisions just to save a buck can have devastating consequences on children and families , ” madigan said in a statement .
senate president john cullerton , a chicago democrat , said the republicans ’ “ mean-spirited ” plan is not going to happen .
cps has scheduled an $ 875 million bond sale for next week , partly to free up revenue for its sagging budget .