ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s justice ministry said on tuesday it had canceled a planned study visit to the united states due to the widening diplomatic row between the countries over the issuing of visas .
local media earlier reported that u.s. authorities had rejected visa requests from members of the delegation , but the justice ministry said it had taken the initiative and canceled the trip .
due to the recent visa crisis between the two countries , the visit was canceled by our ministry , it said in a statement , adding that there were no visa applications to be rejected .
the delegation had planned a study visit to the united states , at the invitation of u.s. authorities , between oct. 29 and nov. 4 , the ministry said .
the pro-government daily sabah newspaper said the delegation had planned to study the u.s. penal system and visit american prisons .
washington this month stopped issuing visas at its missions in turkey , citing safety concerns for its staff following the arrest of two u.s. consular staff , both turkish nationals .
the crisis has weighed on the lira currency and alarmed some investors .
on tuesday , a group of leading turkish and u.s. businesses urged both governments to resolve the dispute .
in may , a translator at the u.s. consulate in the southern province of adana was arrested and , more recently , a drug enforcement administration ( dea ) worker was detained in istanbul .
both are accused of links to last year failed coup .
the u.s. embassy has said the accusations are baseless .
turkish police want to question a third worker based in istanbul .
his wife and daughter were detained over alleged links to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by ankara for orchestrating the abortive putsch .
they were later released .
turkey has been angered by what it sees as u.s. reluctance to hand over the cleric gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 .
u.s. officials have said its courts require sufficient evidence to order his extradition gulen denies any involvement in the failed coup .
more than 150,000 people in the police , civil service and private sector have been sacked or suspended from their jobs in the crackdown that followed the failed putsch .
some 50,000 have been detained .
rights groups and turkey s western allies have expressed concern that turkey using the coup as a pretext to quash dissent .
ankara says the measures are necessary , given the extent of the security threat it faces .
turkey has also been enraged by washington s support for the syrian kurdish ypg militia in the fight against islamic state .
turkey regards the ypg as an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) .