harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s ruling party will dismiss president robert mugabe on sunday and reinstate emmerson mnangagwa , the vice-president he fired , two party sources told reuters on saturday , as ecstatic crowds celebrated the expected downfall .
mugabe s 37-year rule has been effectively at an end since the army seized control on wednesday , confining him to his residence , saying it wanted to target the criminals around him .
state television said mugabe would meet military commanders on sunday , quoting catholic priest fidelis mukonori , who has been mediating in negotiations with the president .
but hundreds of thousands of people had no need for a formal signal that his time had ended as they flooded the streets of harare , singing , dancing and hugging soldiers .
in scenes reminiscent of the downfall of romanian dictator nicolae ceausescu in 1989 , men , women and children ran alongside the armoured cars and the troops who stepped in this week to oust the only ruler zimbabwe has known since independence in 1980 .
others marched towards his lavish blue roof residence , but were kept away by soldiers .
under house arrest in his compound , the 93-year-old has watched support from his party , security services and people evaporate in less than three days .
the sources said a zanu-pf party central committee meeting scheduled for 10:30 a.m. ( 0830 gmt ) would also dismiss 93-year-old mugabe s preferred successor , his wife grace , from her role as head of the zanu-pf women s league .
mugabe s nephew patrick zhuwao , speaking from an undisclosed location in south africa , told reuters the leader and his wife were ready to die for what is correct rather than step down in order to legitimise what he described as a coup .
zhuwao also said that only mugabe , who had hardly slept since the military took over but was otherwise in good health , could call a meeting of the central committee .
it was not clear from reading the party s constitution who is empowered to call such a meeting - but events appeared to have made the issue irrelevant .
on harare s streets , zimbabweans spoke of a second liberation for the former british colony , alongside their dreams of political and economic change after two decades of deepening repression and hardship .
these are tears of joy , said frank mutsindikwa , 34 , holding aloft the zimbabwean flag .
i ve been waiting all my life for this day .
free at last .
we are free at last .
mugabe s downfall is likely to send shockwaves across africa , where a number of entrenched strongmen , from uganda s yoweri museveni to democratic republic of congo s joseph kabila , are facing mounting pressure to step aside .
the crowds in harare have so far given a quasi-democratic veneer to the army s intervention , backing its claims that it is merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power , which would help it avoid the diplomatic backlash and opprobrium that normally follows a coup .
the military had been prompted to act by mugabe s decision to sack mnangagwa , grace mugabe s main rival to succeed her husband .
the next presidential election is due next year .
zimbabweans abroad were also hailing the end of mugabe s rule , not least the hundreds living in britain who gathered outside their embassy in central london .
i m ecstatic to see people give mugabe a reality check because he has been in his echo chamber for too long , lying to himself that people still want him , said ruva kudambo , 37 , who came to study technology and ended up staying .
tasa , a 36-year-old who refused to give his family name , said he had brought his four young children , aged 5 to 9 , to the protest because they are the future of zimbabwe .
no dis-grace for some africans , mugabe remains a nationalist hero , the continent s last independence leader and a symbol of its struggle to throw off the legacy of decades of colonial subjugation .
but to many more at home and abroad , he was reviled as a dictator happy to resort to violence to retain power and to run a once-promising economy into the ground .
political sources and intelligence documents seen by reuters said mugabe s exit was likely to pave the way for an interim unity government led by mnangagwa , a life-long mugabe aide and former security chief known as the crocodile .
stabilising the free-falling economy will be the number one priority , the documents said .
the united states , a long-time critic of mugabe , said it was looking forward to a new era in zimbabwe , while president ian khama of neighbouring botswana said mugabe had no diplomatic support in the region and should resign at once .
the herald , the state newspaper that has served as mugabe s loyal mouthpiece , said zanu-pf had called on friday for him to go .
it said zanu-pf branches in all 10 provinces had also called for the resignation of grace , the first lady whose ambitions to succeed her husband outraged the military and much of the country .
to many zimbabweans , she is known as gucci grace on account of her reported dedication to shopping , or - in the wake of an alleged assault in september on a south african model - dis-grace .
the scenes in harare reflect the anger and frustration that has built up among zimbabwe s 16 million people in nearly two decades of economic mismanagement that started with the seizure of white-owned farms in 2000 , the catalyst of a wider collapse .
the central bank tried to print its way out of trouble by unleashing a flood of cash but that only made matters worse , leading to hyperinflation that topped out at 500 billion percent in 2008 .
at least 3 million zimbabweans emigrated in search of a better life , most of them to neighbouring south africa .
after stabilising briefly when mugabe was forced to work with the opposition in a 2009-2013 unity government , the economy has collapsed again , this time due to a chronic shortage of dollars .
in october , monthly inflation leapt to more than 50 percent , according to some economists , putting basic goods beyond the means of many in a country with 90 percent unemployment .
mugabe s only public appearance since the military took over was at a university graduation ceremony on friday morning .
decked out in blue and yellow academic gowns , he appeared tired , at one point falling asleep in his chair .
a senior member of zanu-pf said it was only a matter of time before he agreed to go .
if he becomes stubborn , we will arrange for him to be fired on sunday , the source said .
when that is done , it s impeachment on tuesday .