washington/new york ( reuters ) - the trump administration on wednesday proposed admitting a maximum of 45,000 refugees next year , the lowest cap in decades , which officials said was necessary to ensure u.s. security , although democrats and humanitarian groups blasted the decision as an abandonment of american moral authority .
that figure is the lowest cap since the modern u.s. refugee admissions system was established in 1980 , and the administration s decision was harshly criticized by refugee advocates who say it ignores growing humanitarian crises around the world .
the report also projects slashing funding to the refugee resettlement program by 25 percent .
the security and safety of the american people is our chief concern , a u.s. official said in a call with reporters on wednesday , speaking on condition of anonymity .
we have every plan to process as many refugees as we can under this ceiling .
a second u.s. official said the administration is considering a wide range of potential measures and enhancements to refugee vetting , in accordance with a january executive order from president donald trump , though the official gave no further details .
the lower refugee cap is a continuation of trump s hardline stance on immigration .
he made the issue a focus during the presidential campaign , advocating for a wall along the u.s. border with mexico and the deportation of immigrants in the country illegally , and saying that syrian refugees fleeing their country s civil war present a security threat to the united states .
the proposed refugee limit represents a cut of more than half from the refugee ceiling set last year by former president barack obama , and is much lower than the 75,000 limit suggested by refugee advocates this year .
it is also lower than the 50,000 cap trump set in an executive order shortly after he took office in january .
the administration proposed taking in a maximum of 19,000 refugees from africa , 5,000 from east asia , 2,000 from europe and central asia , 1,500 from latin america and the caribbean , and 17,500 from the middle east and south asia .
many national security experts argue that refugees do not present a danger to the united states because they are already among the most highly vetted immigrants to gain admittance to the united states , going through a grueling process that takes 18 to 24 months on average .
democratic representatives john conyers and zoe lofgren said the administration s decision is an abdication of our moral authority , and an abandonment of the very values that make america great .
republican representative raul labrador , chairman of the house judiciary committee s immigration subcommittee , said in a statement the lower cap sets a more manageable level for refugee admissions .
the wednesday report said that at the end of 2016 , the estimated refugee population worldwide reached 22.5 million , an increase of 1.1 million in just one year .
( for report , click : tmsnrt.rs/2yhekpk ) administration officials said one reason for the lower cap is that department of homeland security staff are being re-directed to deal with a growing backlog of cases of people already in the united states and seeking asylum for fear of persecution .
the state department report said there are now nearly 300,000 asylum applications pending with dhs .
refugees , as opposed to asylees , apply to come to the united states while they are still overseas .
dhs officials who specialize in processing refugees abroad are being re-assigned to handle asylum cases in the united states , a change from previous practice .
officials warned that the final number of refugees allowed to come into the united states next year will depend on dhs interviewing capacity .
but this number was reached after taking a look at these requirements , and we believe that we can get into the ballpark of this number , of this ceiling , one u.s. official said .
there are at least 58,000 refugees who were ready for travel under the 2017 fiscal year quota and weren t able to come to the united states because of trump s lower 2017 cap , said jen smyers , of the refugee resettlement agency church world service .
of those , around 22,000 already had guarantees from agencies that handle refugee resettlement in the united states , she said .
immigration law requires the administration to submit the refugee report to congress before the start of each fiscal year , and then consult with top members of relevant committees prior to the start of the fiscal year on oct. 1 .
congressional officials received the administration s report in hard-copy form on wednesday less than three hours before a scheduled consultation between cabinet officials and top republicans and democrats in the house and senate , one congressional aide said .
the late delivery of the report makes the consultation close to meaningless , aides complained .
in 2016 , the obama administration released its own refugee report on sept. 15 .
if we have not received the report in advance , there is pretty much nothing to consult on , said the aide , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
refugee advocacy groups said that while previous consultations had been close to the deadline set for announcing the cap , it was unusual for the report to be sent to congress on the same day as the consultation meeting .