washington/new york ( reuters ) - as donald trump inches closer to becoming the u.s. republican nominee , many of the party ’ s big donors fear they will tarnish their reputations should they contribute to a candidate who has insulted women , hispanics and muslims .
some flatly reject the notion of ever funding his campaign .
in interviews with reuters , 22 members of the republican money class spoke of the “ anguish , ” “ struggle , ” and “ catch-22 ” they now find themselves in , especially in light of the violence at trump rallies and the candidate ’ s refusal to denounce it .
two additional high-profile republican donors , gaylord hughey of texas , who backed jeb bush ’ s super pac , and ronald firman of florida , who poured more than $ 2 million into a conservative super pac , said they were still undecided and hoped trump would tone down his inflammatory rhetoric and urge his supporters to eschew violence .
trump won at least three states on tuesday but his loss in ohio means the republican nominating convention in july may be contested if he falls short of winning a majority of delegates in the state-by-state contests .
republican donors are a testing ground for trump , who is under pressure to soften his tone to win independent voters .
even an unorthodox campaign like his is expected to need some money for television ads and staff should he reach the general election .
the billionaire real estate developer may find it difficult to fund this with his own wealth .
throughout the 2016 election , many establishment donors have viewed themselves as dedicated soldiers , willing to go to any lengths to prevent either hillary clinton , the democratic front-runner , or her rival bernie sanders from winning the nov. 8 election to succeed president barack obama .
but some republicans said they worried that becoming a trump donor could taint legacies , family names and personal brands .
many said they disagreed with his protectionist trade policies , his calls for the building of a wall on the mexican border and his proposal for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
energy magnate and mega donor dan eberhart said he was concerned about trump ’ s lack of specificity on foreign policy and some of his rhetoric .
“ we won ’ t be donating to trump , and i don ’ t know any of our donor peers that would donate , ” said eberhart , who was a supporter of wisconsin governor scott walker in the race .
“ if he ’ s the nominee , we will support him in spirit but not in cash .
i mean , in some ways it ’ s refreshing to have a candidate who is not completely scripted but at the same time he lacks the decorum and stage presence and gravitas to deal with foreign leaders on the world stage. ” added denver technology executive chris wright , “ it ’ s an anguishing position to be in , but we just couldn ’ t support him if he were the nominee .
we ’ re appalled .
he ’ s anathema to the free society and civil society in which we believe. ” the trump campaign did not respond to requests for comment .
in the run-up to the convention trump has vowed to self-fund his campaign .
he has pledged to do away with the pay-to-play , transactional politics that have long dominated washington .
but were he to become the party ’ s nominee , the growing consensus among campaign veterans is that a general election would cost hundreds of millions of dollars , a total that trump may well be less able to self-fund .
trump will likely face a barrage of attack ads and negative mailings funded by super pacs , labor unions and the campaign of his democratic opponent .
answering the charges on the airwaves would require more than just giving interviews and prove costly .
in a debate last week trump said he had yet to decide whether to seek donations in a general election campaign .
to date , trump ’ s controversial comments and his celebrity status - he is a former reality tv show host - have made him a regular presence on network television , allowing him to avoid spending as much as his rivals on paid television advertising .
he has run a threadbare campaign from his plane and employs a tiny staff with no strategists , consultants or pollsters .
trump spent a mere $ 3.20 per vote versus now-dethroned rivals bush and marco rubio , who spent $ 551.70 and $ 30.40 , respectively .
trump could always try to keep up his unconventional low-budget tactics .
but republican challenger mitt romney ’ s failure to respond to president barack obama ’ s television attack ads in 2012 offer a cautionary tale about not responding when an opponent goes on the offensive .
“ what you ( will ) see is a lot of people concede if trump is our nominee that we ’ ve lost the white house , let ’ s protect the majority in the senate and the majority in the house , ” said david mcintosh , president of the club for growth , a conservative organization that has spent millions of dollars on ads aiming to defeat trump in the primaries .
in the 2012 presidential race , romney and obama each spent $ 1 billion .
should trump decide to seek campaign donations , some republicans would be willing to open their wallets .
bob grand , who led romney ’ s indiana fundraising in 2012 , said he would write trump a check .
“ we don ’ t have any alternative .
we don ’ t have any choice , he ’ s going to be better than hillary clinton , that ’ s for damn sure , ” grand said .
trump could also use his large social media presence to solicit small donations via his website .
that could add up to large sums .
trump could decide to court business people who do not normally get involved in politics , potentially turning to supporters such as billionaire businessman carl icahn and nascar chairman brian france .
if clinton is the democratic nominee , she and her allies will have millions of dollars with which to attack trump .
but before trump can take on democrats , he will have to confront the internal battle within his own party .
he may feel the pressure to fundraise if his opponents ted cruz and john kasich keep the fight up through the convention as democrats launch their own attacks .
“ this is the coming donor apocalypse , ” said florida strategist rick wilson .
“ and for those donors who go turncoat like ( new jersey governor ) chris christie , and join up with trump , they will be heaped with all the hate and opprobrium they deserve . ”