what the heck !
what s happened to the southern leaders ?
confederate flags should be placed on the graves of civil war soldiers .
this is way over the top and a knee-jerk reaction to the shooting in charleston , sc.the house has voted to ban the display of confederate flags at historic federal cemeteries in the deep south.the low-profile move came late tuesday after a brief debate on a measure funding the national park service , which maintains 14 national cemeteries , most of which contain graves of civil war soldiers.the proposal by california democrat jared huffman would block the park service from allowing private groups from decorating the graves of southern soldiers with confederate flags in states that commemorate confederate memorial day .
the cemeteries affected are the andersonville and vicksburg cemeteries in georgia and mississippi.pressure has mounted to ban display of the flag on state and federal property in the wake of last month s tragic murders at a historic black church in charleston , south carolina.selling confederate flags banned too : the house voted to affirm that stores on federal lands operated by the national park service can not sell confederate flags , in light of a new policy announced in the aftermath of the shooting in charleston , s.c.adoption of the amendment to the 2016 interior department appropriations bill came easily on a voice vote after just six minutes of debate , where no one spoke in opposition .
the amendment reflects a policy announced by the national park service in june to ban the sale of confederate flag merchandise from its gift shops and bookstores.rep .
jared huffman ( d-calif. ) , the author of the amendment , said it was important that congress prevent the sale of the confederate image on federal property .
this house now has an opportunity to add its voice , by ending the promotion of the cruel , racist legacy of the confederacy , huffman said .
while many concessionaires have agreed to do this , i am dismayed by reports that some will continue to sell items with confederate flag imagery .
read more : the hill