madrid ( reuters ) - catalonia will stop sending weekly financial accounts to madrid , defying a demand by spain s central government that the region prove it is not using public money to promote an independence drive .
the decision follows a series of moves to block a catalan referendum on self-rule , planned for oct. 1 , which prime minister mariano rajoy s government has declared illegal .
in a letter dated sept. 13 , catalan deputy governor oriol junqueras told spanish budget minister cristobal montoro the region would no longer comply with the obligation to submit its accounts every week .
he said the arrangement implied political control that is not related to the objectives of budget stability or to the purposes of state legislation in this matter .
madrid ordered catalonia to start providing the weekly data in july .
the government warned the region would lose access to some public funds if it was found to be using state money to organize the vote .
all of spain s regions pay taxes to the central government , and are then given a quota to spend on health , education and infrastructure .
catalonia , which has one of the strongest regional economies , says the system is unfair .
after the referendum was announced , madrid warned catalonia it risked losing access to a separate funding program , set up in 2012 when economic crisis hammered regional budgets , if it failed to provide weekly accounts .
junqueras said in his letter that his administration was committed to financial stability and would still collaborate with montoro s ministry , and continue to account for their spending every month .
the will of the ( catalan ) government is to continue to focus on dialogue and the exercise of democracy as a way to resolve the debate on political relations between catalonia and spain , the letter said .
catalonia accounts for around 20 percent of spain s gross domestic product and has received some 70 billion euros ( $ 83 billion ) in funding from madrid since 2012 .