dar es salaam ( reuters ) - a senior tanzanian politician quit the ruling party on monday complaining of human rights abuses and a weakening of democracy in the east african nation , in a move political analysts said could trigger a wave of defections to opposition parties .
since taking office in late 2015 , president john magufuli has introduced sweeping reforms , including as an anti-corruption drive that has won him some praise from western donors .
but his administration is also increasingly being accused by his opponents of undermining democracy by curbing dissent and stifling free speech , including banning newspapers .
on monday , lazaro nyalandu , who once served as a cabinet minister and has been a member of parliament for the ruling chama cha mapinduzi ( ccm ) party for 17 years , said he was deeply concerned by human rights abuses and the direction of the economy .
it is evident that ccm has lost its way judging from the current political climate , leadership and economic trajectory in tanzania , nyalandu said in a statement .
i have decided to resign from my position as a member of the ccm national executive committee and all other leadership positions in the party effective from today .
nyalandu said he had also submitted his resignation as a member of parliament .
the veteran politician was among more than a dozen candidates who sought the ruling party s presidential nomination in 2015 but was defeated by magufuli .
bashiru ally , a dar es salaam-based political analyst , said magufuli s reforms could prompt further defections from the ruling party but said the opposition was poorly placed to benefit from such a trend .
opposition parties are overly dependent on personalities who defect from ccm , he told reuters .
( but ) they can only make temporary gains from such defections .
they are not institutionalised and lack mass grassroots mobilization strategies .
ccm , which has been in power since tanzania gained independence from britain in 1961 , has seen its support among young urban voters decline in previous elections , but opposition parties are too fragmented to oust it from power , analysts said .