luanda ( reuters ) - angola s ruling mpla party has won a general election by taking 61.07 percent of the vote , the electoral commission said on wednesday , making jo o louren o the next president of sub-saharan africa s third-largest economy .
he will replace jose eduardo dos santos , who steps down after 38 years at the helm but will continue as head of the people s movement for the liberation of angola ( mpla ) .
the main opposition national union for the total independence of angola ( unita ) took 26.67 percent , with the smaller opposition party casa-ce winning 9.44 percent .
mission accomplished , louren o told supporters at his party s headquarters in luanda .
we ll produce a better future for the country and the people of angola , he said in his first comments as president-elect .
he is expected to take office on sept. 21 .
unita , which has repeatedly complained that the electoral process has been non-transparent and illegal , declined to comment after the results on wednesday .
a spokesman told reuters a statement will be made on thursday .
unita has previously said it will appeal the results .
speaking earlier on wednesday , the spokeswoman for the national electoral commission julia ferreira rejected the opposition s complaints as having a lack of clarity and objectivity , adding sufficient proof had not been presented .
electoral observers have said the vote on aug 23 was reasonably free and fair .
the head of the african union s observation mission , jose maria neves , congratulated angola on a poll he said served as a reference for the continent .
speaking before announcing definitive election results , president of the national electoral commission andr da silva neto asked the parties to accept the election results .
on the streets of luanda , cheering and the honking of horns was heard as residents celebrated another electoral win for the mpla , which has maintained an unbroken hold on power since africa s second-largest crude producer gained independence from portugal in 1975 .
louren o will be only the country s third president in that time .
a quiet 63-year-old more used to army barracks and the closed doors of party politics than the public spotlight , he has denied he will remain in the shadow of his predecessor dos santos .
louren o has promised to kick-start the economy and has not ruled out deals with the world bank and international monetary fund to help restructure it .
angola imports everything from washing powder to long-life milk at huge cost .
mpla will have 150 lawmakers , giving them the two-thirds parliamentary majority needed to pass any form of legislation .