manila ( reuters ) - philippine security forces on sunday arrested the indonesian wife of the slain pro-islamic state militant leader who planned and led the attack on marawi city , authorities said .
president rodrigo duterte declared last month the liberation of marawi city from the maute group , a pro-islamic state militant group which held the lakeside town after the death of two top leaders , including the woman s husband omarkhayam .
the army announced the termination of combat operations a week later , ending a five-month battle that killed more than 1,100 people , including 165 soldiers .
close to 400,000 people were also displaced as fighting destroyed the city .
national police chief ronald dela rosa said bomb-making materials were seized from minhati madrais , who was with her six children when security forces raided her home in iligan city .
her children , who are all minors , will be turned over to the social welfare department , he said , adding that rebellion and illegal possession of explosive devices charges were now being prepared against her .
he said madrais , alias baby , was among more than 100 people ordered arrested by defence secretary delfin lorenzana after martial law was declared by duterte on may 23 .
madrais passport is also expired , another violation of philippine laws , he added .
sporadic gunfire were still heard in marawi city on sunday , almost two weeks after combat operations were formally terminated , colonel romeo brawner , deputy commander of task force ranao , told reporters .
we are still hunting down stragglers , he said , adding there could be as many as 39 militants hiding in the ruined city based on information from captured indonesian militants .
we do not have information how many militants are still there .
but , we will hunt them down .
the new army commander , lieutenant-general rey leonardo guerrero , said he would work closely with indonesia and malaysia to step up coordinated sea and air patrols along the borders where kidnappings and attacks on shipping are happening .
we intend to increase the frequency of our coordinated patrols with our asean neighbors to stop piracy and militant attacks in these dangerous seas , he said .