quebradillas , puerto rico ( reuters ) - when nestor rodriguez saw puma energy fuel tanker 333 pull into puerto rico s quebradillas gas station at 12:37 p.m. on monday , he bowed , raising his arms to the heavens .
i didn t know if it would come today , or if wouldn t , he said as he filled up his tank , after a three-hour wait in the caribbean sun .
when i saw that truck , i saw the glory .
it was like seeing the lord .
two weeks after hurricane maria plowed into the u.s. territory of puerto rico , cutting power and hobbling fuel distribution , finding gasoline and diesel has become a regular ordeal for the island s 3.4 million residents , with no guarantee of success .
rodriguez , a 63-year-old retiree with a bright shock of white hair and beard , was one of the lucky few on monday .
he managed to purchase enough gasoline for both his car and his generator at home , where he cares for his 93-year-old father .
fuel scarcity has been one of the major headaches facing hurricane-ravaged puerto rico , which relies on gas shipped from the u.s. mainland .
puerto rico governor ricardo rossello on monday reported progress in getting fuel supplies to the island , with 500,000 barrels of diesel and close to 1 million barrels of gasoline due to arrive in upcoming days .
more than 720 of the island s 1,100 gas stations were now up and running , rossello added , which he said should allow more puerto ricans to operate generators and get around .
puma energy , which is partially owned by commodities trading giant trafigura , operates six terminals on the caribbean island , and is working with the regional government to add more delivery trucks to its fleet .
to assess the scale of the problem , reuters joined a puma delivery truck and its 49-year-old driver , carlos ramos , on a journey from puma s fuel distribution center in bayamon , to a gas station in quebradillas , some 55 miles ( 88 km ) west .
ramos pulled out of the bayamon facility at 10:38 a.m. , escorted by two police vehicles responsible for protecting his precious 10,000-gallon ( 38,000 liter ) load .
ramos said he had made more than 30 deliveries since maria hit , and was often greeted with elation when he arrived at gas stations .
at some , bands played to celebrate the truck s arrival , while at others , he felt like a politician arriving at a rally .
if there s no line when we arrive , there will be soon , ramos said .
it s like putting out a little candy , and suddenly all the ants arrive .
when ramos eventually got to quebradillas , nine cars were waiting .
within 10 minutes , the line had grown to 42 vehicles , with more arriving every few seconds .
luz preciado , a 34-year-old housewife , said she had been waiting at a nearby station , when she saw ramos truck drive by , and decided to give chase , despite the fact that her fuel gauge was blinking on empty .
when you see water , and when you see gas - that s happiness in puerto rico right now , said preciado , who had slept overnight in her car with her two kids a few days earlier to be first in line for a morning fuel delivery .
looking for gas is a full-time job right now .
inside the gas station , 44-year-old puma employee waldemar sosa said he normally sold about 1,400 gallons during a typical 6 a.m.-10 p.m. day .
on sunday , he said , he sold 12,000 gallons - all the fuel he had - in about 13 hours .
sosa said that with no cellphone coverage to phone in orders , the owner of the gas station was forced to travel to san juan to write puma a check for more fuel .
without communication , this country doesn t move , he said .
at 1:55 p.m. , juan gonzalez rolled out of sosa s station , the first person to leave with a full tank since 9 p.m. the previous evening , to go eat a simple of lunch of sausage and rice with his elderly parents .
we re going through a difficult moment , he said , leaning out of his car window with a look of hard-won relief .
we re in god s hands .