the disgraced anti-trump hollywood producer , billionaire , and mega-democrat donor harvey weinstein is going to have one hell of a time refuting this disgusting bombshell audio that was recorded by one of his victims , model ambra battilana gutierrez.the audio starts with harvey weinstein pleading with model ambra battilana gutierrez in the hallway of the hotel where weinstein apparently has a room , to come and watch him take a shower.gutierrez is in the hallway of the hotel where weinstein has a room .
weinstein can be heard begging and coercing her to come into his room .
weinstein s comments are in red : what do we have to do here ?
nothing , i m going to take a shower .
you sit there and have a drink .
water.i don t drink.then have a glass of water.can i stay on the bar ? no .
you must come here now .
no.please ? no , i don t want to.i m not doing anything with you .
now you re embarrassing me .
i m sorry .
i can not .no , come in here.well , yesterday was kind of aggressive for me .
i need to know a person can t be touched.i know .
i won t do a thing .
please , i swear , i won t. just sit with me .
don t embarrass me in the hotel .
i m here all the time.i know , but i don t want to.please , sit there .
please !
one minute .
i ask you .
please .
go to the bathroom.please , i don t want to do something i don t want to.go to the bathroom .
hey , come here !
listen to me ! i want to go downstairs.i m not going to do anything .
you ll never see me again after this .
okay ?
that s it .
if you embarrass me in this hotel i m not embarrassing you .
it s just that , i don t. i don t feel comfortable .
it s not nice.honey , don t have a fight with me here in the hallway !
please , i m not gon na do anything .
i swear on my children .
please come in .
please .
on everything .
i m the vainest guy ! i m feeling very uncomfortable right now.please come in now .
and one minute .
and if you wan na leave when the guy brings up my jacket , you can go.why yesterday you touched my breasts ? oh , please !
i m sorry .
just come on .
i m used to that.you re used to that ? yes , come in.no , but i m not used to that.i won t do it again .
come on .
sit .
sit here for a minute , please .
if you do this now .
you will embarrass me .
never call me again .
okay ?
i promise you .
i won t do anything .
i will never do another thing to you again .
the guys coming to bring my jacket .
you can leave.i won t do it again .
please .
please !
5 minutes .
don t ruin your friendship with me for 5 minutes .
i know , but it s kinda like it s too much for me.please , you re making a big scene here.i know , but i wan na leave.okay .
leave .
goodbye.listen here : weinstein , in conversation with gutierrez , admits to groping her .
here s the audio : https : //t.co/zsqbk5nv0c pic.twitter.com/vmrrsup43w the new yorker ( @ newyorker ) october 10 , 2017in march , 2015 , ambra battilana gutierrez told officers of the n.y.p.d that weinstein had sexually assaulted her : https : //t.co/zsqbk5nv0c pic.twitter.com/llywpzatof the new yorker ( @ newyorker ) october 10 , 2017sorvino says that she felt afraid and intimated , and that weinstein s conduct had significant impact on her work : https : //t.co/zsqbk5nv0c pic.twitter.com/r84y78kedg the new yorker ( @ newyorker ) october 10 , 2017