geneva ( reuters ) - syria is in the throes of its worst fighting since the battle for eastern aleppo last year , with heavy air strikes causing hundreds of civilian casualties , aid agencies said on thursday .
hospitals , schools and people fleeing violence have been targeted by direct air strikes that may amount to war crimes , the united nations said , without apportioning blame .
russia and a u.s.-led coalition are carrying out separate air strikes in syria ostensibly aimed at defeating islamic state militants .
september was the deadliest month of 2017 for civilians with daily reports of attacks on residential areas resulting in hundreds of conflict-related deaths and injuries , u.n. regional humanitarian coordinator panos moumtzis said in a statement .
air strikes killed dozens this week in raqqa , where 8,000 people remain trapped , and at least 149 people , mostly women and children , in residential areas of rebel-dominated idlib province in syria s northwest in the last 12 days of september , he said .
explosions in damascus killed 20 people and civilian casualties were also reported in rural areas around the syrian capital and in hama , aleppo and deir al-zor , moumtzis said , again without saying who was responsible .
the international committee of the red cross ( icrc ) said in a statement that up to 10 hospitals were reported to have been damaged in the past 10 days .
we have seen a number of hospitals being targeted , we got very worrying reports and converging reports about hospitals , schools , civilian infrastructure being targeted , robert mardini , icrc regional director for the middle east , told reuters in an interview in his geneva office .
and of course this is outrageous , unacceptable , he said , adding that damage to sham hospital in idlib alone had cut off half a million people from access to health care .
the icrc voiced alarm that violence was occurring in many of the de-escalation areas including idlib , rural hama and eastern ghouta .
taken together , these are the worst levels of violence since the battle for aleppo in 2016 , it said .
hundreds of civilians killed is certainly a very conservative figure , mardini said .
we see a very strong correlation between the escalation and the intensification in the fighting on one hand and the human cost of this conflict , the attacks on health facilities and civilian infrastructure .
syria s six-year-old civil war pits president bashar al-assad s government supported by russia and iran against a myriad number of rebel factions , some western-backed , and islamist militant groups .
military jets believed to be russian killed at least 60 civilians trying to flee heavy fighting in the oil-rich deir al-zor province when their small boats were targeted as they sought to cross the euphrates river , opposition activists , former residents and a war monitor said late on wednesday .
the u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state in syria has carried out air strikes that have also caused civilian casualties , which it says it goes to great lengths to avoid .
the point here is not to point fingers , mardini said , declining to identify suspected perpetrators of deadly strikes .
what should be non-negotiable is the respect for the laws of war , everywhere in syria .
this is absolutely critical today .