new delhi ( reuters ) - a thick cloud of toxic smog 10 times the recommended limit enveloped india s capital , new delhi , on monday , as government officials struggled to tackle a public health crisis that is well into its second week .
a u.s. embassy measure showed levels of poisonous airborne particles , known as pm 2.5 , had reached 498 on monday afternoon , compared with the upper limit of good quality air at 50 .
india s weather office said rain was forecast over the next three days which could help clear the smog .
light rainfall is likely in states surrounding delhi and in delhi over the next three days , and this could result in a change in wind pattern in the region , charan singh , a scientist at india meteorological department , told reuters .
smog will start to abate starting tomorrow .
but skymet , india s only private weather forecaster , said dense smog would continue over delhi and the surrounding area for at least the next two days .
the supreme court is due to hear a petition filed by a new delhi lawyer to direct government authorities to tackle the intolerable and unbearable air pollution .
the delhi state government declared a public health emergency last week after pollution levels spiked , a yearly phenomenon blamed on a combination of illegal crop burning in northern states , vehicle exhaust and dust .
over the weekend , authorities began using fire trucks to spray water in parts of the capital to keep the dust and other air particles down , but it has had little effect .
a senior federal government official said there was little more that could be done .
we can only do this much , and now we will have to wait for rains to clean the atmosphere , said prashant gargava , an official at the central pollution control board .
gargava , who is in charge of monitoring air quality , said delhi s air has been consistently in the hazardous zone , despite measures such as a halt to construction and increasing car parking charges four-fold to encourage people to use public transport .
the pm 2.5 airborne particles are about 30 times finer than a human hair .
the particles can be inhaled deep into the lungs , causing respiratory diseases and other ailments .
hospitals have seen a surge of patients coming in with respiratory complaints , according to media reports .
every second we are damaging our lungs , but we can not stop breathing , said arvind kumar , the head of the chest and lung surgery department at the sir ganga ram hospital .
united airlines said it had resumed flights from newark , new jersey , to new delhi on sunday , after suspending the service temporarily over concern about the bad air .
authorities decided to reopen schools on monday after closing them temporarily for a few days last week , but the decision is likely to add more vehicles on the road .
enforcement agencies said they were unable to impose a blanket ban on the movement of commercial trucks .
primary school teacher aarti menon said her family had been wearing face masks , even when indoors .
not everyone can afford an air purifier or air-conditioned car .
we are all living in hell , said menon , a mother of two teenage daughters .
the national green tribunal , an environment court , has directed the city government and neighboring states to stop farmers from burning crop stubble .
but the governments have not been able to do so .
new delhi-based non-government group tara homes for children , which supports 60 poor children , said it was seeking donations to buy at least five air purifiers .
some of the children have breathing issues and couldn t go to school , said a volunteer at the group .