kampala ( reuters ) - ugandan lawmakers accused the government on wednesday of trying to intimidate them by deploying heavy security in the capital and around parliament , before a move to change the constitution to extend the president s rule .
a legislator from president yoweri museveni s party is expected to introduce legislation on thursday meant to remove an age cap on the office of president from the constitution .
the east african country s constitution bars anyone over 75 years old from running in presidential elections .
that would make museveni , 73 , ineligible to stand again in 2021 .
an ally of western powers who has deployed forces in somalia to help fight islamist militants , museveni has held power since 1986 , when his rebels captured power .
he has won every election since .
opponents accuse him of creeping authoritarianism .
security forces began patrolling the center of kampala this week and deployments have also been boosted around parliament , in which museveni s party commands a comfortable majority .
the regime knows how unpopular this move ... for museveni to rule until he dies is ( among ) the public , legislator wilfred niwagaba , an independent opposed to the proposed constitutional amendment , told reuters .
( museveni ) has now decided to use the army and police to instil fear in citizens and mps .
a number of other african presidents have sought to prolong their rule by having legislators void legal limits , triggering sometimes bloody unrest .
opposition to such a move in uganda has been growing with civic rights activists , opposition mps and even some members of the ruling party mounting protests .
on tuesday , police in the eastern town of iganga fired teargas and rubber bullets to disperse youths demonstrating against the legislative measure .
late on wednesday , police raided the premises of at least two pro-democracy organizations in kampala , blockaded staff inside offices and conducted searches , officials at those organizations said .
the activists said police did not say why they were searching but suspected it was connected to their mobilization against the proposed law .
police spokesman asan kasingye told reuters he was not aware of raids on the two organizations .
military spokesman richard karemire said the beefed-up security was normal and typical to ensure public safety and was not meant to intimidate anyone .
international and local rights activists routinely accuse the ugandan government of using security personnel to cripple public opposition to museveni .
although he won plaudits in the initial years of his rule for restoring stability after protracted internal bloodshed and for drawing foreign investment , rights violations , rampant graft and dysfunctional public services have since eroded his standing .
museveni has not stated whether he will seek re-election , but officials have been struggling to counter widespread suspicion he is quietly backing efforts to lift the age cap .
the show of brute force in town is to remind us who is in charge , but we ll not allow that bill to see the light of day , parliamentarian john baptist nambeshe said .