vatican city ( reuters ) - the funeral of cardinal bernard law , who resigned as archbishop of boston 15 years ago after covering up years of sexual abuse of children by priests , was held in the vatican on thursday without a mention of what led to his downfall .
about 200 people attended the funeral mass in a chapel in the apse of st. peter s basilica and presided over by a senior cardinal , angelo sodano .
the wooden coffin lay on the floor with an open book of the gospels resting on it .
pope francis entered the chapel for a few minutes after the mass to bless the coffin and conduct a brief service known as the final commendation and farewell - which he does for all cardinals who die in rome .
he dedicated his whole life to the church , sodano said in his homily in praise of law , who died on wednesday .
sodano listed the stages of law s clerical life and said the late pope john paul had called him to rome to be archpriest of a rome basilica .
but sodano made no mention of the reason why he left boston .
unfortunately , each of us can sometimes be lacking in our mission , sodano said .
the pope read out a latin prayer , part of which reads : may he be given a merciful judgement .
about 15 cardinals attended , though not law s successor in boston , cardinal sean o malley .
o malley said on wednesday that law served at a time when the church failed seriously in its responsibilities ... law was archbishop of boston for 18 years when he resigned on dec. 13 , 2002 , climaxing a tumultuous year that sparked the greatest crisis in the history of the american catholic church .
a succession of devastating news stories by boston globe reporters showed how priests who sexually abused children had been moved from parish to parish for years under law s tenure without parishioners or law authorities being informed .
victims groups have expressed outrage that law s funeral was being in st. peter s and that he would be buried in a crypt in a chapel of the rome basilica of santa maria maggiore , where he served as archpriest .
survivors of child sexual assault in boston , who were first betrayed by law s cover-up of sex crimes and then doubly betrayed by his subsequent promotion to rome , were those most hurt , snap , a victim s group , said in a statement on wednesday .
after pope francis left thursday s funeral , two nuns in brown robes knelt by the coffin and arched over it to pray .
after the funeral , cardinal franc rode of slovenia praised law as a good man with good intentions .
all these provisions about paedophilia were not as severe as they are now so one can t say that he made that many mistakes , rode told reuters television , saying it was another era .
he did not elaborate .
about a half dozen ambassadors attended .
the united states official representative was louis bono , the current chief of mission at the u.s. embassy to the vatican .
u.s. ambassador-designate callista gingrich and her husband newt gingrich , former speaker of the house of representatives , attended in a private capacity .
callista gingrich officially becomes ambassador on friday .