skopje ( reuters ) - macedonia s main opposition leader cried foul over local election results after gains for the ruling party in a second round of polls on sunday , and demanded a snap parliamentary vote .
the ruling social democrats ( sdsm ) won in 40 municipalities out of a total 85 in the first round two weeks ago , including in the capital skopje .
nineteen areas which were undecided on oct. 16 voted again on sunday , and the sdsm declared victory in 10 .
final results were expected after midnight .
following the second round , the opposition vmro-dpmne s leader nikola gruevski dismissed the results .
because of the election violence , raping of democracy ... threats , pressure , massive bribes , the vmro-dpmne does not recognize these elections and will never consider them fair and democratic , gruevski told reporters .
he said a snap parliamentary vote should be organized by a technical government and demanded the resignation of the head of the state electoral commission and an investigation of the alleged election fraud .
social democrat prime minister zoran zaev dismissed gruevski s claims and asked vmro-dpmne to reconsider its rejection of the results .
i am hoping they will find the strength ( to act ) as responsible political subjects , he told reporters .
after the first round , election monitors of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe said fundamental freedoms were respected but that irregularities including violence were also observed .
zaev took office in may , nearly six months after december elections , ending a two-year political crisis over a wiretapping scandal that brought down the previous government .
his coalition deal with parties of ethnic albanians , who make up nearly one third of the country s population , angered nationalists , who stormed the parliament in april after an ethnic albanian was elected parliament s speaker .
macedonia wants to join nato and the european union , but it is blocked by greece which says the name macedonia implies a territorial claim to its own northern province of the same name .
macedonia , an ex-yugoslav republic of about 2 million people , avoided violence during the breakup of the former federation in the 1990s but was rocked by an ethnic albanian insurgency in 2001 .