so rachel , now that we re on the subject of taxes president trump paid , how about we remind americans about the tax evaders/msnbc hosts employed by your leftist network : msnbc host and perpetual race agitator al sharpton certainly gets around quite a bit .
any time there s any sort of black lives matter protest or urban unrest with a race relations twist , sharpton seems to appear within hours as if by magic .
so busy is the man s schedule that he apparently still can t find time to sit down with an accountant and clear up more than a half million dollars in unpaid taxes which the irs has been pestering him about for some time now .
in a follow-up to their previous reports on the subject , the daily caller finds that both sharpton and his msnbc colleague joy-ann reid are still on the tax man s naughty list , despite assurances last year that they were working to settle up their accounts.watch jesse waters confront al sharpton and ask him about his unpaid taxes : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=e9yi5-c1udymsnbc national correspondent joy-ann reid has yet to pay off her still open nearly $ 5,000 tax warrant that attracted a good bit of attention last year .
ditto for the nearly $ 600,000 for two tax warrants that new york lists for msnbc host rev .
al sharpton.in april 2016 , new york filed a $ 4,948.15 tax warrant against joy-ann reid , who serves as managing editor of thegrio.com and until earlier this year hosted msnbc s the reid report , and her husband , jason .
reid has called taxes on the wealthy a basic fairness argument , also arguing for smart spending and smart tax increases to create economic growth .
daily callermeanwhile , sharpton , whose state and federal delinquencies are the stuff of legend , has , according to records accessed monday evening at least two open new york tax warrants for nearly $ 600,00 .
one judgment , dated may 19 , 2009 , is for $ 103,156.06 .
the other , from december 16 , 2008 , is for $ 492,612.41.sharpton insisted to the new york post and new york times in 2014 that he was paying down his debts .
the times article noted that his insistence conflicted with information provided by state officials .
hot airmaybe the folks over at msnbc shouldn t worry so much about the taxes trump paid and should focus instead on their host s unpaid taxes !