washington ( reuters ) - the united states is preparing to lift decades-old economic sanctions against sudan , citing improvement on human rights and progress on counter-terrorism , a u.s. official said on thursday .
president donald trump s administration is expected to announce its decision as early as friday , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity .
shortly before leaving office , former president barack obama temporarily eased penalties that had been in place for 20 years against the african nation .
in july , the trump administration postponed for three months a decision on whether to remove the sanctions completely , setting up an oct. 12 deadline .
lifting the sanctions , which is opposed by some human rights advocates , will suspend a trade embargo , unfreeze assets and remove financial restrictions that have hobbled the sudanese economy .
it will also mark a major turnaround for the government of president omar hassan al-bashir , who once played host to osama bin laden and is wanted by the international criminal court on charges of orchestrating genocide in darfur .
sudan will remain , for now , on the u.s. list of state sponsors of terrorism - alongside iran and syria - which carries a ban on weapons sales and restrictions on u.s. aid .
but the sanctions decision reflects a u.s. assessment that sudan has made progress in meeting washington s demands , including cooperation on counter-terrorism , working to resolve internal conflicts and allowing more humanitarian aid into darfur and other rebellious border areas , the official said .
u.s. officials also made clear in july their concern about sudan s suspected ties to north korea .
the planned sanctions relief suggests that khartoum has provided assurances it will abide by international sanctions against north korea over its missile and nuclear programs , as washington had urged .
the white house declined comment .
there was no immediate comment from the state department .
sudan s state minister for foreign affairs hamed momtaz told reuters on wednesday in khartoum : sudan has fulfilled all the necessary conditions relating to the roadmap , and the u.s. administration is a witness to that and therefore we expect the sanctions to be lifted .
rights groups raised concerns that it would be premature to remove sanctions .
it s a serious mistake for these sanctions to be lifted permanently when sudan has made no progress on human rights , said andrea prasow , deputy director of the washington office of human rights watch .
a government that continues to indiscriminately bomb its own population and imprison human rights activists shouldn t be rewarded .
speaking before word of the u.s. decision , al-buraq al-nazir al-warraq , executive manager of the sudanese observatory for human rights , a group suspended by the government , said taking away sanctions could pave the way for further rights abuse by sudan s government .
the united states first imposed sanctions on sudan in 1997 , including a trade embargo and blocking the government s assets , for human rights violations and terrorism concerns .