donald trump tweeted sunday morning about his visit with russian president vladimir putin .
while most were his standard complaining about the media and trying to bolster his controversial meeting with the russian strongman , one , in particular , stood out .
according to trump , he s ready to partner , yes , partner , in cyber security .
no , that s not a joke.i strongly pressed president putin twice about russian meddling in our election .
he vehemently denied it .
i ve already given my opinion .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 9 , 2017um , sure .
we negotiated a ceasefire in parts of syria which will save lives .
now it is time to move forward in working constructively with russia !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 9 , 2017the most notable tweet , though , was this one , which essentially said he s giving the fox the key to the hen house : putin & i discussed forming an impenetrable cyber security unit so that election hacking , & many other negative things , will be guarded .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 9 , 2017and then more deflection : and safe .
questions were asked about why the cia & fbi had to ask the dnc 13 times for their server , and were rejected , still don t .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 9 , 2017 have it .
fake news said 17 intel agencies when actually 4 ( had to apologize ) .
why did obama do nothing when he had info before election ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 9 , 2017the irony of partnering with putin on securing the electoral system he s accused of hacking hasn t even escaped some republicans .
sen. marco rubio is raising alarms : while reality & pragmatism requires that we engage vladimir putin , he will never be a trusted ally or a reliable constructive partner .
1/3 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) july 9 , 2017partnering with putin on a cyber security unit is akin to partnering with assad on a chemical weapons unit .
2/3 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) july 9 , 2017we have no quarrel with russia or the russian people .
problem is with putin & his oppression , war crimes & interference in our elections 1/3 marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) july 9 , 2017gop rep. mike gallagher agrees : coordinating w/ russia also risks glossing over serious us concerns re : russian behavior , such as ukraine invasion & cyber aggression .
6/10 rep. mike gallagher ( @ repgallagher ) july 9 , 2017john mccain handled with snark : during an interview on cbs s face the nation , mccain was asked about president trump s earlier tweet in which the president said he talked with putin during their meeting about creating an impenetrable cyber security unit to guard against election hacking .
i m sure that vladimir putin could be of enormous assistance in that effort since he is doing the hacking , mccain said , laughing.it is somewhat comforting to know that elections are run by states , not the federal government and they are very reluctant to hand over that power .
that doesn t mean , though , that trump isn t going to do everything in his power to assist putin in taking over our government and our internet.featured image via getty images .