the harvard study below will blow your mind !
if you had any doubt trump is being sabotaged by the main stream media and washington old guards , look no further coverage of president trump is 93 % negative !
this is over the top !
our media and politicians are doing everything they can to destroy trump how negative was press coverage of president trump s first 100 days in office ?
far more than that of barack obama , george w. bush , or bill clinton , according to a new report from the harvard kennedy school s shorenstein center on media , politics and public policy.the harvard scholars analyzed the new york times , wall street journal , washington post and the main newscasts ( not talk shows ) of cbs , cnn , fox and nbc during trump s initial time in office .
they found , to no one s surprise , that trump absolutely dominated news coverage in the first 100 days .
and then they found that news coverage was solidly negative 80 percent negative among those outlets studied , versus 20 percent positive.the numbers for previous presidents : barack obama , 41 percent negative , 59 percent positive ; george w. bush , 57 percent negative , 43 percent positive ; and bill clinton , 60 percent negative , 40 percent positive.accusations of bias aside , it s simply a fact that a number of negative things happened in trump s opening 100 days .
the russia investigation , for example , was a source of endless criticism from democrats and other trump opponents .
the travel ban executive order led to intense argument and losses for the administration in the courts .
the healthcare debacle created more negative coverage because it was a major screwup and a setback for both trump and house republicans.that said , the coverage of some news organizations was so negative , according to the harvard study , that it seems hard to argue that the coverage was anywhere near a neutral presentation of facts .
assessing the tone of news coverage , the harvard researchers found that cnn s trump coverage was 93 percent negative , and seven percent positive .
the researchers found the same numbers for nbc.obama and hillary s hero had this to say about taking down an enemy : obama campaign manager and senior adviser had this to say about trump last june : it is not enough to simply beat trump .
he must be destroyed thoroughly .
his kind must not rise again .
read more : we