wenzhou , china ( reuters ) - when authorities in china s southeastern city of wenzhou outlawed sunday school earlier this year , christian parents determined their children must still learn about jesus and the bible .
churches in wenzhou started teaching children in private homes or at other venues .
some billed sunday school classes as daycare , not education , or moved them to saturdays , more than a dozen local christians told reuters .
wenzhou , sometimes known as china s jerusalem due to its sizable christian community , is at the forefront of a growing standoff between china s leadership and the country s devout over religious education for children .
the ruling and officially atheist communist party has increased efforts to curb the influence of christianity , tightening restrictions on faith classes and warning against the religion s western ideas .
but christians say the resolve of the community in wenzhou suggests the party will struggle to exert control over the next generation of the country s 60 million christians .
in her house , faith comes first , grades come second , said one parent surnamed chen , asking not to use her full name due to the sensitivity of the matter .
immaculately turned out in a cream fur coat and wearing a giant turquoise ring , chen is one of wenzhou s numerous wealthy christians who say their children must attend bible classes because state education fails to provide sufficient moral and spiritual guidance .
drugs , porn , gambling and violence are serious problems among today s youth and video games are extremely seductive , she told reuters .
we can not be by his side all the time so only through faith can we make him understand ( the right thing to do ) .
in some districts of wenzhou , in zhejiang province , an official edict has prohibited sunday schools since august , according to three sources with direct knowledge of the matter .
the provinces of zhejiang , fujian , jiangsu , henan and the autonomous region of inner mongolia have barred children from faith activities including summer camp , christian news site world watch monitor reported in september .
sources spoken to by reuters were unaware if the policy was a local government initiative or centrally mandated .
they also did not know of any similar bans in other regions of china .
also in september , new rules were released expanding state oversight of religious education nationwide in what officials say is an attempt to create a new generation of religious leaders loyal to the party .
china s state administration for religious affairs and the foreign affairs office of the wenzhou city government did not reply to faxed requests for comment .
in the last four decades of economic prosperity , china s faithful have multiplied rapidly .
official numbers say there are now around 30 million christians , while independent estimates suggest the number is about 60 million , most of whom are protestants .
in wenzhou , a small christian community started by 19th century missionaries has bloomed to over one million christians .
until recent years , they had enjoyed a relatively relaxed relationship with local officials , residents said .
then , in 2014 , a government campaign to demolish illegal churches and tear down the crosses that adorned them sparked an outcry from the christian community and sowed mistrust of authorities among believers .
the campaign came shortly after president xi jinping , who had been communist party chief of zhejiang from 2002 to 2007 , was appointed general secretary of the party .
but attempts to stem the rapid growth of believers has struggled in wenzhou where churches , often funded by devout local business owners , are ubiquitous .
wenzhou government does not let churches register , because there are way too many , so there are lots of house churches and it is tough for the government to manage them , zhao gang , the minister at wenzhou s church of the rose-tinted clouds , told reuters .
sunday school textbooks have been especially sensitive in the clampdown in wenzhou , teachers said .
the government restricts religious publications , and churches often use translated texts from overseas .
one teacher said classes resumed when they stopped using unsanctioned textbooks and avoided the words sunday school .
chinese law officially grants religious freedom for all , including children , but regulations on education and protection of minors also say religion can not be used to hinder state education or to coerce children to believe .
local governments in troubled areas of china , such as the far western region of xinjiang , ban children attending religious events , but christian communities elsewhere rarely face blanket restrictions .
this year , the party has been unusually strict in warning university students , state-owned enterprise employees and officials themselves against celebrating christmas , with admonitions such as to resist the corrosion of western religious culture , according to state media reports .
while parents in wenzhou want to control their children s education , the government is working to create a new crop of religious leaders loyal to the party .
new rules governing religious schools from china s cabinet , due to take effect in february , are necessary to meet china s pressing need for patriotic religious leaders , wang zuoan , the head of china s official state administration of religious affairs , told reuters in written comments in october .
we hope that the talent graduating from religious schools will be up to standard in both their political and religious character and will do a good job of combining love for the country with love for religion , he said .
but for many christians allowing the party to control religious education is unacceptable , as it requires putting the party before god , according to sarah cook , a new york-based analyst at freedom house , an advocacy group .
as such , the party can only do so much to control faith education .
there are always going to be kids at home whose bedtimes stories are from the bible , cook said .
for chen in wenzhou , faith should be at the forefront of education until believers outnumber atheists in china s young .
there will definitely be more christian believers in the next generation , she said .
the ability for the christian faith to be inherited and passed on is ever growing .