ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan said on friday he would discuss with u.s. president donald trump next week the case of a former turkish economy minister indicted in the united states for conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran .
former minister zafer caglayan and the ex-head of a state-owned turkish bank were charged on wednesday with conspiring to violate u.s. sanctions on iran by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the u.s. financial system on tehran s behalf .
the indictment marks the first time an ex-government member with close ties to erdogan has been charged in an investigation that has further strained already difficult ties between washington and ankara .
caglayan was also charged with taking bribes in cash and jewelry worth tens of millions of dollars .
there are truly some problematic issues regarding this period , and the wrongful steps taken by those under president trump are evidently casting a shadow on trump s administration .
i don t think this should be allowed , erdogan said in an interview with broadcaster a haber .
last week erdogan said he had told washington that turkey had never agreed to comply with its sanctions on iran , and called on the united states to review the indictment .
he also said trump had called him and vowed to follow the case more closely .
on monday turkey said caglayan had acted within international law and that charges against him amounted to a coup attempt through american courts .
relations between washington and nato ally turkey , an important partner in tackling the syrian conflict , have become more strained following last year s failed military coup in turkey and erdogan s subsequent crackdown on his opponents .
ankara is seeking - so far without success - the extradition of a u.s.-based muslim cleric whom it accuses of orchestrating the coup attempt .
the cleric , fethullah gulen , denies involvement in the abortive coup .
erdogan will travel to the united states on sunday for the united nations general assembly in new york and is due to meet trump on the sidelines of that event .