21st century wire says this week an unverified 35-page document concerning president-elect donald trump s alleged ties to russia had been published by buzzfeed .
the so-called dossier , that levied unfounded accusations against trump was initially given oxygen by cnn and included an unsubstantiated sexual blackmail scenario contained within the leaked us intelligence summary.it is too early to tell exactly what the implications of the leaked intelligence dossier will be but there s no doubt that it has compounded an already tense relationship between trump , the fbi , cia and trump s political rivals moving forward the dossier during trump s first press conference he fired back at buzzfeed for publishing unconfirmed intelligence claims .
( image source : slate ) earlier this week , during the president-elect s first press conference , trump admonished the website buzzfeed ( part of the nbc universal media empire ) for publishing the intelligence dossier , even calling the site a failing pile of garbage at the press conference .
the over-the-top intelligence report sent a shockwave through social media and mainstream outlets alike , mostly due to the salacious nature of the unproven details it contained.following the dossier s release , trump refused to take a question from the cnn reporter jim acosta .
the day before , cnn had been heavily promoting the fake dossier published by buzzfeed .
watch as the president-elect calls the mainstream media outlet fake news while much has been made of buzzfeed s role in publishing unconfirmed anonymous claims ( and rightfully so ) , the public should also wonder why the us intelligence community would leak such information which was financed by trump s political rivals a spiked dossier that peddled sordid sexual perversions wrapped-up in an alleged russian blackmail plot.the trump-russia dossier also appears to contain outright fabrications in the case of trump s lawyer , michael cohen , who according to the dossier , he allegedly held secret meetings with kremlin officials in prague .
this doctored intelligence , turned out to be false.donald trump took to social media to describe the allegations even blasting the intelligence community s role in the so-called dossier according to one report by the new york times , the dossier was produced by the washington-based pr firm fusion gps , a democratic party friendly firm that has also been employed by planned parenthood .
during the course of 2016 , trump heavily criticized planned parenthood over controversial issues associated with the ngo s abortion practices.in october of 2015 , the staunchly left-wing outlet , mother jones skirted around the apparent russian-trump related memo/dossier , which had already been circulating on capitol hill and was hinted at by former democratic senate majority leader , harry reid , just before the 2016 presidential election : on monday , nbc news reported that the fbi has mounted a preliminary inquiry into the foreign business ties of paul manafort , trump s former campaign chief .
but reid s recent note hinted at more than the page , or manafort affairs .
and a former senior intelligence officer for a western country who specialized in russian counterintelligence tells mother jones that in recent months he provided the bureau with memos , based on his recent interactions with russian sources , contending the russian government has for years tried to co-opt and assist trump and that the fbi requested more information from him .
the duran adds the following details outlining reid s role and that of us senator john mccain in spreading the contents of the dossier : mother jones writer david corn referred to the documents in a late october column .
harry reid spokesman adam jentleson tweeted tuesday that the outgoing senate democratic leader had seen the documents before writing a public letter to fbi director james comey about trump s ties to russia .
and cnn reported tuesday that arizona republican john mccain gave a full copy of the memos to fbi director james comey on december 9 , but that the fbi already had copies of many of the memos .
flash forward to january 10th , where the washington post primed the public just prior to the dossier release on buzzfeed , and after a string of delays concerning an apparent us intelligence briefing that alleged russia s meddling in the 2016 us presidential election cycle : a classified report delivered to president obama and president-elect donald trump last week included a section summarizing allegations that russian intelligence services have compromising material and information on trump s personal life and finances , u.s. officials said.the officials said that u.s. intelligence agencies have not corroborated those allegations but believed that the sources involved in the reporting were credible enough to warrant inclusion of their claims in the highly classified report on russian interference in the presidential campaign .
trump , however , replied tuesday night with a tweet declaring : fake news a total political witch hunt !
early wednesday , he accused the intelligence community of taking one last shot at me .
in a shocking turn of events , it was revealed that elements of the trump-russia dossier seemed to have been passed through media and intelligence connected insiders on capitol hill for months.furthermore , the dossier appears to have been compiled by an ex-mi6 spy named christopher steele of the security firm orbis business intelligence ltd who was hired by pr firm fusion gps who had previously defended planned parenthood over unsafe and ethically questionable abortion practices.on january 11th , the ny times reported the following developments : last june , after evidence of russian hacking of democratic targets surfaced , fusion gps hired a retired british intelligence officer , christopher steele , to investigate mr. trump s ties to russia .
the us intelligence dossier implicating trump , also revealed a decidedly politically charged backdrop , while suggesting rather ridiculously , that russia s political influence on trump has spanned some five years by courting the president-elect with various sweetener business deals supposedly offered via the kremlin .
the allegedly damning report also contends that trump was supplied with a regular flow of intelligence on the democratic party and other political rivals .
but perhaps the real kicker was the dossier s conclusion that russian spies had collated a mostly innocuous report regarding hillary clinton as stated by the uk s guardian.question : was the trump-russia dossier a part of a deep state smear campaign , or is there more to it ? the ny times included the following details , adding to a growing list of those who would be politically motivated to help produce such a report concerning trump : after it became clear that mr. trump would be the republican nominee , democratic clients who supported hillary clinton began to pay fusion gps for this same opposition research .
glenn greenwald from the intercept published the following article that provided analysis of the politically motivated dossier .
here s a passage of greenwald s scathing review of the intelligence crafted hit-piece on trump and russia this week : but [ the left ] cheering for the cia and its shadowy allies to unilaterally subvert the u.s. election and impose its own policy dictates on the elected president is both warped and self-destructive .
empowering the very entities that have produced the most shameful atrocities and systemic deceit over the last six decades is desperation of the worst kind .
demanding that evidence-free , anonymous assertions be instantly venerated as truth despite emanating from the very precincts designed to propagandize and lie is an assault on journalism , democracy , and basic human rationality .
and casually branding domestic adversaries who refuse to go along as traitors and disloyal foreign operatives is morally bankrupt and certain to backfire on those doing it .
in late october , i published the following report regarding the alleged ddos attack in america and the us establishment s bogus russian election hack claims all timed perfectly with the rise and eventual nomination of donald trump .
tie this thread in with the recent dossier allegations against the president-elect and you can see what could be a potential last-ditch effort in the form of a pr created coups d tat : in this age of america s new and improved trial by media format , you can expect a litany of unfounded accusations , along with the usual anti-russia hyperbole and waving fingers at washington s new go-to scapegoat russian president vladimir putin.the likelihood of russia or any other country being involved in this heavily coordinated ddos incident falls flat , when you consider that the us media has been floating the blame russia meme for months now , and even more conveniently during this 2016 us presidential election cycle , led by vice president joe biden , and of course , the democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton all blaming the kremlin for both the dnc leaks and the wikileaks email dump.indeed , as you look back at ny times articles since the summer , the stage was being set to implant the idea of an alleged russian cyber war being waged at the us , principally charging that they would meddle with the us presidential elections in 2016 by aiding donald trump .
here s the ny times building the case for washington , seemingly without the burden of proof : an unusual question is capturing the attention of cyber specialists , russia experts and democratic party leaders in philadelphia : is vladimir v. putin trying to meddle in the american presidential election ? until friday , that charge , with its eerie suggestion of a kremlin conspiracy to aid donald j. trump , has been only whispered .
in august , the western media s claims against russia hit overdrive , when the new york times s moscow bureau was the target of an attempted cyberattack this month .
but so far , there is no evidence that the hackers , believed to be russian , were successful .
flash forward to september here and here , as well as early october in the lead up to president obama s decree , the clinton-friendly outlet the ny times had all but solidified the russian cyber/hack claims once again , without any definitive proof .
here s a response from russian leadership featured on rt news discussing revelations surrounding the trump-russia dossier : the kremlin said on friday that what buzzfeed had published didn t merit to be called a report .
we have finished the discussion of this fabrication , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov explained .
this is far from being the first such falsehood published , and it is , moreover , really quite base .
one simply shouldn t pay any attention to it , as it is now appealing to the emotional frenzy that is dominating in america at the moment .
politicians from both parties have accused trump of being in cahoots with russia , which the obama administration has accused of waging a massive campaign to undermine the election and swing it in favor of trump by hacking the democratic party s computers and leaking the stolen emails to the whistleblower site wikileaks.russia has repeatedly denied the accusations , calling them nonsense , while the white house has refused to provide any concrete evidence to support its allegations , claiming it was necessary to keep it secret in order to protect the sources and methods of the intelligence communities.update * news talk florida disclosed the following alternative theory behind the most salacious details of the trump-russia dossier as told to well-known radio host michael savage : thursday on wwba 820 am the michael savage s radio show there was a caller who was claiming to represent the internet forum 4chan .
the called who called himself john , insisted his site was the origin of the fictional 35 page dossier painting a very salacious story about president-elect donald trump and reported in detail by buzzfeed on tuesday .
a caller named john , told veteran radio host savage that we [ 4chan ] expected some garbage outfit like buzzfeed to pick it up , or maybe the new york times .
we didn t expect government entities to take interest in our fan-fiction .
according to savage , 4chan s claim is that the phony story was sent to veteran republican strategist rick wilson , a supporter of the presidential campaign of former cia officer evan mcmullin , who then put it in the hands of the cia .
it s hard to verify all of 4chan s claims but this latest development does add another intriguing layer to the trump-russia intelligence dossier.here s a youtube clip featuring michael savage with john on savage nation https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=p4csyxnhbbyquestion : are the neoliberals and neocons in washington working to unseat trump through a made up honey pot plot or is this just one aspect of a larger scheme against the president-elect ? ron paul institute examines john mccain s role in the dodgy trump-russia dossier below .
daniel mcadams ron paul institute we all know what money laundering is .
when you need to hide the fact that the money in your possession comes by way of nefarious sources , you transfer it through legitimate sources and it appears clean on the other end .
it s standard practice among thieves , extortionists , drug dealers , and the like.the same practice can even be used to clean intelligence that comes by dubious sources , and sometimes even us senators may involve themselves in such dark activities .
case in point us senator john mccain ( r-az ) , whose virulent opposition to donald trump is outmatched only by his total dedication to fomenting a new cold ( or hot ? )
war with russia.while the world was caught up in the more salacious passages from a purported opposition research report on donald trump showing all manner of collusion with putin s russia and russia s possession of blackmail-able kompromat on trump something very interesting was revealed about the custody of the information .
the dossier on trump seemed to follow two chains of custody .
one involved the media , which in october were given and encouraged to publish the report by the authors of the report ( or their sponsors ) , purportedly a former british intelligence officer working for a private intelligence company .
only david corn of mother jones bit , and his resulting story picked over the report to construct a mess of innuendo on trump s relation to russia that was short on any evidence.the other chain of custody is what interests us .
remember , we have a dubious report constructed for the purpose of discrediting donald trump , which was first commissioned by one of his republican primary rivals and later completed under the patronage of someone in hillary s camp .
it was created for a specific political purpose , which may have tainted its reception among more objective governmental sources had that been known .
enter john mccain .
according to media reports , the dossier was handed to sen. mccain again , a strong trump opponent and proponent of conflict with russia by a former uk ambassador ( who presumably received it from the source , a former british intelligence officer ) .senator mccain then felt duty-bound to bring this intelligence report directly ( and privately ) to the personal attention of fbi director james comey .
from this hand-off to comey , the report then became part of the intelligence community s assessment of russian interference in the us presidential election.senator mccain is the chairman of the senate armed services committee , one of the most powerful members of the us senate .
consider the impact of being handed a strange report by some private intelligence-firm-for-hire or a media outlet versus being handed a report by one of the most powerful men in the us government .
mccain s involving himself in the case gave the report a sense of legitimacy that it would not otherwise have had .
was this laundering intentional on his part ?
we do not know , but given his position on trump and russia that possibility must be considered.more from the the ron paul institute here .read more msm lies at : 21st century wire msm filessupport 21wire subscribe now & become a member @ 21wire.tv