new york ( reuters ) - the technician who helped manage hillary clinton ’ s private email server for her work as secretary of state has given security logs to investigators that he said show no signs of foreign hacking , the new york times reported on thursday .
bryan pagliano is cooperating with the federal bureau of investigation ’ s criminal inquiry into the email setup in exchange for limited immunity by the u.s. department of justice , according to the times , citing unnamed people who know about the investigation .
with limited immunity , his testimony can not be used in a prosecution against him , the times said .
the investigation has overshadowed hillary clinton ’ s campaign to become the democratic party ’ s candidate in the november presidential election .
clinton has apologized for the arrangement but says she did nothing wrong and that she believes the government will vindicate her .
pagliano , who helped set up and run the email system in clinton ’ s new york home , told investigators that the logs he handed over indicated that no intrusion occurred , the times said .
the security logs show who accessed the server and when , though they may not capture more sophisticated hacking , the times said .
pagliano was still working at the state department ’ s bureau of information resource management as recently as last september , but has since left , a department spokesman said on monday .
the spokesman declined to say when he left or why .
the federal bureau of investigation is doing its own analysis of whether the server was attacked , according to media reports .
fbi agents plan to seek interviews with clinton ’ s aides in coming weeks and would like to interview clinton herself as their investigation enters a new phase , bloomberg news reported on thursday , citing two people familiar with the inquiry .
the interviews would look into how the server was set up and used and what precautions were taken to protect sensitive data , according to the people , who described the matter on condition of anonymity because the investigation is continuing , bloomberg news said .
investigators were almost finished examining computers and other physical evidence as part of the inquiry , which is focused on whether clinton ’ s use of private email while serving as the nation ’ s top diplomat led to the improper handling of classified information , according to the people .
pagliano previously worked on clinton ’ s failed 2008 presidential campaign , and ended up joining her at the state department in 2009 as a political appointee , working as a technology specialist and maintaining clinton ’ s email server .
his employment ended with clinton in february 2013 , but he stayed on as a contractor .
more than 2,000 of clinton ’ s emails contain classified information that could harm national security if leaked , according to the state department .
the government forbids sending or storing such information outside secure , government-controlled channels , and has prosecuted people for breaches .
the fbi and the justice department have declined to comment on their investigation , including who might be its target , beyond confirming its existence .
pagliano ’ s lawyer did not respond to requests for comment .
a clinton spokesman said the campaign is pleased that pagliano is cooperating , but declined to respond to questions .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here ) .
( reporting by jonathan allen , additional reporting by mark hosenball ; editing by david gregorio and andrew hay ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .