rome ( reuters ) - when italy organized a conference focused on the middle east , the gulf and north africa , it promised to look beyond the turmoil roiling the region and instead promote a positive agenda .
but many of the 45 heads of state , ministers and business leaders who attended the event over the past three days saw little future cheer .
qatari foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al-thani , captured the gloom , bemoaning a lack of wisdom in the region , with no hope on hand for ordinary people hoping for an end to years of conflict , upheaval and sectarianism .
maybe i have presented a dark picture , but it is not as dark as i have explained , it is darker , said thani , whose country is suffering an economic blockade by its arab neighbors , which accuse qatar of supporting terrorism .
qatar denies the accusations and the crisis has pushed the tiny , gas-rich state closer to shi ite muslim iran , the regional rival to sunni muslim saudi arabia .
the foreign ministers of both iran and saudi arabia addressed the conference , taking turns to trade barbs .
since 1979 , the iranians have literally got away with murder in our region , and this has to stop , saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir said on friday , accusing tehran of interfering in the affairs of numerous arab states , including syria , yemen and lebanon .
a day earlier , on the same stage , iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif accused saudi arabia of blocking ceasefire efforts in syria , suffocating qatar , destabilizing lebanon and supporting islamic state .
he also dismissed suggestions that tehran was meddling in the affairs of its troubled neighbors or that it should stop supporting militia groups , like hezbollah in lebanon .
casting around for reasons to be positive , most speakers pointed to the defeat of islamic state , which used to rule over millions of people in iraq and syria , but now controls just small pockets of land after months of fierce military assaults .
however , officials warned the group would not die easily .
it has been defeated as a military force on the ground , but it is likely to go back to cities to create destruction and terror , said arab league secretary general ahmed aboul gheit , predicting the militant group could still be around in 10 years .
iraq s foreign minister bemoaned the destruction it had left in its wake , and called on the world to unite to help rebuild his country in the same way they had come together to fight is .
the world owes this to us , said ibrahim al-jaafari .
a lot of destruction demands a lot of reconstruction .
mosul is not at all what it was like before .
it used to be beautiful .
it had a university .
now it is just ruins .
egypt s foreign minister sameh shoukry warned that is fighters fleeing syria and iraq had come to his country , where an attack on a mosque in sinai last month had killed more than 300 people .
they were also heading to lawless libya , he said .
amidst all the talk of war and chaos , there was little mention of diplomatic efforts to restore peace to the region .
at a time when you have so many sources of tension , so many fuses , so many humanitarian catastrophes , you also have so little diplomacy , said robert malley , vice president for policy at the non-governmental international crisis group .
underscoring this point , no one from the white house administration took part in the conference a signal some diplomats put down to a general disengagement from the middle east by president donald trump .
last year , the then secretary of state , john kerry , participated .