waukee , iowa ( reuters ) - it was not hard to tell how the donald trump fans who jammed the back room at jethro ’ s bbq restaurant in waukee , iowa , felt about their candidate ’ s debate performance on thursday night .
the cheering and clapping as the real estate mogul skewered his rivals , president barack obama and democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton gave it away .
with only a few weeks before iowa ’ s first-in-the-nation nominating contest on feb. 1 , more than 75 supporters showed up for a trump debate watch party at the barbecue spot .
they listened intently as the front-runner squared off against six republican challengers , verbally urging him on at times .
shouts of “ you tell ‘ em , donald ! ” and “ amen ! ” greeted trump ’ s best punch lines , although the crowd freely applauded several other candidates as long as they were directing insults at obama , clinton or clinton ’ s chief democratic rival , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont .
“ he did very well , he came across as very strong , ” georgia hasan , a pentacostal minister from des moines , said of trump .
“ he is saying the things that need to be said and some people are afraid to say. ” several attendees said they regularly came to debate watch parties at jethro ’ s , where the waitresses wore red shirts urging patrons to “ vote jethro. ” pat and mariann duff drove for more than 30 minutes from indianola , iowa , to join their fellow trump supporters .
“ i admire his honesty .
he says the same sort of things i say , ” said mariann duff , who first became a trump fan from watching his reality tv show “ the apprentice. ” a few of trump ’ s rivals did not fare so well .
“ drop out , john ! ” shouted one patron when ohio governor john kasich was introduced .
when the broadcast lost sound at one point , a man calmed the crowd by shouting “ ( jeb ) bush is on , it doesn ’ t matter. ” trump narrowly trails u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas in recent opinion polls in iowa .
the crowd grew quiet and listened closely when the two clashed over cruz ’ s canadian birth and what cruz called trump ’ s “ new york ” values .
eric durbin , a software developer in stuart , iowa , said he would probably back trump because he thought he had the best chance of stopping cruz .
“ i really don ’ t like ted cruz , ” durbin said , citing the candidate ’ s work for george w. bush and cruz ’ s wife ’ s work for investment bank goldman sachs & co. “ he ’ s part of the cartel .
i don ’ t trust him. ” lonnie creveling , a housecleaner from des moines , said trump would stand up for her conservative social values - and she liked his pugnacious style .
“ i like his toughness , ” she said .
“ you can tell people won ’ t be able to push him around . ”