jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesia intends to send a diplomatic note to the u.s. secretary of state and summon washington s deputy ambassador in jakarta to explain why the head of its military was denied entry to the united states , indonesian officials said on sunday .
armed forces commander general gatot nurmantyo was about to board a flight on saturday when the airline informed him that the u.s. customs and border protection had denied him entry , military spokesman wuryanto told a news conference in jakarta .
nurmantyo was going to the united states at the invitation of general joseph f. dunford jr. , chairman of the joint chiefs of staff , to attend a chiefs of defense conference on countering violent extremism being held in washington on oct. 23-24 , wuryanto said .
it was not clear why he was stopped from entering the united states , wuryanto said , adding that the general did not have any problem during his visit to the united states in february 2016 .
we ve asked for clarification to the u.s. , to the department of state as well as the embassy in jakarta and until now we re still waiting for that clarification , indonesia s foreign affairs minister retno marsudi told reuters .
the ministry s spokesman arrmanatha nasir earlier said indonesia s embassy in washington was to send a diplomatic note to the u.s. secretary of state demanding explanation for the incident.the ministry will also summon the u.s. deputy ambassador in jakarta on monday to seek explanation , nasir said , adding that the ambassador is presently not in indonesia .
the u.s. embassy in jakarta said in a statement it was in touch with nurmantyo s staff to facilitate his travel , but did not explain further .
u.s .
ambassador joseph donovan has apologized to foreign minister retno marsudi for any inconvenience to general gatot , the embassy wrote .
we remain committed to our strategic partnership with indonesia as a way to deliver security and prosperity to both our nations and peoples .
nurmantyo has frequently courted controversy in indonesia because of his actions and what analysts perceive as his political ambitions .
the general promotes the notion that indonesia is besieged by proxy wars involving foreign states and even a renewed communist threat .
indonesian president joko widodo said this month that the armed forces should stay out of politics and ensure their loyalty is only to the state and the government .
indonesia , the world s biggest muslim-majority country , generally enjoys good ties with the united states although in the past ties between the two countries armed forces have been strained by alleged rights abuses involving indonesia s military .