manila ( reuters ) - around half of filipinos believe many people killed in the country s war on drugs were neither drug dealers nor violently resisted arrest as police maintain , according to an opinion poll released on wednesday .
the survey of 1,200 filipinos by social weather stations ( sws ) conducted in late june also showed that 50 percent of respondents felt many victims were falsely identified by their enemies as drug users and pushers , and were then killed by police or shadowy vigilantes .
thousands of mostly urban poor filipinos have been killed during president rodrigo duterte s 15-month-old war on drugs , either during police operations or by mysterious gunmen .
the crackdown has come under unprecedented scrutiny in recent weeks , due largely to the high-profile aug. 16 killing of a 17-year-old student , among the 90 people killed in less than a week of intensified police raids .
[ nl4n1la686 ] the latest sws poll predates those events .
forty-nine percent of respondents believed many of those killed by police were not drug dealers , and 54 percent felt many victims had not resisted arrest .
the survey suggests doubts among filipinos about the official stance of the philippine national police , which states those killed in anti-drugs operations were dealers , and had refused to go quietly .
police say that has been the case in more than 3,800 incidents in which deaths occurred .
the poll also indicates some scepticism about the methods and effectiveness of intelligence-gathering and community campaigns to identify drug users in need of rehabilitation , some of whom , activists say , have been killed after their names appeared on watch lists .
[ nl3n1cd133 ] duterte s crackdown has caused international alarm , though domestic polls have shown filipinos are largely supportive and believe it has made the streets safer .
duterte s office frequently cites polls , including sws , as a sign of his public support .
but presidential spokesman ernesto abella cast doubts about the accuracy of the latest survey , saying it contained leading and pointed questions that may have unduly influenced the answers .
we expect pollsters to exercise prudence and objectivity to arrive at a closer approximation of public sentiment , he said in a statement .
activists accuse the pnp of executing drug suspects under the guise of sting operations , or of colluding with hit men to kill drug users , allegations the pnp vehemently denies .
duterte s political opponents say he has made bellicose statements that incite police to commit murder , which he rejects , arguing that his instruction to security forces has always been to kill only when their lives were in danger .
only a fifth of those polled by sws disagreed with the statement that police had killed many people who had posed no threat to them .
a quarter were undecided .
twenty-three percent of respondents believed those killed were drug pushers , as police report , and 27 percent were undecided .
half of those surveyed believed false accusations of drug involvement were behind many killings by police , while 21 percent disagreed with that and 28 percent were undecided .
the survey showed higher percentages of those polled in manila , which has borne the brunt of the drugs killings , felt many victims had neither sold drugs nor fought police , and were being falsely linked to the trade .
phelim kine , deputy asia director at human rights watch , said the survey results were not surprising given the critical mass of compelling evidence gathered by his group and investigative journalists , which had clearly demonstrated there was an unlawful killing campaign under the cynical veneer of anti-drugs operations .