cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - more than 18,000 rohingya muslims , many sick and some with bullet wounds , have fled the worst violence to grip northwest myanmar in at least five years , while thousands more are stuck at the bangladesh border or scrambling to reach it .
friday s series of coordinated attacks by rohingya insurgents on security forces in the north of myanmar s rakhine state and ensuing clashes triggered the rohingya exodus , while the government evacuated thousands of rakhine buddhists .
since the attacks , about 18,445 rohingya - mostly women and children - have registered in bangladesh , the international organization for migration ( iom ) said on wednesday .
they are in a very , very desperate condition , said sanjukta sahany , who runs the iom office in the southern town of cox s bazar near the border .
the biggest needs are food , health services and they need shelter .
they need at least some cover , some roofs over their heads .
sahany said many crossed with bullet injuries and burn injuries , and that aid workers reported that some refugees gave a blank look when questioned .
people are traumatized , which is quite visible .
the united nations , while condemning the militant attacks , has pressured myanmar to protect civilian lives without discrimination and appealed to bangladesh to admit those fleeing the military counteroffensive .
at least 109 people have been killed in the clashes with insurgents , myanmar says , most of them militants but also members of the security forces and civilians .
the united nations security council was briefed behind closed doors on wednesday on the escalating violence at the request of britain .
there s a lot of concern about the situation in the country .
we all condemned the violence , we all called on all the parties to de-escalate , british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft told reporters after the briefing .
the treatment of about 1.1 million muslim rohingya in myanmar is the biggest challenge facing national leader aung san suu kyi , who has been accused by western critics of not speaking out for a minority that has long complained of persecution .
rycroft said the security council looks to suu kyi to to set the right tone and to find the compromises and the de-escalation necessary in order to resolve the conflict .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
the violence marks a dramatic escalation of a conflict that has simmered since october , when a similar , but much smaller , series of rohingya attacks on security posts prompted a fierce military response , in which the u.n. has said security forces probably committed crimes against humanity .
the situation is very terrifying , houses are burning , all the people ran away from their homes , parents and children were divided , some were lost , some are dead , abdullah , 25 , a rohingya from the region of buthidaung , told reuters , struggling to hold back tears .
abdullah said four of the six hamlets in his village of mee chaung zay had been burned down by security forces , prompting all its residents to flee toward bangladesh .
he was among the thousands of terrified people who left their village to gather at the foot of the mayu mountain range .
together with his wife and 5-year-old daughter , abdullah brought sticky rice , fetched plastic sheets and empty water bottles , preparing to trek in monsoon rain for days on a 20-km ( 12-mile ) route through the mountains to the border .
i am waiting for all of my relatives to leave together with my family as soon as possible , he added .
myanmar officials have said the country had the right to defend itself from attack , adding that security personnel were told to keep innocent civilians from harm .
mine explosions and fighting continued , the government said , blaming rohingya militants for burning down houses and fleeing to the mountains after attacks .
bangladesh is already host to more than 400,000 rohingya refugees who have fled buddhist-majority myanmar since the early 1990s .
dhaka has asked the u.n. to pressure myanmar over its treatment of the muslim minority , saying it can not take any more .
at least 4,000 people were stranded in no man s land between the two countries , with temporary shelters stretching for several hundred meters on a narrow strip between the naf river and myanmar s border fence .
on tuesday , reuters reporters saw women , some carrying children and sick people , wade through the river , which narrows to less than 10 meters ( 11 yards ) there .
bangladeshi border guards allowed groups of about six to cross to reach a stack of donated medicines .
many rohingya trying to cross were sick and at least six died after crossing over , one aid worker said , adding that some refused to seek help for fear of being caught and sent back .
shaheen abdur rahman , a doctor at a hospital in cox s bazar , said 15 people admitted since last week had gunshot wounds , varying from grazes to bleeding in the lung .
four serious cases were sent for treatment to nearby chittagong .
injuries also included fractures that could have been suffered in beatings or accidental falls while fleeing , he said .
we don t discriminate , said rahman .
everyone coming to this hospital , whether they re bangladeshi or not from bangladesh , we provide due service to them .
in kuala lumpur , capital of neighboring muslim-majority malaysia , police said they arrested about 155 of roughly 1,200 mostly rohingya demonstrators who protested against the renewed violence .
tens of thousands of rohingya have fled to malaysia over the years , few with valid travel or identity papers .
( for a graphic on rohingya conflict click tmsnrt.rs/2gjxodv )