now it beings the government has changed who is a refugee to include climate refugees .
does anyone else see the insanity in this ?
this could mean just about anyone who simply claims they fear climate change has harmed their very existence .
watch out for this one to be used by anyone and everyone .
of course the united nations is behind this redistribution scam along with john kerry : the united nations institute for environment and human security and the international organization for migration estimated that climate change could displace as many as 200 million individuals by 2050 .
most of these would likely be fisherfolk and farmers relying on the environment for their livelihood.slick scam : john kerry warns global warming will produce millions of climate refugees climate change , particularly unprecedented sea level rise , is already creating refugees in the united states.back in january , the department of housing and urban development announced that it will allocate $ 1 billion in grants to 13 states to help them adapt to climate change .
the projects will include building stronger dams as well as drainage systems .
among those grants was $ 48 million for isle de jean charles , the first time federal tax dollars were reserved for moving an entire community mired with the impacts of climate change .
the low-lying island on the gulf coast of louisiana is already sinking .
the island is home to a few dozen people whose way of life is rooted from generations back .
they are now getting displaced and turned into climate refugees .
we re going to lose all our heritage , all our culture .
it s all going to be history , mourned chief albert naquin of the biloxi-chitimacha-choctaw , the tribe where most of the island s residents belong , in a new york times report .
from once being 22,000 acres in size , the island has now been reduced to only 320 acres .
according to 2009 data reported by northern arizona university , only 25 houses remained occupied , down from 63 only five years earlier.in a release , louisiana office of community development executive director pat forbes said that the tribe is frontlining the disaster of louisiana s coastal land loss .
the grant , she added , will help them resettle to a safer location and serve as a model for resettlement of endangered u.s. communities .
since the 1950s , the native american tribe has already lost some 98 percent of its land to climbing sea levels , flooding and coastal erosion , with the island suspected to be totally submerged in a matter of 50 years .
naquin expressed excitement in an indian country today interview over their chance to reunite the family and keep the culture intact .
according to reports , the tribe will remain owners of the island even after relocating to its new community , something that could take place as soon as 2019 .
the first-of-its-kind grant must be spent by 2022 .
read more : tech times