berlin ( reuters ) - germany s elections escaped the major foreign meddling that disrupted votes in the united states and france , but there is a risk powers could try to influence coalition talks , a top official with the domestic intelligence agency said on thursday .
burkhard even , head of counter-intelligence at the bfv agency , said russian-backed media had spread low-level propaganda which did not have a significant impact on voters , but there was no sign of anything worse .
the german parliamentary election ... was spared major attacks , but i must point out that even after an election such attempts are possible , for instance in trying to discredit ( officials ) or in trying to affect the forging of a new government , he told a conference in berlin .
russia has denied meddling in other countries votes .
german chancellor angela merkel won sunday s vote , but her conservatives lost ground , leaving her facing protracted talks to form a coalition government .
the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which has called for stronger ties with russia and the lifting of sanctions on moscow , won nearly 13 percent of the vote and moved into parliament for the first time .
russian-backed media such as sputnik or rt published a large amount of propaganda before the vote , even said .
i don t think it affected the election as a whole ... or that the election outcome was affected by several percentage points , he said .
but there was an attempt and the risks are enormous .
and the risk is rising not diminishing .
he did not go into details on the coverage .
but stefan meister from the german council on foreign relations this week said many russian social media posters had abruptly stopped posting messages supporting the far-left left party and switched to the afd .
another researcher with the council , sarah pagung , also cited hundreds of tweets under the hashtag wahlbetrug or voter fraud that popped up the day of the election and raised questions about the vote s legitimacy .
andreas koenen , head of the cyber security directorate at the german interior ministry , told reuters at the conference that german officials were closely tracking any attempts to influence the coalition talks .
things happen all the time .
we re paying very close attention , he said .
separately , security officials said they were looking at one fake tweet posted under the name of michael link , former director of the organisation for security and cooperation in europe ( osce ) , who was just elected to parliament .
the fake posting said 3.15 million new german citizens ( a common euphemism for immigrants ) had voted for merkel s conservatives , citing what it called a report by osce election observers that it said had been leaked by link .
facebook on wednesday said it had taken down tens of thousands of fake profiles in the final month before germany s election to ensure that social media network was not used as a platform to manipulate public opinion .
[ nl8n1m863g ]