ankara/baghdad/erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi troops deployed on tuesday at one of the main land crossings with turkey , gaining a foothold at the kurdish-held frontier for the first time in decades and imposing one of baghdad s central demands on the kurds .
iraq s entire land border with turkey is located inside the kurdish autonomous region , and has been controlled by the kurds since before the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 .
but since the kurds staged a referendum on independence last month that baghdad considers illegal , the central government has demanded a presence at all border crossing points .
the iraqis set up positions between the turkish and the iraqi kurdish checkpoints at the habur border crossing between the turkish town of silopi and the iraqi town of zakho , a security source in baghdad said .
vehicles crossing the border would now be subject to three checks by turks , iraqi forces and the kurds .
habur border gate has been handed over to the central ( iraqi ) government as of this morning , turkish prime minister binali yildirim told members of his ruling ak party in parliament in ankara .
officials from the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) said they had not relinquished control of the crossing .
discussions were ongoing to allow iraqi oversight at the border , hoshyar zebari , a former iraqi foreign minister now working as an adviser to the krg , told reuters .
an iraqi official showed reuters pictures of the iraqi flag being raised at the border gate , where iraqi and turkish soldiers were deployed and turkish flags also hoisted .
control of the border region is of crucial importance for the landlocked kurdish region .
an oil pipeline runs from northern iraq into turkey , carrying crude exports which are the principal source of funds for the kurds .
the balance of power between iraqi central government forces and the autonomous kurdish region has been transformed since the kurds staged their referendum on sept. 25 .
iraqi prime minister haidar al-abadi ordered his forces to recapture all territory held by the kurds outside the borders of their autonomous region , and most of it was seized this month within a matter of days .
baghdad is also demanding control of all border crossings with turkey and iran .
abadi has won backing from both tehran and ankara for his moves against the kurds .
however , in a move to help defuse tensions with the kurds , he said on tuesday baghdad would start paying soon the salaries of kurdish peshmerga fighters and civil servants working for the krg .
the semi-autonomous krg has been struggling to pay the peshmerga and its employees since 2014 , after baghdad stopped payments to it because of a dispute about oil-sharing revenue .
the cost of a three-year war on islamic state added to the kurdistan region s financial difficulties , and fall of the oil region of kirkuk to iraqi forces halved the krg s oil income .
the peshmerga took over the multi-ethnic region of kirkuk in 2014 , after the iraqi army collapsed in the face of islamic state , preventing the militants from controlling its oilfields .
iraq s military said a delegation headed by army chief of staff lieutenant general othman al-ghanmi was visiting the area , to take control of kurdish-held international border checkpoints with both turkey and syria zebari , the kurdish government adviser , said the kurds were prepared to accept iraqis at the airports and border posts to have oversight , to make sure everyone is in compliance , but any such presence must be achieved through negotiations , not force .
the split between the kurds and the iraqi central government is a particular challenge for washington , which is closely allied to both sides .
the united states had urged the kurds not to hold the referendum , worried it would precipitate a backlash .
the referendum and ensuing dispute with baghdad has also exposed deep rifts within the kurdish leadership .
kurdish leader masoud barzani announced on sunday he would step down , and accused security forces loyal to a rival political party of high treason for yielding territory to the central government without a fight .
the krg and the central government held talks from friday till sunday to resolve their conflict .
yildirim said turkey had agreed to open another border gate with iraq as part of a route that would lead to the city of tal afar , some 40 km ( 25 miles ) west of mosul and home to a predominantly ethnic turkmen population .
iran will reopen all its border crossings with iraq s kurdistan region in the coming days , lifting restrictions imposed after last month s kurdish vote in favor of independence , its chief of staff major general mohammad baqeri said on monday .