gop candidate roy moore is accused of sexually molesting a 14-year-old girl when he was 32-years-old and several of the state s officials have said they would still support him even if the allegations are true because it s better than voting for a democrat .
some republicans have called for moore to step down if the accusations are true , even though they ve been backed up by 30 people and there are four accusers .
leigh corfman , who voted for donald trump in 2016 , said she was 14 years old when she met moore , who later took her to his home .
while there , she said moore removed her shirt and pants , then he removed his clothes .
moore then allegedly touched her over her bra and underwear , and put her hand on his crotch.so vice-president mike pence , a right-wing christian , has stated that he found the allegations in the story disturbing and believes , if true , this would disqualify anyone from serving in office .
except that pence s boss has been accused by numerous women of sexual misconduct and somehow , trump supporters have always been cool with that.this unfortunate tweet sent out by pence in late september is coming back at him fast af .
congratulations roy moore !
we are thrilled you ran on the # maga agenda & we are for you !
pence tweeted.congratulations roy moore !
we are thrilled you ran on the # maga agenda & we are for you !
mike pence ( @ mike_pence ) september 27 , 2017twitter users pounced.mike you may want to delete this .
rob ( @ unpersuaded112 ) november 10 , 2017consider it done , mr. williams.screenshot the shit out of that .
william williams ( @ hahvahd ) november 10 , 2017make american girls afraid lisa hanawalt ( @ lisadraws ) november 10 , 2017how does `` mother '' feel about roy 's penchant for little girls ?
how 'bout you ?
concerned american ( @ lizeclark ) november 9 , 2017he 's all yours , mr vice president .
good luck with that .
laura parrott perry ( @ lparrottperry ) november 9 , 2017how are you feeling about this tweet right about now ? !
christie ( @ christie_d22 ) november 9 , 2017what is the age minimum for your can not be left alone with a woman rule ?
asking for a friend michael ( @ mjmiglio ) november 9 , 2017so thrilled to have a pedophile on the # maga team anton newcombe ( @ antonnewcombe ) november 9 , 2017democrat doug jones is running against roy moore .
jones secured the conviction of ku klux klan members who bombed a black church in birmingham in 1963 , killing four african-american girls.conservatives are supporting a pedo over him even though only one of the two men is qualified for the job .
but alabama is a deep-red state and that s putting it lightly .
with 30 people , not including the four accusers , backing up the explosive story outing moore as a sexual predator , one would think that this is a no-brainer and distance themselves from him .
at the very least , delete tweets supporting his candidacy .
right , mike ? photo by chip somodevilla/getty images .