yes , big government is using your money to pay off bad actors so they won t terrorize america .
it s really unreal but if you ve been watching the fundamental transformation in minnesota you d know it s probably par for the course in that state .
minnesota was chosen to be flooded with somali muslims who ve since not made any effort to assimilate and have been basically a royal pain to the community .
recently , six young somali refugees were charged with conspiring to support isis in syria .
so the government is calling this bribe to would-be terrorists crime prevention .
why not just kick them out of america if they plan on supporting any terrorist organization ? hibaaq osman has a glow that changes the energy in a room , or in her case , the energy of the restaurant her family owns in karmel mall , the oldest somali mall in minneapolis .
the cafe is right near the mosque on the top floor of the building , past rows of entrepreneurs selling wares in individual stalls , sipping hot drinks in small cups and chatting in somali.osman retains her glow , even in anger .
and after a press conference held outside the mosque , she is upset .
i feel like we as a community need to wake up , she said .
we need to wake up and say , you know what ?
enough is enough .
we are citizens , we are taxpayers , we own businesses , we need people to understand that we also are part of this country just the way anybody else is .
[ ] opponents of the cve program point out that these 40 individuals make up less than 0.3 % of minnesota s somali population.already , the cve pilot program has been re-branded with a new name , building community resilience .
luger s office says it captures the essence of his vision : to keep teens from minnesota from traveling to the middle east and blowing themselves up .
luger says it will do so by providing $ 216,000 in federal funds in addition to other local and private support which will be disbursed to community groups through a grant-making organization.the social services supported by the funding serve as crime prevention , he contends.but a statement issued from a coalition protesting the program asserted : the minnesota muslim community is united over its growing concerns of the cve pilot program , which so far has only alienated the very communities it was seeking to influence .
while attempting to derail the communities own initiative to enhance its ability to build community resilience .
via : the guardian