on monday , donald trump once again attacked london s mayor , sadiq khan , for what he thinks khan said about the london terror attacks .
pathetic excuse by london mayor sadiq khan who had to think fast on his no reason to be alarmed statement , trump tweeted .
msm is working hard to sell it !
pathetic excuse by london mayor sadiq khan who had to think fast on his `` no reason to be alarmed '' statement .
msm is working hard to sell it !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 5 , 2017of course , khan didn t have to think fast about anything and the msm didn t have to work hard at all to sell his remarks.the statement was , again , taken out of context .
what khan actually said was that there would be an increased police presence in the wake of the attack and that citizens have no reason to be alarmed .
naturally , people showed up to once again let trump know he s a douchebag : well at least he did n't follow that statement up by playing his 23rd round of golf this year , you lazy cretin .
jonathan wier ( @ jonkmbz ) june 5 , 2017you just vomit words with no thought president lil trump ( @ usaneedstrump ) june 5 , 2017pathetic excuse by american president who never thinks fast and is working hard to sell his bullshit presidency jamie lambert ( @ jamiecollabro ) june 5 , 2017you are , unfortunately , potus .
how dare you speak this way about the mayor of london , a far more noble statesman than you 'll ever be ?
bumble ward ( @ bumbleward ) june 5 , 2017full quote : `` londoners will see an increased police presence today & over the course of the next few days .
there 's no reason to be alarmed . ''
liam dryden ( @ liamdrydenetc ) june 5 , 2017he also knows his base will just take his word for it and not fact check anything he says annafyock ( @ afyock2 ) june 5 , 2017what the fuck is wrong with you ?
jay baruchel ( @ baruchelndg ) june 5 , 2017he meant they should n't be alarmed about increased police presence you fucking massive moron stefanie iris weiss ( @ ecosexuality ) june 5 , 2017your explanation for misquoting him is that he retroactively changed the quote you were misquoting ?
morten verbye ( @ morten ) june 5 , 2017you actual mother fucker .
who the fuck do you think you are , twisting his words like that ?
you are literally disgusting .
ethan lawrence ( @ ethandlawrence ) june 5 , 2017this is the second time the donald has attempted to completely misrepresent the london mayor s words .
on sunday , trump tweeted that khan says there is no reason to be alarmed ?
about the at least seven dead and forty-eight wounded.at least 7 dead and 48 wounded in terror attack and mayor of london says there is `` no reason to be alarmed ! ''
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 4 , 2017through a spokesman , khan made it clear that he has more important things to do than respond to donald trump s ill-informed tweet .
featured image via getty images/screengrab