milwaukee ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump predicted that the united states is on course for a “ very massive recession , ” warning that a combination of high unemployment and an overvalued stock market had set the stage for another economic slump .
“ i think we ’ re sitting on an economic bubble .
a financial bubble , ” the billionaire businessman said in an interview with the washington post published on saturday .
coming off a tough week on the campaign trail in which he made a series of missteps , trump ’ s latest comments bring him back into the limelight ahead of tuesday ’ s important primary in wisconsin where he trails in the polls .
the former reality tv star said that the real u.s. jobless figure is much higher than five percent number released by the u.s. bureau of labor statistics .
“ we ’ re not at 5 percent unemployment , ” trump said .
“ we ’ re at a number that ’ s probably into the twenties if you look at the real number , ” he said , adding that the official jobless figure is “ statistically devised to make politicians — and in particular presidents — look good. ” trump said “ it ’ s a terrible time right now ” to invest in the stock market , offering a more bleak view of the u.s. economy than that held by many mainstream economists .
the interview was bylined by the post ’ s robert costa and famed watergate reporter bob woodward .
a real estate magnate , trump has made appealing to blue-collar workers a hallmark of his bid for the republican nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election , often blaming unemployment on the outsourcing of u.s. jobs and facilities to countries such as china and mexico .
trump vowed in the interview to wipe out the more than $ 19 trillion national debt “ over a period of eight years , ” helped by a renegotiation of trade deals .
“ i ’ m renegotiating all of our deals , the big trade deals that we ’ re doing so badly on , ” he said .
after making controversial statements about abortion last week , trump has shown little sign of heeding calls from fellow republicans to adopt a more presidential tone so as to avoid alienating voters in the november general election if he wins the nomination .
on saturday , he questioned close u. s. ties to saudi arabia and again accused u.s. allies of not pulling their weight in the nato military alliance .
trump told a campaign rally in racine , wisconsin that partners in the north atlantic treaty organization “ are not paying their fair share ” and called the 28-nation alliance “ obsolete. ” “ either they pay up , including for past deficiencies , or they have to get out .
and if it breaks up nato , it breaks up nato , ” trump said .
tuesday ’ s wisconsin nominating contest could be a turning point in the republican race .
trump , 69 , trails his leading rival , u.s .
senator ted cruz , 45 , of texas in the state .
a cruz win would make it harder for trump to reach the number of 1,237 delegates needed to secure the nomination before the republican national convention in july .
the winner will get to claim all of wisconsin ’ s 42 delegates .