nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s election commission said on tuesday that different staff will be in charge of the oct. 17 re-run of the presidential election , after the country s top court last week nullified the result of the august vote .
the supreme court ordered on friday that the vote be re-run within 60 days , saying incumbent president uhuru kenyatta s victory by 1.4 million votes was undermined by irregularities in the process .
kenyatta was not accused of any wrongdoing .
independent electoral and boundaries commission chairman wafula chebukati said in a statement on tuesday that it had appointed for three months a project coordinator and officials to run the information technology , logistics , operations and training as well as the national tallying center during the re-run .
the appointment takes immediate effect , chebukati said .
the appointments were announced hours after opposition leader raila odinga said his coalition would not participate in the re-run unless some officials were removed and its voting technology audited .
chebukati s statement did not mention those who previously held the positions .
kenyatta responded to odinga s demands by saying there was nowhere in law that required the electoral body to consult odinga .
odinga s conditions for participating in the repeat presidential election included the removal of six officials at the election board .
he wants criminal investigations to be opened against them .
you can not do a mistake twice and expect to get different results , odinga told reporters .
a number of the officials of the commission should be sent home , some of them should be investigated for the heinous crimes they committed .
the opposition also said it was planning to file dozens of challenges to results from races lower down the ticket , including legislative and local seats contested in the aug. 8 vote .
the supreme court ruling , the first time in africa that a court had overturned the re-election of a sitting president , was hailed by odinga s supporters as historic .
analysts have said it is likely to lead to some short-term volatility in east africa s biggest economy , but could build confidence in institutions longer-term .
on monday , the election board said it would hold new elections on oct. 17 .
but odinga said he wanted elections held on oct. 24 or 31 instead .
odinga s national super alliance said in a letter to the chairman of the election commission that before the new vote is held , it needs to audit the technology used to conduct august s election and give an assurance it will be transparent in its conduct .
there will be no elections on the 17th of october until the conditions that we have spelt out in the statement are met , odinga said .
kenyatta rebuffed odinga s demands .
there is no legal requirement that raila be consulted .
i was neither consulted .
kenya doesn t belong to one man , he said in a statement sent by his office .
odinga has lost the last three presidential elections .
each time , he has said the vote was rigged against him .
a row over a 2007 poll , which odinga challenged after being declared loser , was followed by weeks of ethnic bloodshed that killed more than 1,200 people .
the opposition also plans to lodge 62 court cases contesting governorship , lawmaker , and local seats , spokeswoman kathleen openda told reuters .
at least 33 court cases were filed contesting election results before the presidential election was annulled , said andrew limo , spokesman for the election board .
the judiciary said in a statement that by tuesday a total 66 cases had been filed before various courts challenging the outcomes of such seats countrywide .
the board received challenges to 189 results in 2013 .