berlin/brussels ( reuters ) - at least 20 countries in the european union will sign up to a new defense pact next week , promoted by france and germany , to fund and develop joint military hardware in a show of unity following britain s decision to quit the bloc .
after years of spending cutbacks in europe and a heavy reliance on the united states through the nato alliance , france and germany hope the accord , to be signed on nov. 13 in brussels , will tie nations into tighter defense collaboration covering troops and weapons .
the permanent structured cooperation , or pesco , could be the biggest leap in eu defense policy in decades and may go some way to matching the bloc s economic and trade prowess with a more powerful military .
but differences remain between paris and berlin over what countries legally bound by the pact should do , eu diplomats said .
france wanted a core group of governments to bring money and military assets to pesco as well as a willingness to intervene abroad .
germany has sought to broaden the pact to make it inclusive , which some experts say could make it less effective .
this has to bring about a higher level of commitment if it is going to work , said a eu official , describing pesco as a defense marriage .
the eu already has plenty of forums for discussion , the official said .
so far france , germany , italy , spain and around 16 other eu countries have pledged to join the pact , which could formally be launched when eu leaders meet in december .
some other members , including denmark , portugal , malta and ireland , have yet to commit themselves publicly .
but it was clear that britain , which intends to leave the bloc following the brexit referendum of june 2016 , would not participate , officials said .
britain has long sought to block eu defense cooperation , fearing it could result in an eu army .
french diplomats said the pact would have several areas where eu governments would agree to work together and pledge funds , including eu military operations , investment and acquiring defense capabilities together as a group .
a german official said the initiative won momentum from french president emmanuel macron s call for a european intervention force in september and u.s. president donald trump s insistence that europe do more for its security .
proposals for pesco include work on a european medical command and a network of logistic hubs in europe , creation of a crisis response center , and joint training of military officers .
a key goal is to reduce the numbers of weapons systems and prevent duplication to save money and improve joint operations .
it could also serve as an umbrella for projects such as a franco-german initiative to design a new fighter jet , and existing bilateral military cooperation agreements , such as the close ties between germany and the netherlands .
efforts under the pact will be closely coordinated with the u.s.-led nato alliance to ensure transparency and avoid any redundancies , the german official said .
one area where nato and eu officials see common ground is in the need for a military zone for free movement of troops and equipment , loosely based on the eu s passport-free travel schengen zone .
i welcome integration to the maximum extent practical .
we obviously want to avoid duplication and maximize transparency , u.s. air force general tod wolters , nato allied air commander , told reuters .
under the plans , the north atlantic treaty organisation would focus on collective defense , while pesco would ensure a quicker and more efficient eu response to events like the 2014 ebola crisis in africa , the official said .
this will not happen in competition with nato , the german official said .