eric zuesse off guardianeven for the post of u.s. president , the preferences of the american people have only a marginal , if any , impact upon the selection of the person to occupy that post.in colorado s republican race to win delegates to the republican national convention for selecting the republican presidential nominee , there was no primary , and there was no caucus.as the republican magazine national review headlined on april 11th , attempting to justify what a republican wag had just headlined as cruz celebrates voterless win : donald trump laid a colorado goose egg because he was disorganized and amateurish .
their argument ( since they campaign for any republican but trump ) was : he lost because he was disorganized and amateurish not because he had been cheated by the party-hierarchy.national review explained that in the process which had been set up by the colorado republican party ( it s set up by each individual state s republican party , not by the national republican party ) , delegates to the national convention would be selected at congressional-district conventions and the republican s [ sic ] state convention , and this was done in order to give colorado s delegates more flexibility , not done in order to require delegates to reflect the republican ( or any other ) electorate in colorado ( since nr doesn t like even its own party s electorate ) .this was the explanation that was provided by that magazine , which backs cruz , and which has been campaigning ferociously against trump .
their article was built upon , and extensively quoted , the justifications put forth by one particular cruz delegate , who said , the grassroots made the decision that ted cruz was the best candidate for us , and the grassroots made the decision to come out for cruz and absolutely swept the table .
he called it our caucus system .
whatever it was , it shut out all rank-and-file republican voters , and left everything to people like himself , who could afford to do this : you have to put in the work , you have to put in the effort , and you have to do it months ahead of time .
in other words : only republican party activists in colorado could participate in selecting the delegates who would participate in selecting the republican nominee .
no one else was allowed to .
their conception of the colorado republican party is that it s only the party s activists ; and , if you re not a republican activist , you have no say.it s as if to say : only people who work in the government can have a say in how the government is to be run .
it s for insiders only and , of course , indirectly it s for whomever pays those insiders and so enables them to put in the work to participate.national public radio had a different take on this matter .
steve inskeep headlined there gop delegate : trump primary wins absolutely irrelevant at convention .
he interviewed curly haughland , a member of the republican national committee who lives in north dakota , and who said : no matter what the popular belief might be , there is no connection between primaries and the actual convention .
well , that s putting it rather bluntly .
haughland also said : cited the gop s convention rules 37 and 38 .
he interprets these convoluted rules to mean that delegates may vote their conscience .
the rules do not explicitly say this .
rule 37 is a detailed explanation of the procedure for roll-call votes .
however , rule 38 does say that no delegate may be bound by the unit rule , meaning that delegates from a state can t all be forced to vote the same way .
another of haughland s points is indisputable : when the convention convenes , he said , the delegates adopt their own rules , which haven t been adopted yet .
there is a standard template for conventions , but delegates could tweak the template , changing the game in any way that they want .
in other words : the national republican committee says that all of the delegates to the republican national convention are allowed to tweak the template , changing the game in any way that they want .
so : the delegates at that convention won t actually be representing anyone but themselves there .
they are entirely free to push for anyone whom they personally want to win the republican u.s. presidential nomination.they re not bound , not even on the first ballot .
they might pretend to be , if they feel a need to put on a show that looks democratic , but any who don t feel the need to make such a pretense , can do whatever they want on the first ballot , just like on any successive ballot .
they are free ; all of them are free .
it s only the electorate who aren t they re not represented , at all.what about on the democratic side ?
wyoming had held its democratic party caucuses on april 9 , and there really were caucuses .
two days later , cnn headlined wyoming democratic caucuses : bernie sanders picks up another win , and reported : bernie sanders won the wyoming democratic caucuses saturday , providing his campaign with one more jolt of momentum before the race against hillary clinton heads east .
even so , he made no gains in clinton s delegate lead , as each earned seven delegates as a result .
on april 12th a youtube video was posted , msnbc morning host admits the whole voting system is rigged after bernie get s cheated !
here the co-hosts had a conversation about the results : sanders beat hillary clinton by twelve points , 56 to 44 , he wins by twelve points .
the accompanying image showed the delegate-count , in this contest that sanders had won by 56 % to 44 % : 18 total .
hillary clinton 11 , bernie sanders 7 .
it wasn t 7 to 7 , after all.though sanders had outscored clinton by 12 % , it was worse than even-steven for him ; he had actually lost by 11 delegates to 7 delegates .
this system is so rigged !
said one host .
there s absolutely no reason any of those people voted , said the other.a hillary clinton supporter was the expert on the panel , and he said , it s not rigged .
these are the rules .
he wasn t given time to explain that fine point or how the rules were necessarily not rigged .
also on april 12th , public radio international s todd zwillich headlined ( falsely ) , six reasons bernie sanders won wyoming , but still tied in the delegate race , and zwillig failed to explain that word tied .
he opened : how , many of you ask , could bernie have won wyoming 56 percent to hillary s 44 percent , but still split the delegates with her 50-50 ?
then , he repeated that there had supposedly been the 7-7 split , but he also said wyoming has a total of 18 delegates ( which obviously isn tthe sum of 7+7 ) and he was also likewise incoherent , all the way through.maybe the rules in the wyoming democratic party are like that ; but , whatever they are , is so convoluted , america s news-media couldn t explain what they were , much less were they able to argue persuasively that this was somehow a democracy.the only thing that s clear is that the electoral system in the united states is so convoluted , so complex and so different from state to state and party to party , that whatever the intent of the writers of america s constitution might have been , the system as it is today , can be successfully gamed and won only by interests who can afford to spend whatever billions of dollars are necessary in order to win .
it s certainly anything but democratic.right now , according to realclear politics , there are only two presidential candidates who are shown repeatedly , and almost consistently , to be preferred by the majority of the u.s. electorate : the democrat bernie sanders is strongly preferred over the republicans trump and cruz , and he is barely preferred over the republican kasich ; and the republican kasich is strongly preferred over the democrat clinton .
( clinton loses strongly to kasich and barely beats cruz , while trump is the weakest general-election candidate of all .
) the strongest general-election candidates are , clearly , sanders in the democratic party , and kasich in the republican party .
in a democracy , those would be the candidates .
throughout the contest thus far , neither of these two has been favored likely to win his respective party s nomination , much less the presidency.whatever america is , it isn t a democracy a one-person-one-vote majority-rule republic .
in fact , the only scientific study that has ever been done of the u.s. political system , finds that it s no democracy at all , but instead an oligarchy , a nation ruled by its aristocracy , its billionaires.it represents them , not the citizenry .
that might not be the theory , but empirically it is the fact .
an oligarchy is the commonest type of dictatorship , and it certainly is never a benevolent dictatorship , even if that phrase is not an oxymoron in itself.to sum up : the u.s. is ruled by and for the corrupters .
it has been like that since at least 1980 .
* * * investigative historian eric zuesse is the author , most recently , of they re not even close : the democratic vs. republican economic records , 1910-2010 , and of christ s ventriloquists : the event that created christianity.read more us election news at : 21st century wire 2016 election files