( this oct. 9 story corrects para 18 to show that person attending concert was likely not kim yo jong ) by hyonhee shin and soyoung kim seoul ( reuters ) - the promotion of north korean leader kim jong un s 28-year-old sister to the country s top decision-making body is a sign he is strengthening his position by drawing his most important people closer to the center of power , experts and officials say .
kim yo jong was named as an alternate member of the politburo within the ruling workers party of korea - the opaque , all-powerful party organ where top state affairs are decided , the north s official media said on sunday .
it makes her only the second woman in patriarchal north korea to join the exclusive club after kim kyong hui , who held powerful roles when her brother kim jong il ruled the country .
since she is a female , kim jong un likely does not see her as a threat and a challenge to his leadership , said moon hong-sik , research fellow at the institute for national security strategy .
as the saying goes blood is thicker than water , kim jong un thinks kim yo jong can be trusted .
unlike her aunt , who was promoted to the politburo in 2012 after serving more than three decades in the party , kim yo jong has risen to power at an unprecedented pace .
kim kyong hui has not been seen since her husband , jang song thaek , once regarded as the no.2 leader in pyongyang , was executed in 2013 .
south korea s spy agency believes she is now in a secluded place near pyongyang undergoing a treatment for an unidentified disease , according to an august briefing to parliament .
jang and his wife are not the only relatives to fall from kim jong un s favor .
kim jong un s estranged half-brother , kim jong nam , was killed with a toxic nerve agent at a malaysian airport in february .
two women are on trial for the murder , which south korean and u.s. officials believe kim jong un s regime was behind .
kim jong nam , who lived in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule and his brother had issued a standing order for his execution , according to some south korean lawmakers .
the smartly dressed kim yo jong , her hair usually pulled back in a ponytail and mostly seen in black suits and black-heeled shoes , made her first debut on state media in december 2011 , seen standing tearfully next to kim jong un at the funeral of their father .
since then , kim has made several appearances with her brother , giggling at concerts , riding a white horse , smiling as she receives flowers on his behalf at state functions .
her youth and bubbly personality seen in state media are in stark contrast to the usually glum generals and ageing party cadres who follow kim jong un on official duties .
having previously only occasionally appeared in the background , the young heiress has moved to the front and center of media photos more recently , assisting her brother at numerous high-profile state events .
at a massive military parade in april to mark the 105th birth anniversary of founding father kim il sung , she was seen rushing out from behind pillars to bring paperwork to her brother as he prepared to give an address .
the same month , she stood alongside him during the unveiling ceremony of a construction project in pyongyang .
in march 2016 , she accompanied kim jong un to a field guidance for nuclear scientists , where he claimed successful miniaturization of nuclear warheads .
kim yo jong s official inclusion in the 30-strong exclusive club of north korea s chief policy makers means her role within the regime will be expanded further , cheong seong-chang , senior fellow at the sejong institute south of seoul .
apart from her age , little is known about kim yo jong .
in february 2011 , south korean tv station kbs showed a woman it identified as kim yo jong and her other brother , kim jong chol , enjoying an eric clapton concert in singapore .
however , a reuters review of those pictures shows it was most likely a different person .
the three , who all reportedly went to school in switzerland , are full blood siblings , born to kim jong il s fourth partner , ko yong hui .
kim jong chol , the oldest of kim jong il s sons , does not involve himself in politics , leading a quiet life in pyongyang where he plays guitar in a band , according to thae yong ho , north korea s former deputy ambassador in london who defected to the south .
in 2014 , kim yo jong was made vice director of the workers party s propaganda and agitation department , which handles ideological messaging through the media , arts and culture .
the position led the u.s. treasury department to blacklist her along with six other north korean officials in january for severe human rights abuses and censorship that concealed the regime s inhumane and oppressive behavior .
last year , south korea s former spy chief said kim yo jong was seen abusing power , punishing propaganda department executives for minor mistakes .
in a north korean state media photo in january 2015 , she was spotted wearing a ring on her fourth finger during a visit to a child care center .
south korean intelligence officials say kim might have wed a schoolmate from the prestigious kim il sung university , but there has been no confirmation of whether she is indeed married or to whom .