clark , philippines ( reuters ) - the timing of u.s. defense secretary jim mattis trip to the philippines this week couldn t have been better , coming just as it celebrated a victory against islamist militants in marawi city - with a critical dose of help from the u.s. military .
but as mattis met president rodrigo duterte on tuesday , five russian warships were parked off the philippines and moscow was preparing to formally hand over thousands of assault rifles , a million rounds of ammunition and 20 army trucks at a public ceremony on wednesday .
duterte , known for his strident anti-american rhetoric , has made no secret of his plans to cultivate ties with america s rivals , russia and china .
those efforts appear to be starting to bear fruit .
just before he met mattis , duterte sat down with russian defense minister sergei shoigu on tuesday , who , like mattis , was attending a gathering of asian defense ministers north of manila .
shoigu signed two military deals , including the procurement of unspecified equipment .
on wednesday , duterte was scheduled to visit a russian anti-submarine ship , the admiral pantaleyev , docked in manila .
u.s .
ambassador sung kim played down any u.s. concerns about duterte s outreach to china and russia and noted that the united states , a former colonial power , was the country s only treaty ally , with far deeper ties in the philippines .
i m not really threatened by this notion that china or russia are providing some military equipment to the philippines , kim told a small group of reporters traveling with mattis .
we have been providing very important equipment to the philippines for many , many years .
the fact that the chinese and the russians have provided some rifles , i m not sure is really such a cause for concern for the united states .
duterte s often profanity-laden tirades against the united states have become his trademark during his year-old presidency , and he has chided washington for treating his country like a dog , despite the longstanding u.s. assistance .
still , duterte s rhetoric has been inconsistent , and he warmly greeted visiting secretary of state rex tillerson in august , calling himself a humble friend of the united states at the time .
on tuesday , he cautiously kept to scripted dialogue at the start of his meeting with mattis , as he welcomed him to the philippines and spoke warmly of ties .
i want to be ( as ) politically correct as possible and i want to be understood .
so reading this speech will be good , he said before reporters were escorted out of the room .
ahead of a visit by u.s. president donald trump to the philippines , the u.s. envoy cited an improvement in tone and substance in bilateral ties over the 10 months since he s been in his post .
president duterte has made clear that even as he pursues improved relations with countries like china and russia , he will continue to focus on making sure that the u.s.-philippines alliance remains strong , kim said .
the same day that mattis landed in the philippines , manila announced the end of five months of military operations in a southern city of marawi held by pro-islamic state rebels , after a fierce and unfamiliar urban war that marked the country s biggest security crisis in years .
the rebel occupation stunned a military inexperienced in urban combat and stoked wider concerns that islamic state loyalists have gained influence among local muslims and have ambitions to use the island of mindanao as a base for operations in southeast asia .
mattis , on his flight to the philippines , commended manila on the operation and on tuesday discussed ways to deepen u.s.-philippines military ties in talks with the philippine defense minister .
it was a tough fight , mattis said during his flight , adding he thought the philippines had sent a very necessary message to the terrorists .
kim said the u.s. military assistance made a huge difference in the battle in marawi , particularly its intelligence support , including with the deployment of gray eagle and p-3 orion aircraft .
i think all of us were surprised by the extent of infiltration by the terrorists into marawi city , he said .
when you encounter a situation like that , you obviously need good intelligence to be able to target key areas and i think that s where our support was quite critical .
on monday night , philippine military chief general eduardo ano said the u.s. technical support tilted the balance because we had a very hard grasp of the situation in the early days until information flowed and helped defeat the militants .
the united states also provided information islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi gave $ 1.5 million in january for the attack on marawi , ano said .
but even on marawi , duterte has also credited u.s. rival china for its assistance .
duterte said it was one of the 100 sniper rifles donated by china that fired the bullet that killed isnilon hapilon , islamic state s emir in southeast asia , on oct. 16 .
the ranger unit conducting the operation said the shot was fired from a heavier weapon mounted on an armored vehicle .
philippine defense secretary delfin lorenzana told reporters on tuesday about the receipt of heavy equipment from china to help rebuild marawi , and also noted the receipt of rifles and ammunition from beijing .
he expected to receive four fast boats from china before the end of the year .
the united states has for decades been the philippines defense treaty ally and its biggest source of hardware and training , providing about $ 1 billion in equipment since 2000 .