tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe is considering calling a snap election for as early as next month to take advantage of his improved approval ratings and disarray in the main opposition party , government and ruling party sources said on sunday .
abe s ratings have recovered to 50 percent in some polls , helped by public jitters over north korea s missile and nuclear tests and chaos in the opposition democratic party , which has been struggling with single-digit support and defections .
abe told executives of his liberal democratic party and its junior coalition partner , the komeito party , that he might dissolve parliament s lower house for a snap poll after the legislature convenes for an extra session from sept. 28 , the sources said .
top ldp and komeito officials will meet on monday to discuss preparations , they added .
until now , it appeared the election would be next autumn , but ... we must always be ready for battle , domestic media quoted komeito party chief natsuo yamaguchi as telling reporters on saturday during a visit to russia .
one option is to hold a snap election on oct. 22 , when three by-elections are scheduled , the sources said .
other possibilities are later in october or after an expected visit by u.s. president donald trump in early november .
abe will probably make a decision after returning from a sept. 18-22 trip to the united states , the sources said .
abe s ratings had sunk below 30 percent in some surveys in july , battered by suspected cronyism scandals and a perception that he had grown arrogant after more than four years in office .
his popularity rebounded somewhat after a cabinet reshuffle in early august and has since been helped by worries over a volatile north korea , which on friday fired a ballistic missile over japan , its second such move in less than a month .
if we have a snap election now , we need to explain it to the public , including how we will cope with the threat from north korea , koichi hagiuda , a senior ldp executive , told nhk .
given that there is no need for a general election until late 2018 , a snap poll could prompt criticism of abe for creating a political vacuum at a time of rising tensions over regional security .
however , an early vote would not only take advantage of democratic party disarray but could also dilute a challenge from an embryonic party that allies of popular tokyo governor yuriko koike , an ex-ldp lawmaker , are trying to form .
abe s coalition would be likely to lose its two-thirds super majority in the lower house but keep a simple majority , political sources have said .
loss of the two-thirds grip could dim prospects of abe achieving his goal of revising japan s pacifist constitution to clarify the military s role , though members of a new conservative party linked to koike might back the change .
any constitutional amendment requires approval by two thirds of both chambers and a majority in a public referendum .
that risk could make abe hesitate .
i am skeptical about the consensus that abe will call a snap election because doing so poses a risk , albeit small , to his agenda of constitutional revision , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .