you can thank obama and all of the democrat race baiters out there for a rise in hate and division .
obama was constantly trying everything he could to stir up racial disunity from day one of his presidency .
from the beer summit to ferguson , obama too the opportunity to stir up racial tension .
now , we have a rise in disturbing crimes like the one below : the nypd s hate crimes task force is investigating after police said a man made an anti-white remark and splashed a liquid in a 13-year-old girl s face , causing her eyes to burn during an attack in queens.the victim was allegedly attacked after getting off a q10 bus at lefferts boulevard and 101st avenue in richmond hill around 3:30 p.m. tuesday.police said the suspect came up behind the girl and when she turned around , he yelled racial remarks and threw the unknown substance on her.it is believed the liquid was some kind of beverage , 1010 wins juliet papa reported.as the teen s eyes burned , sources said her aunt followed the suspect managing to snap a photo him as he ran off northbound on lefferts boulevard toward 97th avenue , cbs2 s reena roy reported.the victim was treated at jamaica hospital.her father , vincent evangelista , said his daughter is feisty and strong , telling 1010 wins juliet papa , she s going to move on from this incident and not let this in any way affect her in the future .
surveillance video shows the man casually walking on the sidewalk and looking over his shoulder .
in his hand is a water bottle , which may have contained the burning substance , roy reported .
normally she travels after school with her buddies , but she was part of an after school program and came back a little later , he said.she was treated at jamaica hospital and expected to be okay .
evangelista said they ve lived in the neighborhood her whole life and won t be changing their lifestyle .
as long as she feels safe taking the bus she can continue taking the bus , he said.police have been scanning the area since the attack and commuters are hoping for a quick arrest .
the police came yesterday here and they went to the liquor store and they checked all the camera , said francisco disla , who works nearby .
i hope they catch him , said kamle dokhie of richmond hill .
i m scared for myself because i travel on the bus all the time so i hope they do something about it fast .
i think that s really scary that he s still on the loose because honestly i don t want him doing anything like that to me or my friends , said resident nandanie shamnarine.the suspect is described by police as a black man , about 30 years old , with a bald head .
he was last seen wearing a dark colored hooded sweatshirt with a red shirt underneath , royal blue pants , and tan and brown boots.anyone with information in regards to this incident is asked to call the nypd s crime stoppers hotline at 1-800-577-tips ( 8477 ) or for spanish , 1-888-57-pista ( 74782 ) .
the public can also submit their tips by logging onto the crime stoppers website or by texting their tips to 274637 ( crimes ) then enter tip577.via : cbs local