berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel said she would prefer a new election to ruling with a minority after talks on forming a three-way coalition failed overnight , but germany s president told parties they owed it to voters to try to form a government .
the major obstacle to a three-way deal was immigration , according to merkel , who was forced into negotiations after bleeding support in the sept. 24 election to the far right in a backlash at her 2015 decision to let in over 1 million migrants .
the failure of exploratory coalition talks involving her conservative bloc , the liberal pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens raises the prospect of a new election and casts doubt about her future after 12 years in power .
merkel , 63 , said she was sceptical about ruling in a minority government , telling ard television : my point of view is that new elections would be the better path .
her plans did not include being chancellor in a minority government , she said after meeting president frank-walter steinmeier .
steinmeier said germany was facing the worst governing crisis in the 68-year history of its post-world war two democracy and pressed all parties in parliament to serve our country and try to form a government .
his remarks appeared aimed at the fdp and the social democrats ( spd ) , who on monday ruled out renewing their grand coalition with the conservatives .
inside our country , but also outside , in particular in our european neighbourhood , there would be concern and a lack of understanding if politicians in the biggest and economically strongest country ( in europe ) did not live up to their responsibilities , read a statement from steinmeier , a former foreign minister who has been thrust centre-stage after taking on the usually largely ceremonial head of state role in march .
steinmeier s intervention suggests he regards a new election - desired by half of germany s voters according to a poll - as a last resort .
the spd has so far stuck to a pledge after heavy losses in the september election not to go back into a merkel-led broad coalition of centre-left and centre-right .
merkel urged the spd to reconsider .
i would hope that they consider very intensively if they should take on the responsibility of governing , she told broadcaster zdf , adding she saw no reason to resign and her conservative bloc would enter any new election more unified than before .
if new elections happened , then ... we have to accept that .
i m afraid of nothing , she said .
business leaders also called for a swift return to talks .
with german leadership seen as crucial for a european union grappling with governance reform and britain s impending exit , fdp leader christian lindner s announcement that he was pulling out spooked investors and sent the euro falling in the morning .
both the euro and european shares later recovered from early selling , while german bond yields steadied near 1-1/2 week lows , as confidence about the outlook for the euro zone economy helped investors brush off worries about the risk of germany going to the polls again soon .
fear of far-right gains earlier , merkel got the strong backing of her cdu leadership .
josef joffe , publisher-editor of germany weekly die zeit said she could rely on cdu support for now , but added : i will not bet on her serving out her entire four-year term .
the main parties fear another election so soon would let the far-right , anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party add to the 13 percent of votes it secured in september , when it entered parliament for the first time .
polls suggest a repeat election would return a similarly fragmented parliament .
a poll published on monday showed a new election would bring roughly the same result as the september election , with the greens set to see the biggest gains .
if germans voted next sunday , merkel s conservatives would get 31 percent , the spd 21 percent , the greens and the afd both 12 percent , the fdp 10 percent and the left party 9 percent , the forsa survey for rtl television showed .
this compares with the election result of 32.9 percent for the conservatives , 20.5 percent for the spd , 12.6 percent for afd , 10.7 percent for fdp , 9.2 percent for the left party and 8.9 percent for the greens .
the failure of coalition talks is unprecedented in germany s post-war history , and was likened by newsmagazine der spiegel to the shock election of u.s. president donald trump or britain s referendum vote to leave the eu - moments when countries cast aside reputations for stability built up over decades .
any outcome in germany is , however , likely to be more consensus driven .
the problem is stagnation and immobility , not instability as in italy , said joffe .
the unravelling of the german talks came as a surprise since the main sticking points - immigration and climate policy - were not seen as fdp signature issues .
responding to criticism from the greens , fdp vice chairman wolfgang kubicki said a tie-up would have been short-lived .
nothing would be worse than to get into a relationship about which we know that it will end in a dirty divorce , he said .
even if the spd or the fdp revisit their decisions , the price for either party to change its mind could be the departure of merkel , who since 2005 has been a symbol of german stability , leading europe through the euro zone crisis .
the inability to form a government caused disquiet elsewhere in europe , not least because of the implications for the euro zone reforms championed by french president emmanuel macron .
germany s political impasse could also complicate and potentially delay the brexit negotiations - britain has just over a year to strike a divorce deal with the eu ahead of an exit planned for march 29 , 2019 .
it s not in our interests that the process freezes up , macron told reporters in paris , adding he had spoken with merkel shortly after the failure of talks .