( reuters ) - republican presidential frontrunner donald trump is seen as not as religious as other republican candidates , but most republicans think he could be a good president anyway , a new nationwide poll found on wednesday .
a pew research center poll found just 44 percent of republican voters thought that trump , who identifies as presbyterian , was very or somewhat religious .
another 24 percent found the thrice-married real estate tycoon not too religious , and 23 percent found him not religious at all .
the poll also found that 56 percent of republican voters thought trump would be a good or great president , even though voters view being religious as an asset for u.s. presidential candidates , especially for republicans .
in contrast , 80 percent of republican voters found contender ben carson , a seventh-day adventist , very or somewhat religious , while 76 percent found that about u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , a southern baptist .
he is running second to trump in recent polls .
only 3 percent of republican voters found cruz and carson not at all religious .
the poll also found that 64 percent of republicans consider having a president who shares their religious beliefs very or somewhat important , compared to 41 percent of democrats .
on the democrat side , 65 percent of democratic voters view former secretary of state hillary clinton , a methodist , as very or somewhat religious , while 47 percent of democrats think that of u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , who is jewish .
candidates are seen as more religious by those in their own party , the poll found .
the biggest partisan gap is in the views of hillary clinton : only 28 percent of republicans think clinton is very or somewhat religious .
the survey also found the share of americans who have reservations about voting for an atheist president has declined .
in 2007 , more than 60 percent of americans said they would be less likely to support an atheist for president .
that number has declined to 51 percent , the poll found .
the survey was conducted between jan. 7 and jan. 14 among a sample of 2009 adults in all 50 states , with a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5 percent for the total sample .
( reporting by mary wisniewski ; editing by jeffrey benkoe ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .