a nervous nancy pelosi responded thursday to criticism from democratic colleagues asking her to step down from her leadership post and president donald trump s subsequent tweet mocking her for helping republicans politically.some republican members have said that it would be good for their party if pelosi remains the top democrat in the house .
these remarks followed heavy criticism from democratic lawmakers of pelosi s leadership following tuesday s special election losses in georgia and south carolina.many within the democratic party are calling for new leadership in other words , nancy needs to go asap ! president trump went on twitter to mockingly signal his support for the pelosi : conservatives like former speaker newt gingrich have been saying they hope nancy pelosi stays on as minority leader of the house she s good for the republican party .
she s definitely on the hot seat right now but in true pelosi fashion , she s oblivious to the reality that it s time to go .
she even said she s a master legislator um , no check out the transcript of her comments at the press conference : so , you want me to sing my praises ?
is that what you re saying ?
why should i ?
well , i m a uh um master legislator , i am a , uh , strategic , politically astute leader , i am a uh , uh , my , uh , uh my leadership is recognized by many around the country and that is why i m able to attract the support that i do , which is essential to our elections , sad to say .
i m very pleased at the cooperation we re doing working with all the , um , social media and small donor community to change how we communicate but also how we attract resources , intellectual and financial , uh , to the party .
i have experience in winning the congress .
when people said to us in 05 , you don t have a chance , be ready for a , uh , permanent republican majority , i said , harry reid and i said , we don t accept that , so we proceeded , we took the president from 58 to 38 , president bush won the election .
but the fact is , they will always make a target .
senator reid was a target , senator daschle was a target , tip o neill was a target , i am a target , and they always want to choose our leaders , and usually they go after the most effective leaders because they want to take us diminish us uh the opportunity that we have .
we have a democratic caucus where members participate in the decisions and right now , the members are putting together our messaging as we go forward .
i could have written something down on the page and said , this is what i think , but we don t do things that way , we listen to members , we re very proud of our , uh , policy and communications committee .
yikes ! ! !
!