jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel s president on sunday turned down a pardon request by an ex-conscript who is serving an serving a 14-month jail term for killing an incapacitated palestinian assailant .
in september , israel s military reduced by four months the 18-month jail term of elor azaria who was caught on videotape shooting dead a palestinian who was lying wounded after taking part in a stabbing attack on other israeli soldiers in the occupied west bank city of hebron in march 2015 .
a statement issued by president reuven rivlin s office said that he had reviewed the plea and after azaria had already received reductions to his sentence , it would not be right to grant a pardon .
the president believes ... that an additional reduction in punishment would undermine the strength of the military , its values , and of the state of israel , part of the statement read .
it added that the president understood that azaria was due to face a parole board shortly and could be released in three months time .
azaria became a right-wing cause celebre in israel , where most jewish men and women are drafted at 18 for military service .
one poll found that nearly half of israeli jews believe any palestinian attacker should be killed on the spot .
azaria said he shot abd elfatah ashareef because he feared the palestinian could carry out another attack , but a court-martial found contradictions in the testimony and convicted him of manslaughter .
the verdict was upheld on appeal .
right-wing ministers and lawmakers , including defence minister avigdor lieberman , criticized rivlin s decision , saying he should have pardoned azaria .
president rivlin had an opportunity to end an affair that has rocked israeli society , lieberman wrote .
beyond the price that the soldier and his family have paid ...
i believe ... that ( there is a need ) to heal the rifts in society ... we must not forget that this was a case of ( azaria ) , an exemplary soldier ( facing ) a terrorist who came to kill .
after being discharged from the military , azaria went to prison in august and appealed to the armed forces chief , lieutenant-general gadi eizenkot , to reconsider his sentence , citing the cost to his family of the acrimonious trial .
in a response letter , the military informed azaria that eizenkot had decided to cut the jail term on grounds of compassion and mercy ... taking into account your past as a combat soldier in an operational theater .
but the letter also faulted the former soldier over grave actions for which you did not take responsibility and for which you did not express regret , adding that the important messages in the court rulings should be heeded .
the palestinian government said azaria s jail term had given israeli soldiers a green light to kill with impunity .
under israeli law , manslaughter can carry a maximum 20 years behind bars .
military prosecutors had asked the appeals court to impose a three- to five-year sentence on azaria , but were turned down .