washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. defense department needs to better manage its finances if it hopes to rebuild and modernize the u.s. armed forces , the government accountability office said in a report released on tuesday .
the pentagon needs to give its decision makers and weapons buyers more accurate budget and cost information so they can make better decisions as they modernize weapons systems , the report said .
u.s. president donald trump ’ s $ 4.1 trillion fiscal 2018 budget proposal included $ 603 billion in defense spending for the department of defense as well as nuclear weapons programs at the department of energy and other national defense priorities .
the gao report comes as u.s. defense secretary jim mattis presented lawmakers in the house and senate with a $ 33 billion wish list of unfunded military needs .
the report said despite increased defense funding under trump , efforts “ underway to rebuild readiness for portions of their military forces ” are at risk without more comprehensive planning efforts at the pentagon .
the federal agency , which oversees government resources , also said the defense department could police global hot spots with less expensive and more numerous regular troops instead of u.s. special forces .
“ dod has not taken steps to examine whether additional opportunities exist to reduce the high demand on these ( special ) forces by sharing some of their responsibilities with conventional forces , ” the report said .
u.s. president donald trump ’ s fiscal 2018 budget proposal gave the military a modest boost to their budget , 3 percent more than what former president barack obama had sought in his long-term budget plan .
the $ 574.5 billion for the department of defense would go to warfighting readiness and critical program requirements .
gao said it has made approximately 3,100 recommendations to dod since 2006 .
of these about 1,037 have not been acted on , including 78 priority recommendations .
the report released on tuesday made no new recommendations .