nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s election board must give access to election returns to parties challenging president uhuru kenyatta s victory in last month s presidential election , the supreme court ruled on wednesday .
access to the original vote tally forms and a copy of the voter register must immediately be granted to the petitioners , a former lawmaker and two human rights activists , the judges said .
they denied a request for access to the electronic devices used in vote counting .
the legal challenges come after the court nullified kenyatta s august victory and ordered a new election , an unprecedented move in africa .
the current proceedings may be the last chance for legal scrutiny of the second election , held on oct. 26 .
the protracted political crisis has stirred fears for the stability of the east african nation , a regional hub for trade , diplomacy and security .
the court is on a tight schedule .
it has until nov. 20 to rule on the two petitions .
if the election result is upheld , kenyatta will be sworn in on nov. 28 .
chief justice david maraga told the petitioners they must file a report on their findings from the returns by thursday afternoon .
after wednesday s ruling , lawyers for the petitioners began presenting their cases , arguing the poll s outcome is void because the election board did not hold fresh nominations after the earlier poll was invalidated , among other reasons .
our position is you can not have a fresh presidential election without a fresh round of nominations , said benjamin musyoki , a lawyer for former legislator harun mwau .
the lawyer for the two activists , julie soweto , also argued that voter turnout - just 39 percent , because opposition leader raila odinga boycotted the election - required the court to consider whether the election conformed to the spirit and intent of the constitution .
violence before and during the election also marred the process , soweto said .
she also referred to remarks by the election board chair the week before polling - he said he could not guarantee the vote would be free and fair , citing interference from politicians and threats of violence against his colleagues [ l8n1mt0xk ] .
the process in the supreme court , however , may not repair the rifts opened by this year s prolonged elections season .
a poll released by research firm ipsos found that 80 percent of kenyans think the country is going in the wrong direction .
pessimism about the country s path was at a record high - higher than during drought and food shortages earlier this year or a prolonged teachers strike in 2015 .
human rights groups say at least 66 people have died in election violence , mostly at the hands of police cracking down on opposition supporters .
electioneering has also disrupted east africa s richest economy .
the government lowered its forecast for 2017 economic growth to 5.5 percent , partly because of the political uncertainty .
the supreme court was created by a 2010 constitution that followed a violent political crisis three years earlier .
around 1,200 people were killed in ethnic clashes after a disputed election in 2007 .
however , analysts said the moves by kenya s court may embolden other judiciaries in africa .
this month , liberia s supreme court halted a presidential run-off until the election board investigates claims of fraud in the first round of voting .