outspoken british actress and columnist asks brilliant question : any mosques lit up in the colors of the belgian flag ?
she is dead on ( no pun intended ) about these refugees flooding europe and attempting to flood ( with the aid of obama and democrats like hillary clinton ) america.katie hopkins has been told to show some respect for those affected by the brussels terrorist attacks , after blaming what happened on refugees and german chancellor angela merkel.look at you all .
gawping at pictures of death .
fascinated by the chaos you brought to our peaceful countries .
you the left disgust me .
katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016on a more positive note , the jihadi 's of brussels just put donald trump much closer to the white house .
katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016the controversial columnist said anyone who supported those fleeing war-torn countries was also in the frame for the blasts , which has so far claimed 34 lives.any mosques lit up in the colours of the belgium flag ?
no thought not .
just celebrations in prayer houses country-wide # religionofmurder katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016the 41-year-old told her 628,000 twitter followers : next time you hear someone say we are safer in the eu remember brussels .
seen as the heart of europe , it is now jihadi central .
katie continued : how can you separate the human from the political .
merkel and her ilk blew up brussels # brexit.how can you separate the human from the political .
merkel and her ilk- blew up brussels .
# brexit katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016how about we cut from pics of dead bodies on the metro to more boats , happily crossing the med .
liberal left sh * t at joining the dots katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016 how about we cut from pics of dead bodies on the metro to more boats , happily crossing the med .
liberal left s * * * at joining the dots .
@ kthopkins totally agree xx danielle mason ( @ daniellemasonuk ) march 22 , 2016katie added : every one of you who said refugees are welcome , if you said let them in .
you are responsible for brussels .
and you still can t see .
human traffickers setting up new cargo ship route from libya to italy .
are you ready brussels ?
open borders=open season for isis # brexit katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) march 22 , 2016her remarks were quickly met by angry users who blasted her for the insensitive tweets .
to those of us who thought what @ kthopkins has had to go through recently would open up a shred of humanity , sense or empathy have been disappointed , one person wrote.via : express uk