tallinn ( reuters ) - ireland dismissed british proposals for the irish border after brexit as unconvincing on friday , a day after the eu chief negotiator said they amounted to a demand the bloc suspend its laws for britain .
but british foreign secretary boris johnson , speaking at a meeting of eu foreign ministers in tallinn , said a solution was not beyond the wit of man .
the border between the irish republic and the british province of northern ireland is currently open to free flow of goods , being an internal eu frontier .
but when britain leaves the bloc , it will become subject to eu customs regulation .
establishment of a physical border could revive security concerns , 20 years after a peace deal involving dublin that ended a long civil conflict in northern ireland and led to the end of army and police checkpoints .
britain has proposed an invisible border without border posts or immigration checks between the two after brexit , but given no firm proposals how the customs frontier between northern ireland and the republic would be monitored .
eu brexit negotiator michel barnier said on thursday british proposals would undermine the bloc s single market .
he said britain in effect wanted the eu to suspend the application of its laws as a test case for broader eu-british customs regulations .
this will not happen .
ireland s foreign minister simon coveney told reuters on friday : the maintenance of an invisible border on the island of ireland would be a lot easier if britain were to remain in the customs union .
that is something prime minister theresa may has said would not happen , though her cabinet is split on the issue and some have floated the idea of a transition period after brexit that would still leave britain in the eu customs union .
britain is the one leaving , they have an obligation to try and design unique solutions .... we can not have a physical border on the island of ireland again that creates barriers between communities , coveney said .
we can not and will not support that and nor will the european union , he said , adding that britons wanted to avoid a hard border too .
the problem is that the solutions to actually get us there so far haven t been convincing .
negotiations to extricate britain from the eu have seen a slow start and brussels has repeatedly warned that time is running out to answer complex questions before britain is due to leave in march , 2019 .
the bloc , which will have 27 member states after brexit , wants to solve key exit issues before opening talks about any future trade cooperation with britain .
london says divorce talks should run in parallel with discussions about future ties .
but , with slow progress on agreeing britain s divorce bill , ensuring expatriates rights and deciding on the irish border , the eu now doubts it will give a green light in october for starting talks about the post-brexit order , as had been planned .
the eu worries london may try to use the irish border as a template for a broader trade pact with the eu after brexit .
it believes britain s proposals risk affecting the bloc s single market and customs union .
the european parliament s chief brexit speaker , guy verhofstadt , dismissed britain s plans for an invisible border as surreal .
we are nowhere on border issues , one senior eu official said .
but , asked if he was confident that britain would get a deal with the eu , johnson said in tallinn : absolutely , with rock solid confidence .
he reiterated london s stance that the divorce talks should run together with discussion about the post-brexit relationship .
article 50 makes it very clear that the discussion about the exit of a country must be taken in context with discussion of the future arrangements .
and that s what we re going to do , he said .