geneva ( reuters ) - a united nations human rights panel said on wednesday it had credible allegations that north korean authorities had tortured or mistreated children forced to return from abroad or held in detention .
it also called on pyongyang to halt child labor in farming , mining and construction , as well as discrimination against youth for the crimes of their parents .
the u.n. committee on the rights of the child , which reviewed pyongyang s record last month , voiced deep concern at what it called the ideological indoctrination in its education system and malnutrition among north korean children .
we do have reports which are credible that children are at least to a certain extent tortured or exposed to violent treatment by the authorities in various circumstances , panel member kirsten sandberg told a news briefing .
this might be when they return to the country after having tried to stay abroad and then are being forcibly returned .
it happens on the border , we ve heard reports about violent treatment , she said .
this involved mainly north korean children returning from china , sandberg said , adding : we also have reports of pregnant mothers coming back or being forcibly returned who are not to allowed to keep their babies .
we also have reports of violence against children in detention , she said .
tensions in the region and beyond , especially with the united states , have risen considerably in recent months as north korea conducted a series of tests of its medium- and long-range ballistic missiles , some of which flew over japan , as well as its sixth nuclear test on sept. 3 .
the u.n. panel , in a session on sept. 21 , asked the north korean delegation how songbun , a system ranking citizens based on family loyalty to the ruling dynasty , affected children s access to education , health and food .
the north korean delegation replied that this was an imaginary concept invented by hostile forces .
in its findings , the u.n. panel said it had reports of discrimination against students based on their social status and political views of their parents .
north korea has a serious nutrition problem , sandberg said .
there is still an over 40 percent rate of under-nourishment .
this also a serious underlying cause for child mortality , also mortality of their mothers .
and children under five years continue to suffer from high rates of stunting and wasting , she said .
children are told to volunteer extensive periods of their day to work on farms and mines , collect wood in the forests , repair railroads , clean statues and participate in forestation initiatives and construction projects , the u.n. panel said , noting these were referred to as economic assignments .
the watchdog , composed of 18 independent experts , also called on north korea to allow children freedom of expression , including access to the internet .
north korea told the u.n. panel last month that international sanctions imposed on it over its nuclear and ballistic missile programs would endanger the survival of north korean children .
there was no immediate reaction from pyongyang to the findings , but a north korean diplomat in geneva told reuters just before they were released : we are committed to dialogue .