the democrat motto : whatever it takes update : an eyewitness stated that one of the alleged klansmen was black.lol i wonder who on the democrat side who set this up .
cause these `` kkk '' members were silent .
not trump supporters pic.twitter.com/q2hf5ikezh kevin smith ( @ sbstud11 ) february 24 , 2016 lol i wonder who on the democrat side who set this up .
cause these kkk members were silent .
not trump supportersand of the `` clan '' members is black so i do n't buy it for a second lol kevin smith ( @ sbstud11 ) february 24 , 2016and of the clan members is black so i don t buy it for a second lol it s hard to tell in the photo ( i didn t notice till i got closer ) but the one on the right had a black hand @ kristinnfr it 's hard to tell in the photo ( i did n't notice till i got closer ) but the one on the right had a black hand kevin smith ( @ sbstud11 ) february 24 , 2016a photo taken outside a nevada republican caucus site has stirred controversy as it was presented un-factchecked as being of two trump supporters dressed as kkk members despite it being known that leftists have a history of dressing as klansmen to protest trump.the person who posted the photo , krystal heath , the general manager of a nevada radio station , said the photo was sent to her by a friend .
forty-five minutes after posting the photo she admitted she did not know for certain if they were actually trump supporters but the damage was done. # trump supporters dressed as kkk outside # nvcaucus location .
pic.twitter.com/ipfpceghqw krystal heath ( @ thefriddle ) february 24 , 2016 kkk pic was taken tonight at cimaron-memorial high school .
volunteers asked caucus goers to ignore them .
# nvcaucus two other photos were posted to twitter , again second hand , by nevada state senate minority leader aaron d. ford , who is african-american .
so , friends of mine observed this at a republican caucus location this evening .
i ll admit , i m boiling right now .
?
so , friends of mine observed this at a republican caucus location this evening .
i 'll admit , i 'm boiling right now .
pic.twitter.com/badftduyxm sen. aaron d. ford ( @ aarondfordnv ) february 24 , 2016https : //twitter.com/drzacrobbins/status/702331551158128641in september leftist protesters dressed as klansmen gathered outside trump tower in new york city .
that protest received nationwide coverage by the media.via : gateway pundit