los angeles ( reuters ) - a former california state senator accused of taking cash bribes and gifts from a businessman and from undercover fbi agents posing as hollywood filmmakers to steer legislation in their favor has agreed to plead guilty to mail fraud , federal prosecutors said on monday .
ronald calderon , 58 , a democrat indicted in february 2014 on two dozen counts of bribery , fraud , money laundering and other charges , will enter his guilty plea this week , a spokesman for the u.s. attorney ’ s office in los angeles said .
according to the plea agreement , prosecutors have agreed not to ask for a sentence of more than 70 months , although the statutory maximum for the charge is 20 years .
calderon ’ s attorney , mark geragos , could not be reached for comment .
the former lawmaker ’ s brother , former state assemblyman thomas calderon , pleaded guilty last week to a federal money-laundering charge in connection with the case .
the calderon brothers were members of a political dynasty going back several decades in california before they were ensnared in the federal investigation .
“ the calderons have acknowledged their roles in a bribery scheme in which money for them and their families alone was driving legislation that would have benefited only a few individuals , ” u.s. attorney eileen decker said .
the 2014 indictment accused ronald calderon of taking bribes from california hospital owner michael drobot to preserve a legislative loophole that allowed drobot to defraud the state ’ s healthcare system out of hundreds of millions of dollars .
according to the plea agreement , filed in u.s. district court in los angeles on monday , drobot hired calderon ’ s son while he was in college , paying him some $ 30,000 for three summers of work .
drobot has agreed to plead guilty to separate federal charges and is cooperating in the case , prosecutors have said .
calderon was also charged with accepting money from undercover fbi agents , who he thought worked for an independent hollywood movie studio , in exchange for supporting an expansion of film tax credits in california .
according to the plea agreement , calderon had the undercover agent hire his daughter for $ 3,000 a month , make a $ 5,000 payment toward his son ’ s tuition , pay for $ 12,000 in las vegas trips and give $ 25,000 to a nonprofit group the lawmaker and his brother used to pay themselves .
in exchange , calderon agreed to vote for the film tax legislation and hire the undercover agent ’ s purported girlfriend for his staff , according to the plea agreement .