strasbourg ( reuters ) - the european parliament proposed on wednesday to reduce eu funds to turkey that are linked to its stalled bid to join the bloc , a call eu leaders are expected to back given a deteriorating relations with ankara .
of the 217 million euros set to go to turkey for reforms , infrastructure and agriculture in 2018 , eu lawmakers agreed to cut up to 80 million euros .
of that , 50 million euros should be cut at first , with a further 30-million-euro reduction if turkey does not improve its human rights record .
turkey is not respecting freedom of speech , freedom of expression , human rights and is drifting further away from european democratic standards , said centre-right lawmaker siegfried muresan , who led the budget discussions .
we can not pretend we don t see that , he told reuters , emphasizing that the cuts would affect only the money earmarked for political reforms , not for infrastructure and farming .
eu leaders must still sign off on the cuts but are expected to do so after an agreement at a summit last week to reduce the so-called pre-accession aid that is meant to help eu candidate countries prepare for membership .
german chancellor angela merkel , who pressed for action on turkey during her re-election campaign , described turkish behavior on human rights as unacceptable in brussels last thursday .
the european parliament s decision came on the first day of the trial in istanbul of 11 human rights activists in turkey , including a german and a swedish national .
at the eu summit , merkel said that the rule of law in turkey was moving in the wrong direction , in a reference to the large-scale purge that president tayyip erdogan has carried out following a failed coup attempt in july 2016 .
while the eu condemned the coup attempt , the scope of erdogan s response , his detention of u.s. and european citizens including dual nationals , and his jibes at germany for what he has called nazi-like behavior have soured eu-turkey ties .
erdogan says the purges across society are necessary to maintain stability in a nato country bordering iraq and syria .
launched in 2005 after decades of seeking the formal start of an eu membership bid , ankara s membership negotiations were always sensitive for france and germany because of turkey s status as a large , mainly muslim country .
they are not officially frozen , despite calls from austria to formally scrap turkey s eu membership program .
that is in part because the eu relies on ankara to take in syrian refugees in return for billions of euros of aid .
but a majority of eu countries , led by germany and the netherlands , say it no longer makes sense to fund political reforms in turkey when formal eu membership talks have not taken place since last year .
aside from money that the eu gives turkey as part of its 2016 migration deal , ankara was set to receive 4.4 billion euros from the eu between 2014 and 2020 .
some eu governments want that money to go to non-governmental groups in turkey , not to ankara .