houston ( reuters ) - an activist investor in chevron corp said on monday it filed a shareholder resolution that would require the oil producer to report on the feasibility of ending operations in myanmar , where a crackdown on minority rohingya muslims has been decried by the united states as ethnic cleansing .
the resolution , filed last week by islamic finance firm azzad asset management , pushes chevron s board of directors to consider how it could avoid risks posed by doing business with governments complicit in genocide or crimes against humanity .
azzad filed a similar resolution at the last chevron shareholder meeting , garnering support from 6 percent of votes cast .
more than 600,000 rohingya muslims have fled to southern bangladesh since the end of august following a campaign by myanmar security forces in response to attacks by militants in rakhine state .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson and united nations officials have decried the crackdown as a form of genocide .
myanmar denies committing atrocities against the rohingya .
chevron , the second-largest u.s.-based oil producer , does business in myanmar through a subsidiary , unocal myanmar offshore co ltd .
it has projects that include a minority interest in natural gas production and a pipeline , according to the company s website .
in a statement to reuters on monday , chevron spokeswoman melissa ritchie said the company values the ongoing dialogue with the stockholders on this critical issue of violence in rakhine state , myanmar .
we will continue to work with other u.s. companies and the government to promote the value of u.s. investment in myanmar and the need to foster a business environment that respects human rights .
chevron has the option of accepting the proposal or asking the u.s. securities and exchange commission to allow it to block it .
if chevron moves to block , azzad would have the chance to appeal to the sec .
chevron s annual meeting is slated for next spring .
the filing comes as two reuters journalists were arrested by myanmar officials last week .
government officials accuse the pair of violating the country s colonial-era officials secrets act .
the arrests have been criticized by several governments as well as journalists and human rights groups .
chevron declined to directly comment on the arrests .