sarasota , fla. ( reuters ) - the pundits said he never had a chance : he was a high-powered u.s. businessman who had never run for office .
he largely financed his own campaign .
he took a hard line on illegal immigration and obamacare .
his attacks on islam were controversial .
six years ago that businessman , rick scott , won florida ’ s republican primary for governor .
he then went on to take the general election .
now in his second term , scott is in many ways a prototype for donald trump ’ s u.s. presidential campaign .
scott ’ s success in florida is something that should give serious pause to marco rubio , a u.s. senator from the state who hopes to use it as a springboard to unseat trump as the leading contender for the republican nomination to the nov. 8 election .
florida ’ s march 15 primary , to select a wealth of delegates to the republicans ’ july nominating convention , is likely the final chance for rubio , and perhaps the republican establishment , to halt the furious advance of trump , a billionaire businessman with homes in new york and florida .
trump ’ s two leading strategists in florida have strong ties to scott , rebutting the commonly held presumption among trump ’ s critics that his campaign is all about the former reality tv show host ’ s celebrity and popular appeal and not about tactics .
“ nobody thought he had a shot .
nobody ! ” said joe gruters , a top republican party official in the state who was an early ally of scott and who now co-chairs trump ’ s florida effort .
“ the establishment threw everything you can imagine at rick scott. ” a first-term senator , rubio has finished behind trump in early-nomination contests to date .
rubio grew up in miami , and his cuban-american heritage could give him an edge with the state ’ s burgeoning latino population .
but rubio is still climbing uphill in the state race .
while he has benefited from the withdrawal from the race of another florida son , ex-governor jeb bush , he trails trump significantly .
a quinnipiac university survey released on thursday showed trump with 44 percent of the republican vote , with rubio far behind at 28 percent .
the good news for rubio is that it ’ s the highest level of support he has had in the state , suggesting that he is moving upward when he needs it the most .
but it may not be enough with many voters having cast early and absentee ballots .
“ when you have such a commanding lead like trump has in all these states , you have the ability to focus on states like florida where you know you can deliver the knockout blow , ” gruters said .
while other republicans campaigned in early-voting states , trump served notice he was taking winning florida seriously , methodically holding large-scale events across florida , including one in october in miami , home to both rubio and bush .
when bush and rubio came to florida at all , it was largely to raise money in closed-door fundraisers .
“ there ’ s a big difference between when you have 10,000 people showing up to a rally , hearing the battle cry and getting motivated , ” gruters said , “ than when you are meeting people for $ 10,000-a-plate dinners where you exclude the rank-and-file members. ” bush ’ s campaign was in such poor shape near the end that when a reuters correspondent visited his state campaign office in tampa , it was deserted .
all of the staff and volunteers had been sent to south carolina for a primary vote in an unsuccessful last-ditch effort to rescue his presidential bid .
gruters is vice-chairman of the state republican party , making him perhaps the highest-ranking party official in the country to embrace trump .
he heads trump ’ s florida effort with susie wiles of jacksonville , who ran scott ’ s 2010 campaign .
he said he sees strong similarities between scott and trump .
“ it ’ s not unusual for florida to elect these non-establishment guys , ” he said .
scott was the former ceo of columbia/hca , the healthcare giant that ultimately settled a massive billing fraud case brought by the u.s. government during his tenure .
when he entered the 2010 republican primary , the assumption was that it was attorney general bill mccollum ’ s race to lose .
financing his own campaign , scott ran hard to mccollum ’ s right , supporting arizona ’ s then highly controversial anti-immigration law and releasing an ad that ripped president barack obama for defending a possible mosque in new york near the site of the sept. 11 , 2001 , attacks .
like trump , scott portrayed himself as a businessman better suited to repairing the distressed economy than the republican establishment was .
“ they both bring the same kind of attitude to government , ” said susan macmanus , a political science professor at the university of south florida , “ that a business person can run government better than professional politicians. ” trump has contributed $ 125,000 to scott ’ s political-action committee since 2012 .
some have speculated scott could serve as trump ’ s vice presidential nominee .
but in what may serve as another lesson for trump , scott remains a highly polarizing figure .
his relationship with the state legislature has been prickly — and his approval ratings have never crossed 50 percent .
“ he entered politics with half the state ’ s voters liking him , ” macmanus said .
“ he ’ s never gone much beyond that. ” bush ’ s departure from the presidential race has left rubio flying the establishment flag .
his local supporters say it already has made a huge difference , both in terms of support and money .
“ ( bush ) was dividing votes , ” tom rooney , a u.s. congressman from florida who is chairing rubio ’ s campaign here , told reuters .
“ we don ’ t have that issue anymore. ” the rubio campaign , in florida as elsewhere , is not courting trump ’ s voters .
it believes they are unlikely to switch .
instead , rooney said , the idea is to woo the 60-65 percent of the party that so far has not supported trump .
to that end , rubio has been playing catch-up , opening new offices and securing a bevy of endorsements from local politicians .
but rooney concedes while rubio has consoled himself with second-place finishes in places such as iowa and south carolina , that will not be enough in florida , especially given that the winner gets all of the state ’ s 99 delegates .
“ when we get into the winner-take-all states , ” rooney said , “ you can ’ t come in second and say you ’ re doing well. ” ( reporting by james oliphant ; editing by howard goller ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .