dinesh d souza s hillary s america will debut in theaters in july .
clinton cash is a documentary that investigates donations made to the clinton foundation by foreign entities , paid speeches made by bill and hillary clinton , and the clintons personal enrichment since leaving the white house in 2001 .
it also debuts this summer .
and now , weiner exploring the life of a world class narcissist who just happens to be married to hillary s top aide and special friend who is also tied to hillary s email scandal investigation , huma abedin .
with so many scandalous movies surrounding the life of corrupt hillary debuting this spring and summer , it s hard to know what to see first .
we only have one question .
did filmmaker , mr. kriegman credit andrew breitbart for exposing ( pun intended ) the truth about anthony weiner ? mr .
kriegman s careful chronicling of mr. weiner s campaign is poised to prompt a much broader reassessment of a tabloid-tarred politician .
weiner , a feature-length documentary by mr. kriegman and elyse steinberg , will be released on may 20 , amid one of the most contentious presidential elections in memory , and it may be the most intimate and provocative portrait of a political race since the war room .
mr. weiner whose moth-to-the-flame instinct toward exposure led in part to his resignation from congress in 2011 after admitting he had lied about online liaisons with women granted extraordinary access to mr. kriegman , in exchange for the occasional use of his footage during the campaign .
the filmmaker agreed to step out of the room whenever mr. weiner asked.and yet there is mr. kriegman in the back of a sport utility vehicle , filming as mr. weiner tries to persuade his wife , huma abedin , to appear at a primary-night party where sydney leathers , mr. weiner s erstwhile sexting partner , is lurking outside .
mr. kriegman is inside the couple s apartment at breakfast time as ms. abedin , a frozen smile on her face , confides to the camera that she is living a nightmare .
there are startling moments of mr. weiner analyzing his own transgressions ( he calls them the things ) and facing teary-eyed staff members .
hours after mr. weiner s campaign is stricken by revelations of new online infidelities , the film finds husband and wife alone in a conference room , staring at each other for what may be the longest and most painful onscreen marital silence this side of an ingmar bergman film .
the door closes , and i m filming , and i m riveted by what s happening , mr. kriegman recalled in an interview last month .
but i m definitely thinking to myself : i can t believe i m standing here right now .
he almost never got the chance .
mr. kriegman had known mr. weiner for years , serving as chief of staff in his district office .
after a decade in politics , he began pursuing a film career , earning credits on mtv and pbs .
he and ms. steinberg , who are both 36 , and previously collaborated on a documentary about prison reform , came to view mr. weiner as an ideal subject.via : nyt s