ottawa ( reuters ) - canadian prime minister justin trudeau broke some conflict of interest rules when he accepted a vacation last year on the aga khan s private island , the ethics watchdog said on wednesday , the first time a prime minister has been found to have committed such a transgression .
while the finding could tarnish trudeau s popularity half-way into his mandate , he does not face any penalties .
conflict of interest and ethics commissioner mary dawson said trudeau contravened a rule on gifts when he accepted the use of the island in march and december 2016 , while there were ongoing official dealings with the aga khan and the aga khan foundation canada was registered to lobby trudeau s office .
the vacations accepted by mr. trudeau or his family could reasonably be seen to have been given to influence mr. trudeau in his capacity as prime minister , dawson said .
while trudeau says the aga khan is a family friend , dawson found the exception for gifts from friends did not apply .
trudeau said he accepted her report and would clear future vacations with the watchdog .
i take full responsibility for it .
we need to make sure that the office of the prime minister is without reproach , trudeau said .
trudeau and his family vacationed on the island during the holidays in late december 2016 into january this year .
members of his family visited in march 2016 .
trudeau has come under fire from the opposition , who have said the luxury bahamas vacation was inappropriate and showed the liberal government is out of touch with average canadians .
the opposition has also accused finance minister bill morneau of being in a conflict of interest for not putting his assets in a blind trust .
he has since said he will do so and has divested his stock in his family business .
trudeau says he has known the aga khan , prince shah karim al husseini , since childhood .
the aga khan , the title held by the leader of the ismaili branch of shi ite islam , was a pallbearer at the funeral of justin s father , former prime minister pierre elliott trudeau .
trudeau also contravened the rules when he and his family traveled in the aga khan s private helicopter last december and when his family traveled on a non-commercial aircraft chartered by the aga khan in march 2016 , dawson said .
however , she found no evidence trudeau discussed any parliamentary business with the aga khan or his representatives , or participated in any related debates or votes .