kiev/chisinau ( reuters ) - the powerful head of moldova s ruling party vlad plahotniuc on thursday accused russian authorities of harassing him and other officials with dozens of bogus legal cases , ratcheting up a long-running diplomatic row between the two countries .
plahotniuc was charged in absentia by russian investigators this week of orchestrating the attempted murder of a banker in london in 2012 , according to russian media outlets .
without referring to any particular case , plahotniuc told reuters that russian officials had sought to frame him to put him on international law enforcement watch lists .
plahotniuc expects further retaliation after the moldovan parliament on thursday passed a law to prevent the dissemination of foreign fake news , on russian-language and other channels .
russian security services are falsely accusing us of ethnic , political and ideological hatred , murder , theft , virtually anything they could think of , he said by email through a representative .
they have seen their attempts failing so far , thus , they already went on with tougher and more explicit abuses .
the russian foreign ministry and general prosecutor s office did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
maria zakharova , the russian foreign ministry spokeswoman , at a briefing in november accused the moldovan government and lawmakers of some openly anti-russian actions and hampering attempts by moldova s president to foster closer ties .
nevertheless , russia is open to long-term development of friendly , partner relations with a neutral moldova , relations based on long-standing historical ties between our peoples , she said .
ex-soviet moldova is politically divided between a pro-western government , which favors closer integration with the european union , and russian-backed president igor dodon .
moldova and russia have been embroiled in a series of spats this year .
the chisinau government in march accused russia s security apparatus of seeking to derail a moldovan probe into a russian-led money laundering operation by harassing moldovan officials as they traveled to or through russia .
plahotniuc said that behavior continued in recent months because of ongoing investigations into the case known locally as the russian laundromat .
russia s behavior toward my colleagues and me is an explicit act of blackmail and political harassment .. abusive and illegal behavior , which will not change our commitment to the democratic and european development of moldova , he said .
the moldovan parliament adopted a bill on thursday aimed at combating foreign propaganda , banning television channels from airing news and analytical programs from countries that have not signed up a european broadcasting agreement , such as russia .
nobody is banning any channels from any particular country .
this is not a question of banning channels from broadcasting , but about banning specific programs whose purpose is manipulation , propaganda and disinformation , the author of the bill , mp serdjiu sirbu , told parliament .
dodon said he would refuse to sign the bill into law .
under no circumstances will i sign a bill limiting the broadcasting of russian tv channels in the republic .
this document contradicts all the european norms of freedom of speech , as well as the constitution of moldova , he said .