washington ( reuters ) - donald trump was not in the room during u.s. president barack obama ’ s final state of the union speech , but the republican presidential front-runner was a looming presence nonetheless .
both obama ’ s speech on tuesday and , for that matter , the republican response by south carolina governor nikki haley , took pains to rebuke trump , the real estate billionaire whose red-hot rhetoric has endeared him to some and dismayed others in the campaign for the nov. 8 presidential election .
obama and haley , although from different parties , offered a defense of establishment politics , a plea for optimism and a quest for common ground .
obama seemed to refer specifically to trump ’ s call for a temporary ban on muslim immigration following a deadly shooting attack last month in san bernardino , california , by a couple authorities said had been radicalized .
“ we need to reject any politics that targets people because of race or religion .
this isn ’ t a matter of political correctness , ” obama said .
trump has mounted much of his insurgent candidacy on the notion of america losing ground , both economically and in terms of global influence .
obama rejected that idea outright .
“ it ’ s easier to be cynical , ” obama said , “ to accept that change isn ’ t possible , and politics is hopeless , and to believe that our voices and actions don ’ t matter. ” soon after obama concluded his remarks in the chamber of the house of representatives , trump tweeted : “ the state of the union speech was one of the most boring , rambling and non-substantive i have heard in a long time. ” while consistently criticizing obama ’ s record , haley , the daughter of indian immigrants and a potential republican vice presidential choice , also seemed to indict trump ’ s message .
“ some people think that you have to be the loudest voice in the room to make a difference , ” she said .
“ that is just not true .
often , the best thing we can do is turn down the volume .
when the sound is quieter , you can actually hear what someone else is saying .
and that can make a world of difference. ” like obama , haley did not mention trump by name during her address but she criticized him in an interview on nbc ’ s “ today show ” on wednesday while calling on the republican party to be more inclusive .
“ mr .
trump has definitely contributed to what i think is just irresponsible talk , ” she said .
trump responded shortly afterward by telling fox news that haley has been “ very weak on illegal immigration ” for a long time .
paul sracic , chairman of the politics department at youngstown state university in ohio , said trump was dominating “ our political discourse in a way that no one would have predicted even a year ago. ” “ donald trump must be smiling tonight , ” he said , pointing out that the candidate managed to make himself the target of not just the state of the union address , but also the republican response .
the white house gave haley credit for defending “ american values ” in her speech .
“ she was willing to do something that a lot of other republicans - leading republicans - have been unwilling to do , ” white house spokesman josh earnest told reporters on wednesday .
but he stressed that the administration disagrees with many of haley ’ s positions .
obama flew on wednesday to nebraska , a republican “ red state , ” to promote the big-picture ideas he laid out in his speech .
on tuesday night , obama also appeared to single out conservative texas senator ted cruz , the top challenger to trump in the republican race .
cruz has called for a massive bombing campaign in iraq and syria to wipe out islamic state forces .
meeting the threat of islamic state , obama said , “ needs to be more than tough talk or calls to carpet-bomb civilians. ” democratic strategist brad bannon said obama “ made the argument very well that leadership is not bombing the crap out of someone. ” cruz quickly countered in a statement .
obama , he said , “ lectures us on civility yet he has been one of the most divisive presidents in american history. ” both trump and cruz , who are topping opinion polls weeks before the early nomination contests in iowa and new hampshire , have pledged to push the republican party in a more confrontational direction , and seek to undo much of what obama has accomplished as president .
both candidates are likely in coming days to hammer the obama administration on its approach to islamic state .
obama ’ s defense of pragmatic politics may also help his former secretary of state , hillary clinton , who is trying to stave off a challenge from self-described democratic socialist bernie sanders in the democratic presidential contest , said bannon .
“ he ’ s taking about holding up the establishment , ” he said .
“ when the president makes a good case , it helps hillary more than bernie. ” but john geer , an expert on voter opinion at vanderbilt university , thought obama , in his bid for unity , damaged clinton ’ s prospects by not making a stronger case for continuing the democratic agenda .
“ he didn ’ t put forward an argument why there should be another democrat for four years , ” geer said .
“ i think she would have liked to see that . ”