here s how donald trump reacted donald trump reacted friday to a report that the clinton global foundation provided millions to a power company partly owned by a rich , blond divorcee by saying that people have been whispering about her possible romantic ties to bill clinton for a long time.the commitment to julie tauber mcmahon s firm from the clinton global initiative was placed on its 2010 conference agenda at clinton s urging , the wall street journal reported on thursday.the initiative commits $ 2 million to support the work of energy pioneer solutions , a company founded to deliver energy savings to communities in rural america , said a 2010 statement from the charity .
people have been talking about this for years .
i have no idea what went on .
i certainly don t , the presumptive gop presidential nominee said on fox & friends .
according to a report in the wall street journal , the clinton global initiative doled out $ 2 million to energy pioneer solutions , which is partly owned by julie tauber mcmahon.the fit , blond mother of three , who lives just minutes from bill and hillary clinton s home in chappaqua , west chester , is the daughter of joel tauber , a millionaire donor to the democratic party.mcmahon , 54 , is rumored to be the woman dubbed energizer by the secret service at the clinton home because of her frequent visits , according to radaronline.secret service agents were even given special instructions to abandon usual protocol when the woman came by , according to journalist ronald kessler s tell-all book , the first family detail .
you don t stop her , you don t approach her , you just let her go in , says the book , based on agents accounts .
energizer is described in the book as a charming visitor who sometimes brought cookies to the agents.the book describes one sun-drenched afternoon when agents took notice of the woman s revealing attire .
it was a warm day , and she was wearing a low-cut tank top , and as she leaned over , her breasts were very exposed , an agent is quoted in the book as saying .
energizer reportedly timed her arrivals and departures around hillary clinton s schedule.when asked about whether there should be a probe into money directed from the foundation a charity to the company , trump said : well , i assume you put the word charity in quotes .
the interviewer , who cited the new york post s cover story , told trump that clinton helped steer an $ 812,000 federal grant to the company through then-energy secretary steven chu.the interviewer also pointed out that nonprofits are not supposed to act in anyone s private interests .
for entire story : nyp