singapore ( reuters ) - singapore should end harassment of peaceful activists , human rights watch has said , after participants at a candlelight vigil for a man being executed for drug trafficking were stopped from leaving the country .
on july 13 , about 10 people , including opponents of the death penalty and relatives prabagaran srivijayan , 22 , attended the vigil outside changi prison in support of the man , who was to be hanged early the next morning .
the man , who was executed on july 14 , was convicted of trafficking 22.4 grams of heroin into singapore .
during the vigil , participants said they were approached by police and told that a police report had been filed and that they were to remove the candles .
the police removed the candles and photographs of prabagaran but the participants say they were not asked to disperse .
assemblies and processions for a cause in public places without a permit is a criminal offense in singapore .
anyone convicted of organizing such an assembly faces penalties of up to s $ 10,000 ( $ 7,440 ) in fines and up to six months in jail .
the singapore government has said that the law is required to provide for the individual s rights for political expression without compromising on order and safety .
among those at the vigil were a journalist , who is an activist against capital punishment , an editor of independent online blog online citizen and a filmmaker whose most recent work focused on the detention in 1987 of political activists under singapore s internal security act .
the three said in social media postings that they had been prevented from leaving the country , and had been told that they were required to stay in singapore to assist police with an investigation .
as of friday afternoon , police were not able to respond to requests by reuters for comment .
human rights watch said the government should respect the right of free speech and assembly .
the government should end its harassment of activists campaigning against capital punishment and respect their rights to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly , the group said in a release on thursday .
none of the three had been arrested or charged , kirsten han , the activist and journalist , told reuters .