baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi government forces and iranian-trained iraqi paramilitaries are preparing a major attack on kurdish forces in the oil-rich region of kirkuk and near mosul in northern iraq , the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) said on wednesday .
but an iraqi military spokesman denied any attack on kurdish forces was planned and said that government troops were instead preparing to oust islamic state militants from a border area with syria in the west of iraq .
tensions between the krg and the iraqi government have been running especially high since the iraqi kurds overwhelmingly voted for independence in a referendum last month .
the kurdish-held multi-ethnic region of kirkuk has emerged as a flashpoint in the crisis as it is claimed by both sides .
iraqi forces and shi ite paramilitaries , known as popular mobilisation , are deployed south and west of kirkuk , in areas previously under the control of islamic state .
we re receiving dangerous messages that iraqi forces , including popular mobilisation and federal police , are preparing a major attack .. on kurdistan , said the krg s security council in a tweet confirmed by a kurdish official .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on oct 5 that his government wanted to avoid clashes with the kurds , but popular mobilisation leaders have repeatedly threatened to oust kurdish forces from kirkuk .
an iraqi military spokesman denied the krg claim .
we are getting ready for the battle in al-qaim , we re not concerned by confrontations other than with daesh , he said , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
the area around the border post of al-qaim , in western iraq , is the last iraqi region still under the control of the militants who overran a third of the country in 2014 .
offensives are being prepared south and west of kirkuk and north of mosul , said the krg s security council .
iraqi forces captured mosul from islamic state in july , after a grueling nine-month u.s.-backed offensive with the participation of kurdish peshmerga .
kurdish forces are deployed north of the city , in an area also claimed by baghdad .
abadi s government , seeking to keep the country together , has taken measures to isolate the krg , including a ban on direct international flights to the region .
neighboring iran and turkey back baghdad s stance , fearing the spread of separatism to their own kurdish populations .
iraq s supreme judicial council issued arrest warrants on wednesday for the chairman of the kurdish referendum commission and two aides for violating a valid ( iraqi ) court ruling banning the independence vote as against the constitution .