brussels ( reuters ) - nato has joined world powers diplomatic efforts to stop north korea s missile program but it can not yet rely on its u.s.-built shield to defend europe , experts and diplomats said .
the united states says the shield , more than a decade in the planning , is needed to protect against so-called rogue states , a term u.s. officials have used to refer to north korea and iran .
but with berlin , paris and london potentially within striking distance of north korea s missiles from next year , officials say the u.s.-led alliance s system needs more radars and special interceptors to destroy a rocket from pyongyang .
the nato shield in its current state lacks the reach and early warning radars to shoot down north korean rockets .
it s a weak link , said michael elleman , a missile defense analyst at the international institute for strategic studies ( iiss ) .
early tracking is also difficult because north korean missiles would be flying over russia , where nato obviously can not put radars , he added .
the sort of interceptor needed to shoot down north korean ballistic missiles could breach a soviet-era arms control agreement between the united states and russia because of its greater range , arms experts say .
moscow has long objected to u.s. missile shield plans , saying their real aim is to neutralize russia s own nuclear arsenal , rather than meet the perceived threat from rogue states .
russia s strategic concerns would , therefore , make it hard to renegotiate the 1987 intermediate range nuclear forces ( inf ) treaty , something arms experts say would be required if a north korean missile shield were to be fully effective .
alliance planning to confront any threat from pyongyang is in its infancy .
following north korea s country s sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sept. 3 , two senior nato diplomats told reuters that protection against the north korean threat was only beginning to be considered at nato headquarters in brussels .
that was despite a more forceful diplomatic tone on the crisis and warnings on the scale and immediacy of the threat from u.s. president donald trump s new ambassador to nato , france s defense minister and the alliance s deputy head .
while analysts do not expect north korea to have a reliable intercontinental ballistic missile until next year at the earliest , nato s european allies could become a target as a way of threatening their closest partner , the united states , a third nato diplomat said , stressing that was only speculation .
the united states switched on its $ 800 million european missile defense umbrella in may last year at a site in romania to protect against iranian rockets .
the system , controlled from a nato base in germany , includes radars and interceptors stretching from eastern europe to the mediterranean .
a final site in poland should be ready by late 2018 , extending the european umbrella from greenland and the azores .
to shoot down a ballistic missile from north korea would require a new generation of interceptor , the block ii , which is still in development .
it is capable of downing ballistic rockets earlier and at a much higher altitude .
however , elleman said that u.s. missile sites in alaska and california , as well as in japan and south korea , were likely to be given priority before europe , when they are ready in 2018 .
there will be a lot of competition for the assets , he said .