reykjavik ( reuters ) - icelanders , angry over a string of political scandals , ousted their center-right government in an election that could pave the way for a charismatic young opposition leader to form a left-leaning coalition , final vote counts showed on sunday .
with the defeat of incumbent prime minister bjarni benediktsson s coalition government , his main opponent , the left-green movement s katrin jakobsdottir , is likely to get a chance to form a narrow majority in parliament .
still , the composition of any coalition government remained uncertain , as the president had not yet mandated a party to form one .
the nordic island of 340,000 people , one of the countries hit hardest by the 2008 financial crisis , has staged a remarkable economic rebound spurred by a tourism boom .
benediktsson called the snap election in september , after less than a year in government , as a scandal involving his father prompted the bright future party to drop out of his ruling coalition , citing a breach of trust .
the previous government was defeated last year following revelations in the panama papers about then-prime minister sigmundur david gunnlaugsson s use of offshore tax havens .
in addition to the political scandals , a growing sense of inequality and unease about immigration in one of the world s most ethnically homogeneous nations have rattled a democracy known for its political and social stability .
after the final vote count , jakobsdottir , 41 , of the left-greens stood to gain a narrow majority in parliament with three other opposition parties .
the result showed a left-green-led coalition was possible if they joined forces with the social democrats , the progressive party and the pirate party .
together , they would hold 32 of parliament s 63 seats .
the opposition has a majority , so that s a message .
but we ve also talked about that maybe things should be done differently and create a broader government , jakobsdottir said in a tv debate on sunday .
the left-greens want to reduce inequality and fund an increase in public health care , education and infrastructure spending by raising taxes for the wealthy and introducing a property tax .
the parliament will be split among eight parties .
there are two new parties , and one of the parties in the current tri-party government failed to get enough votes to remain in parliament .
the independence party , the main partner in the current government coalition , lost 4 percentage points from last year s election to take 25 percent of the vote .
it remains the biggest party , but the election was the worst since 2009 for a party that has dominated iceland s politics for decades , getting support of as much as 40 percent of voters .
asked during the tv debate if the independence party would get the chance to form a new government , benediktsson said : i think so .
we are the biggest party , and i think it s normal that we should be a part of a future government .
we are attacked as a party that bears responsibility for certain things , he said .
we are in a new environment , and considering that i am happy with the result .
his party wants to reduce the national debt and cut taxes on individuals and businesses .
the left-greens came in second with 17 percent , up 1 percentage point from last year s election , and its probable ally the social democrats in third with 12 percent , almost doubling its share .
i think that the opposition with one extra party can create a really strong government , said social democrat leader logi einarsson , hinting at the possibility of a five-party government .
the new centre party , which was formed in september by former prime minister gunnlaugsson , won 11 percent of the votes .
the pirate party , which last year rode a wave of anger against the establishment to become the third biggest party in parliament , stood to get 9 percent of votes in saturday s election down from 14 percent last year .