united nations ( reuters ) - president donald trump s policy of america first does not mean america alone , vice president mike pence told the u.n. security council on wednesday as he urged reform to make peacekeeping missions more efficient , effective , accountable and credible .
the 15-member council discussed how to improve peacekeeping operations during the annual gathering of world leaders at the united nations .
there are currently 15 u.n. peacekeeping missions , costing more than $ 7.3 billion for the next year .
since january , trump s u.n .
ambassador nikki haley has led a push to cut costs and is reviewing the mandate of each operation as annual mandates come up for renewal by the security council .
trump wants to cap the u.s. share of the peacekeeping bill at 25 percent , down from 28.5 percent , a level he says is unfair .
the united states is a veto-wielding member of the council , along with britain , france , russia and china .
peacekeeping missions must support a political solution ; have the consent of the host country ; its mandates must be realistic and achievable ; every mission must have an exit strategy ; and the united nations peacekeeping missions must adjust to progress and failure , pence said .
in short , when a mission succeeds , we should not prolong it .
when a mission underperforms , we should restructure it .
and when a mission consistently fails to fulfill the mandates of this council , we should end it , he said .
the security council unanimously adopted a resolution on wednesday pushing for improved accountability , transparency and effectiveness and to make peacekeepers more flexible .
critics worry that harsh cuts could harm operations in volatile african states .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres has pledged to make u.n. peacekeeping more efficient but has noted that the current budget to fund it is less than one half of 1 percent of global military spending .
across the years and across the globe , fifty-five peacekeeping operations have successfully completed their mandate , guterres told the council on wednesday .
many political missions have done the same .
he appealed for the security council to ensure mandates for missions were clear and that operations were well equipped .