washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama on thursday turned the page on years of shaky ties with canada by staging a lavish white house welcome for prime minister justin trudeau , making clear the new leader is a man after his own heart .
trudeau , 44 , the left-leaning liberal party leader and son of former prime minister pierre trudeau , took power last november .
he already enjoys a closer bond with the democratic president than his right-of-center predecessor , stephen harper of the conservatives , managed in more than six years of dealing with the obama administration .
“ he campaigned on a message of hope and of change .
his positive and optimistic vision is inspiring young people , ” obama said after meeting with trudeau in the oval office .
“ so , from my perspective , what ’ s not to like ? ” he added , also noting trudeau ’ s commitment to the environment .
keeping good relations with the united states is critical for canada , which sends 75 percent of its exports to its southern neighbor .
trudeau brought along six cabinet ministers in a sign of how seriously he took the visit .
obama struck a warm , informal tone from the start and told trudeau at a state dinner he “ may well be the most popular canadian named justin. ” singer justin bieber is from canada .
the white house dinner was the first for a canadian leader since 1997 .
obama never did the same for harper , who irritated the administration by insisting it approve the keystone xl oil pipeline .
obama blocked the project last year .
at an arrival ceremony on thursday morning , obama teased trudeau about the failure in recent years of canadian hockey teams to win the sport ’ s top honor .
“ where ’ s the stanley cup right now ? ” he asked .
“ i ’ m sorry .
is it in my hometown with the chicago blackhawks ? ” trudeau replied there was a high u.s. demand for canadian exports , including three of the star players who helped the blackhawks win the national hockey league championship last year .
in ottawa , conservative party foreign affairs spokesman tony clement said trudeau ’ s visit had little deeper meaning , given that obama would out of office in january 2017 .
even so , the next few months could be crucial for canada , said colin robertson of the canadian global affairs institute , a former senior diplomat with two u.s. postings .
encouraged by obama ’ s tone , american officials are starting to re-examine important elements of the bilateral relationship in a favorable way , robertson said .
“ the next administration is not going to have canada on their radar , ” he said in a phone interview .
“ but their reference point when they do ... will be this review conducted under the best possible auspices . ”