jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli authorities approved on wednesday a major expansion of a jewish settler enclave in the heart of a palestinian neighborhood of east jerusalem , issuing building permits for 176 new housing units .
the construction , which a jerusalem municipal spokeswoman said was approved by the city s planning committee , was swiftly condemned by the palestinians as a violation of international law .
construction of the new units will nearly triple the number of settler homes in the nof zion settlement , which currently has 91 dwellings and is surrounded by palestinian houses in the jabel al-mukaber neighborhood .
the area is located in territory that israel captured and annexed in a 1967 middle east war and which palestinians seek as part of a state they want to establish in the occupied west bank and the gaza strip , with east jerusalem as its capital .
we are unifying jerusalem through actions on the ground , jerusalem mayor nir barkat said in a statement about the settlement s expansion .
israel s claim to all of jerusalem as its capital has not won international recognition , and many countries regard the settlements it has built on occupied land as illegal and obstacles to any future land-for peace deal .
israel disputes this .
wasel abu yousif , a member of the palestine liberation organization , called the construction plans in jabel al-mukaber a challenge to all the calls by the international community to halt settlement building .
last week , israel announced approval for the construction of several hundred additional homes for settlers in the west bank , drawing condemnation from palestinians and the european union .
israeli-palestinian peace talks have not been held since 2014 , with settlement building one of the issues that led to their collapse .
some 500,000 israelis live in the west bank and east jerusalem , areas that are home to more than 2.6 million palestinians .
( this version of the story corrects the name of settlement , paragraph 3 )