seoul ( reuters ) - supporters of former south korean president park geun-hye have asked a united nations body to investigate whether her detention during her corruption trial was preventing park from getting proper medical treatment , a barrister said on tuesday .
park , ousted earlier this year and in detention since march , is undergoing a lower court trial for charges of abuse of power and bribery .
her current detention period for the lower court trial is due to end on october 17 , which the prosecution asked the court to extend on tuesday .
a legal team working for park s supporters has asked the u.n .
working group on arbitrary detention in geneva to look into whether park was given medical treatment and whether there were procedural irregularities in her current trial , said rodney dixon qc , a london-based human rights barrister .
she is not a flight risk ... she has been denied opportunity to receive adequate medical care through provisional release or options of house arrest , said dixon .
since her detention began in late march , park has declined witness appearances in concurrent trials citing health issues , and various south korean media have reported her as having chronic back and shoulder pains , difficulty sleeping and nodding off more than once during hearings .
south korea s justice ministry , which oversees the seoul detention center where park is held , said all detainees are guaranteed ample chances to receive medical care both inside the center and at outside medical facilities when needed , and as such park is receiving proper medical care .
the ministry declined to disclose park s exact medical conditions as they are private .
seoul central district court , where park s trial is ongoing , directed questions about park to the justice ministry as detention is its purview .
the u.n .
working group on arbitrary detention did not respond to a request for comment .
although the u.n .
working group on arbitrary detention does not have the power to enforce an action , it can seek information from the south korean government , organize a visit to park to investigate and announce its findings .
the team working on behalf of park s supporters said in a statement this month it will also bring park s case before the u.n. human rights council in november during a periodic review of south korea s human rights compliance .