yangon ( reuters ) - several more villages were burned down on saturday in a part of northwest myanmar where many rohingya muslims had been sheltering from violence sweeping the area , two sources monitoring the situation said .
the fires , which started on friday when up to eight villages went up in flames in the ethnically mixed rathedaung region , have increased concerns that more minority rohingya will flee to neighboring bangladesh .
blazes started on saturday engulfed as many as four more settlements in rathedaung , likely destroying all the muslim villages in the area , the sources said .
slowly , one after another villages are being burnt down - i believe that rohingyas are already wiped out completely from rathedaung , said chris lewa of the rohingya monitoring group , the arakan project .
there were 11 muslim villages ( in rathedaung ) and after the past two days all appear to be destroyed .
it was unclear who set fire to the villages , located in a part of northwest myanmar far from where rohingya insurgents attacked 30 police posts and an army base last month , triggering an army counter-offensive in which at least 400 people have been killed .
independent journalists are not allowed into the area , where myanmar says its security forces are carrying out clearance operations to defend against extremist terrorists .
human rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and ethnic rakhine vigilantes have unleashed a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
some 290,000 people have fled across the bangladeshi border in less than two weeks , causing a humanitarian crisis .
rathedaung is the furthest rohingya-inhabited area from the border with bangladesh and aid workers are concerned that a large number of people were trapped there .
the sources said that among the torched villages was the hamlet of tha pyay taw .
they were also concerned about the village of chin ywa , where many people sheltering from other burnings in the area had been hiding and two other settlements .
on friday , the villages of ah htet nan yar and auk nan yar , some 65 km ( 40 miles ) north of sittwe , capital of rakhine state , were also burned along with four to six other settlements .
one source , who has a network of informers in the area , said 300 to 400 rohingya who had been hiding at ah htet nan yar were now in the forest or attempting a perilous , days-long journey by foot in the monsoon rain toward the river naf separating myanmar and bangladesh .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi said on thursday her government was doing its best to protect everyone , but she has drawn criticism for failing to speak out about the violence and the muslim minority , including calls to revoke her 1991 nobel peace prize .
the country s rohingya muslims have long complained of persecution and are seen by many in buddhist-majority myanmar as illegal migrants from bangladesh .