geneva ( reuters ) - life has stopped in its tracks in myanmar s northern rakhine state where an estimated 180,000 rohingya remain , fearful after violence drove 650,000 to flee to bangladesh , the international committee of the red cross said on wednesday .
dominik stillhart , icrc director of operations , speaking after a three-day mission to the remote area , said continuing tensions in the muslim and dominant buddhist communities were preventing muslim traders from reopening shops and markets .
the icrc is one of the only aid agencies to operate in northern rakhine after myanmar s military waged a campaign the united nations has called ethnic cleansing in response to aug. 25 attacks by rohingya militants on security posts .
the situation in the northern rakhine has definitely stabilized , there are very sporadic incidents , but tensions are huge between the communities , stillhart told reporters .
you get a sense , especially of the two main communities being deeply scared of each other .
what surprised me is the fact that not only the muslim communities are scared , but that the others are actually scared as well , he said .
stillhart went to maungdaw , buthidaung and rathedaung in northern rakhine , where the icrc is providing food , water and other aid 150,000 people .
by year-end , it hopes to reach all of the 180,000 rohingya it estimates remain in the politically-sensitive region , among 300,000 throughout rakhine , he said .
you travel through the countryside and you really see on both sides of the road , villages that are completely destroyed .
it just gives you a bit of a sense of the scale of destruction .
there is also this pervasive sense of absence .
it is as if life has stopped in its tracks , people do not move , markets are closed in muangdaw town , stillhart said .
myanmar s army released a report last month denying all allegations of rapes and killings by security forces .
the main problem for the muslim communities today is not that they are being attacked , or that there are incidents , stillhart said .
rather it is fear and uncertainty , and the very limited possibilities for them to access their own livelihoods like fields , and especially markets and services , he said .
myanmar and bangladesh signed an agreement last month for the voluntary repatriation of hundreds of thousands of rohingya within several months .
the returns must be voluntary and safe , stillhart said .
but for now we really don t see a significant return movement and i m also not expecting that we will see massive return anytime soon , he said .
about 300 muslims still flee daily , he added , citing u.n. figures .
the icrc visits detainees held in rakhine , including rohingya arrested since aug 25 , he said .
what i can tell you is there are very few people who have been rounded up , surprisingly few people have been rounded up .
so it s not as if we met like hundreds or thousands of people rounded up in these detention centres .