maiduguri , nigeria ( reuters ) - nigeria s army said it had repelled an attack on monday by suspected boko haram militants on the city at the center of the conflict with the islamist insurgency .
major general nicholas rogers , who heads nigeria s military operations against boko haram , told reuters that the situation in maiduguri , in the northeast of nigeria , was under control .
he did not give further details .
the government says it is on alert for boko haram attacks during the christmas period and other festivals for christians and muslims .
embassies regularly warn their nationals to be cautious and avoid public spaces at those times .
heavy gunfire was heard in the molai area on the outskirts of the city on monday evening , prompting residents to flee the district , two residents and an officer in a local vigilante group had said .
the vigilante commander , who asked not to be identified , said his group had joined the effort to repel the attackers .
there were no immediate reports of casualties nor any immediate claim of responsibility .
it was also not immediately possible to identify the target of the assault .
boko haram has in the past targeted places of worship during religious celebrations , including attacking churches at christmas or mosques during muslim festivals or prayer times .
the last major boko haram attack on maiduguri , a mainly muslim city with a christian minority , was in june , when the group launched an assault on the eve of a visit by vice president yemi osinbajo .
president muhammadu buhari s administration has previously said boko haram was almost defeated but the latest attack shows the group s continued ability to stage hit-and-run raids , prompting a renewed government push against the militants .
the nigerian government approved the release of $ 1 billion last week from a state oil fund to help with the fight .
nigeria s long-term plan is to corral civilians inside fortified garrison towns , a move that effectively cedes the rural areas to boko haram .
nigeria replaced its previous military commander of the fight against boko haram after half a year in the post .
military sources told reuters this followed a series of embarrassing attacks by the militants .