danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - the death toll from a typhoon and ensuing floods in vietnam reached 61 on monday and the government said some reservoirs were dangerously near capacity after persistent rain .
typhoon damrey tore across central vietnam at the weekend just days before the region is due to host the apec summit of asia-pacific leaders , among them u.s. president donald trump , china s xi jinping and russia s vladimir putin .
the communist state s search and rescue committee said 61 people had been killed and 28 were recorded as missing .
it said some of the victims were in vessels that capsized at sea .
others were killed in landslides .
it did not give a full breakdown .
more than 2,000 homes had collapsed and more than 80,000 had been damaged , it said .
roads that had been flooded or washed away caused traffic jams across several provinces .
prime minister nguyen xuan phuc chaired an emergency meeting on the disaster .
ministers said that because some dams were so full , water might need to be released to relieve pressure - potentially worsening flooding downstream .
in danang , authorities called on soldiers and local people to clean up so that the beach resort would be ready for delegates to the meetings of asia pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) countries , which started on monday .
leaders are due to meet from nov. 10 and organizers said the schedule had not been disrupted because of the weather .
but in much of the ancient town of hoi an , a unesco world heritage site that spouses of apec leaders are scheduled to visit on saturday , muddy waters rose to head height and people boated through the streets .
hoang tran son , 37 , who left his home there when the water reached his chest , said it was the worst flooding he had seen for decades .
we re pretty much all right in the city , but people in remote areas are devastated , he said .
the storm moved from the coastal area into a key coffee-growing region of the world s biggest producer of robusta coffee beans .
the typhoon had damaged some coffee trees at the start of the harvest season , farm officials said .
but farmers in daklak , the heart of the region , said the damage was limited .
authorities said that more than 7,000 farm animals had been killed .
floods killed more than 80 people in northern vietnam last month , while a typhoon wreaked havoc in central provinces in september .
the country of more than 90 million people is prone to destructive storms and flooding , due to its long coastline .