washington ( reuters ) - the top u.s. general in afghanistan said on tuesday that he had not seen a change in pakistan s support for militants so far , despite president donald trump taking a tougher line against islamabad .
u.s. officials have long been frustrated by what they see as pakistan s reluctance to act against groups such as the afghan taliban and the haqqani network that they believe exploit safe haven on pakistani soil to launch attacks on neighboring afghanistan .
in august , trump outlined a new strategy for the war in afghanistan , chastising pakistan over its alleged support for afghan militants .
he accused pakistan of harboring agents of chaos and providing safe havens to militant groups waging an insurgency against a u.s.-backed government in kabul .
u.s. official expressed hope that relations between the two countries could improve after a kidnapped u.s.-canadian couple and their three children were freed in pakistan in october .
the couple was abducted in neighboring afghanistan .
we have been very direct and very clear with the pakistanis ... we have not seen those changes implemented yet , general john nicholson told reporters .
we are hoping to see those changes , we are hoping to work together with the pakistanis going forward to eliminate terrorists who are crossing the border , nicholson said .
he said that he believed that senior taliban leaders were based in pakistan , while the lower-level leadership was in afghanistan .
nicholson added that he agreed with other senior u.s. officials that pakistan s main spy agency , the inter-services intelligence ( isi ) directorate , had ties to the haqqani network militant group .
the united states in 2012 designated the pakistan-based haqqani network as a terrorist organization .
pakistan says it has done a great deal to help the united states in tracking down terrorists .
the four-star general said he had seen evidence of relations between iran and the taliban in western afghanistan and was closely tracking it .
the united states has sent more than 3,000 additional u.s. troops to afghanistan as a part of trump s south asia strategy .
nicholson said over 1,000 troops would be advising afghan troops at the battalion level , putting them closer to the fighting and at greater risk .
nicholson gave an optimistic view of the situation , saying he believed we are on our way to a win .
u.s. officials have made similar statements during the course of the 16-year-old war , but the situation according to many u.s. officials remains in a stalemate .
according to a recent report by a u.s. government watchdog , the taliban had increased the amount of territory it has influence over or controls in afghanistan in the past six months .
the figures are a sign of the deteriorating security situation in the war-torn country , even as the united states has committed more troops .