kinshasa ( reuters ) - the united states strongly supports an african military force to combat extremist militants in the sahel region , but needs to see a strategy for the operation before it considers funding , the u.s. envoy to the united nations and the u.s. africa commander said .
washington is wary , however , of the 193-member united nations funding the force - to be made up of troops from mali , burkina faso , niger , chad and mauritania - according to ambassador nikki haley and general thomas waldhauser .
the united states currently funds more than a quarter of the $ 7.3 billion u.n. peacekeeping budget .
haley said washington wanted to know what the strategy would be , how they see this playing out , what s involved in it before we ever commit to u.n.-assessed funding .
show us something , we re open to it , we re not saying no , but what we re saying right now ( is ) there literally has been no information that has been given that gives us comfort that they know exactly how this is going to play out , haley told reporters on friday .
the rise of jihadist groups - some linked to al qaeda and islamic state - in the arid sahel has alarmed western powers like france , which has deployed thousands of troops to the region in response .
the united states has also been targeting islamic state in libya and al-shabaab in somalia .
but u.s. involvement in counter-terrorism operations in africa has been under the spotlight since four u.s. special forces troops were killed in an oct. 4 ambush in niger .
in africa with all the challenges of the youth bulge , poverty , the lack of governance , wide open spaces , these are areas where violent extremist organizations , like isis or like al qaeda , thrive , said waldhauser , who oversees u.s. troops deployed in africa .
he was speaking to a small group of reporters traveling with haley on her first african tour as u.s. envoy to the united nations , visiting ethiopia , south sudan and the democratic republic of congo .
united nations forces don t do counterterrorism , they do peacekeeping operations , waldhauser added , reflecting u.s. unease at the united nations funding the prospective force .
the african counter-terrorism force , known as the g5 sahel , plans to launch its first joint operations in the coming days .
one of the hardest things to do in an organization like that is to try to synchronize the efforts of those five countries and have a coherent strategy as opposed to just a series of engagements in different locations , waldhauser said .
the united states supported a french-drafted u.n. security council resolution in june to give political backing to the g5 sahel force , but refused to back a formal u.n. mandate .
the 15-member council is due to discuss the force on monday .
haley said the united states would continue its bilateral support for the g5 countries , but when asked how much washington was prepared to contribute to the g5 sahel force , she said : you will hear about that , coming soon .
waldhauser said the united states currently makes a total of $ 51 million in bilateral defense contributions to the g5 countries .
french defense minister florence parly said last week that the united states must step up support for the planned sahel force or it could fail , leaving french troops to carry the burden .
[ nl8n1mv58z ] a report to the security council by u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres earlier this month said that the planned force budget of $ 490 million for the first year was only 25 percent funded .
waldhauser said the g5 countries had discussed their planned counter-terrorism force with u.s. military officials in may at a u.s. organized defense conference in germany .
this is exactly what we want to have happen , we want partner nations who share the same overall strategic objectives that we do .
we want to try to foster that type of behavior , he said .