ankara ( reuters ) - president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said on wednesday the u.s. judge hearing the trial of an executive at turkey s state-owned halkbank had taken part in events organized by a cleric ankara blames for last year s failed military coup .
the issue has gone beyond a legal case , it has become a political case , spokesman ibrahim kalin said in reference to the new york trial of a deputy general manager at the bank , who is charged with helping iran evade u.s. sanctions .
the executive has pleaded not guilty and halkbank says it has abided by turkish and international law .
erdogan s government has portrayed the case as a plot against turkey by the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , who it alleges engineered last year s coup attempt .
it is known that the judge has participated in events upon gulen s invitation , kalin told a news conference , without giving details .
turkish newspapers have said judge richard berman attended a legal symposium in istanbul in 2014 organized by gulen supporters .
berman could not be reached for comment .
at the first hearing in the case he said he was one of five u.s. legal experts who spoke at the symposium and moderated a panel discussion on independent and effective judiciary .
in response to previous criticism from turkey , the united states has said its judicial processes are independent .
already strained ties between nato allies ankara and washington have deteriorated further over the court case , in which turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors , has detailed a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
zarrab has implicated top turkish politicians , including erdogan .
zarrab said on thursday that when erdogan was prime minister he had authorized a transaction to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
although he has not yet responded to the courtroom claims , erdogan has dismissed the case as a politically motivated attempt , led by gulen , to bring down the turkish government .
we will continue watching it within the framework of the law , but the public is seeing how this is trying to be used as an instrument of blackmail , kalin said .
we have not done anything in violation of international laws , we carried out our activities transparently , kalin said .
turkey has repeatedly requested gulen s extradition , but u.s. officials have said the courts require sufficient evidence before they can extradite the elderly cleric , who has denied any involvement in the coup .
gulen has lived in self-imposed exile in pennsylvania since 1999 .