london ( reuters ) - british foreign minister boris johnson will travel to iran on saturday to lobby counterpart mohammad javad zarif for the release of jailed iranian-british aid worker nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe .
the trip will be only the third by a british foreign minister to iran in the last 14 years , and takes place against a complex backdrop of historical , regional and bilateral tensions .
johnson has vowed to leave no stone unturned in britain s efforts to free zaghari-ratcliffe , a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , who was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted by an iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
the foreign secretary will urge the iranians to release dual nationals where there are humanitarian grounds to do so , a foreign office spokesman said .
zaghari-ratcliffe is not the only dual national being held in iran , but has become the most high profile after johnson said she had been teaching people journalism before her arrest in april 2016 , in remarks critics said could have prompted iran to extend her sentence .
the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news , said zaghari-ratcliffe had been on holiday and had not been teaching journalism in iran .
johnson has since apologized for his comments .
there were calls for his resignation - something which threatened to destabilize prime minister theresa may s minority government at a crucial point in britain s brexit negotiations .
zaghari-ratcliffe has been told she will appear in court on dec. 10 , her husband richard has said .
the visit will be sandwiched between meetings in oman and the united arab emirates as johnson - a key proponent of britain s exit from the european union - takes advantage of a gap in a domestic parliamentary calendar dominated by brexit .
johnson was a surprise choice for britain s top diplomat when he was appointed by may in 2016 .
he has a record of political gaffes and use of florid and sometimes undiplomatic language .
the visit will test his ability to navigate a political landscape littered with potential pitfalls .
iran s 1979 islamic revolution turned it into a pariah state for most of the west and many middle eastern neighbors .
international sanctions have only recently been lifted as part of a multilateral nuclear deal to curb iran s disputed uranium enrichment program .
that deal is under threat after u.s. president donald trump decided to decertify iran s compliance with the terms of the agreement .
britain has voiced its continued support for the nuclear deal but is one of a number of western powers voicing concerns about tehran s destabilizing influence in the region .
this visit comes at a crucial time for the gulf region and provides an opportunity to discuss a peaceful solution to the conflict in yemen , the future of the iran nuclear deal and the current volatility in the middle east , the spokesman said .