nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan police used tear gas and batons on tuesday to disperse protesters who say election officials should be sacked before the re-run of a presidential vote because they favor president uhuru kenyatta .
several volleys of tear gas were fired near the election commission headquarters in central nairobi , a reuters witness said .
when protestors regrouped , officers fired more tear gas and beat some with batons .
by mid-afternoon calm had returned .
raila odinga , who lost his presidential bid on aug. 8 , will get another chance after the supreme court annulled the election citing irregularities and ordered a fresh vote within 60 days .
however , odinga has accused the election commission , known as the iebc , of being a puppet of kenyatta s ruling jubilee party and said he will not participate in the oct. 26 re-run if election officials are not sacked and prosecuted .
the court did not find any individual responsible but said institutional failings had led to irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of election results .
the election commission has asked the opposition to call off protests until the iebc has explained the various measures being taken to enhance the credibility and integrity of the vote .
iebc can not begin the process of an honest election as long as those responsible for the irregularities and illegalities are still lurking in its corridors , odinga told reporters .
iebc has refused to dismiss or suspend them .
that is why we are today beginning these peaceful campaigns to force them out by public pressure so the process of a fair election can at last begin , he added .
last week kenya s chief prosecutor ordered investigations into 11 election board officials including its chief executive , ezra chiloba , as well as a lawyer and campaigner who worked for odinga .
speaking as protestors gathered outside his office , chiloba said he would not resign .
i have ( a ) responsibility before me and i have to discharge that responsibility , he told kenya s ktn television network .
some kenyatta supporters also took to the streets in nairobi but there were no clashes between the two sides .
in the port city of mombasa , a crowd gathered at local election office , chanting : no reforms no elections .
chiloba must go !
the kenyan government in a statement accused mobs of hooligans of taking advantage of the protests to destroy property and said a number of criminals had been arrested and would be taken to court .
underscoring the rising tensions , a newly elected opposition lawmaker was charged with subversion at a court hearing in nairobi on tuesday .
paul ongili owino was arrested after a video clip of him speaking while campaigning for odinga emerged on social media in which he called kenyatta a son of a dog .
the prosecution said those words were calculated to excite disaffection against the presidency .
ahead of tuesday s demonstrations by the opposition national super alliance coalition , kenyatta had said violence would not be tolerated .
people are free to demonstrate but they must ensure that they do not destroy other people s property , he said .
let them not think that they will break into other people s shops and interfere with the daily routine of other kenyans .
that , we shall not allow , he said .
in the western city of kisumu , an odinga stronghold where some 3,000 protestors gathered , one protestor , vegetable market vendor hellen aketch said : i will support anything that assures me of the validity and the safety of my vote in the upcoming elections .
i have closed ( my ) business today and i am ready to do it again so long as some sanity is realized among those who hold public office .