geneva/beirut ( reuters ) - syria s government delegation quit u.n.-led peace talks in geneva on friday and said it would not return next week unless the opposition withdrew a statement demanding president bashar al-assad play no role in any interim post-war government .
for us ( this ) round is over , as a government delegation .
he as mediator can announce his own opinion , government chief negotiator bashar al-ja afari said after a morning of talks , referring to u.n. mediator staffan de mistura .
as long as the other side sticks to the language of riyadh 2 ... there will be no progress , ja afari said .
he was referring to a position adopted by syrian opposition delegates at a meeting in riyadh last week , in which they stuck to their demand that assad be excluded from any transitional government .
ja afari went further in a televised interview with al-mayadeen tv : we can not engage in serious discussion in geneva while the riyadh statement is not withdrawn .
de mistura put a brave face on the impasse , saying in a statement that he had asked the delegations to engage in talks next week and give their reactions to 12 political principles .
previously there had been some speculation the opposition could soften its stance ahead of this week s geneva negotiations , in response to government advances on the battlefield .
the syrian civil war , now in its seventh year , has killed hundreds of thousands of people and driven 11 million from their homes .
so far all previous rounds of peace talks have failed to make progress , faltering over the opposition s demand assad leave power and his refusal to go .
pressed whether the government delegation would return to geneva next week , ja afari replied : damascus will decide .
ja afari said the statement insisting assad leave power that was adopted by the opposition in riyadh ahead of this week s peace talks was a mine on the road to geneva , and the opposition had purposefully undermined the negotiations .
the language with which the statement was drafted was seen by us , the syrian government , as well as by too many capitals , as a step back rather than progress forward , because it imposed a kind of precondition , he said .
the language is provocative , irresponsible , he said .
the opposition , which held brief talks later with u.n. officials , rejected the charge that it was seeking to undermine the talks , and said it sought a political solution .
we have come to this round with no preconditions , opposition spokesman yahya al-aridi told reporters .
now , not coming back is a precondition in itself .
it s an expression or a reflection of a responsibility toward people who have been suffering for seven years now , aridi said .
nasr hariri , the opposition delegation chief , said earlier on friday that his side had come to geneva for serious , direct negotiations with assad s government .
so far , government and opposition delegations have not negotiated face-to-face in any syrian peace talks but have been kept in separate rooms .
we call on the international community to put pressure on the regime to engage with this process , hariri said in a statement .
de mistura said on thursday the talks would run until dec. 15 , but the government delegation might return to damascus to refresh and consult before a resumption probably on tuesday .