guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s congress on thursday once again voted to maintain beleaguered president jimmy morales immunity and shield him from a probe into suspected illicit campaign funding , a move that could raise tensions among anti-graft protesters .
for the second time this month , lawmakers discussed a motion , pushed by the attorney general s office and the united nations-backed international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) , to remove morales immunity .
although the motion enjoyed greater support than before , the 70 votes in favor fell short of the two-thirds of congress necessary for it to pass .
the commission wants to determine the origin of some $ 800,000 in funds morales managed as secretary general of the conservative national convergence front ( fcn ) party he led from 2015 to 2016 .
morales has denied any wrongdoing .
critics say lawmakers threw their lot in with morales as they fear the scope of a larger commission investigation into all major parties campaign financing .
the latest vote , in which 42 lawmakers voted against the motion with 46 absent , came the day after thousands of guatemalans took to the streets , calling for the resignation of morales and lawmakers , whom they blame for trying to trip up anti-graft investigators .
today ... congress has exposed itself in front of the people with this decision , said raul romero , a conservative lawmaker from the force party , who voted in favor of stripping morales immunity .
in august , guatemala s attorney general and cicig jointly sought to investigate morales , a former comedian , over the illegal financing allegation .
two days later , morales declared the head of the u.n. body persona non grata .
under the leadership of ivan velasquez , a veteran colombian prosecutor , the commission has caused problems for morales , first investigating his son and brother , and then training its sights on him .
the guatemalan president won office in 2015 running on a platform of honest governance after perez molina was forced to resign and imprisoned in a multi-million dollar graft case stemming from a commission investigation .