jerusalem ( reuters ) - “ i love the people in this room .
i love israel .
i love israel , ” donald trump told a convention of pro-israel lobbyists in washington this week .
but the feeling still isn ’ t quite mutual .
at least not yet .
in israel , where distrust of democratic president barack obama runs deep and conservative benjamin netanyahu is in his fourth term as prime minister , many voters might have been expected to prefer a republican to take the white house .
but the prospect that the candidate could be trump — the real estate billionaire whose rhetoric toward ethnic minorities is widely viewed as inflammatory and whose proposal to ban muslims from entering the united states would affect nearly a fifth of israelis — has alarmed politicians and voters alike .
an opinion poll published last week on israel ’ s walla news site showed that 23 percent of israelis want to see trump in the oval office , compared to 38 percent who prefer the democrats ’ frontrunner , ex-secretary of state hillary clinton .
in december trump called off a visit to israel , saying he did not want to cause difficulty for netanyahu , after trump ’ s proposal to ban muslims from the united states drew an outcry .
netanyahu said at the time he was willing to meet any serious u.s. candidate , but strongly rejected trump ’ s views on muslims , saying israel “ respects all religions and diligently guards the rights of its citizens ” .
dozens of israeli opposition lawmakers had signed a letter demanding netanyahu call off the planned meeting .
the letter ’ s author said trump ’ s “ racist ” remarks meant plans for the prime minister to meet him were “ disgracing israel ’ s democratic character and hurting its muslim citizens ” .
one signatory , an israeli arab lawmaker , called trump a “ neo-nazi ” .
three months later , with trump now on course for his party ’ s nomination , his speech on monday to the american israel public affairs committee seemed designed to shift perceptions of him squarely back towards the republican mainstream .
“ trump delivered a speech that could easily have been written in the prime minister ’ s office in jerusalem , ” wrote chemi shalev , correspondent for israeli newspaper haaretz .
“ he went into the arena as a racist demagogue but soon came out as an ostensibly serious contender. ” trump , who normally disdains prepared remarks , read his speech out from a teleprompter .
his criticism of obama won applause from the room , and he noted that his daughter ivanka , who converted to judaism and married a jewish man , will soon give birth to a “ beautiful jewish baby ” .
unlike clinton , who spoke at the gathering in a morning session on monday , trump made no mention of a main sticking point in a now-dormant peace process — jewish settlement on occupied land that palestinians seek for a state .
instead , he pushed all the traditional applause buttons at a high-energy event replete with swelling music , accounts of israeli high-tech achievements and shots of waving , and sometimes kissing , audience members displayed on a big screen .
among trump ’ s promises : dismantling a nuclear deal with iran , vetoing any attempt by the united nations to impose a peace settlement and moving the american embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem , which israel considers its capital but almost all other countries , including the united states , do not .
still , trump will have a way to go to win over many in a country suspicious of populist rhetoric .
“ he is a chauvinist , a violent person who hates the blacks , the arabs - anyone who is not his color , ” said orly marx , a 55-year-old housewife from herzliya , near tel aviv .
part of trump ’ s difficulty in winning over israelis is a message that has so far appeared inconsistent .
israelis are used to pouring carefully over u.s. signals toward their country for even the slightest deviation from established policies .
israel radio noted on tuesday that hours before giving his pro-israel speech , trump said at a news conference that u.s. allies would have to pay more for american military aid .
trump quickly backtracked , saying that israel , which is locked in sensitive negotiations with the obama administration over a new multi-billion-dollar 10-year military assistance package , “ can help us greatly ” .
clinton and trump ’ s republican rivals criticized him for having said he would be “ neutral ” in negotiations between israel and the palestinians .
american politicians from both parties portray israel as a close ally , even if they believe it should do more to meet palestinian demands in negotiations .
nevertheless , the right-leaning politics of many israeli voters means trump could become more popular if he emerges as the republican nominee .
nina gilbert , 47 , an american-israeli who works in israel ’ s high-tech sector , said israelis were simply looking forward to the day obama leaves the white house .
“ as far as they are concerned , anybody who is not obama is better , ” she said .