washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republican lawmakers voiced deep concern on thursday about reports that the obama administration might allow iran to use the dollar in some business transactions , although no such plans have been announced .
u.s. government officials said the issue is being discussed in the treasury department , but any policy change would not involve widespread access for iran to the u.s. financial system , disputing media reports suggesting otherwise .
the obama administration is considering easing some sanctions to permit non-u.s. companies to have some access to the u.s. financial system for u.s. dollar transactions involving iran , said a u.s. official who spoke on condition of anonymity .
the official said the matter was being studied , no decisions had been taken and that , to the official ’ s knowledge , none were imminent .
the underlying reason for weighing the step is that non-u.s. companies now able to do business with iran because of last year ’ s nuclear deal find it is difficult to do so without at some point touching the u.s. financial system .
the official said such companies are getting conflicting messages from their own governments , which encourage trade with iran , and from washington , which emphasizes that it will enforce sanctions rigorously .
republicans remain dead set against any effort to ease restrictions against tehran , especially in light of iran ’ s recent missile tests .
“ as iran continues to undermine the spirit of its nuclear agreement with illicit ballistic missile tests , the obama administration is going out of its way to help tehran reopen for business .
the president should abandon this idea , ” said paul ryan , the republican speaker of the house of representatives .
the controversy could complicate senate confirmation of adam szubin to head treasury ’ s sanctions enforcement arm , senate aides said .
president barack obama nominated szubin in april 2015 , but he was not approved in committee until this month .
senate leaders tried to bring szubin up for a vote in the full senate a few days later , but at least one senator objected , the aides said .
republicans , who control congress , tried to kill the international deal in which iran agreed to curtail its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief .
some republicans said they opposed szubin because of his support for the agreement , and aides said talk of easing dollar restrictions could fuel their opposition .
deal opponents have seized on comments by u.s. treasury secretary jack lew as a sign that the administration would end a ban on iran ’ s use of the dollar for trade .
republican representative ed royce said in a letter to obama that lew appeared in house testimony last week to leave the door open to the administration allowing such transactions .
lew said the department was looking at how to “ make sure iran gets relief ” under the nuclear deal , rather than denying the idea was under consideration .
current u.s. policy bars foreign banks from clearing dollar-based transactions with iran through u.s. banks .
sanctions experts said treasury could issue a license allowing u.s. banks to send dollars to an offshore facility , from which foreign , non-iranian banks could withdraw dollars to facilitate legal trade with iran .
any allowance would likely bar trade involving blacklisted iranian citizens or organizations .
the associated press reported that the obama administration might soon tell foreign governments and banks they could start using the dollar in some instances to facilitate business with iran , citing officials familiar with the discussions .
sources in the administration and congress told reuters such a concession was just one of a wide array of options that might be considered .
state department spokesman john kirby commented that washington would continue to analyze the lifting of sanctions under the nuclear agreement , known as the jcpoa , while keeping pressure on iran on other areas of concern .
“ as long as iran continues to meet its nuclear commitments , we will continue to meet our jcpoa commitments for sanctions lifting , ” he said .