sochi , russia/riyadh ( reuters ) - russia s vladimir putin won the backing of turkey and iran on wednesday to host a syrian peace congress , taking the central role in a major diplomatic push to finally end a civil war all but won by moscow s ally , president bashar al-assad .
syrian opposition groups , meeting in saudi arabia to seek a unified position ahead of peace talks , decided to stick to their demand that assad leave power , al arabiya television reported , following speculation they might soften their stance after their hardline leader quit .
two days after being visited by assad in the black sea resort of sochi , president putin hosted his counterparts tayyip erdogan and hassan rouhani there .
in a joint statement , the three leaders called on the syrian government and moderate opposition to participate constructively in the planned congress , to be held in the same city on a date they did not specify .
the congress will look at the key questions on syria s national agenda , putin told reporters at the summit , sitting alongside rouhani and erdogan .
first of all that is the drawing-up of a framework for the future structure of the state , the adoption of a new constitution , and , on the basis of that , the holding of elections under united nations supervision .
there was no word from the leaders on who would be invited .
the list of invitees has been a sticking point , with turkey objecting to some syrian kurdish groups attending .
syria s civil war , in its seventh year , has killed hundreds of thousands of people and created the world s worst refugee crisis , driving more than 11 million people from their homes .
all previous efforts to achieve a diplomatic solution have swiftly collapsed , with the opposition demanding assad leave power , the government insisting he stay on , and neither side able to force the issue by achieving a military victory .
but since russia joined the war on behalf of assad in 2015 , the balance of power has turned decisively in his government s favor .
a year ago , the army forced rebels out of their last urban stronghold , the eastern half of aleppo .
in recent weeks , the self-proclaimed caliphate of jihadist group islamic state has collapsed .
government forces now effectively control all of syria apart from a few shrinking rebel pockets and a swathe in the north held by mainly kurdish forces backed by the united states .
opposition groups held their meeting on wednesday at a luxury hotel in riyadh , two days after the leader of the high negotiations committee ( hnc ) that has represented them at previous peace talks quit abruptly .
hnc chief riyad hijab had been known as an uncompromising defender of the position that assad must have no role in any political transition for syria , and his resignation had led to speculation the opposition could soften its stance .
however , a draft of the meeting s final statement still included the demand assad leave office at the start of any transition , saudi-owned al arabiya television reported .
having helped assad s government reach the cusp of victory , putin now appears to be playing the leading role in international efforts to end the war on assad s terms .
in addition to hosting assad , rouhani and erdogan , the russian leader has also phoned u.s. president donald trump and saudi king salman in the past 24 hours .
iran has long supported assad .
saudi arabia , iran s arch rival in the middle east and long a backer of rebel groups in syria and advocate of the position that assad must leave , has been the main supporter of the hnc .
but after king salman made an historic visit to moscow a few months ago , riyadh appears to have come around to russia s dominant role in syria .
similarly turkey , traditionally one of the syrian leader s implacable foes , has increasingly shown willingness to work with russia to resolve the crisis .
this summit is aimed at results .
i believe critical decisions will be reached , turkey s erdogan said in sochi before his meeting with putin and rouhani .
the syrian government welcomed the final statement from the three-way iran summit , syrian state media said on wednesday , quoting an official source in the foreign ministry .
it described it as the culmination of assad s summit with putin .
the other major power with troops in syria , the united states , has so far kept its distance .
washington has been arming , training and sending special forces to assist a kurdish group fighting against islamic state , angering turkey which is fighting its own kurdish insurgency .
still , any final settlement that keeps assad in power will probably require the participation of some kind of opposition delegation willing to negotiate over the demand that he go .
u.n. peace talks mediator staffan de mistura , host of the formal peace process in geneva , told the opposition groups at the riyadh meeting they needed to have the hard discussions necessary to reach a common line .
a strong , unified team is a creative partner in geneva and we need that , one who can actually explore more than one way to arrive to the goals that we need to have , he said .
de mistura will meet russia s defense and foreign ministers on thursday to discuss preparations for a new round of geneva talks , russian news agency ria reported .
russia said on tuesday that the resignation of such radically minded syrian opposition figures as hnc chief hijab would help unite the disparate opposition factions around a more realistic platform .
[ l8n1nr296 ]