lima ( reuters ) - peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski made vice president mercedes araoz his new prime minister in a cabinet shuffle on sunday that won praise from the opposition - a sign his year-old government will likely avoid a fresh standoff with congress .
kuczynski also swore in deputy economy minister claudia cooper as his new finance minister and replaced his justice , education , health and housing ministers .
the new , more socially conservative cabinet sparked criticism from kuczynski s centrist and leftist supporters that he had caved into the right-wing party popular force , which has an absolute majority in congress .
but opposition lawmakers said they welcomed the change .
i wish success to meche ( mercedes araoz ) and the new cabinet , luis galarreta , the head of congress and popular force lawmaker , said on twitter .
the country needs change and the government needs a chance to mend its ways .
kuczynski was forced to form a new cabinet after congress revoked its confidence in the outgoing one on friday following a dispute over a teachers strike and his government s education policies that stress gender equality in the school curriculum .
congress ousted kuczynski s former education minister late last year and was preparing to censure his second education minister last week .
kuczynski s new education minister , idel vexler , previously criticized the education reforms that kuczynski vowed to defend in a message to the nation on friday .
a 78-year-old former wall street banker , kuczynski took office a year ago with a promise to modernize peru .
he broadly shares the same free-market economic ideology as popular force , but is more socially liberal .
kuczynski s incoming housing minister , carlos bruce , is the first openly gay cabinet member in peru .
araoz was finance minister in the 2006-2011 right-wing government of former president alan garcia , whose party often works closely with popular force .
vexler also worked in garcia s government .
we have to work with them to keep making progress on the country s development , araoz said in televised comments after being sworn in .
kuczynski s approval rating dropped 7 points to a new low of 22 percent in ipsos latest monthly poll , which was taken from sept. 13 to 15 and published on sunday in daily newspaper el comercio .