athens ( reuters ) - cyprus said on wednesday it would protest to the united nations over turkish cypriot restrictions imposed on humanitarian aid to greek cypriots living in the north of the partitioned island , in a sign of deteriorating relations between the two sides .
a u.n. peacekeeping force has been transporting a range of household supplies to a small and dwindling community of greek cypriots and maronite christians based in the turkish cypriot-controlled north of the island for decades .
turkish cypriot officials last month announced they would start charging customs duties on goods , with the exception of medical aid , effective from oct. 1 .
an aid convoy sent via the united nations on wednesday contained only medicine .
only turkey recognizes the breakaway turkish cypriot state , and cyprus s internationally recognized government views any customs payments out of the question .
these measures ... which are totally illegal and contrary to all agreements , are polluting the good climate we want to maintain every way possible , said greek cypriot president nicos anastasiades .
this will be reported , with steps and measures if necessary , he said , without elaborating .
wednesday s incident underscored a deterioration in relations between the two sides since the collapse of revived peace negotiations in switzerland in july .
in a statement , the u.n. peacekeeping force expressed regret at the decision taken by the turkish cypriot administration .
a weekly convoy on wednesday carried only medical supplies to the 264 elderly greek cypriot recipients of aid , the united nations said .
another convoy takes aid to maronite recipients every other week .
the maronites are descendants of arabs who moved to cyprus many centuries ago from what is now lebanon .
turkish cypriot officials were last month quoted in cypriot media as saying aid , which ranged from gas cylinders to food , was being sold on to others , and that it was not required .
cyprus was split in a turkish invasion in 1974 triggered by a brief greek inspired coup , resulting in tens of thousands of internally displaced people .
crossing points opened in 2003 and today there is a regular stream of traffic from one side of the island to the other .
greek cypriots regularly visit the north for cheaper tobacco products and medicine - even though that is formally banned - and turkish cypriots go to the south for grocery shopping .