geneva ( reuters ) - the saudi-led coalition s blockade of yemen , which has cut off food imports to a population where 7 million people are on the brink of famine , is illegal collective punishment of civilians , a prominent aid official said on thursday .
major agencies said aid was still blocked a day after the saudi-led military coalition said it would let humanitarian supplies in .
the u.s.-backed coalition fighting houthi rebels in yemen said on wednesday it would allow aid in through the port of hodeidah , as well as u.n. flights to the capital sanaa , more than two weeks after blockading the country .
we have not yet had any movement as of now , said jens laerke , spokesman of the u.n. office for the coordination of humanitarian assistance .
jan egeland , a former u.n. aid chief who now heads the norwegian refugee council , said of the blockade : in my view this is illegal collective punishment .
egeland , whose group helps 1 million yemenis , welcomed the coalition announcement as a step in the right direction , but added : we only have it in writing now and haven t seen it happen .
the coalition closed air , land and sea access on nov. 6 to stop the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the action came after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward riyadh .
iran has denied supplying weapons .
sending a missile in the direction of riyadh is really very bad .
but those who are suffering from the blockade had nothing to do with this missile , egeland told reuters while in geneva .
even if both the flights and humanitarian shipments will go through now , it is not solving the underlying crisis that a country that needs 90 percent of its goods imported is not getting in commercial food or fuel .
houthi authorities who control the capital sanaa were also imposing restrictions on access for aid workers , he said .
the united nations says some 7 million yemenis are on the brink of famine and 945,000 have been infected since april with cholera .
more than 2,200 people have died .
u.n. officials have submitted requests to the coalition for deliveries via hodeidah and sanaa , and the hope and expectation was that the vital aid pipelines would re-open on friday , the u.n. s laerke said .
the international committee of the red cross said it was vital to get commercial traffic resumed .
yemenis will need more than aid in order to survive the crisis and ward off famine , spokeswoman iolanda jaquemet said .