lima ( reuters ) - an emissary of an independence movement in the western sahara has spent two weeks in lima airport and refuses to leave , after she was denied entry to peru for alleged political activities on a prior visit , peru s foreign ministry said on wednesday .
jadiyetu el mohtar is a spanish citizen who describes herself as the ambassador to peru for a disputed area in the western sahara known as the sahrawi arab democratic republic ( sadr ) .
peru is one of a few dozen countries that has recognized the self-declared sadr , which the polisario independence movement claims is a separate state from morocco .
sadr is not recognized as a state by the united nations and peru suspended diplomatic ties with sadr in 1996 .
el mohtar had hoped to help reestablish those ties , she told reuters by phone from the international arrivals area of lima s airport .
she said she was awaiting an appeal to the decision to block her entry .
peru said el mohtar had violated the terms of a tourist visa by taking part in political activities during a previous visit .
it has refused to grant her another visa and urged her to comply with an order to fly back to spain .
el mohtar has denied any wrongdoing and said her stay in peru in july and august included meetings with environmentalists and feminists and did not violate migratory laws .
i am sleeping on an inflatable mattress , el mohtar said .
i have come to work to pave the way for re-establishing diplomatic relations with peru .
peru s foreign affairs ministry said it was not considering reestablishing diplomatic ties with sadr and does not recognize polisario representatives as diplomats .
el mohtar said she has visited colombia , ecuador and cuba without any problem .
earlier this year , peru banned a canadian activist and a u.s. journalist from peru after they screened a film critical of a mining company in an andean region while on tourist visas .
in april , the u.n. security council unanimously backed attempts to restart talks between morocco and polisario over the western sahara conflict , and extended its peacekeeping mission there for another year .