ottawa/washington ( reuters ) - canada ’ s charismatic prime minister justin trudeau will be traveling to washington this week for talks with u.s. president barack obama , hoping to revitalize a frayed relationship and draw rare attention to canadian issues .
trudeau ’ s liberals came to power in november by ousting the right-wing conservative leader stephen harper , whose ties with washington deteriorated as he hectored obama in a failed bid to gain approval for a major canada-u.s. pipeline .
trudeau , who has basked in international media attention since coming to power and whose progressive politics are much more in tune with obama ’ s , will attend a state dinner thursday , becoming the first canadian leader to do so since 1997 .
“ we want to strengthen our relationship with the united states at a time when it is key for our agenda of economic growth , ” foreign minister stephane dion said in an interview on monday .
canada sends 75 percent of its exports to the united states .
it is also the united states ’ largest trading partner and biggest supplier of oil , but has found it hard to stand out .
“ we ’ d sometimes like to think that americans would pay attention to us from time to time , ” trudeau said in an interview with the cbs television show “ 60 minutes ” that aired on sunday .
trudeau will press his message on thursday , holding talks with obama , lunching with secretary of state john kerry and then attending the state dinner .
canada wants to avoid a fresh trade fight over its softwood lumber exports , while the united states will reiterate long-standing concerns about how much information ottawa shares on terror suspects , say officials involved with the talks .
the two sides are also set to sign a declaration committing to the fight against climate change , sources said .
“ canada ’ s not an issue that gets a lot of attention normally , ” said a senior u.s. administration official .
“ ( but ) i ’ d be hard-pressed to identify a relationship that ’ s more important day in , day out , and that affects more americans day in , day out. ” trudeau has a higher profile than any canadian leader since his father , former prime minister pierre trudeau , was in power four decades ago .
the new york times and vogue magazine are among the u.s. outlets that have run sympathetic profiles about him .
still , his visit may be overshadowed by the raucous race between republican candidates vying to run for the white house .
thursday ’ s dinner coincides with a republican debate in the battleground state of florida .