nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s election commission on monday set oct. 17 as the date for a new vote ordered by the supreme court when it annulled an august poll won by president uhuru kenyatta .
the election will feature kenyatta who is running for a second term and opposition leader raila odinga , the commission said .
a presidential spokesman said the government will not replace the election board ahead of the election , setting up a potential showdown between the government and the opposition .
kenyatta won the aug. 8 vote by 1.4 million votes .
the court on friday said the election commission had not followed proper procedures and ordered it to hold a new vote within 60 days .
it did not stipulate any personnel changes .
the decision shocked some in kenya and was seen by many as a step forward for democracy in the country because it appeared to set an example of judicial independence .
odinga , who lost the two previous elections , welcomed the judgment and called for senior officials at the election board to resign and face possible prosecution .
spokesmen for kenyatta and the election board rejected a change to the entire board .
the supreme court gave clear guidance on who will hold the repeat election .
you can not accept one half of the verdict of the supreme court and not the other , said presidential spokesman manoah esipisu .
andrew limo , a spokesman for the electoral board , said the situation was complicated by the fact that the court would not release its full verdict until sept. 21 .
judges read short remarks criticizing the process but did not go into detail , saying they needed more time to consider more than 80,000 pages submitted as evidence .
if you want to punish people , you must have a basis for it .
but the only basis is the full judgment of the supreme court , which will not be out until 21 days , limo said .
otherwise the commission could get into a position of defending itself in court from people who were dismissed .
odinga s spokesman was not immediately available to comment .