geneva/sanaa ( reuters ) - humanitarian aid workers and medical supplies began arriving in the yemeni capital of sanaa on saturday , u.n. officials said , after the easing of a nearly three-week military blockade that sparked an international outcry .
aid groups have welcomed the decision to let aid in but said flights are not enough to avert humanitarian crisis .
about 7 million people face famine in yemen and their survival depends on international assistance .
first plane landed in sanaa this morning with humanitarian aid workers , the world food programme s regional spokeswoman abeer etefa told reuters in an email , while officials at sanaa airport said two other u.n. flights had arrived on saturday .
the u.n. children s fund unicef said one flight carried over 15 tonnes of vaccines that will cover some 600,000 children against diphtheria , tetanus and other diseases .
the needs are huge and there is much more to do for # yemenchildren , the world body said on twitter .
airport director khaled al-shayef said that apart from the vaccinations shipment , a flight carrying eight employees of the international committee of the red cross had also landed .
sanaa airport was closed from nov. 6 until today , more than 18 days and this closure caused an obstruction to the presence of aid workers , he told reuters in sanaa .
there are more than 500 employees trapped either inside or outside being denied travel as well as 40 flights that were denied arrival at sanaa airport .
colonel turki al-maliki , spokesman for the saudi-led military coalition that closed the ports , said three more aid flights had been approved for sunday .
the coalition , which is fighting the armed houthi movement in yemen with backing from the united states , said on wednesday it would allow aid in through the red sea ports of hodeidah and salif , as well as u.n. flights to sanaa .
the coalition closed air , land and sea access in a move it said was to stop the flow of iranian arms to the houthis , who control much of northern yemen .
the action came after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward riyadh .
iran denied again on saturday supplying weapons to the houthis .
iranian foreign ministry spokesman bahram qasemi said that tehran would welcome the lifting of blockade and any initiative that alleviates the pain of yemeni people .
maliki said on friday that 82 permits had been issued for international aid missions since nov. 4 , both for sanaa airport and hodeidah , the country s main port where some 80 percent of food supplies enter .
that includes issuing clearance for a ship today ( rena ) , carrying 5,500 metric tonnes of food supplies , to the port of hodeidah , he said .
he told reuters on saturday that the commercial vessel had been checked and cleared by coalition navy forces and was approaching hodeidah , but port officials said no ships had arrived yet and they were not expecting any to dock soon .
maliki said new procedures aimed at blocking weapons transfers stipulate that aid and commercial shipments can not be mixed on the same vessel , that requests require 72 hours notice instead of 48 , and that only humanitarian workers can travel on aid flights .
the blockade has drawn wide international concern , including from the united states and the u.n. secretary-general .
sources in washington said secretary of state rex tillerson had asked saudi arabia to ease its blockade of yemen before the kingdom decided to do so .
the heads of three u.n. agencies had earlier urged the coalition to lift the blockade , warning that untold thousands would die if it stayed in place .
the coalition has asked the united nations to send a team to discuss ways of bolstering its verification and inspection mechanism programme which was agreed in 2015 to allow commercial ships to enter hodeidah .
the coalition joined the yemen war in 2015 after the houthis forced president abd-rabbu mansour hadi and his government to flee their temporary headquarters in the southern port city of aden into exile in saudi arabia .
the conflict has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced over 2 million , triggered a cholera epidemic , and driven yemen to the verge of famine .