buenos aires ( reuters ) - families of the 44 crew members of a missing argentine submarine gave up hope and went home on friday after days of waiting at the sub s mar del plata naval base , saddened and angered by evidence that the vessel may have exploded .
the submarine went missing nine days ago with only a one-week supply of oxygen onboard .
president mauricio macri said the search would continue and that he expected the submarine to be located in the days ahead .
he called for a serious and deep investigation into the incident once the search operation was complete .
this means understanding how a submarine that had received midlife maintenance and was in perfect condition to navigate apparently suffered this explosion , he said at a news conference .
on friday evening , navy spokesman enrique balbi said improving weather would allow for boats with underwater detection capabilities to conduct a search .
they will scan an area around where a sound thought to be an explosion was detected on the morning of nov. 15 , the day the vessel sent its last signal .
the weather , thank god , is favorable in that search area for scanning and mapping the seabed , balbi said at a news conference .
macri and balbi both declined to comment directly on the widely held fear that the crew had died .
the submarine , called the san juan , was launched in 1983 and underwent maintenance in 2008 in argentina .
concerns about the crew s fate have set off a fierce political debate in a society sharply divided between supporters of macri and his free-market policies and opposition peronists .
crew families have expressed outrage at the level of funding and maintenance of the armed forces , whose budget has gradually declined since the fall of a military dictatorship in the 1980s .
that trend continued during the first half of former populist president cristina fernandez s administration , before a slight rebound .
military funding has remained mostly flat since macri took office in december 2015 .
when macri arrived in the presidency the destruction of the defense system was so complete that the first task was to restore morale , senate leader and macri ally federico pinedo said in a radio interview on friday .
a group of opposition lawmakers aligned with fernandez demanded that defense minister oscar aguad testify in congress , and called for the creation of a congressional committee to investigate the incident .
araceli ferreyra , a lawmaker with the leftist evita movement , wrote on facebook that she was concerned about suppression of information by the navy early on in the search .
local news media have reported tensions between the navy and macri s administration over lack of timely communication , which both sides have publicly denied .
marta yanez , a federal judge from the patagonian city of caleta olivia , also began an investigation into the incident at the request of the navy .
the information about the possible explosion came on thursday from the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty organization , an international body that runs a global network of listening posts designed to check for secret atomic blasts .
those posts had detected the violent , non-nuclear sound .
around 30 boats and planes and 4,000 people from 13 countries including argentina , the united states , britain , chile and brazil have joined the search for the submarine , which last transmitted its location about 480 km ( 300 miles ) from argentina s south atlantic coast .
a russian plane was due to arrive in argentina on friday night carrying search equipment capable of reaching 6,000 meters ( 20,000 ft ) below the sea surface , balbi said .
relatives of the crew had arrived at mar de plata on monday , filled with an optimism that had all but disappeared by friday .
at this point , the truth is i have no hope that they will come back , maria villareal , mother of one crew member , told local television on friday morning .
others said they would remain at mar del plata .
i m at the base and i m going to stay until they find the submarine , silvina krawczyk , sister of the sub s only female officer , eliana maria krawczyk , told reuters through the whatsapp messaging application .
some family members accused the navy of putting their loved ones at unnecessary risk by sending them out in a more than 30-year-old vessel that they suspected was not properly maintained , an accusation the navy has denied .
they killed my brother !
a man leaving the base in a car shouted out to reporters .
the older man driving the car was crying .