this is the best explanation of why obama and the democrat party are fighting so hard to keep the us state department s refugee resettlement program going strong .
please share this with everyone who s been wondering why the democrats are so eager to bring muslim immigrants from countries who hate us , to america , while leaving christian refugees from the same countries behind .
to hell with terrorism , the democrats want to win even if it s at the expense of our national security looks like my old stomping grounds in montana are heating up .
people there are not taking obama s plan to force refugees on them lying down .
there was a protest in missoula , montana recently over that very issue .
it is just one of many battles brewing out there in small town america.small towns in the sparsely populated parts of america are the perfect place to relocate these refugees .
especially , if your agenda includes politically terraforming the country .
the west is historically conservative in their politics .
many are republicans and libertarians .
even the democrats hearken back to an earlier time when they were more conservative in nature .
obama and the democrats can t have that .
they need to have an entire country willing to submit to marxist diktats .
they need areas seeded with those who will vote democrat and ensure that they stay in power no matter what.and it s not just voting demographics that are pushing this move either .
i personally believe that there is a warped logic to all of this .
that if islam can be made the predominant religion in america , people will be more easily controlled .
that s insane of course and won t work , but there you have it .
instead , shariah law will be implemented and you will see the same atrocities occurring in europe happen here .
the big difference being , that at least for now , americans are armed and will use those weapons to protect their neighbors , loved ones and country.of the 237 syrian refugees admitted to the u.s. since the attacks in paris just one has been a christian .
the rest have been muslims.cns news reports that according to data from the state department refugee processing center , since the november 13 attacks the u.s. has admitted 236 sunni muslim refugees from syria and a single christian a greek orthodox refugee.bringing in the refugees also moves forward the cloward and piven strategy to overwhelm the system so it will collapse and cause chaos in the streets .
these people want to tear the system apart , so they can replace it with something truly heinous .
the obama administration will never admit that this is the plan , but can you honestly look at what is going on today and tell me it isn t ?
our borders are wide open .
we are not vetting anyone to speak of and security here in the us is worse than before 9/11.communities in states such as idaho , montana , north dakota and kansas are being infused with muslim refugees even though they are not wanted by the residents or the local law enforcement .
the feds and their leaders are not giving them a choice .
wyoming is the only state currently not participating in the program , but even the governor there wants to jump in it .
living in large cities would be too costly for the refugees and more can be accomplished with seeding them across the plains .
in a small town , they can turn everything to their advantage in short order .
since many of our larger cities are already flooded with immigrants from south of the border and from muslim nations , in many respects they have at least partially fallen to the ploy already .
this is the fundamental transformation of america in play .
south carolina , idaho , minnesota , north dakota and michigan are vigorously fighting against this program and obama s change .the same entitlements , jobs , lodging and freebies will be given to these refugees in small town america .
but that will mean taking more and more away from locals in these same communities .
these immigrants bring crime and disease with them .
as crime rises , people will leave which will hasten the take over of these towns .
at least that is what obama and his friends hope for .
i pray that people dig in and decide to stay and fight if they can.we haven t learned a damned thing from watching what is going on over in europe .
how do you justify the rapefugees in germany and sweden , who treat rape as game for a large number of players at a given event ?
how can you ignore the violence , the murders , the depravity that is the ummah ?
what s wrong with these people ?
do money and power mean so much to them that they don t care that they are selling america out to a hellish nightmare movement ?
imagine your wives , daughters , mothers , neighbors little children subjected to these beasts .
what would you do ? for entire story : trevor loudon