lt. col. tony shaffer opened a can of worms tonight when he said that the awan brothers sent sensitive intel to the muslim brotherhood as if this case couldn t get more bizarre ! https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ulqiljvm-soour previous update on this bizarre case : dem rep. debbie wasserman-schultz pakistani it staffer imran awan was arrested at dulles airport while trying to flee the united states .
get the back story from maria bartiromo : how is it possible that 3 brothers are hired , muslim brothers just saying , to work in congress and deal with our most intelligent and sensitive information , number one ?
they were all making $ 160,000 !
why were they paid so much ?
22 years old one of the guys , the other was 25 .
they re making $ 160,000 , $ 161,000 and $ 165,000 .
and one of them has a criminal background !
if you haven t been following this crazy series of events , we ve got a previous report below to fill you in .
basically , imran awan and three muslim relatives were hired to handle it for the dnc which gave them access to lots of sensitive information not good !
the daily caller just exclusively reported that awan attempted to destroy hard drives then desperately tried to retrieve them when they were discovered.getting those destroyed hard rives back : pakistani-born imran awan , long-time right-hand it aide to the former democratic national committee ( dnc ) chairwoman , has since desperately tried to get the hard drives back , the individual told the daily caller news foundation s investigative group.a high-level congressional source , speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the probe , confirmed that the fbi has joined what politico previously described as a capitol police criminal probe into serious , potentially illegal , violations on the house it network by imran and three of his relatives , who had access to the emails and files of the more than two dozen house democrats who employed them on a part-time basis.capitol police have also seized computer equipment tied to the florida lawmaker.awan s younger brothers , abid and jamal , his wife , hina alvi , and rao abbas , imran s best friend , are also under investigation .
there have been no arrests in the case.this case is huge !
maria bartiromo is livid about it : a pakistani family under criminal investigation by the u.s. capitol police ( see our previous report below ) for abusing their access to the house of representatives information technology ( it ) system may have engaged in myriad other questionable schemes besides allegedly placing ghost employees on the congressional payroll.imran awan , his wife hina , and brothers abid and jamal collectively netted more than $ 4 million in salary as it administrators for house democrats between 2009 and 2017 .
yet the absence of signs of wealth displayed among them raise questions such as was the money sent overseas or did something other than paychecks motivate their actions ? capitol police revoked the awans access to the congressional it system in february 2017 after a major data breach was detected .
their access had allowed them to read emails and files of dozens of members , including many serving on the house permanent select committee on intelligence and the house committee on foreign affairs.our previous report on this the main stream media is ignoring the criminality of these brothers:3 muslim brothers working for dems in congress caught accessing unauthorized top-secret government intel one has criminal background may have ties to muslim brotherhood [ video ] 3 congressional it employees have been fired for accessing members computer networks without permission .
maria s on the show , knows more about this .
can you fill me in a bit.here are their names stuart .
let me tell you what the 3 people that were fired on thursday : abid , imran and jamal awan .
they were barred from computer networks at the house of representatives on thursday because they accessed congressmen and congress people s computer networks unauthorized .
at a minimum they were fired .
at a minimum we know that they accessed computers unauthorized and they did so in foreign intelligence , foreign affairs and intelligence committees .
okay ?
so they were getting very important information , government information .
they accessed these computers .
that is the least of it .
there s also some talk that people are looking into what ties they have into terrorism .
are they impacted by the muslim brotherhood ?
are they a part of the muslim brotherhood ?
one of them has a criminal background ! how is it possible that 3 brothers are hired , muslim brothers just saying , to work in congress and deal with our most intelligent and sensitive information , number one ?
they were all making $ 160,000 !
why were they paid so much ?
22 years old one of the guys , the other was 25 .
they re making $ 160,000 , $ 161,000 and $ 165,000 .
and one of them has a criminal background !
i hear what you re saying , i mean , these intelligence committees handle our terror strategies right ?
they got in on benghazi by the way.yes , and they also worked for many democrats in the house .
they are thinking that they may be also one of the reasons debbie wasserman schultz got hacked .
there s so much more to come on this stuart , it s an incredible story .
i think it s amazing ! chiefs of staff for dozens of democratic lawmakers who employed the four were informed last week that a criminal probe was underway into their use of congressional information technology systems , including the existence of an external server to which house data was being funneled , and into the theft of and overbilling for computer equipment.their salaries and time were shared among dozens of democratic members , including former democratic national committee chairman rep. debbie wasserman schultz of florida.chiefs of staff for dozens of democratic lawmakers who employed the four were informed last week that a criminal probe was underway into their use of congressional information technology systems , including the existence of an external server to which house data was being funneled , and into the theft of and overbilling for computer equipment.despite the generous salaries , the four were involved in multiple suspicious mortgage transfers and a debt-evading bankruptcy .
abid had more than $ 1 million in debts following a failed business called cars international that he ran in falls church , va. , from november 2009 to september 2010. business associates said in court documents that abid had stolen money and vehicles from them.it s unclear how abid found time to run an automotive business while working full-time for congress .
he had been on the congressional payroll since 2005 .
a congressional credit union repossessed two of his personal cars before the business folded.abid filed for bankruptcy in 2012 , but somehow managed to keep ownership of two houses while telling the bankruptcy court and creditors that he had no assets with which to pay them .
he signed a sworn statement that he and his wife , natalia soba , were living apart and needed separate residences .
my spouse and i are legally separated under applicable non-bankruptcy law or my spouse and i are living apart other than for the purpose of evading the requirements of 707 ( b ) ( 2 ) ( a ) of the bankruptcy code , abid claimed in bankruptcy documents .
but both houses had been in the family for years.abid s record includes numerous driving- and alcohol-related legal problems , including driving with a suspended or revoked license , court records show .
he was found guilty of drunk driving a month before he started at the house , and was arrested for public intoxication a month after his first day.a spokesman for rep. joaquin castro of texas told thedcnf friday that jamal s employment with our office has been terminated .
hilarie chambers , a spokeswoman for rep. sandy levin who employed abid told thedcnf that after being notified by the house administration committee , this individual was removed from our payroll .
we are confident that everything in our office is secure .
not every democrat is willing to terminate their connection with these four : some democrats have not terminated their connection with the four , including wasserman schultz , who employs imran and who resigned from her dnc post last year after a computer hack revealed embarassing emails .
derrick robinson , spokesman for california rep. karen bass , refused to comment on alvi s employment status.for entire story : daily caller