vienna ( reuters ) - the united states and iran quarreled over how tehran s nuclear activities should be policed at a meeting of the u.n. nuclear watchdog on monday , in a row sparked last month by washington s call for wider inspections .
key u.s. allies are worried by the possibility of washington pulling out of a 2015 landmark nuclear deal under which iran agreed to curb its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions against it being lifted .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley last month called for the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) to inspect a wider range of sites in iran , including military ones , to verify it is not breaching its nuclear deal with world powers .
her remarks were rejected by a furious tehran .
we will not accept a weakly enforced or inadequately monitored deal , u.s. energy secretary rick perry told the iaea general conference , an annual meeting of the agency s member states that began on monday .
he did not say whether he thought the deal was currently weakly enforced .
the united states ... strongly encourages the iaea to exercise its full authorities to verify iran s adherence to each and every nuclear-related commitment under the jcpoa , perry added , referring to the deal by its official name the joint comprehensive plan of action .
perry was speaking shortly after the general conference formally approved the appointment of yukiya amano , a 70-year-old career diplomat from japan , to a third term as iaea director general .
u.s. president donald trump has called the accord the worst deal ever negotiated and has until mid-october to make a decision that could lead to washington reimposing sanctions on iran .
iran s nuclear chief , ali akbar salehi , told the meeting in vienna that washington had made a host of unjustifiable peculiar demands with regard to the verification of our strictly peaceful nuclear program .
we remain confident that the ( iaea ) will resist such unacceptable demands and continue to execute the agency s ... role with strict objectivity , fairness and impartiality , he said .
salehi also criticized what he called the american administration s overtly hostile attitude the iaea has the authority to request access to facilities in iran , including military ones , if there are new and credible indications of banned nuclear activities there , but diplomats say washington has yet to provide such indications .
amano often describes his agency s work as technical rather than political and has declined to comment on haley s remarks about inspections .
in a speech on monday , however , he defended the deal as an important step forward .
the nuclear-related commitments undertaken by iran under the jcpoa are being implemented , amano said .
iran is now subject to the world s most robust nuclear verification regime .