brasilia/sao paulo ( reuters ) - brazil s new top federal prosecutor on tuesday reshuffled the team of investigators in charge of pursuing the biggest corruption probe yet conducted in latin america s largest nation .
prosecutor general raquel dodge , who took over the post on monday after the end of her predecessor rodrigo janot s term , had previously invited all the members of janot s team of prosecutors working on the car wash corruption probe to stay .
however , few expressed interest in continuing , and dodge , 56 , who holds a master s degree from harvard and has spent three decades working as a federal prosecutor , decided to replace the entire team with her own choices .
just a few of the previous prosecutors will stay on for a month to help with the transition .
the car wash investigation , which began in early 2014 , has led to an unprecedented fight against entrenched political corruption in brazil .
it has uncovered billions of dollars in bribes paid by major construction firms to politicians and executives at state-run enterprises such petroleo brasileiro in return for lucrative contracts .
it is one of several major investigations taking place in brazil , probes that have led to the conviction of former president luiz inacio lula da silva , and charges being leveled against president michel temer , his predecessor dilma rousseff , and two more former presidents .
charges have been lodged or investigations opened against dozens of federal lawmakers , while over 100 powerful businessmen and politicians have been convicted .
while there was a clear personal rift between janot and dodge , whose appointment by temer was ratified by the senate in august , that does not necessarily mean federal prosecutors will be any less aggressive in pursuing corruption .
obviously there will be a change in style , but there will be no change in the course of investigations , said carlos pereira , a professor of public policy at the getulio vargas foundation and one of brazil s top experts on corruption .
but the team chosen by ( dodge ) is extremely professional and has already shown skills in fighting corruption .
among the prosecutors who will be part of dodge s car wash investigation team are veterans from brazil s first major probe into political corruption , the 2005 mensalao scandal .
it ended with top members of lula s government being found guilty of paying off lawmakers in return for their support of lula s legislation .