barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - separatists looked set on friday to regain power in catalonia after voters rejected spanish prime minister mariano rajoy s attempt to neuter its independence movement , instead re-igniting the country s biggest political crisis in decades .
spanish markets recoiled at a surprise result that is also a setback for the european union , which must now brace for more secessionist noise as it grapples with the disruption of brexit and simmering east european discontent .
by risking a parliamentary election in the region , rajoy appears to have made the same mistake that leaders including greece s alexis tsipras , britain s david cameron and italy s matteo renzi have made in recent years : betting that voters would resolve their troublesome domestic conundrums for them .
for an interactive graphics package , click tmsnrt.rs/2agbazv with well over 99 percent of votes from thursday s election counted , separatist parties had secured a slim majority .
spain s stock market fell around 1 percent and the country s borrowing costs rose as investors bet the ensuing ramp-up in tensions with its richest region will hurt the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .
rajoy ruled out calling national elections over events that have weakened his authority , while both he and exiled separatist leader carles puigdemont said they were open for dialogue .
but they offered no details and such calls in the past have failed to yield any solution .
after several strained months that saw secessionists organize an illegal referendum on oct. 1 , and police confiscate urns to try to prevent it from taking place , the election result has done nothing to resolve the standoff either .
the secessionists kept a majority , but it was reduced and they may have difficulty forming a government ; and support for unionist party ciudadanos has surged , but not enough to catapult them into power .
the divisions are huge .
it will take time to mend them and that should be the priority for all political actors , reconciliation within the remit of the law , rajoy told a news conference at the government s moncloa headquarters .
with catalonia accounting for a fifth of its economy , spain had already trimmed growth forecasts for 2018 , and the prospect of prolonged uncertainty worries business leaders .
more companies leaving , less economic activity there - and worse for everyone , said the chief executive of a major listed spanish company , speaking on condition of anonymity because of the tense climate of the independence debate .
more than 3,100 firms have shifted their headquarters out of the region since october s referendum .
overnight hotel stays rose 2.1 percent in spain in november but fell 7.3 percent in catalonia , the national statistics institute said .
rajoy , who called the election after sacking the previous secessionist government , had hoped to mobilise hitherto quiescent supporters of union with spain and deal separatism a decisive blow .
instead , his own party performed miserably , and the result raises the question of a return to power for puigdemont , who campaigned from self-imposed exile in brussels after rajoy deposed him as catalan president .
catalonia is back to square one , said marco protopapa , an analyst at jp morgan , forecasting that tensions would quickly return between madrid and an emboldened pro-independence camp eager to exploit the tactical advantage of a favorable election outcome .
while rajoy dodged questions about whether he would negotiate directly with puigdemont , the catalan politician said now was the time for dialogue between the two .
we ve at least won the right to be heard , puigdemont said , adding that he was open to returning to spain if given guarantees that he could take his position as head of a potential new catalan government .
currently he faces the prospect of arrest for his role in organizing the banned referendum .
when the catalan parliament declared independence after the referendum , rajoy invoked constitutional powers to impose direct rule from madrid .
he promised to restore catalonia s autonomy regardless of the election result , but could re-impose it if a new government again pursued secession .
the eu s major powers , germany and france , have backed his anti-independence stance despite some criticism of his methods at times .
meanwhile , puigdemont s attempts to gain international support in brussels have failed so far .
he has called the eu a club of decadent countries for declining to mediate a solution .
a german government spokeswoman on friday urged reconciliation in catalonia , adding that the spanish constitution would have to be respected .
secessionists say catalonia pays an unfair share of taxes to madrid , but investors fear independence would knock the indebted region out of the eu and the euro zone by default .
there is a huge effect on investment from abroad .
as there s a lack of stability here , people who were investing here are going to other cities and other regions , said rafael prisco , commercial director in a real estate agent in central barcelona that deals mostly with foreign clients .
europe now ends the year having struggled to build on the integrationist emmanuel macron s victory in the french presidential election in may .
germany faces months of political limbo , brussels is mired in a nasty dispute with poland s right-wing government and a far-right party has just entered the government in austria .
in thursday s vote , catalonia s separatist parties won 70 of the 135 seats , compared with 72 last time , with puigdemont s junts per catalunya ( together for catalonia ) retaining its position as the largest separatist force .
ciudadanos ( citizens ) won the most votes , but other unionist forces rajoy s people s party and the socialist party performed dismally .
it s a bitter victory , said paloma morales , a 27-year-old student at a ciudadanos rally .
it means four more years of misery .