sydney ( reuters ) - north korea has sent a letter to australia s parliament , warning it is a nuclear power and will not be cowed by u.s. president donald trump s threats to destroy it , according to a copy of the letter published in an australian newspaper on friday .
if trump thinks that he would bring the dprk , a nuclear power , to its knees through nuclear war threat , it will be a big miscalculation and an expression of ignorance , said a facsimile of the letter , published by the sydney morning herald and verified by australia s foreign ministry .
trump threatened to totally destroy the dprk ... it is an extreme act of threatening to totally destroy the whole world .
a spokeswoman for australia s foreign minister told reuters the herald report was accurate and the paper s copy of the letter , dated sept. 28 , was genuine .
titled open letter to parliaments of different countries , the note said it was sent from north korea s embassy in jakarta , indonesia , to australia s embassy in the same city , as well as to other countries , without naming them .
dprk stands for the democratic people s republic of korea , north korea s official name .
tension has soared on the peninsula following a series of weapons tests by north korea and a string of increasingly bellicose exchanges between trump and north korean leader kim jong un .
trump , in a speech last month at the united nations , threatened to totally destroy north korea if necessary to defend itself and allies and called the north s leader kim jong un a rocket man on a suicide mission .
the letter calls for countries loving independence , peace and justice to discharge their duty and keep sharp vigilance against the heinous and reckless moves of the trump administration trying to drive the world into a horrible nuclear disaster .
at a press conference in sydney , australian foreign minister julie bishop said the note was an unprecedented communication .
it is not the way they usually publish their global messages .
the collective strategy of imposing maximum diplomatic and economic pressure through sanctions on north korea is working .
this is a response to the pressure .