the leftist teachers and the press are part of the huge problem of misinformation about donald trump .
they are partly to blame for the violence and hate out there .
here s a perfect example : a self-described mentor for the girl who attacked jade urged compassion for the suspended student .
we don t want a mistake during a highly emotional and intense time to affect her long-term future , said khabral muhammad , a life coach at live in peace , a nonprofit group supporting east palo alto youth .
woodside , calif. one peninsula high school student s support of donald trump may have made her a target.the woodside high school student and her family are shocked something like this could happen .
the girl said all of her friends were posting about the election last night , but her post got her beat up.cellphone video captured the moment a female student attacked sophomore jade armenio .
this girl comes up to me and she said , do you hate mexicans ?
and i was like , no , and she said , you support trump .
you hate mexicans . '
armenio says the girl hit her , threw her to the ground , pulled out her earrings and hair .
she was left with a bloody nose and scratches and bruises .
before the results came in on election night , armenio had posted on instagram that she hoped trump would win .
i don t think i could name one person on any of my accounts who didn t say their opinion last night , armenio said.armenio s parents say they re mortified about what happened .
my husband and i don t put our political views on social media .
kids still do it .
that s their life .
we tell them don t do it , but even if she does she should never be hit like that , said gina armenio.the principle of woodside high school issued a statement that reads in part the recorded incident was investigated in conjunction with law enforcement and appropriate disciplinary action has been taken.armenio says she s also now the target of social media hate mail but she s taking it in stride .
in high school if you really care about what every person thinks you re going to get torn apart , armenio said.armenio parents say they are keeping her out of school until they know she ll be safe.if only this poor pro-trump child had just worn # safetypins perhaps this would n't have happened pic.twitter.com/w07ro9ooo2 ia ? givemetears ?
( @ nia4_trump ) november 12 , 2016