moscow ( reuters ) - former russian economy minister alexei ulyukayev was found guilty of soliciting a $ 2 million bribe and sentenced to eight years in jail on friday , in a case that has shone a rare light on infighting among the elite ahead of a presidential election .
ulyukayev , the most senior serving official to be arrested in decades , was found guilty of accepting the bribe last year from rosneft ( rosn.mm ) chief executive igor sechin , a close ally of president vladimir putin .
sechin took part in an elaborate sting operation on nov. 14 2016 involving russia s fsb security service which ended in the arrest of ulyukayev , 61 , the latest twist in what several sources said was a kremlin turf war .
people have ambitions and they are fighting over them , said one senior source who knows several of the people involved in the case .
ulyukayev , who denied the charges , said he d been set up .
he said he thought the bag with the bribe was a gift of expensive alcohol .
he said he would appeal and a source close to ulyukayev said his lawyers hoped putin might pardon him if that failed .
the case s denouement comes just months before a march presidential election which incumbent putin is expected to win .
if , as expected , he is re-elected he will be 71 at the end of his new term and is barred by the constitution from running for a third consecutive term .
with that deadline looming , turf wars take on extra importance because they could help decide who runs russia after putin .
the verdict and the harsher-than-expected sentence ulyukayev was widely forecast to get a suspended sentence is likely to be interpreted as a sign that sechin s place at putin s side is safe and that he is increasingly influential , something that has alarmed other members of the elite .
we re dealing with a court that has been hijacked by personal interests , gleb pavlovsky , an ex-putin adviser , wrote on social media .
state prosecutors had said that ulyukayev had asked for the bribe in exchange for approving the sale of the state-controlled oil company bashneft ( bane.mm ) to rosneft , something he initially opposed .
boris neporozhniy , a state prosecutor , hailed friday s verdict as a sign of the supremacy of the law , while a spokesman for rosneft , the oil firm sechin runs , said ulyukayev had been caught red-handed and that the evidence against him had been rock solid .
before his arrest , ulyukayev had been one of the leading figures in a faction of economic liberals who argued for less state control over the economy .
sechin is widely seen as the main champion of the opposite view , that the state should consolidate its grip , particularly over the energy sector that provides a large share of russia s state revenue through its two biggest companies , rosneft and gazprom .
he is backed by others , many of them with a background in state security , who share his view .
two sources said the way ulyukayev s trial had been conducted showed that his rivals for influence in the ruling elite had used the trial to try to push back against him .
they did that by lobbying officials for the trial to be held in public , and by leaking elements of the prosecution case to the media , the two sources said .
sechin has publicly opposed the court s decision to release audio tapes of the sting operation .
the fact that the trial has been held in public and not behind closed doors showed the limits of sechin s influence , the sources said .
ulyukayev , who was handcuffed and placed in a courtroom cage after the verdict , looked shocked and said he had been treated unfairly .
of course it s unjust , he told reporters .
when one reporter pointed out he d received the minimum custodial sentence for the charges , ulyukayev held up his handcuffed hands and said : you call this the minimum ?
when asked about the case on friday , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov declined to comment .
former russian finance minister alexei kudrin , an adviser to putin and a strong advocate of less state control over the economy , strongly criticised the verdict .
it s a terrible , groundless verdict , kudrin said on social media .
it s weak work by the investigation ...
many face such injustice these days .