( reuters ) - bangladesh plans to allocate more land for camps housing rohingya refugees as concerns grow over a possible outbreak of disease in crowded , makeshift settlements clustered at the country s southern tip .
about 625,000 rohingya muslims have fled to sanctuary in bangladesh from violence , looting and destruction in neighboring myanmar after government forces launched a counter insurgency following attacks by rohingya militants on aug. 25 .
the swift exodus has taken the rohingya refugee population to 837,000 , making bangladesh one of the world s largest , most crowded settlement of asylum-seekers .
more than 60 percent of the water supply in the camps is contaminated with bacteria as temporary latrines overflow into hastily-built , shallow wells , a world health organization survey showed .
faecal sludge in the settlements goes largely untreated .
there is a high risk of a public health event , not just cholera and acute watery diarrhea , said naim talukder of the group action against hunger , who is coordinating the efforts of 31 groups and agencies to manage water , sanitation and hygiene .
a reuters graphic uses satellite imagery to document the mushrooming spread of the refugee areas .
data show the challenge of meeting international standards for water , sanitation and hygiene in the camps and spillover sites .
click on the link for the reuters graphic - tmsnrt.rs/2aomiav most refugees live in flimsy bamboo and canvas shelters in an area crowded well beyond emergency standards , said graham eastmond , an official of the international organization for migration ( iom ) .
you are talking a third of the international standard , he said .
we need to decongest urgently and obviously , to do that , we need more land .
the iom is among the bodies that have urged bangladesh to free up more land and allow a wider spread of settlements .
the government already allocated 3,000 acres of land for the rohingya , shah kamal , a disaster management official , told reuters .
that figure is equivalent to 1,214 hectares .
considering the current situation , the government is planning to allocate 500 acres more land for them , he added .
last week , bangladesh approved a $ 280-million project to develop an isolated and flood-prone island in the bay of bengal to temporarily house 100,000 rohingya , despite criticism from rights groups .
the overcrowding spells health and safety risks , eastmond added , from rapidly spreading water-borne and communicable diseases to landslides and flooding , besides swelling the threat to vulnerable children and women .
single women or children head about a fifth of households , preliminary findings of a population survey by the u.n. refugee agency and bangladesh show .
by nov. 11 , there were 36,096 cases of acute watery diarrhea since aug. 25 , as infection rates climbed , the u.n. children s agency said last month .
bangladesh , in partnership with u.n. agencies and charities , has spent hundreds of millions of dollars in responding to the crisis .
new roads built by the army will open this month , boosting access for camp-dwellers , said eastmond .
yet just 23 percent of funding needs for water , sanitation and hygiene services are being met , talukder said .
bangladesh and myanmar vowed to begin the voluntary return of the rohingya to myanmar in the next two months .
but the rohingya will have to present identity documents in order to be accepted , said myint kyaing , a myanmar labor and immigration ministry official .
relief officials fear that few rohingya , a stateless and long-persecuted minority in myanmar , carried such documents in their desperate scramble to leave .
hundreds of rohingya villages have been razed , their land given to others and their crops harvested .