ankara ( reuters ) - president tayyip erdogan on wednesday dismissed nato allies concern over turkey s deal to buy a missile defense system from russia and said ankara would continue to take the security measures it thought right .
turkey , whose relations with its allies have frayed in recent months , said it opted for the s-400 because western companies had offered no financially effective alternative .
but nato officials have voiced disquiet over the purchase of missiles incompatible with alliance systems .
they went crazy because we made the s-400 agreement .
what were we supposed to do , wait for you ?
we are taking and will take all our measures on the security front , erdogan said in a speech in ankara .
western firms which had bid for the contract included u.s. firm raytheon ( rtn.n ) , which put in an offer with its patriot missile defense system .
franco-italian group eurosam , owned by the multinational european missile maker mbda and france s thales tcfp.pa , came second in the tender .
turkey , with the second-largest army in the alliance , has enormous strategic importance for nato , abutting as it does syria , iraq and iran .
but the relationship has become fractious .
erdogan has been infuriated by washington s support for kurdish ypg fighters in the battle against islamic state in syria .
turkey sees the ypg as an extension of the militant kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has waged a three-decade insurgency in turkey s largely kurdish southeast .
the u.s. pentagon said it had expressed concerns to ankara about the russian purchase .
a nato interoperable missile defense system remains the best option to defend turkey from the full range of threats in its region , spokesman johnny michael said in a statement .
france , however , said turkey s decision was a sovereign choice which did not require comment from nato allies .
france s foreign minister is due to visit turkey on thursday .
germany has said it would restrict some arms sales to turkey , reflecting the diplomatic strain over a security crackdown in turkey following a failed military coup last year .
berlin had originally sought to freeze major arms sales , but scaled that back after turkey said that would harm the joint fight against islamic state .
berlin has criticized mass arrests that followed the failed coup and demanded the release of around a dozen german or turkish-german citizens arrested in recent months .
turkey originally awarded a $ 3.4 billion contract for the defense system to china in 2013 , but canceled that two years later , saying it would concentrate on developing a system domestically .
turkey later began talks with russia , and in july erdogan said the deal had been signed , although negotiations appear to have been drawn out over financing .
turkish media quoted erdogan this week as saying he and russian president vladimir putin were determined that the agreement should proceed .