mumbai ( reuters ) - a rush hour stampede killed at least 22 people and wounded 36 on friday during a sudden monsoon downpour at a busy railway station in india s commercial hub of mumbai , government and emergency officials said .
india has the world s fourth biggest rail network , but it is grappling with underinvestment and overcrowding , especially in the city of 20 million where rail accidents have killed more than 3,000 people in each of the last three years .
the cause of the stampede on a tiny bridge at the central elphinstone road station was being investigated , a police official at the accident site said .
some of the injured are in serious condition , deepak sawant , the health minister of the western state of maharashtra of which mumbai is the capital , said at a hospital where the injured were taken .
the stampede , at a station recently renamed prabhadevi , took place after the cloudburst caught commuters off guard , sending scores scurrying for cover under a pedestrian overbridge , said akash koteja , one of those injured .
trains were rolling in and some people wanted to get out of the station , but others were not making way .
when a few tried , it led to a stampede , koteja added .
the bridge is usually crowded at that time of day , as it also provides an exit route for passengers disembarking at an adjoining railway station , he added .
manish mishra , a witness who helped some of the injured , said the situation was worsened as officials did not respond immediately , or take steps to control the crowd .
emergency officials responded rapidly , state officials said , however .
immediately after the incident , rail , police and hospital authorities rushed to provide treatment to those injured , state minister vinod tawde told reporters .
railways minister piyush goyal , who was on a visit to mumbai , has ordered an enquiry into the incident led by a top railway safety official , he said on social network twitter .
over the last two months , mumbai has reeled from devastation caused by heavy seasonal monsoon rains .
last month a deluge killed 14 people , wrecked homes and caused chaos .
torrential rain was also blamed for the collapse of a 117-year-old building that killed 34 people , and water-logging last week that disrupted flights after a passenger jet overshot a runway .
prime minister narendra modi and finance minister arun jaitley sent twitter condolence messages to stampede victims families .
hundreds of social media users angered by the event questioned the government s priorities , targeting modi s ambitious $ 17-billion plan for a bullet train to link mumbai with ahmedabad in neighboring gujarat state .
many tweets urged the government to fund basic rail upgrades instead .