washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump on friday released details of the personal finances of his staffers late on friday , including his son-in-law jared kushner and daughter ivanka , confirming that he has surrounded himself with some very affluent advisers .
white house ethics officials said the legally required disclosure documents provided a snapshot of assets and positions held by personnel when they first entered their new jobs at the white house , and before they started selling stocks and other assets that could pose conflicts of interest .
the white house disclosed gary cohn , former goldman sachs president and now head of the white house national economic council , had assets worth at least $ 230 million , but possibly much more .
little information was given on several of his assets and only indicated they were worth more than $ 1 million .
cohn had income ranging from $ 48 million to nearly $ 77 million in the year preceding his engagement in the white house , though it could be much higher .
jared kushner ’ s 54-page report – which included most of the assets and income of his wife ivanka trump - included scores of assets worth six- and seven-figures .
the new york times reported that the couple ’ s real estate and investment empire was worth as much as $ 741 million .
kushner held executive positions with 266 llcs , corporations , groups and non-profits , which he has resigned from since january .
democratic lawmakers have expressed concern about potential conflicts of interest for kushner , who like trump is a new york real estate developer .
trump this week officially added his daughter ivanka to his staff .
she had a fashion business and was involved in her father ’ s global real estate development business , but stepped aside from managing the businesses when her father entered the white house .
senior adviser steve bannon ’ s pre-white house bank accounts , real estate and other holdings were valued at between $ 3.3 million and $ 12.6 million .
white house chief of staff reince priebus had assets of between $ 604,000 and $ 1.16 million and income of $ 1.42 million .
about $ 566,000 of his income came from the republican national committee and the rest from his partnership in a milwaukee law firm .
neither trump nor vice president mike pence ’ s assets were included in the documents .
trump has faced questions about conflicts of interest with his hotel and golf course businesses since his election in november .
he has handed off control to his two oldest sons , but ethics watchdogs have complained that the arrangements do not go far enough to avoid conflicts , and have urged trump to divest fully or set up a blind trust for his assets .
trump , a real estate magnate and television celebrity with no political experience before he was elected president , has brought in some high-net-worth people to advise him .
for example , reed cordish , a baltimore real estate developer before he become trump ’ s technology adviser , disclosed pre-white house assets of between $ 92 million and $ 798 million .
he had income of between $ 48 million and $ 55 million .
“ these are incredibly successful individuals , very high-net worth , very sophisticated complex asset structures , numerous sub llcs , trusts and other items , all of which have to be worked through , ” a senior white house ethics official told reporters before the data was released .
wealthy senior white house staff have to enter into ethics agreements where they agree to resign from positions and divest from assets .
copies of those agreements were not available .
the white house said the independent office of government ethics , which reviews financial disclosures to help executive branch officials avoid conflicts of interest , has classified about 25 percent of trump white house staffers as having “ extremely complex ” reports , meaning the filers are very wealthy .
in contrast , only a sliver of the staffers in former democrat president barack obama ’ s white house fell into the “ extremely complex ” category , according to pie charts released by the white house .
no numbers accompanied the charts .
almost three-quarters of the obama white house filers had disclosure statements that were rated “ simple ” or “ moderate ” while only a third of the trump filers were in those categories .
not all of trump ’ s advisers were gold-plated before joining the government .
peter navarro , trump ’ s trade adviser , earned a relatively modest $ 240,000 from university of california-irvine , with less than $ 1,000 in royalties from the book “ death by china ” in the past year , and speaking fees from the casket and funeral supply association and other groups .
omarosa manigault , who rose to fame on trump ’ s reality show the apprentice and now is a white house adviser , had a modest income under $ 100,000 .
the disclosures showed she is a beneficiary of a trust established by her late fiance , actor michael clarke duncan , worth between $ 1 million and $ 5 million .
manigault is currently engaged to a florida pastor .
forms show she received a wedding dress , veil and accessories worth $ 25,000 for an appearance on the reality show “ say yes to the dress. ” ( corrects grammar in paragraph 9 . )