barack hussein obama has not exactly done a stellar job convincing america he s a christian .
he spent his entire career as christian in a church that preached hate against america and the white man .
his own preacher , the racist reverend wright admitted that obama only became a christian to help himself become better integrated with the people who he was trying to embed himself with as a community organizer .
even the casual observer couldn t help but notice that while obama s been in office , he s done everything but backflips to defend the islamic faith , while bashing christianity .
bill o reilly shared photos of barack obama in traditional islamic dress on his program wednesday night claiming they were from his half-brother malik s wedding.the fox news host said it was very difficult to verify the exact location of the photographs a similar set of which were first released back in 2004 by malik and previously published on dailymail.com but claimed they were taken in maryland in the early 1990s .
according to his half-sister , barack obama attended his half-brother s wedding in the early 1990s .
malik obama was a muslim , said o reilly .
the factor has obtained pictures allegedly from that wedding , which we believe was held in maryland .
malik was married in 1981 for the first time and president obama was his best man at that ceremony .
he now has multiple wives.o reilly used the photos in a monologue alleging the president s deep emotional ties to islam have stopped him effectively combating isis while also saying he believes the photos prove that president obama is not a devout christian .
he did this while attacking president obama hours after he revealed he would not be withdrawing troops from afghanistan , saying : president obama , as we all know , will not even use the words islamic terrorism .
again today when telling the nation that america will maintain eight-thousand troops in afghanistan , the president did not accurately describe the situation there , putting forth that it was more about politics than islamic terror .
o reilly claims the president obama s failure to identify the terrorist threat facing america has allowed isis to run amok in the middle east , a mistake he claims the commander-in-chief will not acknowledge .
there is no question the obama administration s greatest failure is allowing the islamic terror group isis to run wild , murdering thousands of innocent people all over the world , including many muslims , said o reilly .
mr. obama has never , never acknowledged that mistake , nor does he define the isis threat accurately .
that group is killing innocent people in order to impose a radical version of islam on the world .
the jihad is solely based on theology , perverted as it may be .
obama s refusal to use the phrase islamic terrorism , preferring instead to say militants or simply terrorists has long been a sore spot for his republican detractors , including donald trump.o reilly also said of obama after sharing the photos : i believe he s a christian .
i m not one of these guys who says he s a muslim .
but i don t think he s a devout christian .
he went on to say during the program : i base my analysis on the fact that in my opinion and i could be wrong , but i m not president obama s sympathetic treatment of muslims put the country in danger because he has not elevated the risks that we have to the level it should be .
and he allowed isis to be created because of his foolish decision to withdraw troops in iraq and to pretty much run wild for five years .
so another president , angry about the jihad , would not have done that .
o reilly s guest , obama : from promise to power author david mendell , jumped in at that point to say : i think president obama is very sympathetic to all cultures , all religions .
he grew up in a multiplicity the host cut him off though to ask : is that good for a commander in chief to be very sympathetic to all cultures and all beliefs when thousands of people are being murdered ?
o reilly then closed out the segment by stating : he s the commander in chief of the united states , and his main charge is to protect us .
it s not main charge as to be touchy-feely to all different cultures .
via : daily mail