washington ( reuters ) - anyone seeking a table at carmine ’ s italian restaurant near capitol hill on a tuesday or wednesday needs to battle a mid-week crush of congress members and their staff .
but mondays are far quieter — just like the floor of congress .
there are usually around nine events on a monday , compared to as many as 30 on a midweek day , says kelly fitzgerald , carmine ’ s director of special events and catering .
the mid-week crunch at carmine ’ s underscores a trend : members of the u.s. congress have been spending fewer days working in washington since the late 2000s , according to a reuters review of congressional records going back 18 years .
lawmakers increasingly try to cram their legislative work into the middle of the week in washington and then rush back home .
their absence from the capital reinforces the effects of a deepening partisan divide in recent years that has led to high-profile deadlocks over legislation previously seen as routine , according to some former lawmakers and political analysts .
under pressure to spend more time in their home constituencies , often fund-raising for campaigns , members have less time to attend debates and mingle with other lawmakers .
“ in any work setting , if you don ’ t know your colleagues , it makes it much more difficult to get things done , ” said dan glickman , who was a democratic house member from kansas for 18 years until the mid-1990s and recalls more working days and fuller debates than the current congress .
“ ... it makes it more difficult to build relationships , ” said glickman , who was u.s. secretary of agriculture after congress .
he was a member of the bipartisan policy center ’ s commission on political reform , which recommended in 2014 that congress be in session conducting legislative business for 180 to 200 days a year .
( graphic on congressional working days : tmsnrt.rs/1vsssoz ) in 2015 , the first year of a two-year congress , the house of representatives put in 130 working days , the reuters review found .
compared with the first years of recent congresses , that number has declined steadily since 2007 , when the house worked 153 days — the high since 1998 .
house members typically meet more often in the first year of a congress because in the second year they have to run for reelection .
this year , an election year , the house calendar foresees 111 working days in washington , in line with the total in recent election years .
the house cancelled its entire schedule last week after a snowstorm hit the east coast .
the senate ’ s annual working days have not risen above 156 since reaching a peak of 188 in 2009 .
the decline in working days in recent years has coincided with a slide in americans ’ approval rating for the legislature as the reputation of a “ do-nothing ” congress has taken hold .
since fiscal 1997 , congress has failed every year to enact on time all of the government appropriations bills needed for a full federal budget , the congressional research service said .
more recently , polarized lawmakers often have been unable to find middle ground on pressing issues such as immigration , tax reform and gun safety .
as of the end of 2014 , about 75 percent of major issues were in deadlock , according to a calculation by sarah binder of the brookings institution think tank .
mid-week squeeze to be sure , members of the house and the senate , who are paid $ 174,000 a year , do important work outside of washington .
they meet with constituents in their home districts and raise campaign money by appearing and speaking at events .
representative ryan zinke , a freshman republican and former u.s. navy seal , said congress could use more “ team-building ” activities , but he has not felt the need for more days in legislative session .
zinke is the only house member representing the large , sparsely populated state of montana , and says he needs lots of travel time just to see his constituents .
“ last week i think i put on about 2,500 miles ( 4,000 km ) traveling around montana , and i saw about a third of the state , ” he said .
staying in legislative session more does not necessarily equate to getting more work done , said don stewart , spokesman for senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , a republican .
“ it ’ s a matter of what you do with the time you are here , not just the total time you are here , ” he said .
the republican-led congress had a relatively productive year in 2015 , fixing a funding formula for medicare doctors , passing a highway bill and approving fast-track authority for trade deals .
in 2011 and 2013 , the total number of bills passed by congress dipped below triple figures to 90 and 72 respectively .
last year ’ s congress managed to enact 113 .
many bills are minor , however , so the total number does not necessarily correspond to productivity .
“ pro-forma ” sessions the recent decline in overall working days does not tell the whole story .
there has also been a rise in so-called “ pro-forma ” days when lawmakers go into session sometimes for just a few minutes or even seconds , for procedural reasons .
they are formally counted as sessions of the house and senate , but reuters did not include them in its tally .
last year the house had 27 pro-forma days , none of which lasted more than seven minutes , the reuters review found .
in each of the last five years the house had more pro-forma days than in previous congresses going back to 2002 .
those days are usually scheduled for monday or friday , enabling lawmakers to fly in and out of washington without missing mid-week votes .
the typical house member returns to their district 40 or more times a year , said brad fitch of congressional management foundation , a nonprofit that advises lawmakers on managing their offices .
it did a study showing that in 2013 , the average house freshman spent $ 53,170 of taxpayer money on travel .
these days , fewer lawmakers move their families to the capital to live , said john fortier , director of the democracy project at the bipartisan policy center , a washington think tank .
paul ryan , the wisconsin republican who has been speaker of the house since october , sleeps on a cot in his washington office during the congressional work-week and flies home to his family in wisconsin on the weekend .
vin weber , who was a republican congressman from minnesota in the 1980s and 1990s , said that in the attempt to juggle all the demands they face at home and in washington , today ’ s lawmakers have set themselves an impossible schedule .
“ they are on planes constantly , back and forth , all the time , ” he said .
“ there ’ s no rationality to it at all. ” the rising cost of election campaigns mean lawmakers have to devote more time to fund-raising outside washington , said glickman , now a senior fellow at the bipartisan policy center .
as a congressman , glickman said , he often went to the house floor just to listen to the debate .
“ if i did that now , i would be guilty of malpractice , ” he said .
“ you need to be either in committee doing your work or raising money. ” ( this story has been refiled to correct this week to last week in paragraph 11 )