london ( reuters ) - a few hours before theresa may lost her second cabinet member in a week , the british prime minister found time amidst the crisis to meet one of the world s most powerful bankers .
with may renowned for keeping finance chiefs at arm s length , some commercial rivals suspected special treatment in her willingness to sit down with jamie dimon , chief executive of u.s. investment bank jpmorgan .
others , however , sense a subtle but significant change in the political climate with may listening more to the worries of an industry struggling to fathom out britain s departure from the european union .
her talks with dimon on nov. 8 raised eyebrows - and some hackles - around the city of london financial center .
it s a bit outrageous , said a senior executive at one of britain s top banks .
what other bank ceo is getting as much one-on-one face time with the prime minister ?
we certainly aren t. from margaret thatcher in the 1980s to david cameron last year , british prime ministers have traditionally held the door open for leaders of a finance industry that pays more than 70 billion pounds ( $ 92 billion ) in uk tax every year and employs more than a million britons .
not so may , who has appeared reluctant to meet bank executives .
still , dimon secured the face-to-face talks between the abrupt departures of her defense and international development ministers which rocked the minority government .
shortly before last year s brexit referendum , dimon warned that 4,000 out of jpmorgan s 16,000 british jobs might have to move abroad to ensure the bank could continue selling services across the remaining nations of the eu .
dimon has since softened his tone , but the british bank executive asked whether the original estimate had won jpmorgan the access .
i don t know if it s because they ve threatened to move the most jobs - maybe we should say we re moving 4,000 too , he said .
but something is afoot .
reuters has spoken to more than a dozen executives at large banks and government officials , with many saying may is showing greater willingness to press the city s cause in brexit negotiations .
in return , the bankers are scaling back their plans to move jobs to rival financial centers such as frankfurt , paris and dublin , at least during any transitional period after britain leaves the eu in march 2019 .
britain and the eu have yet to begin discussing financial services at the brexit talks , worrying bankers who fear the government has left it too late to negotiate a transition period or secure a good deal .
our view is that the government frankly is in chaos , said another senior executive at a u.s. bank .
we are really nervous .
however , may outlined to dimon her vision for a transition period after brexit day - march 29 , 2019 - and a future trade deal with the eu , easing concerns that britain may crash out of the world s biggest trading bloc without any agreement .
a jpmorgan spokeswoman expressed cautious optimism after the downing street talks .
while some uncertainty remains , we feel that the government understands the concerns of international firms such as ours , and the economy more broadly , she said .
we were grateful for better clarity on the government s objectives in the brexit negotiations .
a spokesman for the prime minister did not respond to requests for comment .
however , sources with knowledge of the meeting noted that she can make promises on her intentions for the brexit talks but not on their outcome .
we got clarity on what they re looking for , not on how it will unfold , said the source .
the bankers pressed their case for a period of adjustment to the post-brexit financial services regime , rather than an abrupt change as soon as britain leaves .
we re all looking for transition and a good future deal , said the source .
in return , the jpmorgan team indicated there would be no major staff upheaval , at least on brexit day .
they told her we will try to move as few people as possible on day one .
it will be a few hundred people and we will keep as many people as possible in the uk , said another source .
for the banks , moving top london employees to the continent is expensive and unpopular with staff reluctant to uproot their families .
but longer term , a significant number of jobs may still shift if a final deal is not to their liking .
as in a number of countries , banks have been deeply unpopular in britain since the global financial crisis .
but their leaders felt particularly unloved after may came to power last year and cooled what critics regarded as an overly cozy relationship between the government and big business .
may confined her contacts with bankers largely to round table gatherings such as at davos in january , a meeting dimon also attended .
some wall street bosses were left expressing frustration with a lack of detail on the brexit process , and questioning may s commitment to protecting the finance industry the relationship remains measured .
may was scheduled to make only a five minute courtesy appearance at the talks with dimon , hosted by finance minister philip hammond .
in the event she stayed a quarter of an hour .
still , those who connect government and business have noticed a change .
iain anderson , executive chairman of public affairs company cicero , said a thaw began after the may lost her parliamentary majority in a june election and the government started asking companies for more input on the brexit talks .
the mood has improved from last year when i don t think i have ever seen businesses as emotional and angry , said anderson , whose firm represents many ftse 100 companies .
government officials confirmed may s change of tack .
she is far more skeptical about engaging with business than her predecessors , said one official , who declined to be named .
this created bitterness because people are getting less face time , said the official , but added : the situation has improved since the election .
brexit minister david davis , whose talks with chief eu negotiator michel barnier appear deadlocked , has led his own charm offensive in the past week or so .
davis said on tuesday the financial industry would be exempt from any curbs on immigration from the remaining eu countries .
that is likely to contrast with tough new rules planned for arrivals of lower-skilled workers .
in another speech , he emphasized the importance of an industry which accounts for about 12 percent of britain s economic output .
when i sit round the negotiating table with michel barnier , or round the cabinet table with my colleagues , it s always with the importance of the city very much in my mind , davis said .
only a year ago , he was accusing bankers of leading a blame brexit festival and lying about the number of uk employees they would have to fire .
davis had surprised executives in his initial meetings by telling them they would not get any special favors in the negotiations , according to people who attended .
the head of one of britain s largest finance companies , who has met davis several times in the last year , said the minister has accepted the damage to the wider economy if firms go overseas .
davis has got the message , the executive said .
according to government officials , the atmosphere has improved since the banks scaled back their estimates of how many jobs will move to more realistic levels .
there has been an effort on both sides to improve the relationship , he said .