toronto ( reuters ) - canadian police said they were investigating the mysterious deaths of barry sherman , founder of canadian pharmaceutical firm apotex inc , and his wife , honey , one of the nation s wealthiest couples whose bodies were found in their mansion on friday .
police said they learned of the deaths after responding to a midday ( 1700 gmt ) medical call at the sherman s home in an affluent section of northeast toronto .
two bodies covered in blankets were removed from the home and loaded into an unmarked van on friday evening .
the circumstances of their death appear suspicious and we are treating it that way , said constable david hopkinson .
homicide detectives later told reporters gathered outside the home that there were no signs of forced entry .
their neighbors , business associates and some of canada s most powerful politicians said they were saddened by the deaths .
our condolences to their family & friends , and to everyone touched by their vision & spirit , prime minister justin trudeau wrote on twitter .
toronto mayor john tory said in statement he was shocked and heartbroken to learn of the deaths , noting that the couple had made extensive contributions to the city .
toronto police are investigating , and i hope that investigation will be able to provide answers for all of us who are mourning this tremendous loss , tory said .
the shermans recently listed their home for sale for nearly c $ 7 million ( $ 5.4 million ) .
a real estate agent discovered the bodies in the basement while preparing for an open house , the toronto globe and mail reported , citing a relative .
sherman , 75 , founded privately held apotex in 1974 , growing it by introducing large numbers of low-cost generic drugs that took market share from branded pharmaceuticals .
he stepped down as chief executive in 2012 but remained executive chairman .
forbes has estimated sherman s fortune at $ 3.2 billion .
apotex is the world s no .
7 generic drugmaker with 11,000 employees and annual sales of more than c $ 2 billion in more than 45 countries , according to its website .
the couple was known for their philanthropy , giving tens of millions of dollars to hospitals , universities and jewish organizations , cbc reported .
they were extremely successful in business , but also very , very giving people , former ontario premier bob rae told cbc .
it s going to be a very , very big loss .
the globe and mail reported in february that lobbying commissioner karen shepherd was investigating a complaint about a 2015 political fundraiser that trudeau had attended .