( reuters ) - saudi arabia has urged its people to report subversive comments spotted on social media via a phone app , a move denounced by a human rights watchdog as orwellian .
the appeal , announced on a twitter account run by the interior ministry late on tuesday , coincides with an apparent crackdown on potential government critics and a call by exiled opposition figures for demonstrations .
when you notice any account on social networks publishing terrorist or extremist ideas , please report it immediately via the application # we re_all_security , it said , referring to a mobile phone app launched last year to enable civilians to report traffic violations and burglaries .
hours later , the public prosecutor tweeted a section of the kingdom s terrorism law which states : endangering national unity , obstructing the basic law of governance or some of its articles , and harming the state s reputation or status are terrorist crimes .
exiled saudi critics have called for demonstrations on friday to galvanize opposition to the royal family and prominent clerics , intellectuals and activists , including prominent islamist cleric sheikh salman al-awdah , have been detained this week , activists say .
activists circulated lists of people detained on social media showing the number had risen to around 30 on wednesday , including some with no clear links to islamist activity or obvious history of opposition .
protests are banned in saudi arabia , as are political parties .
unions are illegal , the press is controlled and criticism of the royal family can lead to prison .
riyadh says it does not have political prisoners , but senior officials have said monitoring activists is needed to maintain social stability .
the detentions reported by activists follow widespread speculation , denied by officials , that king salman intends to abdicate to his son , crown prince crown prince mohammed bin salman , who dominates economic , diplomatic and domestic policy .
there are also growing tensions with qatar over its alleged support of islamists , including the muslim brotherhood which is listed by riyadh as a terrorist organization .
some twitter users expressed support for the government s approach , using the we re all security hashtag .
no flattery , no silence whether for a relative or friend in securing the homeland , said one .
defend your security .
chaos starts with slogans of freedom and reform .
do not believe them .
another user called on people to photograph any low-lifes protesting on friday and upload them to the app .
human rights watch , a new york-based watchdog , condemned the government dragnet , saying it called into question the authorities commitment to free speech and the rule of law .
saudi arabia is reaching a new level of orwellian reality when it goes beyond security services repression and outsources monitoring of citizens online comments to other citizens , said middle east director sarah leah whitson , referring to english writer george orwell s dystopian novel nineteen eighty-four .
saudi arabia s new leadership is quickly showing it has no tolerance for critical thought or speech and is marshalling saudi society to enforce red lines by spying on itself .
the government has not clearly acknowledged this week s detentions or responded to requests for comment .
but state news agency spa said on tuesday authorities had uncovered intelligence activities for the benefit of foreign parties by a group of people it did not identify .
a saudi security source told reuters the suspects were accused of espionage activities and having contacts with external entities including the muslim brotherhood , which riyadh has classified as a terrorist organization .
the government toughened its stance on dissent following the arab spring in 2011 after it averted unrest by offering billions of dollars in handouts and state spending .
but the brotherhood , which represents an ideological threat to riyadh s dynastic system of rule , has gained power elsewhere in the region .
since the kingdom s founding , the ruling al saud family has enjoyed a close alliance with clerics of the ultra-conservative wahhabi school of islam .
in return , the clerics have espoused a political philosophy that demands obedience to the ruler .
by contrast the muslim brotherhood advances an active political doctrine urging revolutionary action , which flies in the face of wahhabi teaching .
the brotherhood-inspired sahwa movement in the 1990s agitated to bring democracy to saudi arabia and criticized the ruling family for corruption , social liberalization and working with the west , including allowing u.s. troops into the kingdom during the 1991 iraq war .
the sahwa were largely undermined by a mixture of repression and co-optation but remain active .
the al-saud family has always regarded islamist groups as the biggest internal threat to its rule over a country in which appeals to religious sentiment can not be lightly dismissed and an al qaeda campaign a decade ago killed hundreds .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt cut diplomatic and transport links with qatar in june over its alleged support for islamist militants , a charge that doha denies .