the nyp reported that the players whom bob mcnair employs were not happy about his comments at a recent nfl owners meeting.mcnair sparked the outrage by saying , we can t have the inmates running the prison , during an nfl owners meeting one day after he and 10 other nfl representatives met with current and former players to discuss the issues behind the national anthem protests .
mcnair has apologized for the racially insensitive analogy , but count outspoken seahawks star richard sherman who will play against the texans this weekend among those who don t believe the apology was sincere.the texans nearly staged a team-wide walkout friday , a few hours after mcnair apologized for comparing nfl players to inmates in a prison , espn reported.texans players wanted to walkout today in response to owner bob mcnair s comments , per @ sarahbarshop .
had to be persuaded to stay .
adam schefter ( @ adamschefter ) october 27 , 2017houston s best offensive player , wide receiver deandre hopkins , skipped practice for personal reasons , but espn later confirmed it was in response to mcnair s comments .
head coach bill o brien said he is 100 percent with his players.texans offensive lineman duane brown said mcnair s comments sickened him and were horrible , according to the houston chronicle .
brown also said he wasn t surprised by the comments , and that houston players are not done dealing with the issue.brown s wife also spoke out on the issue .
my husband has put his body & mind on the line for your team for 10 yrs & to you he is an inmate , devi brown wrote .
you owe these players respect & support .
espn reported the texans will do something before the game sunday but have not decided what yet.texans rookie treston decoud tweeted , i don t believe he is the only owner that feel that way smh .
nfl players may not be happy with the houston texan team owner s choice of words when he told other team owners in a private meeting that , we can t have the inmates running the prison , but how far off base was texan s owner bob mcnair when he used the commonly used phrase ? while the houston texans may only have 13 players who ve been arrested for crimes , they re not exactly a group of choir boys either .
here are just a few examples of nfl teams and the number of players who ve been arrested on those teams since 2000 .
keep in mind that each nfl team has 53 players.minnesota vikings number of arrests : 49 perhaps the most notable of the vikings arrests was the love boat scandal , during which fred smoot , daunte culpepper , bryant mckinnie and moe williams were all arrested .
adrian peterson s child abuse case along with 18 dui cases were also among the vikings arrests over the years.denver broncos number of arrests : 47 brandon marshall accounted for four of these arrests while he was with the team , including two instances of domestic violence and one domestic dispute .
the broncos have had 12 instances of domestic violence since 2000 , as well as 12 duiscincinnati bengals number of arrests : 44 the bengals currently employ adam jones , who has the most arrests of any nfl player since 2000 ( 10 ) and was even arrested earlier this year for poking a security guard in the eye .
they also employed the player with the third most arrests since 2000 , chris henry ( 6 ) , who passed away in 2009 .
overall , the bengals have had nine assaults , nine duis and six domestic violence cases over the past 17 years.tennessee titans number of arrests : 36 kenny britt , who has the second-most individual arrests since 2000 ( seven times ) , was arrested six times within a span of two years with tennessee .
in total , the titans have had 10 duis , four assaults and four domestic violence cases over that span.tampa bay buccaneers number of arrests : 36 the buccaneers have had 11 duis since 2000 , as well as four drug charges and four instances of domestic violence .
former patriots cornerback aqib talib was arrested on gun and assault charges while with tampa bay.jacksonville jaguars number of arrests : 35 the jaguars have had four gun charges and five drug charges to go with their seven duis .
among those drug charges was wide receiver matt jones , who was spotted cutting up cocaine in his car by police in 2008.cleveland browns number of arrests : 33 johnny manziel recently made the list after he was accused of domestic violence in early 2016 .
meanwhile , dont stallworth was charged with a dui manslaughter in 2009 , while ausar walcott was charged with attempted murder in 2013 .
the browns also have six drug charges and five gun charges.chicago bears number of arrests : 32 the bears have had seven assaults and 10 duis since 2000 .
among those arrests was lance briggs , who crashed his lamborghini into a pole and left the scene of the accident a crime that he pled guilty to.kansas city chiefs number of arrests : 32 the chiefs employed jovan belcher , who fatally shot his girlfriend 10 times before going to the team s facility and shooting himself in the head with a gun .
they also employed larry johnson , who was arrested four times including twice for domestic disputes .
kansas city has 10 dui cases and four cases of theft/burglary since 2000.miami dolphins number of arrests : 31 the dolphins have seven domestic violence cases and seven assault and battery cases to go with their eight dui arrests .
they also had ricky williams , who was charged with reckless driving after going 126 mph on the highway once.baltimore ravens number of arrests : 27 the ravens have several high-profile arrests since 2000 , including ray rice s domestic violence case and ray lewis murder charge .
they also had terrence cody , who was indicted on charges of animal cruelty after one of his dogs died .
cody also illegally owned an alligator .
seattle seahawks number of arrests : 27 lofa tatupu , who was arrested for a dui during which he had a .155 blood alcohol content , was one of 11 seahawks players to be charged with a dui .
seattle has also had six domestic violence instances over that span.carolina panthers number of arrests : 22 panthers players have had six duis , four assaults , three gun charges , three domestic violence cases and three drug cases since 2000 .
one of the more prominent cases involved defensive end greg hardy , who threw his victim onto a couch covered in guns among other instances of domestic violence.black lives matter posterchild for disrespecting our flag , former 49 ers qb colin kaepernick s team is in the middle of the pack for team members with most criminal arrests and convictions : san francisco 49ers number of arrests : 25 the 49ers have 13 dui charges since 2000 along with three domestic violence cases .
one of those cases involved former fullback bruce miller , who later was charged with assault after allegedly assaulting his 70-year-old father in a hotel in san franciscowhile the houston texans team doesn t land in the top of the list for players with most criminal convictions on their team , they certainly have their fair share .
sadly , only having 13 arrests on their team makes them look good compared to the other teams with more arrests for criminal activity .
houston texans number of arrests : 13 the texans were founded in 2002 , and have overall been pretty good about staying out of trouble compared to the rest of the league .
houston has four dui charges , including one to jacoby jones that he pleaded guilty to.seattle seahawks cornerback richard sherman sounded off on mcnair s comments , as he attempted to throw gasoline on the fire : i can appreciate ppl being candid .
don t apologize !
you meant what you said .
showing true colors allows ppl to see you for who you are .
richard sherman ( @ rsherman_25 ) october 27 , 2017sherman isn t shy about his hate for cops .
his big mouth and unnecessary disrespect for a law-enforcement officer didn t end up well for him , as he was arrested and charged with disorderly conduct towards a police officer in 2014.empire sports sherman is known for his cockiness on the field and a vocabulary that can only be described as trash-talk .
his passion on the field often carries over to the after-game interviews , and he is the type of player seahawks fans either love or love to hate.despite his reputation for attitude within the nfl , witnesses to sherman s altercation with a seattle police officer were shocked by his behavior .
it was like he just picked off peyton in the super bowl , and ran it back for a touchdown or something .
his cockiness was at an all-time high !
said curt johnson , a bystander to the incident.sherman s problems arose when a police officer witnessed him jaywalking , and gave him a warning not to do it again .
the officer later admitted that he wasn t so much worried about the jaywalking law in seattle , but the fact that it was a busy street and sherman could have been hurt , as several pedestrians have been hit by cars in the same area over the last few months .
he asked me if i knew who he was , and i said , of course , i m a huge fan .
said patrolman mike stephens .
[ sherman ] then continued to say , then you know that i own [ expletive ] seattle , and any [ expletive ] street i want to cross i can , no matter where i decide to [ expletive ] cross it .
stephens apparently tried to apologize , and explain to sherman that he was just doing his job and that sherman s celebrity status in the city did not give him the right to curse anyone .
he told me that i was a terrible police officer , and said i should just go eat some [ expletive ] donuts .
said officer stephens .
he went off on me about how he was doing better in life than i was , and said that i shouldn t even watch a seattle game again because i didn t deserve to witness the greatness that was him on a football field .
sherman was arrested and charged with jaywalking and disorderly conduct towards a police officer in the course of his duty .