rome ( reuters ) - italian prime minister paolo gentiloni s government on tuesday called a series of confidence votes to pass a new electoral law as the anti-establishment 5-star movement , which is likely to be hurt by the new legislation , pledged to protest on the streets .
the government is resorting to the confidence votes to avoid secret voting in the senate , where it has a narrow majority and at least four members of the ruling democratic party have said they will not cast a ballot .
the confidence votes will be held by open ballot starting on wednesday afternoon , with the final confidence vote to be held on thursday .
the government is forced to resign if it loses such a vote .
a centrist group that is not formally part of the government s majority has said it will provide up to 10 votes to help pass the law if needed .
the bill , dubbed the rosatellum , is supported by the democratic party ( pd ) and mainstream center-right opposition parties .
it favors parties which group together ahead of the election .
it is likely to hurt 5-star , which refuses to join any alliance , and left-wing parties that do not want to join a coalition with the pd .
the 5-star movement , which tops many opinion polls , has called a street protest in front of the senate for wednesday afternoon , against what it sees as an attempt by its mainstream rivals to scupper its chances at the election .
it will be joined by the leftist democratic and progressive movement ( mdp ) , which split from the pd this year , and other small left-wing groups .
apart from the pd , the legislation is supported by silvio berlusconi s center-right forza italia ( go italy ! )
and the right-wing northern league .
the rosatellum is the best compromise possible among political adversaries , according to the pd parliamentary party leader , ettore rosato , after whom the reform has been named .
in two separate rulings , the constitutional court struck down previous laws , leaving the upper and lower houses with different rules .
president sergio mattarella has called on parliament to come up with a mew electoral law that applies equally to both houses before a national vote , due by may of next year .
all previous attempts to harmonize the rules have failed , most recently in june when dissident deputies used a secret vote to up-end part of the proposed legislation .
while the current law would harmonize rules for both houses , polls suggest it will not hand any coalition or party a clear mandate to govern .
the proposed election law would distribute almost two-thirds of the seats in parliament on a proportional basis , while a third would be decided in a first-past-the-post vote on specific candidates .
coalitions would need to get 10 percent of the national vote to get into parliament , while parties running alone would need only 3 percent .
candidates would be chosen by party chiefs .