we are witnessing the slow death of political correctness in america .
americans are waking up to this nonsense and we will no longer stand for the left defining what is acceptable behavior or choosing the words we are allowed to use .
this woman did the right thing by exposing these walmart workers in ga. we must not retreat or roll over for these social justice warriors .
we must expose them every time they attempt to control the narrative .
we are in a war for our constitutional rights .
we must never back down from this fight three walmart workers in mcdonough , ga. , refused to decorate a thin blue line cake for a police officer s retirement party because they said it was racist.a number of my georgia readers alerted me to the story and on saturday night i spoke directly with the police officer s daughter .
she asked that i not divulge her name and i ve agreed to do that.i was so shocked , she told me .
i didn t know what to do or say or anything .
i was trying not to lose my temper or make a scene .
for the record , walmart has confessed that most of her allegations are true.the police officer s daughter went to the walmart on willow drive on sept. 22 to order a flag for her father s retirement party .
he was leaving the force after 25-years on the job.she showed the bakers a photograph of the police officer s flag the black and white version of old glory with a blue line.order todd s i m a gun-toting , bible-clinging , patriotic american shirt it repels liberals !
one of the bakers told me the design could be perceived as racist and nobody feels comfortable decorating the cake , the police officer s daughter told me.as an alternative , she suggested a chocolate-frosted cake with a horizontal , frosted blue line.but that design was also rejected by walmart s cake decorator .
she said , i don t feel comfortable doing this , the cop s daughter told me .
i asked her , is there something wrong with cops ?
after being rejected for a third time , the 21-year-old told the bakers , i ll find another bakery , thank you .
she was much more polite than i would ve been , folks .
i was disappointed , she told me .
i go to walmart all the time at least once a week spend hundreds of dollars .
i just wanted to make my dad a cake to show how much i appreciated him .
a friend of the family posted an item about the incident on facebook and it wasn t long before the walmart store manager called the police officer s wife and daughter and apologized .
he said he was so sorry , the daughter told me .
he offered to make the cake free of charge and he gave me a $ 50 gift card .
todd starnes , fox news