report from the first presidential debateby p.j .
o rourke on monday night , presidential candidates donald trump and hillary clinton met for their first head-to-head debate .
what was the evening s big news ?
deion jones returned a 90-yard interception to score a touchdown and cap the atlanta falcons victory over the new orleans saints , 45-32 !
i didn t get to see that , though .
i was watching the presidential debate so you didn t have to .
compared with the nfl matchup , watching the presidential debate was like standing on the sidelines at a flag football game between a couple of montessori schools .
the only talented player on the field was nbc anchor lester holt , and what holt was talented at was piling on trump and making late hits for team hillary .
the candidates themselves were no good .
trump has the gut issues going for him .
but he can t articulate them well enough to make your reasoning fully agree with the feeling in the pit of your stomach .
and he has trouble giving concise and to-the-point examples of what he means .
trump is too fond of the broad stroke .
he s trying to paint a detailed picture of what s wrong with american politics while using only a four-inch brush .
hillary is good with the details too good .
details are all she has .
lots and lots of highly detailed little thises and thats .
like she s furnishing a dollhouse instead of filling the white house .
hillary kept saying , i have a plan .
it s a phrase that always sets off alarms for me .
people who really have a plan are acting on the plan , not standing around saying they have one .
i have a plan is right up there with hold my beer and watch this !
who won the debate ?
that assumes it was a debate .
it wasn t. it was a tedious rehash of issues that both candidates had already made a hash of .
this was interspersed with some name-calling that commentators characterized as heated , harsh , or even scorching .
which shows what wimps these commentators are .
none of it would get you punched in the nose on the playground .
hillary had the best riposte .
she brought up the notion , yet again , that donald is someone who shouldn t be allowed anywhere near the nuclear launch codes .
trump : that s getting old .
hillary : but good .
and trump had , by far , the best line .
he saved it for the very end : hillary has experience , but it s bad experience .
the winner was whomever you wanted to win .
as far as i can tell from clicking around sources on the internet , the candidate who won was the candidate that the source in question had already decided to declare victorious .
it reminded me of soviet judges scoring olympic gymnastics back during the cold war .
thus , the washington post and all its opinion columnists said hillary won .
ditto for the new york times .
and in cnn s instant viewer polling , 62 % of respondents gave the laurels to hillary .
on the other hand , the drudge report s instant polling awarded trump the prize by 82 % .
and charles krauthammer who , to my mind , is the smartest person on tv called the debate something like a draw .
did we learn anything from the presidential debate ?
short answer : no .
long answer : no .
and yet , the debate turned out to be highly informative if you turned the sound off .
the event was broadcast with a split screen so that each candidate was visible while the other was talking ( or , to use a technical term , blabbing ) .
the blab was dull , but the expressions on the candidates faces were fascinating .
trump was serious of mien .
he was concentrating intently on what hillary was saying .
he sometimes developed a little twitch of annoyance .
other times , he wore a small frown of disagreement .
but mostly , he looked deeply thoughtful .
( and let s be frank , this is a man who could stand to do a bit more deep thinking . )
hillary is supposed to have a whole bunch of deep thoughts concerning her endlessly convoluted plans to fix all the problems under the sun .
but there she was , thoughtlessly making rude grimaces whenever trump spoke .
mom always said , you shouldn t make faces because your face may get stuck that way .
hillary s face got stuck that way .
she spent the whole evening with a wipe-that-look-off-your-face look on her face .
she smirked .
she sneered .
she radiated smugness .
she repeatedly mugged for the camera with a ham actor s pantomime gasp of disbelief .
except she is no actor .
it came off like a cheap infomercial for new dentures .
she indulged in nasty smiles of condescension .
she adopted a pout that said , what s a smarty like me doing with a dummy like him ?
hillary had an air about her as if she just couldn t believe that somehow , oh my gosh , she had been dragged up on stage to debate a talking dog .
hillary had a plan for the debate .
of course she did .
hillary has a plan for everything .
and she stuck to her plan .
the plan was to be utterly dismissive of trump and anyone who backs him and to treat every single thing he has to say with total contempt .
as i ve said before , i m not happy with either of these presidential candidates .
it s a tough election .
do you roll the dice with trump ?
or do you let hillary just set the bones down on the table , so you crap out again like always ?
i don t care , personally , if hillary mocks trump .
but i do care , personally , when the nature of democracy itself is mocked .
trump is a man who decisively triumphed in the contest for the republican party s presidential nomination .
and he is , as of the latest polling , in a dead heat with hillary in the presidential race .
when hillary doesn t treat trump with any measure of respect for the public support that he has achieved , she isn t insulting him , she s insulting american voters .
if politics in a democracy has one rule , it s , don t insult the voters .
regards , p.j .
o rourke