lima ( reuters ) - peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski s political troubles will likely continue despite his surprise victory over a bid in congress to oust him this week , a key opposition leader said on saturday , citing ongoing graft probes and opposing demands from allies .
jose chlimper , secretary general of the right-wing popular force , said his party could eventually emerge stronger from this week s political crisis , despite failing to garner enough votes in the 130-member congress to remove kuczynski from office .
for us having 71 lawmakers was an asset but also a liability .
because whatever congress did was our fault , chlimper told reuters in a rare interview .
the party , which grew out of the populist movement of imprisoned ex-president alberto fujimori , sought to remove kuczynski from office this week over business links he once denied having to a company at the center of a massive graft scandal .
ten popular force lawmakers broke ranks to keep a presidential vacancy motion from succeeding .
chlimper called the defections a painful betrayal but said the rest of popular force lawmakers have reaffirmed their commitment to staying in the party and voting as a bloc .
kuczynski , on the other hand , could see the cross-party alliance that defended him this week evaporate going forward , said chlimper .
i don t see how he can come out stronger , he said .
chlimper said kuczynski lured the rebel popular force lawmakers with a promise to free their movement s political leader , fujimori , from prison - an accusation denied by kuczynski s government .
the dissident faction was led by fujimori s youngest son , kenji , who has challenged his sister keiko s leadership of their father s following and who could receive a boost if the once-popular patriarch is released from prison .
kuczynski would lose the support of fujimori s left-leaning foes if he makes good on the deal to secure the elder fujimori s release , said chlimper .
in coming days , the left may have achieved what fujimori s supporters have been unable to : a pardon for fujimori , chlimper said .
at the same time , ongoing probes in congress and in the attorney general s and comptroller s offices threaten to implicate kuczynski in new allegations of wrongdoing , he added .
his allies are going to have to explain themselves for the documents that will keep coming out , said chlimper .
this isn t a picture .
it s a video .
and we re going to keep seeing the scenery change in coming weeks and months , chlimper said .