abuja ( reuters ) - the islamist militant group boko haram has killed 381 civilians in nigeria and cameroon since the beginning of april , rights group amnesty international said on tuesday , a testament to the militant group s deadly resurgence .
the nigerian military has repeatedly said boko haram has been defeated .
but in recent months , it has carried out a string of lethal suicide bombings and other high-profile attacks on towns and an oil exploration team .
the number of deaths since april 1 is more than double that for the preceding five months , amnesty said .
boko haram has killed 223 civilians in nigeria since april .
the forcing of women and girls to act as suicide bombers has driven the sharp rise in deaths in northeast nigeria and northern cameroon , said amnesty .
boko haram is once again committing war crimes on a huge scale , exemplified by the depravity of forcing young girls to carry explosives with the sole intention of killing as many people as they possibly can , said alioune tine , amnesty s director for west and central africa .
in nigeria , the deadliest attack was in july , when the militants abducted an oil exploration team with staff of the state oil firm and a university while they were traveling in a military convoy .
boko haram killed 40 people and kidnapped three others , amnesty said .
boko haram suicide bombers have killed 81 people in nigeria since the start of april , said amnesty .
in cameroon , the islamist insurgency has killed at least 158 people in the same period .
that is also linked to a rise in suicide bombings , the deadliest of which killed 16 people in waza in july , the rights group said .
more than 2.5 million people have been displaced or become refugees in the lake chad region - which includes nigeria , cameroon , niger and chad - while 7.2 million people lack secure access to food because of the conflict with boko haram , according to the united nations .
the insurgency has left more than 20,000 people dead since it began in 2009 .