mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican authorities on wednesday arrested a former high-ranking official of president enrique pena nieto s party in a corruption investigation in the northern state of chihuahua , the state s governor said .
the arrest extends a streak of corruption allegations dogging the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , with four former governors arrested on such charges this year .
entrenched corruption is expected to be a key issue in the runup to mexico s next presidential election in 2018 .
alejandro gutierrez , who was the adjunct secretary to the presidency of the pri , was arrested in a joint operation by state and federal police , chihuahua governor javier corral wrote in a post on facebook .
the chihuahua prosecutor s office accused gutierrez of participating in a sophisticated scheme to divert public funds of 250 million pesos ( $ 13 million ) earmarked for educational programs in 2016 .
gutierrez will present himself before a judge early thursday , the office said in a statement .
this week , mexican newspaper reforma published reports on an alleged chihuahua corruption scheme to funnel the money into the pri s campaign fund , through avenues such as fake contracts for workshops for parents and expensive software .
the reports were based on testimony to prosecutors by former state finance minister jaime herrera that the paper obtained .
gutierrez arrest took place in coahuila .
this week , he rejected allegations against him in an interview with mexican newspaper vanguardia , saying he was considering suing for defamation .
i am thinking , i will have to look into it , if i initiate some legal proceeding , he said .
i do not know , i repeat to you , i did not know not even one official , nor ex-official , of finances ...
i see things that are absolutely false .
gutierrez arrest contributes to the clearing up of the crimes of political corruption that have been attributed to the former governor , c sar duarte j quez , said corral , of the national action party .
the government is determining whether others should be held responsible for the funneling of funds to pri coffers in 2016 , corral added .
in march , a mexican judge issued an arrest warrant for duarte on suspicion of embezzlement .
corral has said he is a fugitive from justice .
a spokesman for the pri did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
the pri was routed in 2016 regional elections , losing several of its bastions , including the states of veracruz , tamaulipas and quintana roo , as voters expressed discontent over a series of graft scandals .