guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s attorney general and a u.n-backed anti-graft body on friday said they are seeking to investigate president jimmy morales over suspected illicit campaign financing .
ivan velasquez , head of the international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) , told reporters there was evidence that morales broke the law when he was head of the conservative national convergence front ( fcn ) , and that prosecutors had filed a motion to investigate him .
in order to advance the investigation , it s necessary to remove his immunity , said velasquez , who on thursday unveiled a probe into all political parties over suspected wrongdoing related to financing for the 2015 election campaign .
to remove morales immunity , prosecutors need the go-ahead from both the supreme court and a two-thirds majority in congress .
he could then be formally investigated and charged .
in a statement , the president s office said , the president of the republic has been and is respectful of the law and due process , and thus is confident in the objectivity of justice .
morales took office in 2016 , winning the election on an anti-corruption ticket after the cicig helped to bring down his predecessor over a multi-million-dollar corruption scandal .
earlier this week , two government officials told reuters that morales would ask u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres to replace velasquez , who is already investigating a graft case that involves the president s elder brother and one of his sons .
he better have some really valid reasons ... to seek my removal from the post , said velasquez , adding he would not resign .
morales met with guterres in new york on friday .
the secretary-general reiterated his backing for velasquez and the cicig s work at the meeting , with guterres citing the organisation s continuing support to the mandate of the international commission against impunity in guatemala , the united nations said in a statement .
the president s office , in its statement , said it was worried about manipulation of information about the visit .
the statement said morales told guterres it was important the cicig stick to its original mandate .
guatemala s foreign minister , carlos morales , who is not related to the president , told reuters that there had been no request made on friday to remove velasquez from office .
in 2015 , the cicig was instrumental in removing former president otto perez from office after identifying him as a key player in an alleged multi-million-dollar corruption racket .
perez is now in prison on trial with his former vice president .