cairo ( reuters ) - a deadly attack on the police in egypt s western desert claimed by a new militant group risks opening up another front for security forces far beyond the remote northern sinai , where they have battled a stubborn islamic state insurgency since 2014 .
a little-known group called ansar al-islam claimed responsibility for the oct. 21 attack .
analysts and security sources said the heavy weapons and tactics employed indicated ties to islamic state or more likely an al qaeda brigade led by hesham al-ashmawy , a former egyptian special forces officer turned jihadist .
president abdel fattah al-sisi has already suggested fighters from islamic state will move into egypt and neighboring libya now that the group in on the retreat in iraq and syria after a string of losses .
security is key for sisi , a former military commander who presents himself as a bulwark against islamist militants , as he looks set to seek re-election next year .
claims of a new front with possible ties to ashmawy and al qaeda would increase risks the security forces face in the western desert , where militants can already take advantage of the terrain and the porous libyan border , security sources , analysts and residents say .
two security sources and a medical source said evidence showed one militant killed in a follow-up raid was a former military officer and second-in-command to ashmawy , whose allegiance switched from islamic state in the sinai to al qaeda , and who has been based in libya since 2014 .
if he has been involved with what appears to have been a heavily armed and wholly unexpected operation on the egyptian side of the egypt-libya border , that s of great concern , said h.a .
hellyer , an egypt expert and senior non-resident fellow at the atlantic council .
an interior ministry official said he could neither confirm nor deny the validity of the ansar al-islam claim as it was being investigated .
prosecutors are also investigating the attack .
two homeland security officers said militants in the western desert appeared more professional than in sinai .
the officers , who work on gathering intelligence , said militants tied to ashmawy could draw on experience of members who once were in the thunderbolt elite army unit , or former police .
ashmawy and four other former officers have experience in fighting , surveillance , and planning so the group they have with them is dangerous , one officer said , referring to ashmawy s brigade commanders .
it remains unclear exactly what happened when an egyptian police convoy ran into an apparently well-planned ambush by a heavily armed militant group in a remote , desert area 135 km ( 85 miles ) southwest of cairo .
three security sources told reuters at the time that dozens of police officers and conscripts were killed .
but the interior ministry refuted that figure the next day and said 16 police and conscripts died , including some high-ranking officers .
one part of the operation was hit by rockets and heavy weapons , officials and sources said .
the lead and rear vehicles were hit first , immobilizing the convoy , security sources said .
on oct. 28 , the interior ministry replaced several senior security officials in charge of the area where the attack happened , including a homeland security chief and a giza province security chief , though no reason was given .
on oct. 31 , the army launched air strikes against the militants it said were responsible , killing dozens and rescuing a kidnapped and wounded policeman .
the new group gave no evidence of its oct. 21 claim , and it said the oasis attack was the start of a campaign against sisi s government .
it gave a list of grievances but no evidence on the size of its operations or its abilities .
ansar al-islam s statement was carried by another group with al qaeda links , guardians of sharia , whose social media feeds also carry statements from al qaeda chief ayman al-zawahri .
three security sources in the giza area said they believe the attack may have been the work of ashmawy s militants .
egyptian authorities believe he fled to libya in 2014 .
he has strong ties in the libyan city of derna , where he operates an al qaeda cell with other former egyptian officers .
he has been blamed for high-profile attacks such as the killing in june 2015 of egypt s top public prosecutor in a car bomb .
but moving into egypt would also raise questions about whether he had shifted his area of operations .
both islamic state and al qaeda have brigades operating in north africa , where they have competed for space in libya , especially in derna , and sometimes operated alongside each other in small brigades in countries like tunisia and algeria .
oded berkowitz , an intelligence analyst for risk consulting group max security , said assessing the new group s capabilities or loyalties was difficult , but there could be an effort by al qaeda to benefit from islamic state s decline to bolster its presence and recruits locally .
there is a strong al qaeda presence in libya that can support such an endeavor in egypt .
usually , a militant group in decline ( is ) and an increase in competition between two groups translates into a more aggressive stance , and attempts at larger and more quality attacks , he said .
egypt s security forces are battling several militant groups , but have been focused on an islamic state affiliate that has killed hundreds of police and soldiers in the northern sinai and has now begun staging attacks outside the peninsula .
but the western desert , a vast region making up more than half of egypt s territory , has always been a security headache with arms flowing across the frontier from libya .
militant groups have found shelter across the border in the chaos that followed the fall of muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
residents , businessmen and security sources around the area of the ambush say they have seen a heightened militant presence over the last two years , with militants sometimes openly driving along highways at night , and carrying out hit-and-run attacks .
it s closer for them to bring the weapons from libya and it s closer for them to carry out their operations , then flee to libya or hide out in the desert , said one egyptian military intelligence officer working in farafra oasis area near the oct. 21 attack .
egypt s continuing struggle against islamist insurgencies at home contrasts with islamic state s big losses in iraq and syria .
in libya s southern sahara , islamic state shows signs of a revival after losing sirte city a year ago .
u.s. forces carried out air strikes in libya in september - the first for almost a year - to destroy an islamic state camp .
when islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi in september urged followers to stand fast after defeats in iraq and syria , he mentioned sinai and sirte as places where they should fight .
islamic state , which some experts had suspected was involved , included details of the oct. 21 attack in its al-nabaa news bulletin , but without any claim of responsibility .
the western desert attack came as egypt hopes a peace agreement between palestinian rivals fatah and hamas on the gaza strip across its sinai border can help stabilize that area and curb supplies to militants on the peninsula .
militants are able to move in the western desert easier than they do in sinai , due to the open geographic nature , one police officer working in the area said .
it s not like sinai , which you can cordon off .
attacks in egypt : tmsnrt.rs/2ho9viq