madrid ( reuters ) - spain will send more state police to catalonia to block any moves to hold a banned independence referendum , the interior ministry said on friday .
the government in madrid is facing one of its biggest political crises since the end of the franco dictatorship and the return of democracy four decades ago .
it has called the referendum an illegal act and taken police and court action to block it .
the new officers would monitor public spaces , keep order and act in case the illegal referendum is maintained , the ministry said in a statement .
catalonia s regional government said new measures including a ban on police time off were over the top and meant to create a false impression of crisis .
all you need is eyes in your head to see there is no violence , spokesman jordi turull said .
catalan leaders have said they are determined to hold the vote on oct. 1 , defying the central madrid government and a constitutional court ban .
they have also said the catalan assembly would declare independence within 48 hours of a yes vote .
state police already on the ground carried out unprecedented raids on regional government offices , printers , newspapers and delivery companies , searching for campaign material on wednesday .
spanish media have said between 3,000 and 4,000 state officers have already arrived or are on their way , though the interior ministry did not give any numbers .
the reinforcements will join 5,000 state police already based in the region .
the ministry said they would back up catalonia s separate police force , called mossos d esquadra , which would remain in charge .
so far the state and local police forces have worked together well , but spanish government officials say in private the mossos could do more to block the vote and maintain order .
the catalan interior minister said the new state forces on the ground were one more step toward taking over the local police , a move that is seen as unlikely by most observers because it would be reminiscent of the 1936-39 spanish civil war , when the force was abolished .
the state is laying the groundwork to take over the mossos d esquadra .
it s a clear attempt to discredit it , said joaquim forn on twitter .
the catalan government earlier this week accused the spanish authorities of effectively taking over its administration after state police raided its offices and arrested officials , and the finance ministry took control of the local finance department .
authorities have had to billet some of the new officers in three ferries rented by the spanish government and moored in the harbors of barcelona and tarragona because of both a shortage of temporary housing and to avoid clashes between protesters and police forces .