ain issa , syria/beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias launched their final assault on syria s raqqa on sunday after letting a convoy of islamic state fighters and their families quit the city , leaving only a hardcore of jihadists to mount a last stand .
the battle will continue until the whole city is clean , said a statement by the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , a u.s.-backed alliance of kurdish and arab militias .
sdf spokesman talal selo told reuters that no more than 200-300 foreign militants remained to fight on in the city after the convoy left .
this is the final battle , he said .
under the withdrawal deal between islamic state and tribal elders , the jihadists would let all other civilians trapped in raqqa have safe passage out of the city , he said .
selo added that he believed only a few may have remained .
raqqa s fall to the sdf now looks imminent after four months of battle hemmed the islamic state jihadists into a small , bomb-cratered patch of the city .
we still expect there to be difficult fighting , said colonel ryan dillon , spokesman for the u.s.-led international coalition backing the sdf in the war against islamic state with air strikes and special forces .
the coalition will continue to operate on the basis that civilians remain in raqqa , he said .
raqqa was the first big syrian city that islamic state seized as it declared a caliphate and rampaged through syria and iraq in 2014 , becoming an operations center for attacks abroad and the stage for some of its darkest atrocities .
but islamic state has been in retreat for two years , losing swathes of territory in both countries and forced back into an ever-diminishing foothold along the euphrates river valley .
last night , the final batch of fighters ( who had agreed to leave ) left the city , said mostafa bali , another sdf spokesman .
there were conflicting accounts as to how many people left in the convoy .
selo said 275 syrian militants left along with their family members .
laila mostafa , head of the raqqa civil council formed under sdf auspices to oversee the city , said that figure included both the fighters and their family members .
in a statement , she denied an earlier comment by another council member that some foreign fighters had left in the convoy .
before the evacuation , the coalition estimated that about 300-400 fighters were still holed up in the islamic state enclave .
fighters who left in the convoy , which the coalition is tracking , had given biometric data including fingerprints , dillon said .
the convoy was still in territory held by the sdf on sunday morning , selo said .
bali described the civilians who left with islamic state fighters in the convoy as human shields .
the jihadists had refused to release them once they left the city as agreed , wanting to take them as far as their destination to guarantee their own safety , he said .
such withdrawals of fighters along with groups of civilians have grown commonplace in syria s six-year war , as a way for besieging forces to accelerate the fall of populated areas .
the convoy would head to the remaining islamic state territory in eastern syria , omar alloush of the raqqa civil council had said on saturday .
the agreement was brokered by the council and tribal elders to minimize civilian casualties , the coalition has said .
tribal leaders from raqqa said they sought to prevent bloodshed among civilians still trapped in the city .
if there are any civilians remaining ( in the enclave ) they would be the families of those foreigners .
the civilians exited completely , selo said on sunday .
the sdf s decision to hasten the battle s end by allowing islamic state fighters to leave raqqa was at odds with the stated wishes of the u.s.-led coalition that backs the militias .
dillon said it was not involved in the evacuation but added : we may not always fully agree with our partners at times .
but we have to respect their solutions .
in august , the coalition spent weeks preventing a convoy of islamic state evacuees from an enclave on the syrian-lebanon border from reaching jihadist territory in eastern syria .
the sdf launched the battle for raqqa on june 6 after a months-long campaign to isolate the city against the north bank of the euphrates .
islamic state , then known as islamic state in iraq and the levant , had captured the city in january 2014 , seizing it from rebel factions which had ousted the syrian army a few months earlier .
as the group became more entrenched in syria and iraq leading up to its capture of mosul in june that year , raqqa became its most important center , and it celebrated its series of victories with a massive parade through the city .
many of its top leaders were at times based there , and former hostages said mohammed emwazi , better known as jihadi john , imprisoned them along with those he later executed , in a building near an oil installation near the city .
the group killed dozens of captured syrian soldiers there in july 2014 and it was also the site of a slave market for yazidi women captured in iraq and given to fighters .
the coalition has said raqqa was a hub for attacks abroad , and in november 2015 , after militants killed more than 130 people in paris , france launched air strikes on islamic state targets inside raqqa .
but the group is now in disarray .
in syria it does not only face the u.s.-backed sdf offensive but a rival one by the syrian army supported by russia , iran and allied shi ite militias .
a syrian military source said on saturday the army had captured the city of al-mayadin in the euphrates valley , leaving islamic state only a few more towns and villages , and surrounding desert territory , in syria .
but the battle for raqqa has come at great cost to its people .
intense coalition air strikes and the months of street-to-street fighting have pulverized much of the city .
thousands of people have fled as refugees and hundreds of civilians have died .