sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - a former california lawmaker was sentenced to six months in prison and six months in home confinement monday for laundering a bribe accepted by his brother , also a former legislator .
thomas calderon , 62 , pleaded guilty on june 6 to one count of money laundering in the case .
he admitted to depositing $ 30,000 in an account held by his political consulting company , the calderon group , that had been offered as a bribe by an undercover agent to his brother in 2013 , the u.s. department of justice said monday .
“ tom calderon was all too aware of the bribe payments to his brother and that his brother had agreed to a quid pro quo with the undercover agents , ” united states attorney eileen m. decker said in a press release .
“ tom calderon facilitated these bribe payments by helping to conceal his brother ’ s corrupt activities from the public. ” calderon ’ s attorney , shepard kopp , said the longtime political hand from the blue collar los angeles suburb of montebello was deeply remorseful for his actions .
“ if he had it to do all over again he would obviously make a different decision , ” kopp said .
“ but it ’ s important to view tom and his life and public service as a whole rather than this one episode .
he ’ s been trying to better the lives of the people in his community on the east side of los angeles for more than 30 years. ” he was sentenced monday by u.s. district court judge christina snyder to a year and a day in custody - half of it in federal prison - and 100 hours of community service .
calderon , a democrat , served in the state assembly from 1998 to 2002 , representing montebello and other suburbs northeast of los angeles .
his brother , ronald calderon , 59 , also of montebello , was a democratic state senator in 2013 , when the fbi raided his office as part of the corruption case .
the brothers were indicted in the case the following year .
ron calderon , who took a leave of absence from the state senate until his term ended in 2014 , pleaded guilty to mail fraud in the case and is set to be sentenced next week .