tripoli ( reuters ) - libya s rival factions should stick to a united nations peace process and prepare for elections in spring 2018 , french foreign minister jean-yves le drian said on thursday , trying to give stalled u.n. talks a new push .
the north african country has two rival governments , one in the east and a u.n.-backed administration in the capital tripoli in the west , in a conflict stemming from the overthrow of muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
france was a leading player in the nato intervention against gaddafi , sending warplanes to bomb his forces .
the united nations launched a new round of talks in september in tunis between the rival factions to prepare for presidential and parliamentary elections in 2018 , but they broke off after one month .
i noted the desire from the prime minister ( fayez al-seraj ) to stick to the calendar .
we have a total convergence of views to implement this agenda , le drian said after meeting the tripoli-based prime minister in the libyan capital .
drian will later fly to the eastern city of benghazi to meet the powerful eastern military commander khalifa haftar , who on sunday called the u.n.-backed government and peace process obsolete .
the u.n. talks had stumbled over the question of what role haftar should play .
he indicated on sunday he wants to run as presidential candidate .
haftar remains popular among libyans in the east who are weary of the chaos , but faces opposition in western libya .
the eastern-based house of representatives on tuesday widened divisions between east and west by approving a new central bank governor .
the bank s tripoli headquarters and u.n. rejected the move .
le drian said a political deal would help solve crisis of thousands of illegal migrants stuck in detention centers in libya where human rights groups said they often face abuse .
libyan officials deny this but say they are overwhelmed with a flood of migrants .
libya is to main departure point for illegal migrants heading for europe by boat .