when a muslim man with dual citizenship in egypt and america tells his fellow agents : a muslim doesn t record another muslim and gets a promotion , every american should be concerned .
when that same muslim is in an advisory role in our government and is advocating for a federal gun registry , every american should be very concerned a muslim doesn t record another muslim , said gamal abdel-hafiz ( shown ) .
this might not have been noteworthy except that abdel-hafiz was an fbi agent at the time and was refusing to do his duty , which at that moment involved taping a muslim suspect .
that was 2002 , and this is now .
and now the cairo-born abdel-hafiz has moved on to bigger and perhaps better things he s a homeland-security advisor to barack obama .
and while recording a single muslim is a problem for him , putting every single american firearm owner on a gun-registry he fancies a good idea .
wfaa.com reports on his idea : a former fbi counter-terrorism agent says lawmakers could make mass murders less likely .
what we need to do is keep the ownership of guns known to the government , so we know who has what , said security consultant gamal abdel-hafiz .
and i know a lot of people are against that .
he shouldn t have been able to buy a gun legally .
he shouldn t , said abdel-hafiz about 29 year-old omar mateen [ the orlando jihadist ] .
he says 3 fbi interviews should have been enough to keep mateen on the radar , but he also knows why he wasn t. once you investigate someone and clear them , you have to remove them from the watch list by law , he explained monday from his office in dallas.and even if mateen had been on a terror watch list , or no-fly list , that would not have prohibited him from legally buying weapons that means the list is useless then , the former agent said.responding to this , pj media notes , remarkably , he [ abdel-hafiz ] admits that the various terror watch lists and no-fly lists are useless .
moments after suggesting another list .
he doesn t explain how a national gun registry yet another government list targeting millions of law-abiding americans would prevent another terror attack .
for sure .
all car owners are registered , but that doesn t guarantee they re all sane and doesn t stop me , if i am unhinged , from plowing my vehicle into a group on a sidewalk .
likewise , let s say all legal firearms in america were registered .
then what ?
given that the lists mateen already was on ultimately had no remedial effect in his case , how would the fbi having knowledge of his weapons purchases have stopped his orlando malevolence ?
we don t have to wonder , though , because the fbi already knew about them .
as breitbart reported last week : robbie abell , owner of a florida gun shop , says he alerted authorities that a suspicious man had come in asking about body armor .
the wall street journal quotes abell as telling them that his store , lotus gunworks of south florida , shut him down on all sales after he began asking bizarre questions about body armor and bulk ammunition .
the questions he was asking were not the normal questions a normal person would be asking .
he just seemed very odd , abell said .
the armor mateen asked about is not traditionally available to civilians.in addition , abell witnessed mateen talking on a phone in what the gun dealer believed was arabic .
in other words , mateen fit the terrorist profile like a glove , yet this wasn t enough to inspire the fbi to take the gloves off .
and now we re supposed to believe that somehow , some way , information about innocent american gun owners will help an agency that lacked the wisdom to act on already available information about a dangerous , un-american gun owner ? shockingly , abdel-hafiz was never fired by the fbi .
this is despite allegations he perpetrated insurance fraud and then lied about it to the agency ; despite his i won t record another muslim remark ; and despite the fact that a colleague of his , fbi special agent robert wright , and chicago federal prosecutor mark flessner both attest that the muslim agent seriously damaged the investigation inspiring the remark .
instead , here s what did transpire , as reported by abc news in 2002 : wright said he was floored by abdel-hafiz s refusal and immediately called the fbi headquarters .
their reaction surprised him even more : the supervisor from headquarters says , well , you have to understand where he s coming from , bob .
i said no , no , no , no , no .
i understand where i m coming from , said wright .
we both took the same damn oath to defend this country against all enemies foreign and domestic , and he just said no ?
no way in hell .
far from being reprimanded , abdel-hafiz was promoted to one of the fbi s most important anti-terrorism posts , the american embassy in saudi arabia , to handle investigations for the fbi in that muslim country.of course , there are no allegations that abdel-hafiz who has dual american/egyptian citizenship has commissively aided terrorists .
but given his infamous 2002 refusal to perform his duty , some questions must be asked .
in what other ways did/does abdel-hafiz s muslim faith constrain or even warp his actions with respect to muslim terrorists ?
how is it influencing his advice ?
and how many of his theological soul mates are today working in intelligence agencies ?
note here that secretary of homeland security jeh johnson is himself a muslim.and we should also ask , is this possible fifth column corruption responsible for something else agent wright complained of : fbi ineptitude ?
as he also told abc news in 2002 , september the 11th is a direct result of the incompetence of the fbi s international terrorism unit .
no doubt about that .
absolutely no doubt about that .
and as he related to another source prior to 9/11 : knowing what i know , i can confidently say that until the investigative responsibilities for terrorism are removed from the fbi , i will not feel safe .
the fbi has proven for the past decade it can not identify and prevent acts of terrorism against the united states and its citizens at home and abroad .
even worse , there is virtually no effort on the part of the fbi s international terrorism unit to neutralize known and suspected terrorists residing within the united states .
unfortunately , more terrorist attacks against american interests , coupled with the loss of american lives , will have to occur before those in power give this matter the urgent attention it deserves.and the rest is in the past .
unfortunately , unless political correctness is purged , it will also be prologue .
via : infowars