washington ( reuters ) - house speaker paul ryan said on thursday it is increasingly likely that the republican party ’ s presidential nominating convention will be a contested one this summer .
if no candidate can assemble 1,237 republican delegates by july , the party ’ s presidential nominee for the november election will be chosen by convention delegates in cleveland , ohio , in what could be four days of political drama , carried live on national television .
republican front-runner donald trump warned on wednesday of “ riots ” if he is denied the party ’ s presidential nomination , after he scored big wins in primaries in florida , illinois and north carolina on tuesday .
it is uncertain whether trump can get the 1,237 convention delegates he needs before july .
ryan denounced trump ’ s “ riots ” comment , saying it was unacceptable to even hint at violence .
he said he had to study up on the convention process , since he would be chairing the event and wanted to be sure the rule of law prevails .
“ nothing has changed other than the perception that this is more likely to become an open convention than we thought before .
so , we ’ re getting our minds around the idea that this could very well become a reality , ” ryan said .
as chairman , ryan will be charged with opening and closing the event , and overseeing the presidential nomination roll call - possibly more than one , if the first is not decisive .
he would also be expected to deal with any floor fights on controversial motions that arise .
“ i will have to obviously bone up on all the rules and all of those things , ” ryan told reporters .
“ my goal is ... to be neutral and dispassionate , and to make sure that the rule of law prevails , and to make sure that the delegates make their decision however the rules require them to do that , ” he said .
the last time delegates arrived at a republican convention without a clear nominee , in kansas city in 1976 , then-president gerald ford edged out challenger ronald reagan on the first ballot .
the last time it took multiple ballots to get a republican nominee was in 1948 , when thomas dewey was nominated .
ryan has been touted as a possible dark-horse candidate for president this year , but the speaker repeated thursday that he is not running .
he said he told former house speaker john boehner , who had suggested ryan be a candidate in case of a deadlocked convention , to “ knock it off . ”