riyadh ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson arrived in riyadh on saturday to attend a landmark meeting between officials from saudi arabia and iraq aimed at improving relations between the two countries and countering iran s growing regional influence .
the chief u.s. diplomat flew into king salman air base a little more than a week after u.s. president donald trump unveiled a strategy to contain iran and compel tehran to agree to close what he charged are flaws in the multinational 2015 deal designed to prevent iran developing nuclear weapons .
tillerson s only official meeting on saturday was a working dinner with saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir .
he was stopping in saudi arabia on the first leg of a six-day trip that will also take him to qatar , pakistan , india and switzerland .
his talks in sunni muslim-ruled saudi arabia and in qatar were expected to be dominated by the topic of shi ite-dominated iran s growing regional influence .
iran-backed militias have helped turn the tide of syria s civil war in the government s favor and they have played leading roles in iraq s battle to recapture islamic state s self-declared caliphate .
this week they aided iraqi security forces in seizing the oil-rich area of the northern city of kirkuk as part of an effort to crush a bid for independence made by the kurdish minority .
washington and riyadh also allege that iran is supporting houthi rebels in yemen against pro-government forces that are supported by a saudi-led military coalition backed by the united states .
yemen s grinding civil war was expected to be high on tillerson s agenda .
on sunday tillerson is due to attend the inaugural session of the saudi-iraqi coordination council , a body whose creation was promoted by the trump administration to improve relations between saudi arabia , iran s main regional rival , and iraq , whose majority shi ite-dominated government has close ties with tehran .
during his visit tillerson is also expected to explore the possibility of renewing a push to end a diplomatic and economic boycott of qatar by saudi arabia and other u.s. arab allies , although he has conceded he is not optimistic .
in an interview on thursday with bloomberg , tillerson blamed saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt for the lack of progress toward ending the four-month-old crisis .
saudi arabia and its allies have accused qatar of supporting hardline islamist groups and cozying up to iran at the region s expense .
doha denies the allegations .
it s up to the leadership of the quartet when they want to engage with qatar because qatar has been very clear - they are ready to engage , said tillerson , who forged close ties to the gulf arab countries in his former position as ceo of exxon mobil .
a senior uae official said on saturday it was up to qatar to end the crisis ahead of a summit of the six-nation gulf cooperation council in december .
the ball is in its court and it is aware of what is required of it , minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash wrote on his twitter account .