washington ( reuters ) - u.s. lawmakers in the house armed services committee began debating an annual defense policy bill on wednesday that would shift $ 18 billion in pentagon war-funding to other military needs .
the proposed legislation would use the $ 18 billion to halt cuts to the size of the military and boost training and maintenance in an effort to improve u.s. military readiness .
the funding shift would leave $ 35.7 billion to pay for u.s. military efforts in afghanistan , iraq and syria .
the house panel said that was enough to last through april 2017 , giving the next president time to evaluate the security situation and make a supplemental budget request to congress .
representative madeleine bordallo , a democrat from guam , said she was “ concerned that the short-sighted budget gimmick ... may leave our troops short of funding required in the near future. ” but representative mac thornberry , chairman of the committee , said that while “ some people may call it a gimmick , ” the democratic majority in 2008 had done something very similar .
the u.s. military has warned repeatedly in recent years that ongoing efforts to trim nearly $ 1 trillion from projected defense budgets over a decade have forced it to postpone training , maintenance and upkeep .
the measure , the national defense authorization act , sets u.s. defense policy and authorizes , but does not appropriate , funding for the pentagon .
lawmakers in the house panel expected to vote on the final version early on thursday , after which it will go to the full house of representatives .
the draft bill unveiled by thornberry this week would authorize $ 610.5 billion in defense spending for the 2017 fiscal year beginning in october .
that total is in line with the defense spending plan proposed by obama earlier this year .
the proposal calls for an active duty army of 480,000 troops , which is 20,000 more than proposed in the president ’ s budget request .
it also seeks significant reforms in the organization of the defense department , including expanding the term and the advisory role of the chairman of the joint chiefs of staff .
during debates on the legislation , lawmakers approved an amendment that calls for a senior u.s. defense official to be placed in charge of developing directed energy weapons .
the u.s. military hopes directed-energy weapons will provide it with an asymmetric advantage over potential rivals , for example enabling it to counter million-dollar missiles with a weapon that fires projectiles costing only $ 25,000 .