new york ( reuters ) - president donald trump said on monday he wanted democracy restored soon in venezuela and warned that the united states might take additional measures to apply pressure on the oil-producing nation .
at a dinner with latin american leaders on the fringes of the u.n. general assembly , trump said the venezuelan people were starving and their country , once one of the wealthiest , was collapsing .
brazilian president michel temer told reporters afterwards that all present at the dinner agreed on the need to ramp up international pressure on the socialist government of president nicol s maduro but without intervening directly in venezuela .
the united states has applied financial sanctions against venezuela , the supplier of 10 percent of the oil it consumes , and trump said his government is prepared to take additional steps if maduro continues on a path to authoritarian rule .
saying the situation in venezuela was completely unacceptable , trump called for a full restoration of democracy and political freedoms .
we want it to happen very soon .
besides temer , trump invited presidents juan manuel santos of colombia , juan carlos varela of panama and argentine vice president gabriela michetti to the dinner with their foreign ministers .
at least 125 people have been killed in four months of protests against the maduro government , which has resisted calls to bring forward the presidential election and instead set up a pro-maduro legislative superbody called a constituent assembly that has overruled the country s opposition-led congress .
to make matters worse , maduro has defied his own people stealing power from their elected representatives to preserve his disastrous rule , trump said at the dinner .
maduro has blamed venezuela s financial troubles on an alleged economic war by domestic opponents and the united states .
latin american governments have called for negotiations to resolve the crisis through a peaceful transition to democracy , especially colombia and brazil which have long borders with venezuela and are receiving tens of thousands of venezuelans fleeing the economic chaos and political turmoil .
while the trump administration has imposed financial sanctions and trump has called for tougher action , latin american leaders have stuck to diplomatic sanctions and ruled out a military intervention , an option trump has mentioned .
evidently , everyone at the table wants a democratic solution in venezuela , but no one wants a foreign intervention , temer said .
sanctions were not discussed at the dinner , the brazilian leader said .
we are talking about verbal sanctions , with democratic words , diplomatic words , temer said .