new york ( reuters ) - utility crews from the u.s. mainland were scrambling to puerto rico on thursday after hurricane maria left nearly the entire u.s. territory , and many of its caribbean neighbors , without power , according to officials .
the puerto rico electric power authority ( prepa ) reported almost 100 percent of its 1.5 million customers were without power as of late wednesday , the u.s. department of energy said in an update on the hurricane s impact on thursday , after maria s winds snapped trees and utility polls .
puerto rico governor ricardo rossello told cnn prepa was so severely hit that it could be months before electricity is restored to all those customers .
president donald trump said on thursday that hurricane maria totally obliterated the u.s. island territory of puerto rico with its electrical grid destroyed .
in the u.s. virgin islands , the majority of the 25,000 customers on st. croix were also reported to be without power , the doe report added .
energy support crews have been deployed to st. thomas and st. croix in support of federal emergency management agency ( fema ) teams there , and others are prepared to deploy to puerto rico as soon as conditions permit , the doe said .
the american public power association said it was also bringing in utility and contractor crews from parts of the u.s. mainland to help with recovery efforts .
at least one support team is already in puerto rico , said mike hyland , senior vice president , engineering services at the association , in a phone interview .
they ve been in san juan since maria passed and i believe they re going today to st. thomas .
...
right now our mission is to get the lights back on , he said , adding that there were limited flights and barges serving the islands .
the power outages have forced critical facilities , like hospitals , to rely on generators , and raised concerns about potential fuel shortages as some gas stations may not have backup power .
the fuel is there , you just can t pump it , said patrick dehaan , petroleum analyst at gasbuddy .
maria killed at least 10 people as it raged through the caribbean , the second major hurricane to do so this month .
it packed winds of up to 155 mph ( 250 kph ) , when it made landfall on puerto rico on wednesday as the strongest storm to hit the u.s. territory in nearly 90 years .
maria s devastation comes just as puerto rico , which is facing the largest municipal debt crisis in u.s. history , and prepa , which is bankrupt , were recovering from hurricane irma , which grazed the island , knocking out power to two-thirds of the residents .
petroleum supplies just under half of the island s electricity , and natural gas supplies nearly one-third , according to federal government data .
in recent years , high world petroleum prices have driven typical puerto rican power prices as high as three times those in the u.s. mainland .
maria , which could strengthen somewhat over the next day or so , was forecast to move north in the atlantic ocean over the weekend , the nhc said .