orangeburg , s.c. ( reuters ) - if democratic hopeful bernie sanders has a chance of drawing african-american voters away from rival hillary clinton in south carolina ’ s presidential nominating contest on feb. 27 , his best opportunity will be among the young .
african americans support former secretary of state clinton by more than a 3-to-1 margin nationwide , but among young blacks 18 to 29 years old , that margin shrinks to 46 percent for clinton versus 33 percent for sanders , according to recent reuters/ipsos polling .
african americans overwhelmingly back democrats , but opinion polls in the run-up to the nov. 8 presidential election show younger blacks more apt to reject an establishment candidate .
they seem less inclined than their parents to reward clinton for the outreach of her husband , former president bill clinton , and more drawn to sanders ’ outspoken views on reducing income inequality , cracking down on wall street , and cutting the cost of college .
reuters/ipsos polling last year showed that 36 percent of blacks between 18 and 29 years old thought the country was on the “ wrong track , ” compared with 23 percent of blacks who were at least 60 years old .
for sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont who describes himself as a democratic socialist , this trend could help him chip away at clinton ’ s firewall of minority voters in the southern states , after his strong showings against her - especially among the young - in the early democratic party contests of iowa and new hampshire , both more than 90 percent white .
the voting-age population in south carolina , one of the next stops on the primary trail , is about 67 percent white and 27 percent black , the u.s. census bureau says .
in orangeburg , south carolina , students at the historically black schools of south carolina state university and claflin university appeared split this week over which of the two candidates to support .
students praised clinton ’ s work on behalf of women and minorities and her years of washington experience .
but many said they also were intrigued by sanders ’ plans to raise taxes on wealthier people and wall street firms , provide universal healthcare and offer free public college tuition .
“ the history is important .
but at the same time ... you still need a plan , ” said travis pascoe , 25 , a second-year graduate student at claflin .
he said sanders ’ plans for reducing inequality by taxing the wealthy and expanding medicare to cover all americans should resonate with the black community .
“ i think that would help the black community because we ’ re the least privileged , ” he said .
eight of 16 students interviewed were undecided voters .
of the eight students whose minds were made up , four students said they planned to vote for clinton .
ethel hillman , 25 , a freshman who served in the military before going to college for social work , said she and many of her fellow students were voting for clinton .
she described sanders as too aloof .
“ he ’ s not socially connected , i would say , to the black community , ” she said .
“ he cares from a distance. ” south carolina state ’ s student center , which houses a bowling center and dining area , has quotes on walls from prominent black leaders , including president barack obama and first lady michelle obama , singer michael jackson and educator booker t. washington .
on one wall is a memorial to students killed in the 1968 “ orangeburg massacre , ” when protesters were shot by state highway patrol officers on campus amid tensions over racial discrimination .
for sanders , minority voters have been a lingering weakness .
he struggled early in his campaign to appeal to black voters .
protesters from the black lives matter movement interrupted his speeches , viewing him as out of touch with black issues .
to counter that perception , sanders touted his college civil rights activism , did publicity events with rapper killer mike , and on wednesday met black civil rights leader al sharpton in harlem .
like clinton , sanders has sent surrogates to historically black colleges .
the writer and activist cornel west spoke at south carolina state on sanders ’ behalf , and actress angela bassett spoke there in support of clinton .
where sanders is fighting for inroads into the black electorate , clinton finds a comfort zone .
her campaign has said it believes its road to the nomination would become smoother once it moves south , to places where she and her husband , the former president , have ties to minority leaders .
clinton picked up the endorsement of the congressional black caucus political action committee on thursday .
as the stakes mount in south carolina , representative jim clyburn , one of the state ’ s most influential democrats , said he was considering endorsing a candidate .
he did not endorse in hillary clinton ’ s 2008 primary race against obama , and previously said he would not weigh in this year .
his wavering was echoed in the views of several students on the campus of south carolina state .
“ i ’ m kind of caught between bernie sanders and hillary , ” said kelsie bryant , 19 , a sophomore education major at south carolina state .
she said it was important to have a woman president , and she was worried sanders was too old .
but she said his meeting with sharpton sent a positive signal about his outreach to blacks .
cetris brooks , 21 , a senior biology major at south carolina state , said that ultimately she was “ a little bit more trusting ” of clinton because of what the former first lady meant to her family .
she said her parents had long supported clinton , and her uncle knew the former president .
( this version of the story corrects paragraph 11 number of students backing clinton to four instead of three , adds “ political action committee ” to paragraph 21 ) ( additional reporting by chris kahn ; editing by richard valdmanis and howard goller ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .