sometimes all you can do is surrender to twitter.florida sen. marco rubio probably started out his day tuesday thinking about paid family leave , child care tax credits and other deep issues .
but when twitter went wild over an awkward photo of him leaning in for a hug with ivanka trump when she arrived for a capitol hill meeting , rubio was smart enough to play along.the photo , taken by an associated press congressional reporter with an iphone , appears to show trump declining to hug rubio back as the two greet one another just outside the capitol.twitter users dissected the seemingly awkward moment endlessly .
they compared rubio to ralph wiggum from the simpsons when he doesn t get a valentine s day card , and to dr .
evil from austin powers asking his son for a hug .
nypmarco rubio responded to critics on twitter by mocking the awkward hug in a series of hilarious tweets .
enjoy ! just left intel comm & informed meeting 2day with @ ivankatrump blowing up twitter over alleged failed hug !
investigating .
will respond soon marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017we believe we have our own unclassified photographic evidence that will shed greater details on this incident .
marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017we are also attempting to acquire multi-angle video which we believe will provide greater insight into this important matter .
marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017if you were filming at the senate carriage entrance today between 11:20-11:25 am we are seeking your assistance with an active investigation marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017based on review of evidence & my own recollection , have concluded no hug was even attempted & press covfefe of alleged failed hug is false marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017breaking news : additional photo from moments right after today 's alleged failed hug provide new details to this developing story .
pic.twitter.com/tfyhb2cqum marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017new photo emerges providing more insight into alleged failed hug .
( faces blurred for security purposes ) pic.twitter.com/gzsle3jd3i marco rubio ( @ marcorubio ) june 20 , 2017even ivanka joined in on the fun on twitter telling followers that marco is an excellent hugger and that the story that he s an awkward hugger that was making the rounds on social media was fake news !
fake news !
marco is an excellent hugger https : //t.co/dk7xxrqlx8 ivanka trump ( @ ivankatrump ) june 20 , 2017ivanka took it a step further with her next tweet where she used phrases like anonymous sources and talked about the planned and alleged hug to which she had no comment .
ivanka was clearly taking a swipe at the media who regularly uses words like anonymous sources and alleged in their fake news hit pieces on her father.anonymous sources say @ marcorubio planned the alleged failed hug .
i have no comment ( but i would have hugged him anyway ! )
https : //t.co/tchrqwsl4d ivanka trump ( @ ivankatrump ) june 20 , 2017