( this aug 31 story corrects location of burkhead s home in third paragraph . )
by christian shepherd beijing ( reuters ) - american tourist nicholas burkhead said he d be happy to return to his latest holiday destination , with its beautiful scenery , great food and friendly people .
the problem is , the destination was north korea and a u.s. state department ban on travel to the isolated country takes effect on friday .
burkhead , a 35-year-old resident of virginia , was among the last american tourists to leave north korea , landing on thursday in beijing .
i was surprised at how friendly everyone was , burkhead said after stepping off the last scheduled flight to beijing from the north korean capital , pyongyang , before the u.s. travel ban kicks in .
it was very relaxing - beautiful scenery and they fed us very well in the restaurants there , but the exchange rate wasn t too good for the local won , he told a waiting scrum of reporters .
burkhead arrived in beijing on north korea s state-owned air koryo after visiting pyongyang as well as the city of kaesong near the heavily armed border with south korea .
his five-day tour cost 1,850 euros ( $ 2,200 ) .
other americans on the flight included two aid workers as well as jamie banfill , 32 , who had led tours to north korea but was visiting this time as a tourist .
banfill , who had made the trip to say goodbyes after regularly traveling to the north for a decade , said the travel ban short-sighted .
it s an extremely complex situation on the korean peninsula and they oversimplified it , he said .
the united states last month announced a ban on u.s. passport holders from traveling to north korea , effective sept. 1 .
journalists and humanitarian workers are allowed to apply for exemptions under the ban , which is similar to previous u.s. restrictions on travel to iraq and libya .
heidi linton , director of christian friends of korea , who has been working in north korea for more than 20 years , told reporters she worried about the people her aid group helped , if her exemption was not granted soon .
we started a hepatitis b program and we have 705 patients that have been started on life-saving medicine , that if they go off that medicine then their lives are in danger , she said .
it was not immediately clear how many americans had sought , or been granted , exemptions or how many were still in north korea .
an official at the state department said it was not able to give an estimate on the number of u.s. citizens there .
north korea is under growing international pressure over its nuclear tests and repeated ballistic missile launches , including one this week that flew over northern japan .
the u.s. ban on travel to north korea followed the death of u.s. college student otto warmbier , who was jailed during a tour last year .
warmbier , who was sentenced to 15 years hard labor for trying to steal a propaganda sign , was returned to the united states in a coma in june and died six days later .
the circumstances surrounding his death are not clear , including why he fell into a coma .
warmbier had been detained leaving the airport in pyongyang .
i was expecting a strict security check on exit but there was nothing like that , burkhead said .
the state department declared u.s. passports invalid for travel to , in or through north korea .
the restriction applies for one year unless extended or revoked by the secretary of state .
north korean state media has described the ban as a sordid attempt to limit human exchanges .
north korea is currently holding two korean-american academics and a missionary , as well as three south korean nationals who were doing missionary work .
this month , north korea released a canadian pastor who had been imprisoned there for more than two years .
hundreds of americans are among the 4,000 to 5,000 western tourists who visit north korea annually , according to u.s. lawmaker joe wilson .