buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s president mauricio macri vowed to press ahead with reforms to the country s tax , labor and retirement systems in a speech on monday , a week after his let s change coalition swept to victory at the polls in midterm elections .
the government will present a tax reform proposal this tuesday or wednesday , and an amnesty plan for companies that hired workers informally in the coming days , macri said .
he added that the government would convene a commission to propose changes to the retirement system in coming weeks .
the speech marked a roadmap for the second half of macri s four-year term , as he seeks to implement business-friendly reforms to attract investors who avoided the country during more than a decade of populist rule .
we need lower taxes , more public works , and all this we need to achieve with fiscal balance , macri told a gathering of lawmakers , governors , union leaders , judges and others .
investors have been encouraged by the reforms macri has implemented since taking office in december 2015 , including lifting foreign exchange controls , settling with holdout creditors , and lowering export taxes .
but significant investment has not arrived .
companies have demanded lower costs , while credit agencies are concerned about a deep fiscal deficit .
macri s coalition swept the five most populous areas in midterm elections , giving him a broader mandate to pass reforms , though it still lacks majorities in both chambers of congress .
macri said his government had reduced the country s tax burden , and wanted to make the system simpler , clearer , and fairer .
he reiterated the government s aim of slashing argentina s fiscal deficit by one percentage point of gross domestic product per year .
and he also vowed to reform the country s retirement system , a large driver of government spending .
we need to start a mature and honest conversation about our retirement and pension system , macri said .
our retirement system hides serious inequities , and it is not sustainable .
while macri has said he does not plan major changes to the country s labor code , he has said the government plans to provide incentives to companies to formalize undeclared workers and work with unions in specific sectors to lower costs .
macri also pledged reforms to the country s justice system to combat corruption .
cabinet chief marcos pena told journalists that the resignation on monday of chief prosecutor alejandra gils carbo , appointed during the former administration of president cristina fernandez , was a step towards making the judiciary more independent .