brussels ( reuters ) - the european union s chief brexit negotiator said on thursday he was worried by britain s plans for the border arrangement with ireland after it leaves the eu and urged london to come up with creative proposals .
the comments from michel barnier highlighted the gulf between the two sides on one of the trickiest issues thrown up by brexit - how it will affect the currently seamless movement of people and goods between the republic of ireland , which is an eu member , and british-ruled northern ireland .
britain said last month that there should be no border posts or immigration checks along the 500 km ( 300 mile ) frontier after brexit .
some 30,000 people make the crossing each day , and businesses from farming to brewing depend on easy movement of goods between north and south .
while brussels and dublin also say they want to keep an open border , they say britain has failed to explain how it would square this with its stated intention to leave the eu s customs union .
what i see in the uk s paper on ireland and northern ireland worries me , barnier told a news conference in brussels .
the uk wants the eu to suspend the application of its laws , its customs union and its single market at what will be a new external border for the eu , and the uk wants to use ireland as a kind of test case for the future eu-uk customs relations .
this will not happen , barnier said .
the eu is also concerned that britain could use the border between the two irelands as a way to circumvent tariffs that could be imposed in a post-brexit eu-uk trade deal .
barnier s remarks coincided with the publication of a set of principles from the european commission , the eu s executive , on how the irish issue should be dealt with .
it explicitly stated that the onus to propose solutions on ireland fell on britain .
the paper also made it clear that a hard border between ireland and northern ireland should be avoided to protect peace on the island .
it said that any physical border infrastructure should be ruled out , but that required flexible and imaginative solutions .
nearly three months into brexit talks , eu and britain negotiators have made little progress on the irish border and the other issues - expatriate citizens rights and the bill that london should pay its eu partners to settle existing financial commitments - that brussels wants broadly solved before talks on a future trading relationship can start .
the irish government called on britain to make substantive commitments and provide workable solutions .
prime minister leo varadkar reiterated that for all sides to achieve their aim of avoiding a hard border , britain needed to stay in the customs union or in a similar arrangement for at least a post-brexit transition phase .
britain seized on the eu comments about the need for an open border as evidence that british and eu objectives were closely aligned .
in particular the commitment to avoid any physical infrastructure at the border is a very important step forward , a government spokesman said , adding that the position papers from both sides clearly provide a good basis on which to continue to make swift progress .