chicago ( reuters ) - billionaire investor j.b. pritzker , heir to the hyatt hotels corp fortune , formally entered a growing democratic field for illinois governor on thursday , labeling republican bruce rauner a “ failure ” as the state ’ s chief executive .
pritzker ’ s bid pits him against chicago businessman chris kennedy , son of the late u.s .
senator robert kennedy , and three other democratic candidates in the party ’ s march 20 , 2018 primary .
“ governor bruce rauner is a failure .
he promised a turnaround and all we got was a runaround , ” pritzker told supporters at a chicago park district gymnasium on the city ’ s crime-prone southside .
illinois , the country ’ s fifth-largest state , is immersed in one of the most politically turbulent eras in its 199-year history .
rauner has feuded with democrats , who control the state legislature , over his insistence that a state budget be tied to a list of his policy demands that would weaken unions , impose legislative term limits , freeze property taxes and impose new rules on injured workers seeking compensation from their employers .
with house speaker michael madigan and fellow democrats blocking that agenda , illinois has been without a complete budget during rauner ’ s first two years in office .
the fiscal futility has left illinois - the only state ever to go 22 months without a budget - with nearly $ 13 billion of unpaid bills as of wednesday .
“ we ’ ve got to start by taxing the millionaires and billionaires first .
we ’ re not going to middle-class families until we get people to pay their fair share , ” pritzker told reporters after his announcement .
pritzker , the 52-year-old brother of former u.s. commerce secretary penny pritzker , is positioned as the wealthiest candidate in the race so far , with a net worth estimated by forbes at $ 3.4 billion .
rauner , a former private equity investor , does not appear on the forbes list , but enters a re-election bid with plentiful resources of his own .
last november , the governor released his 2015 tax returns that showed he and his wife had more than $ 188 million in taxable income .
a month later , he steered $ 50 million in personal funds into his campaign account , state records show .
the state republican party attacked pritzker on thursday by linking him to the long-serving democratic house speaker and insisting pritzker favored a reinstatement of the state ’ s 5 percent individual income tax .
in january 2015 , the state income tax dropped to 3.75 percent after a temporary 2011 tax increase lapsed .