new york ( ifr ) - jared kushner has divested his equity interest in 666 fifth avenue , a 39-story office and retail building on manhattan ’ s famed shopping area , according to a spokesperson at kushner companies .
kushner said he would step down as ceo of kushner companies , a family owned real estate company , and begin to divest himself of substantial assets after he was made a senior white house advisor to us president donald trump , his father-in-law .
“ mr .
kushner divested his equity interest in 666 fifth avenue , and has no role in the management or operations of the property , ” a kushner companies spokesperson said in an emailed statement to ifr .
“ mr .
kushner ’ s ownership interests were sold using a third-party appraisal for fair market value to a family trust , of which he is not a beneficiary , ” the spokesperson said .
neither ivanka trump nor her and kushner ’ s children are beneficiaries to the family trust , the spokesperson also confirmed .
when asked by ifr , kushner companies declined to give any detail about the sale price of the equity stake and declined to discuss any aspect of the outstanding debt on the property .
kushner bought the property for us $ 1.8bn in 2007 - the highest price ever paid for a single office building sale in the united states at the time , according to kroll bond rating agency - but it was last valued well below that level .
the last appraisal , completed in 2011 as part of a debt restructuring , valued the building at just us $ 820m .
kroll , which said the building was 20 % vacant as of july 2016 , valued the property at us $ 982.1m .
kushner and his partners in 666 fifth took out us $ 1.2bn of senior debt to buy the property , which was later packaged and sold into three cmbs deals .
it is not clear what the divestiture means for the debt on the property .
the senior debt was restructured in 2011 and extended to february 2019 .
as part of the restructuring , kushner brought in vornado realty as a partner .
a call and email to vornado was not immediately returned .