kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - four men suspected of killing the north korean leader s half-brother at a malaysian airport changed their clothes and appearance to escape detection , a police witness said on thursday .
the four , who are still at large , are charged together with two women - indonesian siti aisyah and doan thi huong from vietnam - with killing kim jong nam at kuala lumpur airport s budget terminal on feb. 13 .
prosecutors in the malaysian court say siti aisyah and huong conspired with the men to murder kim , by smearing his face with liquid vx , a chemical poison banned by the united nations .
defense lawyers have argued the women did not know they were handling poison and thought they were involved in a prank for a reality tv show .
the men had been formerly identified only as mr. chang , mr. y , james , and hanamori , also known as grandpa or uncle , which a police witness has said were assumed names .
the men changed clothes after the attack , before they were seen leaving the airport , police investigator wan azirul nizam che wan aziz told the court .
they were trying to confuse ( observers ) , wan azirul said , describing closed-circuit television recordings made on the day of the killing .
more than 40 cctv video clips of the men s movements at the airport were screened in the darkened courtroom .
they showed mr. chang and mr. y heading to different bathrooms in the airport before emerging in different clothes , shortly after the attack on kim jong nam .
mr. chang , who had earlier been seen wearing a goatee , also came out of the bathroom clean-shaven .
all of the suspects at large , even though they changed clothes , did not change their shoes , added wan azirul , who said the shoes were among the features enabling identification of the suspects , besides their body types and movements .
other videos showed mr. chang and mr. y meeting separately with a man , identified as hanamori , at a restaurant near the airport s check-in counters , prior to the attack .
hanamori was seen arriving at the restaurant with a fourth man , who wan azirul said was suspected to be james .
mr. chang later met alone with siti aisyah at the restaurant , while mr. y was seen walking past the restaurant with huong .
it is unclear whether the four suspects at large were the same four north koreans authorities described as having left kuala lumpur for pyongyang on the day of the killing .
an interpol alert has been issued for the four who left , identified as north koreans ri ji hyon , hong song hac , o jong gil , and ri jae nam .
u.s. and south korean officials have said agents of kim jong un s regime masterminded the murder .
the trial will resume on nov 6 .