paris ( reuters ) - lebanon s prime minister saad al-hariri and his family will travel to france in coming days , a french presidential source said on wednesday , after emmanuel macron invited him as part of efforts to defuse tensions in the middle east .
speaking in the german city of bonn after a climate conference , macron said his invitation was not an offer of exile for hariri , who announced his abrupt resignation as premier 11 days ago from the saudi capital riyadh .
lebanese president michel aoun , who has refused to accept his prime minister s resignation , earlier on wednesday accused the saudis of holding hariri hostage - and called this an act of aggression .
asked if he was offering hariri exile , macron said : no , not at all .
i hope that lebanon will be stable , and that political choices should be in accordance with institutional rule .
we need a strong lebanon with her territorial integrity respected .
we need leaders who are free to make their own choices and speak freely .
france has close relations with lebanon , which was under french control between the world wars , and with hariri , who has a home in france and spent several years in the country .
his father rafik was a close friend of former french president jacques chirac .
macron s invitation came after he spoke to both saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman and hariri by telephone , the elysee said in a statement .
saudi arabia has denied detaining hariri or coercing him to quit .
one source in the presidential elysee palace said hariri was expected to arrive in france in the coming days .
france s offer appeared to be a last-minute one , with no indication from french officials this morning that this was on the cards .
a french government spokesman in a weekly briefing even called on hariri to return to beirut to offer his resignation .
french diplomats in paris appeared caught off-guard .
they said macron had found a way to get hariri out of saudi arabia without any side losing face , but questioned how this would pan out in the longer term .
this has come out of the blue , one diplomat said .
the president wants to ease tensions ... but we re also going round in circles .
are we just inheriting the problems ?
hariri on wednesday reiterated on twitter that he would soon return to beirut .
it was not clear whether he might stop in beirut before coming to paris .
france s foreign minister , jean-yves le drian , arrived in riyadh on wednesday evening to dine with crown prince mohammed and will meet hariri on thursday afternoon .
saudi arabia has long been considered hariri s main external supporter .
aoun is a political ally of lebanon s hezbollah , a powerful shi ite muslim group with close ties to iran .
lebanon s coalition government was formed last year through a political deal that made aoun president , hariri prime minister , and included members of hezbollah in the cabinet .
macron last week made a last-minute stopover in riyadh on his way back from the gulf to see crown prince mohammed , and has since spoken to aoun and hosted the lebanese foreign minister in paris on tuesday .