catonsville , md .
( reuters ) - president barack obama made his first visit to a u.s. mosque on wednesday , in an effort to allay the fears of americans accustomed to pop-culture portrayals of muslims as terrorists , and to reassure muslim american youth about their place in the nation .
obama , declaring that attacks on islam were an attack on all religions , decried the “ inexcusable political rhetoric ” against muslims from donald trump and other republican presidential candidates .
“ we have to understand that an attack on one faith is an attack on all our faiths , ” he said at the mosque outside of baltimore , which he said had received threats twice in the past year .
“ when any religious group is targeted , we all have a responsibility to speak up. ” trump , the republican front-runner , called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states after authorities described a california couple who killed 14 people last december as radicalized muslims inspired by islamic state militants .
obama ’ s visit was aimed at showing americans another side of islam .
before he spoke , cub scouts who attend a school run by the mosque carried the american and maryland state flags into the prayer hall , a plain room save for a three rows of window panes , 99 in all , each depicting one of the names of allah in arabic .
“ think of your own church or synagogue or temple , and a mosque like this will be very familiar , ” said obama , who , following islamic custom , took off his shoes to enter the hall .
the children led the audience , with some men in prayer caps and most women in head scarves , in the pledge of allegiance .
a man and a woman recited a verse from the koran about tolerance and inclusion .
obama , a christian , outlined the tenets of islam , and gave a brief history of muslims in america .
he noted that founding father thomas jefferson specifically mentioned muslims when he spoke about the american right to freedom of religion .
“ thomas jefferson ’ s opponents tried to stir things up by suggesting he was a muslim , so i was not the first , ” said obama , who has long been accused of secretly being a muslim , to a roar of laugher .
“ i ’ m in good company , ” he said .
obama asked a row of muslim american military service members to stand , as well as ibtihaj muhammad , a member of the u.s. fencing team who will be the first american olympian to compete in a hijab , or head scarf , in this year ’ s rio olympics .
the president touched on pop-culture depictions of muslims as terrorists .
“ our television shows should have some muslim characters that are unrelated to national security , obama said .
turning to extremist groups such as islamic state and what he characterized as perverted versions of islam portrayed by them , obama urged regular muslims to “ show who you are .
to use a little christian expression - let your light shine. ” later , he told a crowd of cheering children , who had packed the mosque ’ s gymnasium to watch his speech on large screens , that one day they too could become president .
obama urged young muslims not to embrace a worldview that required them to choose between faith and patriotism .
“ you fit in here .
right here , ” he said .
“ you ’ re not muslim or american .
you ’ re muslim and american . ”