new delhi ( reuters ) - india s top court has agreed to hear a plea challenging a government decision to deport all of an estimated 40,000 rohingya muslims living in the country after fleeing persecution in myanmar , a lawyer involved in the case said on friday .
a petition was filed on behalf of two rohingya men who live in delhi after fleeing their village in myanmar s rakhine state , where the latest surge of violence has killed at least 400 people and sent about 40,000 rohingya fleeing to bangladesh .
indian prime minister narendra modi s hindu nationalist government said last month it was going to expel all rohingya , even those registered with the u.n. refugee agency , drawing criticism from aid groups and some politicians .
the supreme court realizes the urgency of it , that s why they have agreed to hear it on monday , lawyer prashant bhushan told reuters .
you can t send somebody away to face certain death in another country , that would be a violation of his article 21 rights .
bhushan said the indian constitution s article 21 , on the protection of life and personal liberty , applied to non-citizens .
deportation would also contradict the principle of non-refoulement - or not sending back refugees to a place where they face danger , he said .
home ministry spokesman k.s .
dhatwalia declined to comment , saying the government would present its case to the court .
mohammad salimullah , the first petitioner , came to india in 2012 via the eastern state of west bengal , on the border with bangladesh , according to the petition seen by reuters .
the second petitioner , mohammad shaqir , arrived in 2011 .
both said in the petitions that their lives would be in danger if they were sent back to myanmar , where clashes broke out last friday after rohingya insurgents wielding sticks , knives and crude bombs attacked police posts and an army base .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in buddhist-majority myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
bangladesh is also growing hostile to rohingya , more than 400,000 of whom live there after fleeing myanmar since the early 1990s .
from bangladesh , many rohingya have crossed a porous border into hindu-majority india , where they are starting to get vilified by some right-wing groups .
we should not be targeted just because we are muslims , rohingya ali johar , who came to india in 2012 and lives with his family in a delhi settlement , said by phone .
we ve already faced persecution in myanmar .
india should not do anything that will show them as racist .
myanmar denies persecuting the rohingya .
it says its security forces are tackling terrorists who have launched attacks in rakhine state .