barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s separatists look set to regain power in the wealthy spanish region after local elections on thursday , deepening the nation s political crisis in a sharp rebuke to prime minister mariano rajoy and european union leaders who backed him .
with nearly all votes counted , separatist parties won a slim majority in catalan parliament , a result that promises to prolong political tensions which have damaged spain s economy and prompted a business exodus from the region .
rajoy , who called the elections after sacking the previous secessionist government , had hoped catalonia s silent majority would deal separatism a decisive blow in what was a de facto independence referendum , but his hard line backfired .
the unexpected result sets the stage for the return to power of deposed catalan president carles puigdemont who campaigned from self-exile in brussels .
state prosecutors accuse him of sedition , and he faces arrest if he were to return home .
either rajoy changes his recipe or we change the country , puigdemont , said in a televised speech .
he was flanked by four former cabinet members that fled with him .
at jubilant pro-independence rallies around barcelona , supporters chanted president puigdemont and unfurled giant red-and-yellow catalan flags as the results came in .
puigdemont s spokesman told reuters in a text message : we are the comeback kids .
the result unnerved global markets , contributing to a softer euro and subdued sentiment in stock markets .
opinion polls had predicted secessionists to fall short of a majority .
more than 3,100 firms have moved their legal headquarters outside catalonia , concerned that the indebted region , which accounts for a fifth of the national economy , could split from spain and tumble out of the eu and the euro zone by default .
spain has trimmed its growth forecasts for next year , and official data shows foreign direct investment in catalonia fell 75 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier , dragging down national investment .
the eu s major powers , germany and france , have backed rajoy s stance despite some criticism of his methods at times .
on oct. 1 , when catalonia staged an independence referendum , spain declared it unconstitutional and national police used tear gas and batons to prevent some catalans from voting .
when catalan parliament declared independence after the referendum , rajoy invoked constitutional powers to impose direct rule from madrid on the region .
he has said he would rescind direct rule regardless of the election result , but could re-impose it if a new government again pursued secession .
there was no immediate comment from rajoy after the election results .
the narrow victory for puigdemont s secessionist camp presents a fresh headache for the eu , which had defended the spanish judiciary s pursuit of separatist leaders on grounds that they had violated spain s constitution .
puigdemont s attempts to gain international support in brussels have come to nothing so far .
he has called the eu a club of decadent countries for declining to mediate a solution .
separatist parties won 70 seats out of 135 , with puigdemont s junts per catalunya ( together for catalonia ) party retaining its position as the largest separatist force .
unionist party ciudadanos ( citizens ) won the most votes , but other unionist forces rajoy s people s party and the socialist party registered a dismal performance .
it s a bitter victory , said paloma morales , a 27-year-old student at a ciudadanos rally .
it means four more years of misery .
analysts said the ball was back in rajoy s court .
what this shows is that the problem for madrid remains and the secession movement is not going to go away , said antonio barroso , deputy director of research at london-based research firm teneo intelligence .
turnout on thursday reached a record high with over 83 percent of eligible catalans voting .
puigdemont s former deputy , oriol junqueras , and several other catalan politicians are in prison , along with the leaders of the two main separatist grassroots movements .