cox s bazar , bangladesh reuters ) - until late last month , syed karim grew rice and sugarcane on a strip of unclaimed land along the international border where myanmar ends and bangladesh begins .
on aug. 25 , the 26-year-old rohingya muslim man abandoned his home in a nearby myanmar village and moved to the no-man s land , fleeing a crackdown by the military against his community in response to militant attacks .
an estimated 370,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh since that day .
but karim and thousands of his neighbors from rohingya villages near the border face a unique predicament .
they have fled to the safety of the buffer zone along the border and are now stuck .
bangladesh security forces have instructions to not let them in , said monzurul hassan khan , a bangladesh border guard officer .
some of the rohingya there said they are too afraid to go back to their homes but not ready to abandon them altogether and become refugees in bangladesh .
i can see my house but can t go there , said karim , whose taung pyo let yar village could be seen from his shack in the no-man s land .
the top u.n. human rights official has called myanmar s operations against the rohingya as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing and the security council is to meet behind closed doors on wednesday to discuss the situation .
the 40-acre ( 16.2-hectare ) buffer zone , about the size of 40 soccer pitches , is strung along the border , with a barbed wire fence on the myanmar side and a creek on the other .
hundreds of tarpaulin bamboo shacks have come up on what used to be a paddy field , with hills in the south .
khan said 8,000 to 10,000 rohingya had camped there .
the un refugee agency , which runs camps in bangladesh , doesn t go there because of security reasons , said vivian tan , a spokeswoman for unhcr .
tan said that they work with some ngos to provide people in the area with plastic sheets and clothing .
myanmar has laid landmines on its side of the border , which have wounded at least four people , bangladesh authorities and rohingya refugees said .
buddhist-majority myanmar says its security forces are fighting a legitimate campaign against terrorists it blames for the attacks on the security forces .
several bangladesh officials said they suspected that about 100 fighters from the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , the insurgents who attacked myanmar police posts and an army base on aug. 25 , have also been spotted in the border area .
bangladeshi security officials said they learned from informers that suspected arsa fighters were in the area early last week , after the eid al-adha festival .
the officials , who requested anonymity because of the sensitivity of the situation , said 11 suspected fighters were also being treated in a hospital in chittagong city , north of cox s bazar , which is close to the border .
an arsa spokesman denied that any of its fighters were using the no-man s land to launch attacks and said none of its fighters were in bangladesh .
mostafa kamal uddin , bangladesh s home secretary , said he did not have information about the presence of rohingya militants in bangladesh .
karim and other rohingya people , mostly from the border villages , said they started fleeing to the buffer zone after the aug. 25 attacks .
khan , the border guard officer , said their numbers swelled on aug. 27 .
we kept hearing gunshots and also saw a fire and smoke on their side of the border , khan said .
he pointed to two brown patches of burned trees in taung pyo let yar village from his operations base on a hilltop in bangladesh s gundum village near the border .
his men with automatic rifles kept watch as rohingya children waded across the creek to fetch fresh water in aluminum pots and plastic bottles from a hand-pump on bangladeshi soil .
a toddler , with the knee-deep waters rising to his neck , struggled with three plastic bottles , dropping one before turning around and picking it up and pressing forward .
in interviews at the buffer zone , where reuters was taken by khan , residents of three villages - taung pyo let yar , mee taik and kun thee pin said they were spared in the previous big military crackdown in october last year .
but things changed on aug. 25 .
mohammed arif , a rohingya man from taung pyo let yar village , said he fled into the woods near the village to hide when the army came .
from there , he watched a mortar shell hit his two-storey house , burning it down .
he crossed over the fence on aug. 26 with his family .
arif said he had not seen any arsa fighters in the no-man s land .
in our country , buddha worshippers treat us like a virus that needs to be eliminated .
we have heard them saying , no rohingya in myanmar .
but we will go back , arif said .