( corrects a dec. 19 story to make clear in graf 12 that russia annexed ukraine s crimea , not all of ukraine ) by gabrielle tetrault-farber and gwladys fouche moscow/oslo ( reuters ) - russia has detained a norwegian citizen it suspects of spying , his norwegian lawyer and the ria news agency said on tuesday , citing a moscow court which sanctioned the individual s detention .
media reports said russia s fsb security service had caught the norwegian taking secret documents about the russian navy from a russian citizen .
the detained man is 62-year-old pensioner frode berg , a former guard working on the norwegian-russian border who was arrested on dec. 5 , his norwegian lawyer told reuters .
his family says the accusations of espionage are inexplicable , said berg s lawyer in oslo , brynjulf risnes .
he was on a private visit to meet acquaintances from his former job and the cultural work he does ...
the family has known for a while that frode berg was arrested .
they thought it was a misunderstanding and that it would be clarified soon .
berg resides in the norwegian city of kirkenes , a town some 15 kilometres ( 9 miles ) from the border with russia .
he is active in a cross-border cultural organisation called girls on the bridge .
berg posted a picture of a snow-covered red square on his facebook profile page early on dec. 5 , the day of his arrest , with the message christmas time in moscow !
.
the maximum penalty for espionage in russia is 20 years in prison , while the minimum sentence is 10 years , said risnes .
the family is struggling as there is very little information available from the russian authorities , he said .
he said his first priority was to get access to berg and the second one was to ensure a russian lawyer who could provide the best possible defence .
often espionage cases have political undertones , he said .
so it is important we have a lawyer who fully defends his interests .
nato-member norway is part of the coalition of countries that have imposed sanctions on russia following its 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea .
it has been concerned about russia s ability and willingness to use military means to achieve political goals .
norwegian authorities said they had been able to visit their national in detention .
the norwegian consular service has visited the citizen that has been arrested in moscow and is now in detention , said frode overland andersen , a press spokesman for the norwegian ministry of foreign affairs .
he added the norwegian national had legal representation and that the arrest had taken place on dec. 5 .
the spokesman declined to comment on the charges .