house republicans leaders on monday embraced a legislative plan to replace the affordable care act for the first time in the nearly seven years since democrats enacted the transformative health-insurance law.now , they have to sell it.that challenge ran into an immediate threat from key conservatives who criticized the new proposal for failing to fulfill the party s iron-clad promise to rip out the signature policy of former president barack obama .
it s obamacare in a different format , representative jim jordan of ohio , a member of the hardline house freedom caucus , said in a phone interview .
jordan cited three provisions that conservatives have complained about for weeks leading up to the formal release of the house gop plan on monday evening : its extension of obamacare medicaid expansion for another four years ; its failure to immediately repeal all of the law s tax increases ; and its call to provide refundable tax credits to help people buy insurance , which jordan labeled a new entitlement .
earlier on monday , another member of the freedom caucus , representative justin amash of michigan , condemned the leadership bill in a two-word tweet : obamacare 2.0 .
the full freedom caucus comprises about three dozen members of the 237 in the house republican majority .
if they voted as a bloc , they could sink the bill on their own .
a spokeswoman for its chairman , representative mark meadows of north carolina , said members were still reviewing the legislation on monday evening , and jordan said the group planned to meet on tuesday to discuss it.the reaction from conservative advocacy groups was no more favorable to the republican leadership .
freedomworks labeled the plan s requirement that people pay a 30 percent premium to insurers if they stop their coverage for more than two months the republican individual mandate .
and on tuesday morning , two more staunchly conservative activist organizations , heritage action and the club for growth , came out against the proposal .
many americans seeking health insurance on the individual market will notice no significant difference between the affordable care act ( i.e. , obamacare ) and the american health care act , the group s president , michael needham said .
that is bad politics and , more importantly , bad policy .
rather than accept the flawed premises of obamacare , congressional republicans should fully repeal the failed law and begin a genuine effort to deliver on longstanding campaign promises that create a free market health-care system that empowers patients and doctors .
the club for growth pejoratively dubbed the new bill ryancare and added a new threat , vowing to downgrade any republican who votes for the bill in the group s closely-watched annual congressional scorecard.- the atlanticthe introduction of the gop s new healthcare bill has raised some definite ire among republicans and libertarians alike .
kentucky senator rand paul is one such politician who has now seen the bill and expressed his extreme dislike of it , calling the gop plan obamacare lite .
according to the hill , paul is not letting obamacare lite happen without a fight , and he has allies .
the libertarian leaning senator is teaming up with rep. jim jordan ( r-ohio ) to release their own bill to repeal obamacare on wednesday , and it s highly similar to the one that republicans voted for unanimously in 2015 .
we voted on this last year , and every republican voted for it , paul said at a press conference alongside his house conservative colleagues .
that s what we should do again .
you have to get rid of obamacare completely , jordan added .
paul stated in an interview earlier today that this gop bill will not pass , and that conservatives aren t gon na to take it .
however paul and jordan face an uphill struggle as gop leadership , including that of president donald trump , seem to believe the bill to be a solid plan .
we re going to do something that s great .
and i am proud to support the replacement plan released by the house of representatives , trump said of the bill .
it follows the guidelines i laid out in my congressional address .
this will be a plan where you can choose your doctor and this will be a plan where you can choose your plan .
and you know what the plan is .
this is the plan .
the blaze