washington ( reuters ) - the ambassadors to washington from britain , france , germany and the european union all strongly backed the international nuclear agreement with iran on monday , as long as tehran continues to comply with the pact .
u.s. president donald trump is weighing whether the 2015 deal serves u.s. security interests as he faces a mid-october deadline for certifying that iran is complying with the pact , a decision that could sink an agreement strongly supported by the other world powers that negotiated it .
we agree that the demise of this agreement would be a major loss , david o sullivan , the european union s envoy in washington , said at an atlantic council panel discussion .
german ambassador peter wittig said anyone advocating walking away should consider larger issues , including an increased danger iran would resume enrichment , danger of a nuclear arms race in an unstable region and impact on global nonproliferation efforts .
what kind of signal would this send to countries like north korea ?
wittig asked .
it would send a signal that diplomacy is not reliable , that you can t trust diplomatic agreements , and that would affect , i believe , our credibility in the west when we re not honoring an agreement that iran has not violated .
if trump does not recertify by oct. 16 , congress has 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions suspended under the accord .
that would let congress , which is controlled by trump s fellow republicans , effectively decide whether to kill the deal .
although congressional leaders have declined to say whether they would seek to reimpose sanctions , every republican lawmaker opposed the deal reached by democratic president barack obama s administration .
many , like trump , have made opposition to the agreement a campaign issue .
if washington pulls out of the deal , the ambassadors said they would do everything possible to protect any companies based in europe that continue to do business with iran from reimposed u.s. sanctions .
britain s ambassador , kim darroch , said trump and prime minister theresa may had devoted about half their discussion to iran when they met in new york last week , although trump did not reveal his decision .
he said may had explained again why britain supports the nuclear pact , seeing it as a matter of national security .
as long as the iranians continue to comply with it , in the view of the iaea , we will continue to support it , he said , referring to the international atomic energy agency .
speaking separately at another event in washington , white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster defended trump s criticism of the deal .
i obviously agree with the president on this , i think it was the worst deal .
it gave iran all of the benefits up front , mcmaster said , adding that it had the fatal flaw of a sunset clause .
he was speaking at an event hosted by the institute for the study of war .
the so-called sunset clauses are provisions under which some of the deal s restrictions on iran s nuclear program expire from 2025 .
french ambassador gerard araud noted that the other countries that signed the pact - russia , china and iran - had made clear that they do not support renegotiating .