it s not a question of curiel s hispanic heritage .
it s the web of his connections that gives the appearance of bias in favor of hillary clinton and against republicans .
former bush ag alberto gonzalezformer attorney general in the bush administration , alberto gonzalez , penned an op ed in the washington post today , giving donald trump some cover in his rampage against a mexican american judge presiding over the lawsuit against trump university : it is crucial to understand the real issue in this matter .
i am not judging whether curiel is actually biased against trump .
only he knows the answer to that question .
i am not saying that i would be concerned about him presiding over a case in which i was a litigant .
and if i were a litigant who was concerned about the judge s impartiality , i certainly would not deal with it in a public manner as trump has , because it demeans the integrity of the judicial office and thus potentially undermines the independence of the judiciary , especially coming from a man who could be president by this time next year .
but none of these issues is the test .
the test is whether there is an appearance of impropriety under the facts as they reasonably appear to a litigant in trump s position .
certainly , curiel s mexican heritage alone would not be enough to raise a question of bias ( for all we know , the judge supports trump s pledge to better secure our borders and enforce the rule of law ) .
as someone whose own ancestors came to the united states from mexico , i know ethnicity alone can not pose a conflict of interest.but there may be other factors to consider in determining whether trump s concerns about getting an impartial trial are reasonable .
curiel is , reportedly , a member of a group called la raza lawyers of san diego .
trump s aides , meanwhile , have indicated that they believe curiel is a member of the national council of la raza : la raza is a vocal advocacy organization that has vigorously condemned trump and his views on immigration : judge curiel , an activist for illegal immigration , works on behalf of san diego la raza immigration activists to select illegal aliens for scholarships : below is the la raza promotion of judge curiel as he sits on the scholarship selection committee : it is transparently obvious to those who are following the events that judge curiel not only holds a bias against mr. trump , but also holds a political agenda specifically intended to protect his ideological open border advocacy.in a new york times article , which relied on the unredacted mistake release a former employee of the trump organization , ronald schnackenberg , espouses his unhappiness with the former employ : in a set of documents unsealed on tuesday , mr. schnackenberg , a sales manager , recounted how he was reprimanded for not pushing a financially struggling couple hard enough to sign up for a $ 35,000 real estate class , despite his conclusion that it would endanger their economic future .
( link ) however , as with all other elements of this political nonsense , mr. schnackenberg went to work for the pinnacle spokesperson for the never trump conscripts , glenn beck .
you really just can t make this stuff up.the two groups are unaffiliated , and curiel is not a member of nclr .
but trump may be concerned that the lawyers association or its members represent or support the other advocacy organization .
coupled with that question is the fact that in 2014 , when he certified the class-action lawsuit against trump , curiel appointed the robbins geller law firm to represent plaintiffs .
robbins geller has paid $ 675,000 in speaking fees since 2009 to trump s likely opponent , hillary clinton , and to her husband , former president bill clinton .
curiel appointed the firm in the case before trump entered the presidential race , but again , it might not be unreasonable for a defendant in trump s position to wonder who curiel favors in the presidential election.read more : pj mediaread more : conservative treehouse