when we found this insane article on the occupy democrats website , it had over 500,000 shares .
obviously , making the case against christians being more likely to commit terrorism while defending terrorism by muslims is of utmost interest to the democrat party .
we have gone through each and every example of christian terrorism they have given and dispelled every single one of them .
please make sure you share this article with everyone you know .
we are in an emotional propaganda war with the left and we will not win if we don t fight back with the facts .
the outpouring of blatant islamophobia and barely disguised racism coming from the right-wing in the wake of the paris attacks is utterly despicable .
every time one of these attacks happen , conservatives insist on blaming the world s 1.6 billion muslims for their complicity , even though the majority of terrorist attacks are carried out against muslim .
american far right-wingers like sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) are calling for religious profiling of incoming refugees , because somehow being a christian automatically removes the risk of terrorism even though christian right-wing terrorists in america have killed more people since 9/11 than muslim terrorists have.republican presidential candidate mike huckabee even had the sheer gall to tell conservative blowhard joe scarborough that i don t know of any other group of people uniquely that are targeting innocent civilians and committing these acts of mayhem .
warmonger ( from the party who has kept us at war with the same countries we were fighting with , and added a few since obama took office ) and avowed ( avowed ? )
bigot ( bigot ? )
ted cruz said that there is no meaningful risk of christians committing acts of terror .
if there were a group of radical christians pledging to murder anyone who had a different religious view than they , we would have a different national security situation .
since both grifters seem to have severe selective memory problems , let s take a look at the worst christian terrorist attacks that our own citizens have perpetrated within our borders.1 .
the knoxville unitarian universalist church shootingone of adkisson s former wives was a member of the church he attacked .
following his heinous attack of the church members , he had this to say about the attack in his manifesto ( please note , there is never any mention of religion in his reasoning for the attack .
his attack was about punishing democrats ( liberals ) for destroying america : adkisson stated that he had targeted the church because of its liberal teachings and his belief that all liberals should be killed because they were ruining the country , and that he felt that the democrats had tied his country s hands in the war on terror and they had ruined every institution in america with the aid of major media outlets .
adkisson made statements that because he could not get to the leaders of the liberal movement that he would then target those that had voted them into office .
adkisson stated that he had held these beliefs for about the last ten years .
adkisson s manifesto [ 10 ] also cited the inability to find a job , and that his food stamps were being cut .
here is a screen shot of his manifesto listing all 3 reasons he committed this horrible crime against innocent people .
we are not condoning his behavior , we are simply exposing the lies of this democrat publication who would attempt to frame this act of violence as being motivated by christianity : jim david adkisson , a devout christian and anti-abortion right-winger , walked into a knoxville church on july 27th , 2008 , and began firing a shotgun at children who were performing annie jr .
he killed two and wounded seven , targeting the church because of its liberal teachings and his belief that all liberals should be killed because they were ruining the country .
2 .
the campaign of terror against abortion doctorsthis article references the well-known case of abortionist killer , scott roeder .
we d like to set the record straight about how desire to take the life of abortionist , george tiller was really about workplace violence and had nothing to do with christianity.abortion lovers were clearly salivating when word got out that a man walked into george tiller the killer s former abortion facility with a bomb in his backpack earlier this week .
it turns out that , in fact , the guy was looking for a job , like so many americans under obamistake .
he wanted to be a canvasser for live fetal organ dispensary inc. , otherwise known as planned parenthood.the media-reported bomb was , in fact , a pill bottle-sized firework .
no one was harmed , thank god , but the incident is just one of a too-long string of msm bigotry against conservatives.in 1993 , dr. richard gunn was shot dead by an anti-abortion protester .
in 1994 , drs .
john britton and james barrett were shot to death by reverend paul jennings .
in 1998 , dr. barnett sleipan was shot dead in his home by a christian terrorist .
in 2009 , dr. george tiller was shot by scott roeder in a church .
the ability for christian right-wingers to justify cold-blooded murder in the name of their pro-life beliefs is a colossal hypocrisy worthy of a terrorist group like isis .
according to the national abortion federation , there have been 17 attempted murders , 383 death threats , 153 incidents of assault or battery , 13 wounded , 100 butyric acid attacks , 373 physical invasions , 41 bombings , 655 anthrax threats , and 3 kidnappings committed against abortion providers since 1977 .
terrorist groups like the taliban and isis are very fond of acid attacks and chemical weapons like anthrax ; apparently christian right-wing terrorists share that same preference.3 .
the 1995 oklahoma city bombings ( note , there is no mention of christianity in mcveigh s explanation of why he bombed the murrah fed building .
) in timothy mcveigh s own words : i explain herein why i bombed the murrah federal building in oklahoma city .
i explain this not for publicity , nor seeking to win and argument of right or wrong .
i explain so that the record is clear as to my thinking and motivations in bombing a government installation .
i chose to bomb a federal building because such an action served more purposes than other options .
foremost , the bombing was a retaliatory strike ; a counter attack , for the cumulative raids ( and subsequent violence and damage ) that federal agents had participated in over the preceding years ( including , but not limited to , waco . )
from the formation of such units as the fbi s hostage rescue and other assault teams amongst federal agencies during the 80 s ; culminating in the waco incident , federal actions grew increasingly militaristic and violent , to the point where at waco , our government like the chinese was deploying tanks against its own citizens.knowledge of these multiple and ever-more aggressive raids across the country constituted an identifiable pattern of conduct within and by the federal government and amongst its various agencies .
( see enclosed ) for all intents and purposes , federal agents had become soldiers ( using military training , tactics , techniques , equipment , language , dress , organization , and mindset ) and they were escalating their behavior .
therefore , this bombing was also meant as a pre-emptive ( or pro-active ) strike against these forces and their command and control centers within the federal building .
when an aggressor force continually launches attacks from a particular base of operation , it is sound military strategy to take the fight to the enemy.additionally , borrowing a page from u.s. foreign policy , i decided to send a message to a government that was becoming increasingly hostile , by bombing a government building and the government employees within that building who represent that government .
bombing the murrah federal building was morally and strategically equivalent to the u.s. hitting a government building in serbia , iraq , or other nations .
( see enclosed ) based on observations of the policies of my own government , i viewed this action as an acceptable option .
from this perspective , what occurred in oklahoma city was no different than what americans rain on the heads of others all the time , and subsequently , my mindset was and is one of the clinical detachment .
( the bombing of the murrah building was not personal , no more than when air force , army , navy , or marine personnel bomb or launch cruise missiles against government installations and their personnel .
) i hope that this clarification amply addresses your question.sincerely , timothy j. mcveigh usp terre haute ( in ) timothy mcveigh , america s most notorious domestic terrorist , was obsessed with the seventh-day aventist splinter group known as the branch davidians , who resisted an atf raid on their citadel at mount carmel in 1993 .
he travelled to waco , texas during the waco siege and heavily supported the religious extremists within it .
two years later , he detonated a fertilizer bomb at the alfred p. murrah federal building in oklahoma city , killing a hundred and sixty-eight people , including nineteen children , and wounded 648 others .
this christian specifically targeted innocent civilians and committed horrific acts of violence to make his political point heard something mr. huckabee believes he should be incapable of , since he s not a muslim.4 .
everything the ku klux klan has ever done ( the kkk was not founded on christian principles and actually changed their focus in the second wave of the kkk to addressing the supposed threat of the catholic church , using anti-catholicism and nativism .
its appeal was directed exclusively at white protestants ; it opposed jews , blacks , catholics , and newly arriving southern european groups such as italians .
) since its creation after the american civil war , the ku klux klan has been terrorizing americans in the name of protestantism and racial purity .
known for their terrifying costumes and hoods , they wrought have fear and violence against blacks , jews , immigrants , gays , and catholics for hundreds of years , responsible for countless massacres , lynchings , rapes , and bombings that have killed thousands .
in the modern day , it still has a membership of 5,000 to 8,000 terrorists that operate in individual chapters .
just two weeks ago , frazier glenn cross , the leader of the carolina knights of the kkk , was sentenced to death by lethal injection for murdering a fourteen year old girl and two seniors outside the overland park jewish community center in kansas city .
the man gave the hitler salute during his trial and declared that jews are destroying the white race .
none of his victims were jewish.5 .
the massacre at zion emmanuel ame church in charleston , s.c. ( maybe we missed it , but as far as we can tell , this attack had nothing to do with the attacker being a christian .
liberal logic however , makes it okay to blame this heinous act on christianity even though the victims were the christians in this case .
) on wednesday , june 17th of this year , a man rose from a pew in the historically black emanuel ame church in charleston , sc , and opened fire with a .45 caliber pistol , killing nine worshipers , including pastor and state senator clementa pickiney .
the shooter has been photographed wearing patches representing the racist apartheid regimes in southwest africa , had a confederate license plate on his vehicle .
all signs points to this being a hate crime- not only is it the oldest black church in the south , it was a symbol of resistance against slavery , and a survivor reported that the shooter yelled i have to do it .
you rape our women and you re taking over our country .
and you have to go .
roof was a member of a local lutheran church , yet somehow his baptism didn t prevent him from gunning down innocent people in a house of worship , defiling a sacred place with hate and murder.so the next time one of your conservative friends tries to school you on the evils of islam , just name a couple items from this list .
the rampant xenophobia that has taken hold of the republican party is an affront to everything this nation stands for .
terrorism spawns from the desperation of humankind , and for that , we are all guilty.the original article was published by occupy democrats on november 17 , 2015 and is titled : the top five attacks on america committed by christian terrorists , not muslims