nairobi ( reuters ) - a militant faction loyal to islamic state ( is ) has increased its following in northern somalia from a few dozen last year to up to 200 this year , a u.n. report said , days after the group came under u.s. air attack for the first time .
the increase in strength of the is spin-off group has attracted attention because some security officials fear it could offer a safe haven for islamic state militants fleeing military defeat in syria or iraq .
the islamic state of iraq and the levant ( isil ) faction loyal to sheikh abdulqader mumin - estimated ... in 2016 to number not more than a few dozen ... , has growing significantly in strength , and ( now ) consists of as many as 200 fighters , said the report by a panel of u.n. experts obtained by reuters .
even a few hundred armed fighters could destabilize the whole region , said a regional diplomatic security source .
it ( air strikes ) is a recognition from the u.s. that the situation in terms of the ( islamic state ) faction in puntland is becoming increasingly critical .
somalia has been riven by civil war and islamist militancy , though more in the south than in the north where the puntland region is located , since 1991 when clan warlords overthrew a dictator before turning on each other .
friday s air strikes failed to kill mumin , the security source said .
but abdirizak ise hussein , director of semi-autonomous puntland s spy service , said the strikes killed about 20 militants , including a sudanese fighter and two arabs .
almost all mumin s fighters are somali , the u.n. report said , though the group is believed to include a sudanese man sanctioned by the united states .
the group also has contacts in yemen .
it was unclear if the sudanese man under u.s. sanctions was the same one reported killed in the air strike .
the number of is fighters in puntland has increased .
mostly they come from southern somalia and a few , including foreigners , come from yemen , colonel abdirahman saiid , a military officer in puntland , told reuters .
the u.n. report said defectors from mumin s faction reported the group had received money and orders from iraq and syria , and one member said he had seen mumin and another leader using truecrypt software to communicate with them .
the united nations could not independently verify those claims .
mumin s group has been slowing increasing its activity over the past year .
in late 2016 , it occupied the port of qandala in puntland , a semi-autonomous region , for a month .
earlier this year , it carried out its first attacks .
its fighters killed four guards at a hotel in bosasso , the economic capital of puntland , in february .
the same month , the group beheaded three men it had kidnapped .
somalia s main islamist insurgent group , al shabaab , is aligned with al qaeda and is most active in the horn of africa country s south .
it has repeatedly clashed with the islamic state-aligned faction in the north .