paris ( reuters ) - france appeared to backtrack on tuesday on efforts to mediate between iraq s government and kurdish regional authorities , saying a visit by iraqi prime minister haider abadi would center on bilateral ties and fighting islamist militants .
abadi is due in paris on wednesday for a two-day visit .
while the invitation had been made prior to an independence vote held in iraqi kurdistan last month , president emmanuel macron s office on friday issued a statement offering to help ease tensions between baghdad and the kurds .
that drew a response from abadi s office on saturday in which iraqi officials made clear that the invitation was not related to the kurdish independence referendum .
president ( macron ) ... recalled the importance of preserving unity and iraq s ( territorial ) integrity while recognizing the rights of the kurdish people , the elysee statement had said .
with the priority to fight islamic state and the stabilization of iraq , iraqis must remain united .
but a statement issued on tuesday by france s foreign ministry made no reference to the kurdish referendum .
at a briefing by macron s office ahead of the visit , senior officials repeatedly avoided answering questions related to the kurdish crisis , saying the visit was important to boost bilateral ties , assess the fight against islamic state and discuss general reconciliation in iraq .
at a time when the reconquest of territories held by islamic state has seen considerable progress in the last few months , france wants to give the relationship with iraq new momentum in all sectors and develop its cooperation , economic ties and political dialogue , the foreign ministry statement said .
a french diplomatic source said paris objective had been to try and get some form of dialogue going between the two leaders .
with the kurds being isolated by regional powers turkey and iran and the united states taking a tough stance on last month s vote , there was an opportunity for paris , which has good ties with both baghdad and erbil , to try to act as a go-between .
the priority is to get dialogue going within the framework of the constitution , one diplomat said .
when asked on tuesday whether france wanted to play a mediation role and had also invited kurdish president masoud barzani to paris , a french presidential source said it supported all efforts to get dialogue going and had not heard of any such invitation .
you can sense there s a certain amount of embarrassment about this , said a second french diplomat .