the house benghazi committee has interviewed two drone sensor operators who were working on the night of the deadly 2012 attacks in libya , including one who identified himself on talk radio as john from iowa .
the unidentified drone operator has earned derision from the pentagon and committee democrats , who say the gop-led panel has made a series of costly , duplicative and unnecessary requests including some based on claims made on facebook or talk radio.the drone operator , an air force sergeant , told a radio host in 2013 he was surprised that no one from congress had contacted him.the panel s chairman , republican congressman trey gowdy , says that talking to enlisted service members with first-hand information is just as important as talking to the generals and admirals who command them .
the daily caller : in a statement announcing the subpoena for hedger , gowdy also suggested that the former democratic congressional aide and others at the defense department may have tried to shield the drone operator s identity .
this pentagon political appointee claimed in an official letter to the committee the department of defense could not find a requested witness , despite expending significant resources searching for him , gowdy said .
this witness is still on active duty and confirmed thursday the air force knew exactly who he was a drone sensor operator who was operating over benghazi on the night of the attacks , he added .
mr. hedger will now have the opportunity to detail exactly what resources he expended and how .
i look forward to him explaining the serious questions that have arisen with respect to this matter , including whether they are related to incompetence or deliberate concealment of the witness from a congressional inquiry .
committee democrats immediately circled the wagons around the defense department and hedger , who has worked for missouri sen. claire mccaskill and new york rep. steve israel , both ardent supporters of hillary clinton .
this latest abuse of authority by house republicans is ridiculous and a desperate distraction from a failed investigation , maryland rep. elijah cummings , the ranking democrat , said in a statement.read more : daily callervia : wt