tokyo ( reuters ) - a rapidly weakening typhoon lan made landfall in japan on monday , setting off landslides and flooding that prompted evacuation orders for tens of thousands of people , but then headed out to sea after largely sparing the capital , tokyo .
four people were reported killed , hundreds of plane flights canceled , and train services disrupted in the wake of lan , which had maintained intense strength until virtually the time it made landfall west of tokyo in the early hours of monday .
at least four people were killed , including a man who was hit by falling scaffolding , a fisherman tending to his boat , and a young woman whose car had been washed away by floodwaters .
another casualty was left comatose by injuries and a man was missing , nhk public television said .
around 130 others suffered minor injuries .
rivers burst their banks in several parts of japan and fishing boats were tossed up on land .
a container ship was stranded after being swept onto a harbor wall but all 19 crew members escaped injury .
some 80,000 people in koriyama , a city 200 km ( 124 miles ) north of tokyo , were ordered to evacuate as a river neared the top of its banks , nhk said , but by afternoon water levels were starting to fall .
several hundred houses in western japan were flooded .
my grandchild lives over there .
the house is fine , but the area is flooded , and they can t get out , one man told nhk .
lan had weakened to a category 2 storm when it made landfall early on monday , sideswiping tokyo , after powering north for days as an intense category 4 storm , according to the tropical storm risk monitoring site .
lan is the marshall islands word for storm .
by monday afternoon the storm had been downgraded to a tropical depression and it was in the pacific , east of the northernmost main island of hokkaido , the japan meteorological agency said .
around 350 flights were canceled and train services disrupted over a wide area of japan , although most commuter trains were running smoothly in tokyo .
toyota motor corp canceled the first shift at all of its assembly plants but said it would operate the second shift as normal .