just another slap in the face to us citizens .
our government arranges massive payments to hostages taken by the terrorist nation of iran , as they walk away unscathed .a fund of over $ 1 billion has been created for the u.s. embassy personnel taken hostage by iran after the 1979 islamic revolution , but it is the u.s. taxpayer , not iran , who will be paying for it.the new fund , known as the united states victims of state sponsors of terrorism fund , was an addition to the omnibus bill put forward by congress and signed into law by president barack obama dec. 28 .
as much as $ 4.4 million could go to each of the 52 americans held by iran , with another $ 600,000 going to each spouse and child of the victims .
the provision authorizes $ 1.025 billion from the department of the treasury to be used to pay for the new fund .
additionally , the legislation includes a 25 percent cap on any attorney s fees , which could lead to as much as $ 250 million total going to lawyers of the various victims involved.the victims were taken hostage during iran s islamic revolution led by former supreme leader ayatollah khomeini .
hundreds of student protesters stormed the u.s. embassy in tehran taking 52 u.s. personnel hostage for 444 days .
several months after the takeover , former president jimmy carter authorized operation eagle claw , a rescue attempt by u.s. special operations forces which would later fail .
the hostages would eventually be released after a lengthy negotiation process the day of president ronald reagan s inauguration in january , 1981 .
victims of the embassy attack have been seeking compensation for their captivity for some time , but have been prevented from taking legal action against iran .
the 1981 algiers accords , the agreement which secured the release of the hostages , had a provision barring the victims from suing the iranian government .
iran is not paying the money , but it s as close as you can get , says thomas lankford , an attorney for one of the victims , speaking to the washington post .
lankford refers to a clause in the new law which mandates that any money collected from the bnp paribas scandal will be used for the new fund and the various 9/11 victim funds .
the u.s. levied a fine of $ 9 billion on the french bank in june 2014 for its evasion of sanctions against countries like iran , cuba and north korea.the staggering amount of compensation being paid to the victims is remarkably higher than the $ 262,000 suggested by the george w. bush administration in 2003 .
some may be surprised that a fiscally conservative republican-controlled congress would authorize payments of more than $ 250 million from the u.s. treasury to private attorneys , even on behalf of victims of terrorism deserving compensation , writes attorney john bellinger in the lawfare blog .
via : daily caller