the rampant migrant rape and violence is shining a light on the progressive agenda and it s exposing an ugly , reckless ideology that has dominated the eu for decades .
the left is in a battle to save itself and outside of stabbing themselves 17 times and then blaming the right , there doesn t seem to be any way out of the mess they ve created .
we recently posted about german citizens demanding rapefugees and economic migrants be gunned down at the border.for many the news fitted the current image of the # kaltland [ cold country ] .
a communication that it would have been better not to have to make , published by the schwerin local association of die linke [ the left , former east german communist party ] on late tuesday evening on its facebook page .
according to this , julian kinzel , an 18-year-old member of the local schwerin board was the victim of a knife attack in wismar on monday evening .
the three perpetrators beat him down and stabbed their victim around 17 times with a knife , according to a statement from the doctor who treated him , the statement reads .
in the process kinzel was said to have been insulted as a gay communist pig .
this and the clothing worn by the perpetrators that is typical of the [ far-right ] scene ( thor steinar ) supports the suspicion that it was a crime with a far-right motivation , said the local chairman peter brill.the federal left party even said the case was one of attempted murder .
we are shocked , party explained on wednesday on twitter .
federal managing director matthias h hn : the current case proves in a tragic way once again how dangerous and inhuman right-wing extremism is .
dietmar bartsch , head of the left grouping in the federal parliament , condemned the crime in the strongest possible way and explained that the left would not give up in its fight against right-wing extremism .
party leader katja kipping said : the knife attack is horrific and also an attack on democracy .
already on wednesday the speaker of the rostock police management board , isabel wenzel , described the case as somewhat nebulous .
she made reference to the fact that kinzel only filed a complaint later on tuesday evening and not personally at a police station , but via the internet .
the hospital at which the young man was treated on monday also did not report the case to police .
via : der tagesspeigeljulian kinzel warned in a reaction on the facebook page of the schwerin left against further [ right-wing ] radicalisation : our answer to hate must be love , to stupidity , reason and to violence , solidarity .
now the police hace arranged for the student to be subjected to forensic medical examination .
the investigations up to now have come to the conclusion that kinzel invented the attack .
according to a statement from the rostock police the type of injuries do not correspond to the sequence of events that has been claimed in the attack .
on the contrary , it is sufficiently probable that kinzel inflicted the injuries himself .