big brother ?
tracking drivers and their habits doesn t that sound like an orwellian idea ?
big government just got more into your business it s a new city pilot program to track how you drive , when you drive , how fast your drive and how much gas you use .
the department of transportation says it will help fix street problems .
others say its like big brother is watching you , cbs2 s marcia kramer reported friday .
it s a tiny black box about the size of a pack of gum that is installed right under the steering wheel .
it will allow city officials under a program called drive smart to collect and access data about how you drive if you drive like a maniac , or if you re mr. or mrs .
slow poke .
it can tell the g-force of hard stopping or hard acceleration and a hard turn , dot senior project manager alex keating said .
so the driver , as well as the service provider , are able to look at speeds , hard-breaking events , time of day and basic gps .
city officials say they ll use to information to make the streets safer , but drivers can also allow various dot partners to use the information .
allstate , for example , will give you insurance discounts of 10-30 percent , and metropia will get you home faster with less congested routes all of it hooked up to smartphone apps .
security expert manny gomez said there are many reasons to just say no to this program .
like , for instance , the danger of hacking .
anything is hackable as we ve already seen .
sony was hacked ; the u.s. government was hacked , so clearly the city of new york could be hacked and ths information could easily become public , gomez said .
gomez questions whether the city could use the information against people .
dot officials said that will not happen .
all of the data is anonymous .
we actually erase the data from our data base every 48 hours , keating said .
new yorkers seem split on the idea .
more control over the people i wouldn t be down for that , definitely not , brian bradford said .
yeah , i d definitely do that .
thirty percent is 30 percent , one woman said of the potential insurance discount .
enough .
enough .
enough .
there is the nsa , cia , fbi you have more information than you need , taxi driver nour chad said .
the department of transportation is looking for 400 volunteers to participate in the year-long program .
you have to have a valid driver s license and drive in the city at least four days a week .
in addition to an app to reduce car insurance rates , there are apps to tell you where to buy the cheapest gas , and how to drive safely.via : cbslocal