mexico city ( reuters ) - there were more murders in october in mexico than in any month over at least 20 years , according to official data , in the latest grim milestone in 2017 , a year on course to register the highest homicide tally since modern records began .
mexican president enrique pena nieto s failure to tackle growing drug violence is seen as a major weakness ahead of next july s presidential election , where he faces an uphill battle to keep his centrist institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) in power .
the data , published by mexico s interior ministry on monday , showed there were 2,371 murder investigations opened in october .
with 20,878 murders nationwide in the first 10 months of 2017 , this year is on track to overtake 2011 as the most violent since the government began publishing such data in 1997 .
there were an average of 69 murders a day so far this year , putting mexico on track to overtake the 2011 homicide tally before the end of november .
in 2011 , there were an average of 63 murders per day , according to reuters calculations .
in a speech earlier this month , pena nieto acknowledged that crime and violence had been rising .
it has to be said , we re still not satisfied , and we still have lots more to achieve , he said .
security needs to remain an utmost priority for the government .
however , he also added that certain sectors of society are engaged in bullying mexico s institutions , belittling the work of the police and military .
those comments were ridiculed online , where many criticized the rising violence and graft that have stained his administration .
in further bad news for pena nieto s unpopular government , silvestre de la toba , the head of the baja california sur state human rights commission , was shot dead on monday .
his killing drew criticism from u.s .
ambassador to mexico roberta jacobson , who tweeted that his death should be fully investigated .
baja california sur , which includes the popular resort of los cabos , is one of the states that has seen the sharpest rise in murders .
there were 409 in the first 10 months of 2017 , up 178 percent from the same period last year .