weakness invites aggression and it s hard to imagine we could have a weaker , more apathetic president .
so this news should come as a surprise to no one .
north korea on sunday defied international warnings and launched a long-range rocket that the united nations and others call a cover for a banned test of technology for a missile that could strike the u.s. mainland.whatever motives pyongyang may have about using its rocket launches to develop nuclear-tipped long-range missiles , it now has two satellites circling the earth , according to norad , the north american aerospace command , which monitors all satellites in orbit.both of the kwangmyongsong , or shining star , satellites complete their orbits in about 94 minutes and based on data released by international organizations tracking them , the new one passed almost right over levi s stadium about an hour after the super bowl ended .
it passed almost directly overhead silicon valley , which is where i am and where the stadium is , tech watcher martyn williams said in an email to the associated press .
the pass happened at 8:26 p.m. , after the game .
i would put it down to nothing more than a coincidence , but an interesting one .
the game in santa clara , california , ended at 7:25 p.m. local time.north korea claims sunday s successful satellite launch was its fourth.the first two have never been confirmed by anyone else , but experts worldwide agree it got one into orbit in 2012 and norad , which is hardly a propaganda mouthpiece for pyongyang , now has both that and the satellite launched on sunday on its official satellite list.kwangmyongsong 4 , the satellite launched sunday , has the norad catalog number 41332 and kwangmyongsong 3-2 , launched in 2012 , is 39026 .
they are described as earth observation satellites , and weigh about 100 kilograms ( 220 pounds ) apiece.their main applications , according to pyongyang , are monitoring the weather , mapping natural resources and forest distributions and providing data that might help farmers improve their crops.north korea s state-run media quoted scientists and researchers at the north s state hydro-meteorological administration as saying sunday they are are delighted at the news of the launch .
its deputy director , ryu pong chol , reportedly said it will give a big boost to north korean weather forecasters.that remains to be seen.no signals from the previous satellite , which north korea claimed transmitted the song of general kim il sung and song of general kim jong il after achieving orbit , have ever been confirmed by outside observers .
that might be because it was never stable enough to transmit anything back home.signals from the new satellite had also yet to be detected .
amateurs and experts alike are doing their best to listen in around the world , but it is unclear exactly what frequency the satellite is supposed to be using , or what it will be transmitting.via : ap