b b but i thought they said they re just trying to provide quality health care for women .an undercover video recorded by the non-profit organization , center for medical progress , shows planned parenthood federation senior director of medical services , dr. deborah nucatola , discussing their fetal parts business.nucatola is seen in the video having lunch with actors posing as buyers who are interested in purchasing the body parts of babies who have been aborted .
the planned parenthood senior staffer notes how abortion procedures are modified to ensure that requested body parts can be collected .
she says : we ve been very good at getting heart , lung , liver , because we know that , so i m not gon na crush that part , i m gon na basically crush below , i m gon na crush above , and i m gon na see if i can get it all intact .
nucatola also describes how planned parenthood abortionists move the preborn child into a breech delivery position so that the body can be preserved .
this account is an almost exact medical description of partial-birth abortions which are illegal in the united states .
in the video , nucatola describes the procedure : i d say a lot of people want liver .
and for that reason , most providers will do this case under ultrasound guidance , so they ll know where they re putting their forceps .
the kind of rate-limiting step of the procedure is calvarium .
calvarium the head is basically the biggest part .
we ve been very good at getting heart , lung , liver , because we know that , so i m not gon na crush that part , i m gon na basically crush below , i m gon na crush above , and i m gon na see if i can get it all intact .
and with the calvarium , in general , some people will actually try to change the presentation so that it s not vertex .
so if you do it starting from the breech presentation , there s dilation that happens as the case goes on , and often , the last step , you can evacuate an intact calvarium at the end .
planned parenthood , though , appears to be concerned internally about the legality of their own behavior , as nucatola notes how , at the national office , we have a litigation and law department which just really doesn t want us to be the middle people for this issue right now .
u.s. federal law states that , it shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly acquire , receive , or otherwise transfer any human fetal tissue for valuable consideration if the transfer affects interstate commerce .
live action president lila rose has been active for years in exposing wrongdoing at planned parenthood through undercover investigations .
she responded to the disturbing investigative video , saying : this investigation by the center for medical progress reveals the unimaginable horror that is planned parenthood .
the exploitation of human life , the cover-up , and the black market profiteering by america s largest abortion chain is not only egregious and heartbreaking , but exposes how the abortion giant is corrupt to the core from the ceo , cecile richards , down to the local clinic .
as live action has investigated through the years , planned parenthood s barbaric practices reveal their contempt for rule of law and human life .
this latest expose of planned parenthood s trafficking of baby parts for profit should be the final nail in the coffin for the abortion giant .
congress must take immediate action to stop all taxpayer funding of planned parenthood and end the bankrolling of this horrific human rights abuser.via : liveactionnews