over the south atlantic ( reuters ) - from the window of a u.s. navy p-8a poseidon airplane taking part in an international search for a missing argentine submarine , the glistening vastness of the south atlantic stretches in every direction .
yet onboard the modified boeing 737 , the nine-man crew spends much of the flight bent in silence over tracking devices .
they listen to signals sent by buoys deployed on the ocean surface and watch video from the plane s heat-seeking camera on five sets of double screens at the center of the plane .
more than 30 aircraft and ships from argentina , britain , brazil , the united states , chile and other countries are participating in the effort to find the ara san juan submarine , which disappeared on nov. 15 with 44 crew members on board .
in all , more than 4,000 personnel from 13 countries are assisting the search , scouring some 500,000 square km ( 193,051 square miles ) of ocean - an area the size of spain .
it s great to be able to utilize everything we have - all the training we have , the equipment we have - in order to come down here to argentina to help find this submarine , said mission commander lieutenant zachary collver , a 32-year-old pilot from washington state .
however , hopes dimmed of finding the submarine s crew alive on thursday when argentina s navy raised the possibility the submarine suffered an explosion , after an international agency with listening posts to check for secret atomic blasts detected an unusual signal near where the vessel went missing .
midway through its seven-hour flight , the u.s. plane changed course , picked up speed and descended toward the ocean surface .
collver alerted the crew that a satellite image had picked up something near the area where the submarine last reported its position , according to a reuters witness aboard the flight on wednesday .
the plane turned south toward the patagonian city of puerto madryn , after taking off from an argentine base in bahia blanca , some 650 km ( 400 miles ) south of buenos aires .
data analysis would later show the object was just a big rock .
the episode was one of several false leads in the international search operation , which has involved more than a dozen boats but has not yet produced any solid clues about the fate of the missing vessel .
but the p-8a poseidon crew insisted they would not diminish their search efforts .
it s rewarding to know we can help out the best that we can , collver said .
it was the first time the florida-based crew participated in an actual aerial search mission , rather than just a drill .
argentina has thanked the countries that have participated in the search .