how many american taxpayer dollars have already been used by the obama regime to spy on , discredit and dismantle conservative groups like the tea party ?
is anyone else beginning to feel like the obama regime is one big union who forces members to pay dues that are used to fund , and ensure the success of the democrat party ?
the department of justice is concentrating on far-right groups in a new study of social media usage aimed at combatting violent extremism.the justice department s national institute of justice ( nij ) awarded michigan state university $ 585,719 for the study , which was praised by eric holder , the former attorney general , earlier this year .
there is currently limited knowledge of the role of technology and computer mediated communications ( cmcs ) , such as facebook and twitter , in the dissemination of messages that promote extremist agendas and radicalize individuals to violence , according to the nij grant .
the proposed study will address this gap through a series of qualitative and quantitative analyses of posts from various forms of cmc used by members of both the far-right and islamic extremist movements .
the study draws more upon right-wing forums than upon the corners of the web inhabited by islamist extremists .
we will collect posts made in four active forums used by members of the far-right and three from the islamic extremist community , as well as posts made in facebook , livejournal , twitter , youtube , and pastebin accounts used by members of each movement , the grant said .
the findings will be used to document both the prevalence and variation in the ideological content of posts from members of each movement , the grant continued .
in addition , we will assess the value of these messages in the social status of the individual posting the message and the function of radical messages in the larger on-line identity of participants in extremist communities generally .
the project will also identify the hidden networks of individuals who engage in extremist movements based on geographic location and ideological similarities .
the results will be used for a public webinar , and for presentations for counterterrorism experts in the united states.holder highlighted the study in remarks this february at the white house summit on countering violent extremism , as an example of the new methods the justice department is using to combat terrorist threats.holder said the study will help us develop more effective techniques and partnerships for counter-messaging .
while the grant does not name the far-right groups that would be examined , other federal agencies have devoted their energy to the sovereign citizen movement.the department of homeland security ( dhs ) released a report on the movement , whose members believe that u.s. laws do not apply to them , just as the white house held its summit on violent extremism .
the administration did not use the phrase islamist extremism at the summit.dhs stirred controversy in 2009 when it issued a report on right-wing extremism , which included veterans returning from combat as a potential terrorist threat.the justice department and michigan state university did not return requests for comment by press time.via : washington free beacon