those of us in the swamp knew who the alligators were in the swamp former justice department official victoria toensingvictoria toensing and her husband joe digenova are two well respected lawyers in dc .
because of their closeness to the intel community , toensing has the inside scoop and held nothing back during an interview about whether comey should have been fired : while the media and politicians from both parties look for deeper reasons for president trump s firing of fbi director james b. comey , a former justice department official says the decision was long overdue and needed for obvious reasons .
it just came too late , 109 days too late .
those of us in the swamp knew who the alligators were in the swamp and we all tried to warn the white house , and they didn t listen to us , said toensing , who also served as a federal prosecutor.and why did they implore president trump to fire him ?
comey was a narcissist , she said .
it was all about comey , and he delighted in wanting to bring down powerful people if they were republicans .
on tuesday , the trump administration released its rationale for the comey firing , focusing on his public announcement that no charges should be filed against hillary clinton in the wake of the fbi probe into her use of a private , unsecured server through which she sent and received classified information while she served as secretary of state.deputy attorney general rod rosenstein accused comey of usurping the authority of the attorney general in making such a pronouncement and for exposing clinton s misdeeds when he was effectively closing the investigation.but toensing said comey made far more mistakes , starting with his repeated misstating of the statute in question .
comey insisted that intent to break the law was required to bring charges , while gross negligence is the standard laid out in federal law .
she also savaged comey for refusing to impanel a grand jury to probe clinton and for allowing the same attorney to represent multiple witnesses in the case .
that s called a conflict of interest , because that lawyer can get all of her clients together and they can all read from the same music , she explained .
you never do that .
toensing is also dismissing the intense reaction from democrats , who she said are now appalled after calling for comey s head for months .
she said the idea that trump fired comey because of the ongoing russia investigation is ridiculous , and so are any comparisons to richard nixon s saturday night massacre .
in watergate , there was a crime .
there was a burglary .
there was a break-in .
what s the crime here ?
what s the crime ?
do we have a crime ?
no , there s no crime , said toensing , noting that russian involvement in u.s. elections is nothing new .
read more : wnd