washington ( reuters ) - as the senate ’ s top republican mulls whether to push ahead on a criminal justice reform package , the bill ’ s advocates say its power to cut crime is on display in his own back yard .
mitch mcconnell , the senate ’ s republican leader , represents kentucky , one of a handful of states that have had some success with sentencing reform and reducing violent crime .
violent crime rates are down nationwide since president barack obama ’ s first term , but states such as kentucky have seen it fall more steeply than the national rate .
kentucky ’ s imprisonment rate also declined after it reduced sentences for certain drug offenders and passed a policy to release some prisoners to community supervision before the end of their sentences in 2011 .
the policy saved the state more than $ 29 million over two-and-a-half years , according to the pew charitable trusts , a policy research group .
mcconnell could move forward in the senate with a reform measure that would lower mandatory minimum sentences for some nonviolent federal drug offenders and permit judges to rehear cases with those new sentences in mind .
it is backed by the obama administration and a bipartisan group of 30 senators .
the federal measure “ has been informed by success stories ” in states that have passed similar laws over the past decade , u.s. deputy attorney general sally yates told reuters .
“ i ’ m confident that we would see similar results if congress were to pass important reforms at the federal level , ” she said .
mcconnell in january vowed to bring “ everybody in the republican conference up to speed ... before any decision is made about floor time ” since the bill has so far been discussed mainly in the senate judiciary committee .
mcconnell spokesman don stewart said he had no new announcements on the bill ’ s prospects for advancement .
some republicans oppose it , such as arkansas senator tom cotton , who says parts of the proposal applying to armed drug offenders would “ release thousands of violent felons. ” but sponsors of the senate package cite state-level success in arguing for the federal reforms .
“ while i am excited about our federal prospects , the fact is that we could not have gotten to this point if it were not for the great reforms that utah and other ‘ red ’ states around the country are enacting , ” republican utah senator mike lee told reuters , referring to states that predominantly support the republican party .
thirty states reduced crime and imprisonment rates simultaneously between 2009 and 2014 , pew said , with 18 of those states ’ crime rates falling faster than the national rate .
utah last year lowered penalties for certain drug offenses .
it also restricted prison beds to only the most serious offenders through a law the state expects to nearly flatline prison growth over the next 20 years and save $ 542 million .
the u.s .
sentencing commission estimates more than 12,000 prisoners - about six percent of the federal prison population - would be eligible to have their cases reheard under the senate bill .
a parallel package of bills in the house of representatives also awaits a floor vote .
earlier this month , justice action network hired mcconnell ’ s former chief of staff , hunter bates , to lobby for the bill .
bates told reuters that mcconnell is “ not quite ready ” to advance the bill yet , but that it is on a “ short list ” of bills that have a shot at becoming law in 2016 .