washington/new york ( reuters ) - two high-ranking democrats in the u.s. senate asked the trump administration on wednesday to provide information on any plans to cut refugee admissions to historically low levels , saying congress had not yet been consulted as required by law .
“ to date , we have not received a proposed refugee admissions plan for fiscal year 2018 or received any cooperation from your agencies in scheduling the refugee consultation , ” senator richard durbin and senator dianne feinstein wrote in a letter seen by reuters .
the letter was sent on wednesday to secretary of state rex tillerson , acting secretary of homeland security elaine duke , and secretary of health and human services tom price .
“ we request that the proposed refugee admissions report be transmitted to congress promptly and that we immediately begin the process of scheduling the consultation , ” the letter said .
by law , the president is required to consult with members of congress about the number of refugee admissions before the start of each fiscal year , which is oct. 1 .
a white house spokeswoman declined to discuss specific numbers but said the administration ’ s approach to refugee resettlement would be guided by the “ safety and security of the american people , the protection of u.s. taxpayers , and the application of u.s. resources in a manner that stretches our dollars to help the most people. ” the department of homeland security declined to comment .
the state department and department of health and human services did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
since the u.s .
refugee act was signed in 1980 , the ceiling has never been set below 67,000 and in recent years has hovered around 70,000 to 80,000 .
the number of refugees actually admitted to the country can fall below the cap , and dropped to its lowest level in the fiscal year after the sept. 11 , 2001 terror attacks with only around 27,000 admitted .
( for a graphic on refugee admissions click on : tmsnrt.rs/2f5y7ds ) for fiscal 2017 , which ends sept. 30 , former president barack obama established a cap of 110,000 refugees for permanent resettlement in the united states .
after taking office , president donald trump issued an executive order lowering the maximum number to 50,000 for fiscal 2017 , saying that more would be “ detrimental to the interests of the united states. ” “ there have been a lot of signals that trump has set his sights on a presidential determination of 50,000 ” for 2018 , said anna greene , a senior director at the international rescue committee .
“ but we have been concerned that the more ideological wing of the white house is trying to drive that number to much , much lower. ” the proposed raise act , which the white house has endorsed , calls for lower immigration overall and a statutory limit on the number of refugees offered permanent residency to no more than 50,000 .
reports that the 2018 cap might be set below 50,000 raised alarm bells for democrats in the house of representatives and the senate .
“ by any measure , donald trump ’ s reported consideration of a refugee ceiling of 50,000 or lower is extreme .
but it is particularly reprehensible given the current global refugee and humanitarian crisis , ” said democratic u.s .
representatives john conyers , jr. and zoe lofgren in a statement on wednesday .
if the united states slashes refugee admissions , other countries could decide to do so as well , said robert carey , the former director of the office of refugee resettlement under the department of health and human services in the obama administration .
“ lives will be lost , people will die .
the people who are being resettled , they are the most vulnerable people , ” said carey who left government in january and is working as a consultant .
“ there is a running misperception that these are not thoroughly vetted individuals , ” he said .
“ these are the most thoroughly vetted individuals who will enter the u.s. under any status. ” groups that support lower levels of immigration overall say that the refugee resettlement program should be reevaluated .
“ there are security concerns for refugees from some places and we also need to consider the cost of resettlement to communities where refugees are being resettled , ” said jessica vaughan , of the center for immigration studies , which aims to limit immigration .