our good friends at texas border volunteers are on the border catching illegals all the time .
the vickers family has a ranch that sees hundreds of illegals .
please read the first-hand account of what s really been going on at our border : mike vickers of texas border volunteers : probably 60 percent to 70 percent of the groups we encounter are not mexican , said dr. mike vickers , who started the group and who owns a ranch in south texas .
we see a lot of chinese and people from india and pakistan .
all day , every day , thousands of people cross by car , by bus and on foot spilling out onto the main streets of laredo .
as she makes a christmas wreath , flower shop owner marta narvaez says she s scared .
narvaez tells us in spanish she feels sorry for syrians fleeing war in their homeland .
but it s also dangerous , she says , because we don t know if some refugees are also terrorists .
we try to piece the story together , webb county medical examiner dr. corinne stern says .
when someone dies on the journey north , she interviews the people who stayed with the body .
we asked dr. stern how people from around the world are getting to laredo .
it s the same story .
it s the same story every time , she says .
they ll say we crossed the river at night .
it s always at night .
always with the help of smugglers who run routes through central america and mexico and it s big business .
we ask how much did you pay the coyote , dr. stern says .
the average i hear is $ 8,000 to $ 12,000 .
and somehow they come up with that money .
so far this year , her team has not found the body of anyone of syrian descent .
but we know it s happening .
we know they re trying to cross our border , dr. stern says.now many lawmakers are calling for tougher border security laws .
i think the concern with syria is : are these folks connected to isis ?
rep. will hurd ( r tx ) says .
his district includes almost all of texas long border with mexico .
i spent 9 years as an undercover officer in the cia , rep. hurd says .
i was chasing al qaeda in pakistan and afghanistan .
i ve been on some pretty nasty borders in my career so i know something about stopping bad guys .
he calls the terrorist attacks against the french and russians warnings , and now america must decide how to handle syrians at our border before it s too late .
the house passed legislation and the senate s picking up saying if we re not able to figure out who these people are , we shouldn t let them in the country , rep. hurd says .
it s balancing compassion with security .
if border towns are the first line of defense , checkpoints are the last .
they re about an hour or so north , in rural areas that are always on high alert .
we encounter people from different nationalities , hector moreno with the u.s. border patrol says .
agents at the checkpoint in falfurrias are known for busting the most undocumented workers and drug runners .
but for every person they catch , dozens more trek through the thick south texas brush to avoid detection .
so border patrol has added a new tool to its arsenal : rescue beacons , strategically placed on vast ranches that are hotbeds of smuggling activity .
the beacons are tall , red towers .
at the base is a button people can push if they need emergency or medical help and want to turn themselves in to border patrol .
it comes in spanish and in mandarin.at one time there was an influx of that nationality in these parts of the area , moreno says .
the beacons are more evidence of the worldwide web of immigration .
but ranchers in the rio grande valley says when it comes to this latest threat from syrians , the government isn t coming clean .
the border patrol do not tell us as ranchers what specific countries these special interest countries these people come from , rancher dr. mike vickers says .
and we have a problem with that .
why is washington keeping it a big secret ?
using their pack of dogs as protection , dr. vickers and his wife linda encounter immigrants undeterred by electric fences and barbed wire .
they ve personally caught hundreds of people trying to skirt the checkpoint .
whether they re an illegal alien from mexico or from syria it is my duty to find them on my property and report them to border patrol .
no exceptions , linda vickers says .
one time , something was left behind that dr. vickers says proves people from the middle east have been crossing the border illegally for years now .
as he came over the fence , this fell out of his pocket , dr. vickers says while holding up a dusty book .
and we were right there watching the whole show .
it s an urdu dictionary found two years ago .
this is where urdu is spoken , dr. vickers says while pointing at a map inside the book .
pakistan , afghanistan , india , iran .
flip through the dictionary and you ll find key phrases are circled .
you must pay in dollars , dr. vickers reads .
all of these phrases were circled so this is obviously a dictionary the coyote was using to communicate with the people .
the old discovery is giving way to new concerns as syrian refugees make their way west .
mexico s taking them but they re not going to stay in mexico , linda vickers says .
they re going to head up here .
i think that s a given .
read more : news 4 san antonio