tunis ( reuters ) - tunisia s parliament gave prime minister youssef chahed s new government a vote of confidence on monday after the premier detailed plans to halve the budget deficit and trim the public wage bill in the next three years as part of a reform package .
chahed last week named a new cabinet after weeks of wrangling between the ruling nidaa tounes party and rival islamist party ennahda over posts that had delayed progress on a reform program backed by the international monetary fund .
lawmakers voted late on monday to approve the new cabinet , giving chahed support to push on with austerity measures .
we hope this will be the government that gives tunisians back some hope , parliament assembly president mohamed naceur said after the vote .
tunisia has been praised for its democratic progress after the 2011 uprising against autocrat zine el-abidine ben ali , but successive governments have failed to advance in economic reforms to trim deficits and create jobs and growth .
chahed earlier said his government needed consensus backing to push ahead with reforms by 2020 that he hopes will revive tunisia s economy , which has been hit by unrest after the 2011 revolt and by militant attacks on the tourism industry .
we are preparing an economic plan to relaunch and salvage the tunisian economy , he told parliament five days after naming a cabinet that includes a new minister in charge of economic reforms .
this is needed to balance our finances .
chahed said the government aimed to reduce the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from 6 percent expected this year .
he said growth was expected to hit 5 percent that year ; in the first half of this year , the economy expanded by 1.9 percent .
backed by the international monetary fund , the north african country is looking to reduce subsidies , overhaul its pension system and shrink its large public sector .
but worries over social unrest have kept authorities from advancing with reforms .
chahed said the government planned to reduce the public wage bill to around 12.5 percent of gdp from the current 14 percent - one of the highest ratios in the world .
in an effort to boost foreign currency reserves , he said the government would also loosen currency controls to allow tunisians to hold foreign currency accounts locally and introduce an amnesty for illicit foreign currency trade .