atlanta ( reuters ) - georgia governor nathan deal said on monday he will veto a so-called religious freedom bill passed by the state legislature that has drawn national criticism for discriminating against same-sex couples .
the measure , which states that no pastor can be forced to perform a same-sex wedding , was recently passed by the republican-controlled legislature .
under the bill , faith-based groups could not be forced to hire or retain an employee whose beliefs run counter to the organization ’ s , while churches and religious schools would have the right to reject holding events for people or groups to whom they object .
deal , a republican , said he could not support the legislation , which had drawn wide criticism from corporations and had triggered threats of a state boycott by the entertainment industry .
deal said he was not bullied into his decision but felt a law was not necessary .
“ i do not think that we have to discriminate against anyone to protect the faith-based community in georgia , ” deal said at news conference on the legislation , noting his religious faith .
similar bills in states such as indiana and arkansas sparked storms of criticism last year , forcing many lawmakers to retreat , and north carolina is currently seeing protest over a new law that bars transgender people from choosing bathrooms consistent with their gender identity .
deal ’ s decision was immediately celebrated by gay rights advocates , including the national human rights campaign .
“ our message to governor nathan deal was loud and clear : this deplorable legislation was bad for his constituents , bad for business , and bad for georgia ’ s future , ” hrc president chad griffin said in a statement .
he added that deal had “ set an example for other elected officials to follow. ” mike griffin , spokesman for the georgia baptist convention , which lobbied for the bill , said his group ’ s 1.3 million members will continue fighting for it .
“ all we wanted was protection from government overreach , ” he said , noting his disappointment in deal , a two-term governor .
“ we feel that he ’ s let down the people of faith and all of georgia by not signing the bill. ” critics of the legislation included marquee hollywood stars , such as anne hathaway and julianne moore , as well as movie and tv studios 21st century fox , nbc universal , time warner , walt disney , amc , viacom and marvel entertainment .
more than 300 large corporations and small businesses , including delta airlines and coca cola also came out against it .
“ georgia is a welcoming state , ” deal said .