nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s chief prosecutor has directed the department of criminal investigations and the anti-corruption commission to investigate election board officials over possible offences in the invalidated aug. 8 presidential vote , he said in a letter .
keriako tobiko , the director of public prosecutions , also asked the two agencies to examine allegations that two senior opposition officials gained illegal access to servers of the election commission as the poll results were being tallied .
the supreme court annulled the re-election of president uhuru kenyatta on sept. 1 , citing irregularities and illegalities in the transmission of results , and ordered a repeat election within 60 days .
in its detailed ruling last wednesday , the court said it had not found evidence of individual culpability among election board officials , adding the failings were institutional .
tobiko said in the letter seen by reuters on sunday that the court not finding individual culpability did not stop him from carrying out an investigation .
opposition leader raila odinga , who petitioned against kenyatta s win , has said he will not participate in the re-run scheduled for oct. 26 if officials at the election board are not sacked and prosecuted .
the election board got the backing of africa s intergovernmental authority on development ( igad ) .
the group , whose observation mission gave last month s poll a clean bill of health , said it was confident the board could manage a repeat the election well , warning against attempts to prevent it from carrying out its mandate .
sabotaging iebc ( election board ) or boycotting the elections will put kenya in a constitutional crisis and likely on a path to unconstitutional change of government , igad said in a statement published in local newspapers .
tobiko ordered that 11 officials at the board , including its chief executive and a commissioner , be investigated over possible crimes and a report sent to him within 21 days .
he also ordered that odinga s lead lawyer in the petition , james orengo , and musalia mudavadi , one of odinga s top campaigners , be investigated for allegations of illegally accessing the election board s servers and threatening kenyatta s chief agent during last month s vote .
on sunday , the local standard newspaper reported that kenyatta s legal team was preparing to lodge an application for a judicial review of the ruling that overturned his win .
citing a top official of kenyatta s jubilee party , the paper said the move was informed by details contained in two dissenting opinions from the six judge bench that heard the case .
kenyatta s team will seek a recount of the ballots since the court , in the majority of four ruling , annulled the vote on a basis other than a dispute over the number of votes each candidate got , the standard reported .
jubilee officials did not answer calls from reuters seeking immediate comment .