lima ( reuters ) - peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski has thwarted a bid in congress to force him out over a graft scandal , as an opposition lawmaker accused him of securing votes by promising to free ex-president alberto fujimori from jail .
before thursday evening s vote on a motion to push him out , kuczynski urged lawmakers to set aside unproven allegations of graft against him to defend peru from what he called a coup attempt by the right-wing popular force party .
popular force emerged from the populist movement started in the 1990s by fujimori , who is now serving a 25-year sentence for corruption and human rights crimes .
kuczynski s government had denied that a pardon would be part of a political negotiation .
but popular force lawmaker cecilia chacon told reporters that the government had promised a faction of her party that fujimori would be pardoned if it backed him .
the bulk of popular force , led by fujimori s daughter keiko fujimori , sought to depose kuczynski as morally unfit to govern after discovering business ties he once had with a firm at the center of the region s biggest graft scandal .
but the party , which last week mustered 93 votes to begin proceedings , failed to secure the 87 needed to pass the motion , thanks to 10 popular force abstentions .
the vote capped a week of political turmoil in one of latin america s most stable and robust economies , also the world s second-biggest copper producer .
television images showed kuczynski , a 79-year-old former wall street banker , dancing a jig amid cheering supporters outside his home in lima s financial district .
tomorrow a new chapter in our history begins : the reconciliation and rebuilding of our country , he tweeted .
but kuczynski s political troubles might not be over .
popular force has vowed to continue to investigate deposits totaling $ 4.8 million that brazilian builder odebrecht made to consultant firms owned by kuczynski or a close business associate of his over a decade , starting in 2004 .
odebrecht has rocked latin american politics with its confession exactly a year ago that it bribed officials across the region , landing elites in jail from colombia to the dominican republic .
kuczynski once denied having any professional ties to the company , and has since said he was unaware of the transactions but that there was nothing improper about them .
kuczynski took office promising that his decades of experience in finance and public administration would help usher in an era of clean government and robust growth .
but his first 16 months in power have been marked by clashes in congress , where popular force has helped oust four ministers .
his triumph on thursday was the first clear sign that he might be able to exploit a family feud in popular force to defend his government from congress .
keiko fujimori faces competition from her younger brother kenji for leadership of their father s following .
hours before the vote , kenji threw his support behind kuczynski in a video , without specifying who else he spoke for , saying : we re going to prioritize making the president s administration stronger .
kenji has been more vocal than his sister in calling for a presidential pardon for their father .
alberto fujimori remains a divisive figure .
while some considered him a corrupt dictator , others credit him with ending an economic crisis and leftist rebellion in the 1990s .
congresswoman chacon , loyal to keiko , said the abstainers had been swayed by the government .
they ve spoken to several of them , offering to free president fujimori , she said .
let s see if they follow through with it .
after the vote , kenji shared a clip from the movie the lion king , saying only : the time has arrived .
many interpreted the post to mean a pardon was pending .
kuczynski s government did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
hours before the vote , prime minister mercedes araoz had denied that the government would trade a pardon for fujimori in exchange for votes .
that s not something that s negotiated , she told a news conference .
a justice ministry spokesman said alberto fujimori had sent kuczynski s presidential pardons committee a request last week to free him by reducing his prison sentence .
the person who filed the request was one of the popular force lawmakers loyal to kenji who cast an abstention .
prior to the political crisis , kuczynski said he would make a decision on a pardon for fujimori by the end of the year .