manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on monday invited the united nations human rights monitor to set up office in the country and join all anti-narcotic operations , amid growing public and global criticism of his bloody war on drugs .
i will personally through an official channel invite the human rights commission to set up a satellite office here , duterte told reporters after attending the wake of a slain policeman , referring to the office of the united nations high commissioner for human rights ( ohchr ) .
i will tell police station commanders , do not operate without a representative of the u.n. human rights commission and everybody must wear a camera so it will all be transparent .
the comments were a marked change from duterte s usual disdain for the united nations , which he once threatened to withdraw from after u.n. human rights experts and rapporteurs expressed concern about the huge death toll in his signature war on drugs .
thousands of people , mostly poor urban filipinos , have been killed since he took office in june 2016 .
the ohchr had no immediate comment on duterte s remarks .
duterte has also made a public debate with u.n. envoys a prerequisite for any visit or investigation related to the anti-drug campaign .
his outreach to the united nations comes as the philippine national police ( pnp ) comes under heavy criticism over the deaths in august of two teenagers .
police say they were killed in self defense , but activists and political opponents have said it was cold-blooded murder .
duterte and his allies were chided last week after lawmakers allied with duterte supported giving the philippines commission on human rights an annual budget of just 1,000 pesos ( $ 19.55 ) , which critics at home and abroad said would be tantamount to destroying a constitutional body .
the firebrand leader in a speech on saturday taunted chr head chito gascon by asking him if he was gay , or a pedophile , and if he was smitten with teenagers , referring to his comments about the latest incident .
duterte on monday said he had no plan to abolish the chr .
he also said the proposed 678 million peso budget would be used to buy body cameras for the pnp during anti-drug operations , to show transparency .
more than 3,800 people have been killed in police anti-drugs operations in the past 15 months and at least 2,100 other homicides were likely drug-related .
police reject allegations by human rights groups that they are executing suspected users and dealers .