madrid ( reuters ) - an election in catalonia will fail to conclusively resolve a political crisis over an independence drive in the region , the final surveys before the dec. 21 vote showed on friday .
the ballot will result in a hung parliament , a metroscopia poll showed , with parties favoring unity with spain tipped to gain a maximum of 62 seats and pro-secession factions 63 , both short of a majority in the region s 135-seat legislature .
spain s worst political crisis since its transition to democracy four decades ago erupted in october , when madrid cracked down on an independence referendum it had declared illegal and took control of the wealthy northeastern region .
the standoff has bitterly divided society , led to a business exodus and tarnished spain s rosy economic prospects , with the central bank on friday blaming events in catalonia for a cut in its growth forecasts for 2018 and 2019 .
both the metroscopia poll , published in el pais , and a second survey in another newspaper , la razon , predicted a record turnout for a catalan election .
but the vote looks likely to trigger weeks of haggling between different parties to try to form a government .
former catalan leader carles puigdemont is campaigning from brussels , where he moved shortly after he was fired by madrid following a unilateral declaration of independence by the region .
with friday the last day polls were permitted before the ballot , the el pais survey - which questioned 3,300 people in catalonia between dec. 4 and dec. 13 - showed his party winning 22 seats .
pro-unity party ciudadanos , which has backed the minority central government of mariano rajoy s people s party ( pp ) in parliamentary votes , will win most seats , closely followed by pro-independence erc .
but at a maximum of 36 for ciudadanos and 33 for erc , both fall far short of the 68 seats needed for a majority .
the survey s inconclusive split between pro-unity and pro-independence parties would leave the regional offshoot of left-wing party podemos , which supports unity but wants a referendum on independence , as potential kingmaker .
further muddying the waters , its leader xavier domenech favors a left-wing alliance across parties that both back and reject independence .
the la razon poll , which surveyed 1,000 catalans also between dec. 4 and dec. 13 , showed parties in favor of independence winning 66 seats and unity supporters 60 , leaving the catalan podemos arm with nine .