cucuta , colombia ( reuters ) - thousands of impoverished venezuelans are crossing the border to colombia every day to sell cheap basics , from oranges to candles , in a desperate attempt to earn hard currency amid their country s worsening economic collapse .
the porous roughly 2,220-kilometer ( 1,380-mile ) frontier for years has been rife with smuggling due to the massive differences in prices on either side due to controls imposed by venezuela s socialist government .
but in the past three months there has been a spike in venezuelans migrating to the border area and spending their days going door-to-door trying to sell low-cost goods in colombia .
hundreds of vendors are sleeping in the streets of the venezuelan border town of san antonio , while the surge in hawkers on the colombian side is stoking anger among local shopkeepers .
albert rodriguez , 22 , spends his nights on a plastic sheet in the streets of san antonio since moving from venezuela s inland agricultural state of lara a month ago .
he sells coffee in colombia , but still has not been able to send money home to help his newborn daughter .
it s tough because there are so many venezuelans .
i feel like crying because i am so impotent , said rodriguez , who said he hopes to eventually migrate to central colombia where he thinks job prospects will be better .
the flood of vendors is evidence of how a fourth year of recession - which has fomented malnutrition , disease and violent crime - is tearing venezuela s social fabric apart .
it also highlights that colombia , already home to the most venezuelan migrants in south america , remains particularly vulnerable to the crisis .
the colombian government did not respond to a request for comment .
come daybreak , venezuelan hawkers jostle for hours to get a spot on a bus traveling to the colombian border .
they then cross the teeming frontier on foot , many silently praying that the national guard will not demand payment to let them through with their goods .
once safely in cucuta , the vendors disperse on different buses that take them across the colombian border city .
in the low-income hillside neighborhood of la libertad , around a hundred venezuelans rang doorbells offering mayonnaise , insecticide , cereal boxes and more .
sales are often brisk .
prices are roughly half those in colombian stores due to venezuela s depreciated bolivar currency .
some worried colombian shopkeepers are demanding the border be closed to protect their businesses .
colombians also at times fret that the influx of venezuelan vendors could lead to crime .
marlon carrillo , a 21-year-old venezuelan who abandoned university studies to start selling fruit in colombia three months ago , said some locals slammed doors in his face out of fear .
it s hard to pay for the sins of others , said carrillo , who crisscrosses cucuta for eight hours a day selling the lemons , strawberries , bananas and pineapples he crams into his backpack .
i want to progress and study but i have to work .
i m not going to let my family die of hunger , said carrillo , who is supporting his three nephews after his sister died of bone marrow failure .