vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis launched a global roman catholic campaign on wednesday to improve the lot of immigrants and one of his top cardinals urged politicians to touch the hand of a migrant before trying to stereotype them .
the two-year share the journey campaign comes at a time of growing anti-immigrant sentiment in the united states and many european countries where far-right parties have made inroads .
on sunday the far-right , anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party surged to third place in a national election , tapping into public disquiet over the arrival of more than a million migrants in germany over the past two years .
the pope , who has made defense of migrants a major plank of his pontificate , launched the campaign in comments to tens of thousands of people in st. peter s square for his weekly audience , urging catholics around the world to be open , inclusive and welcoming .
italy s anti-immigrant northern league has vowed to clamp down on migration from developing countries if it takes power in a coalition government after next year s elections .
at a news conference at the vatican , cardinal luis antonio tagle of manila called for a culture of personal encounter where friendship supplants fear .
i would invite the leaders to meet a migrant , touch the hand of a migrant , smell a migrant , listen to their stories and you will see that they are like you and me , he said .
they are not really other .
they could be me .
they could be my brother , my sister , my parents , said tagle , whose grandfather left china for the philippines as a poor boy .
the two-year campaign of action and awareness is being spearheaded by caritas internationalis , the worldwide umbrella of catholic charities .
the campaign encourages local communities to facilitate encounters between migrants and those who fear or denigrate them in church halls and private homes .
look them in the eyes , listen to why they left their homes , how their journey s been , see the real people behind the numbers and scare stories , tagle said .
he urged politicians not to close the doors on people who might enrich your society .
in the united states , where president donald trump wants to build a wall along the border with mexico , his ex-chief strategist steve bannon - himself a catholic - got embroiled in a row with the u.s. catholic church this month when he said its bishops backed illegal immigrants in order to fill empty pews .
francis this month said he hoped trump would re-think his decision to end a program protecting undocumented immigrant children , saying it was important for young people to have roots .