chisinau ( reuters ) - moldova s prime minister pavel filip said on monday he was confident of meeting all the conditions to get funding next year under a 100-million-euro ( $ 117-million ) agreement with the european union .
a reduction in red tape and better fiscal governance had already improved public finances , allowing it to get by without the eu cash this year , he told reuters .
the european union agreed in june to provide 60 million euros in loans and 40 million euros of grants in 2017-18 to help the former soviet republic to stabilize its economy and promote reform .
one condition for receiving it was respect for democratic process and the rule of law , the eu added .
moldova this year introduced a new electoral law that the venice commission , a pan-european rights body , said could make the system more susceptible to undue influence by vested interests .
last week filip said moldova would receive no tranches this year , but he was more upbeat on 2018 in emailed comments to reuters on monday .
the eu has a serious partner in chisinau and we are eager for eu financing in 2018 - we are confident all conditions will be met , he said .
what is important for us and our citizens is predictability , including on the eu flank .
it s important not to see the mfa ( macro-financial assistance ) captive to political bickering at home or abroad .
moldova s economy grew 4.1 percent last year , recovering from a contraction of 0.4 percent in 2015 that was due in part to a russian economic crisis that hit exports and remittances from moldovans working there .
moldova is hopeful that funding will be available next year , while in the meantime , we signaled the obvious : that moldova is in better shape and can settle its accounts for this year , filip said .
europe s poorest country was rocked by a scandal in which the equivalent of an eighth of its gross domestic product was stolen from three of its largest banks between 2012 and 2014 .
the world bank and the international monetary fund have forecast moldova will grow 4-4.5 percent this year .