chicago ( reuters ) - home improvement retailers home depot inc and lowe s inc said on wednesday they have started shipping emergency material to florida in anticipation of hurricane irma , even as they continue recovery efforts after hurricane harvey in texas .
irma , which hit the caribbean island of st. martin on wednesday , is expected to make landfall in florida during the weekend but its precise trajectory remained uncertain .
irma could become the second powerful storm to thrash the u.s. mainland after harvey killed more than 60 people and caused as much as $ 180 billion in damage after hitting texas late last month .
this is unusual because we are now juggling two different storms in two different phases .
one is approaching while the other market is in the recovery phase , home depot spokesman matthew harrigan told reuters .
home depot is following the same script preparing for irma as it did for harvey .
the retailer s merchandising and supply chain teams have previously dealt with different weather-related disasters at once , harrigan said without giving specific examples .
before harvey hit texas , the world s largest hardware and home improvement chain activated its disaster-response plan , asked managers to freeze prices in stores around the region and move storm related merchandise to the front of the store .
it followed a plan honed over many hurricane seasons to minimize disruptions , deliver essential material to affected areas and capitalize on a surge in demand for products once repairs begin .
home depot said it takes up to two months to open stores that are hit hard by a hurricane .
stores that are minimally impacted are usually opened within a few days .
both home depot and lowe s had activated a hurricane command center during harvey that is now continuing to monitor the path of irma and mobilizing resources such as supplies .
home depot said it has despatched 300 truckloads to florida so far .
rival lowe s said it has sent 400 truckloads of hurricane prep material including flashlights , batteries and weather radios to florida .
analysts have said investments in logistics and supply chain by home improvement chains during a weather-related disaster typically brings about 10 to 15 times more in sales .
shares of both home depot and lowe s traded up nearly 2 percent on wednesday morning .