brussels ( reuters ) - the use of armed soldiers to patrol alongside pavement cafes and selfie-snapping tourists in european cities since jihadi attacks risks compromising deployments overseas , military leaders say .
belgium and major military power france , both active in eu and nato missions , have cut back training to free up troops and nato planners fear that over time armies may get better at guarding railway stations and airports than fighting wars .
some of the more than 15,000 soldiers serving at home in europe say tramping the streets is a far cry from the foreign adventures they signed up for and that they feel powerless to defend against militants .
we are standing around like flowers pots , just waiting to be smashed , said an officer just returned from afghanistan for guard duty in belgium , which , like france , has more troops deployed at home than in any single mission abroad .
security personnel have been targeted in both countries but patrols begun as a temporary measure after islamic state attacks in 2015 have become permanent fixtures as opinion polls show that people are reassured by soldiers on show at home .
italy has had soldiers on the streets since 2008 , britain used them briefly this year and , along with spain , is prepared for deployments if threat levels rise .
despite their painful history , germany and austria have debated having military patrols at home for the first time since world war two .
across europe , political debate is shifting from whether , to how to adapt the armed forces to a homeland role , a concern for military leaders eyeing budgets , morale and training .
france s former military chief , who quit in july , said it had overstretched the army , while the head of belgium s land forces told reuters the domestic deployment was taking its toll .
i see a lot of people who leave our defense forces because of the operation , general marc thys , the commander of belgium s land forces , said in an interview , without giving numbers .
not everyone agrees .
a defense ministry source in italy said its domestic patrols had absolutely no impact on overseas missions or on training .
but some in nato worry protracted domestic operations will make key members of the 29-strong transatlantic alliance less ready to deploy to afghanistan or eastern european borders with russia .
it is popular with the public , it is cheaper than the police , a senior nato source said .
but if the requirement came to send a lot of forces to reinforce our eastern allies ... would the government be willing to pull its soldiers off the street to do that , could it ?
the challenge of battling islamic state at home and abroad , squeezes resources just as nato leaders seek to show u.s. president donald trump they are reliable allies , after he repeatedly questioned the alliance s worth .
given the homeland operations , some military sources and experts say politicians face a tough choice : to expand the army , summon up reserves or create a new domestic security force - a halfway between the police and military - to replace them as belgium has chosen to do over the coming years .
it mobilizes so many people that we are having trouble deploying people abroad for u.n. and eu missions , said a second nato source .
the operations put 10,000 heavily armed combat troops on the streets in france and 1,800 in belgium after islamic state attacks in early 2015 .
the numbers are down to 7,000 and 1,200 respectively , but they still tie up roughly a tenth of deployable army personnel in each nation .
they can also be bad for morale .
the mix of schools , offices and warehouse hastily converted into barracks in belgium are worse than afghanistan , said a soldier , showing pictures of cramped rooms piled high with gear .
some 45 percent of soldiers surveyed by the belgian military in december said they were thinking of quitting - many to the police - as being away had strained families and led to divorce .
a source in the french military , which has not made polling public , said of its street patrols , known as operation sentinelle : sentinelle is a burden whose impact on soldiers morale we ve never denied .
for now , thys said the belgian armed forces are not pulling back from foreign missions but have less time for training .
we take everything into account , our homeland operation and our international missions .
if you go up on one side , we have to go down on the other side , thys told reuters .
in france , training days were cut from 90 to 59 days last year , according to a defense ministry report in october .
a decline of some 30 percent began with the deployment on home soil , experts say .
the longer they do it , the less sharp as a military they are , said general sir richard barrons , britain s former military chief .
but once you are committed to this it takes a very brave politician to turn it off .
the new head of france s armed forces , which has thousands of troops abroad fighting islamist militants in the sahel , iraq , syria and elsewhere , says something has to give .
we have to choose how to adjust our commitments , to give us back some flexibility , because who knows where the french army will have to deploy in a year , general francois lecointre was cited by local media as saying earlier this month .
president emmanuel macron has announced a strategic review of the street patrols .
his new armed forces minister , florence parly , said on tuesday they would not be cut but would be made more flexible .
in italy , where up to 7,000 soldiers help police , a defense ministry source said they were moved around often to keep them from being bored - an approach that france and belgium will both now put into play .
italy has escaped militant attacks so far and troops elsewhere have disarmed or killed would-be attackers - such as a knife-wielding assailant outside the eiffel tower last month and a suitcase bomber in brussels in june .
but their effectiveness is hard to quantify , and attacks on men in uniform like that in paris last month - with its familiar pattern of a car plowing into its victims - has renewed fears they may draw fire or shoot in error .
in france , three in four voters approve of street patrols , although nearly 40 percent doubt they are effective in combating terrorism .
in belgium , support for the military is 80 percent , up from 20 percent before the mission .
it s a pr operation : nothing more , said wally struys , a professor emeritus at belgium royal military academy .
but belgium s thys and others see no end to the operations , which give the military an extra argument against years of declining budgets .
they are part of the landscape now , said saad amrani , chief commissioner and policy adviser of the belgian federal police .
we depend on them .