madrid ( reuters ) - secessionist leaders in catalonia may call a snap election in an attempt to break the deadlock with madrid over independence , a senior local politician said on tuesday , but spanish authorities made clear that would not be enough .
spain says it will impose direct rule on catalonia from friday to prevent an illegal push for independence , invoking unprecedented powers to dismiss the regional government .
madrid said an election would not change those plans .
the catalan parliament meets on thursday to agree on a response to madrid , and many analysts believe the economically powerful region could formally declare independence .
secessionists in catalonia say their independence referendum on oct. 1 - which attracted a 43 percent turnout and was mostly boycotted by those catalans who want to remain in spain - has given them a mandate for statehood .
catalonia said on monday it was confident that its officials , including the police , would defy attempts by madrid to enforce direct rule .
spanish political and business leaders , along with most catalonian newspapers , have urged catalan president carles puigdemont to call a regional election before he is stripped of his authority .
they say direct rule from madrid would be a humiliation for catalonia and pose a serious risk of unrest .
puigdemont has so far remained silent on the matter of an election but an ally of his pro-independence government said he was actively considering this option .
we have evidence this is currently on the table , carles riera , a catalan lawmaker for the anti-capitalist cup party , told a news conference .
calling an election would be a face-saving move for puigdemont as it could either strengthen his mandate if pro-independence parties won or allow him a graceful exit if they did not .
the spanish government said a snap election would be a first step but puigdemont would also have to withdraw an ambiguous declaration of independence he made earlier this month .
the government had moved to cancel catalonia s autonomous status because it believed there had been a serious failure by puigdemont to meet his obligations , justice minister rafael catala said in a radio interview .
everything is not fixed just by calling an election .
catala said that if puigdemont appeared before the spanish senate , it would help to resolve the crisis .
a top official in the senate said that if puigdemont decided to appear before the house , prime minister mariano rajoy would likely come to the chamber as well so that a proper debate could be organised between the two .
the senate said on tuesday it had invited puigdemont to appear before the chamber on thursday at 5 p.m ( 1500 gmt ) or friday at 10 a.m ( 0800 gmt ) .
the madrid government has so far refused to meet the catalan leader until he drops his call for independence and catala said any appearance by puigdemont had to be within a legal and constitutional framework .
if his appearance is within the constitution and the law we ll be delighted ...
but if it s just to ratify his position on catalonia s independence , sadly we will not be able to do anything else than continuing with the measures already set by the government , catala said .
the political uncertainty has taken its toll on spain s wealthiest region , with hundreds of companies moving their headquarters out of catalonia .
volkswagen s spanish unit seat , one of the biggest employers in the region , said it would move its registered office if it felt there was no longer legal security in catalonia , although it had so far not made a decision .
relocating the registered office would respond to the need to seek legal protection , and would make sense the moment we felt it was no longer afforded in the territory where we are located , seat executive committee chairman luca de meo said in a letter to the company s more than 14,000 employees in the region .