paris/washington ( reuters ) - the united states must step up its support for a planned african force to fight islamist militants in west africa or it could fail , leaving french troops to carry the burden alone , france s defense minister said on friday .
france intervened in mali to ward off an offensive by islamist militants that began in 2012 , and 4,000 of its troops remain in the region as part of operation barkhane where they work alongside 10,000 u.n. peacekeepers in mali .
france and west african countries are pushing for the creation of a regional force known as the g5 sahel .
washington provides bilateral assistance , intelligence and training for regional security operations .
but it is cool towards the african force and has pushed back against u.n. support for it .
president donald trump s administration has also come under intense scrutiny over its existing operations in west africa after an ambush in niger in early october saw four u.s. soldiers killed by jihadists , in what experts say appears to have been an intelligence failure .
in the sahel , france is deploying in a high-intensity environment , with tremendous support from the united states .
we are immensely grateful for that support , french defence minister florence parly said in a speech at a washington think tank monitored in paris .
but much more needs to be done .
we can t be , and don t want to be , the praetorian ( guards ) of sovereign african countries .
they must be made able to defeat terror on their own , she said during a visit for meetings with her american counterpart james mattis and white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster .
i would be happy if you could help spread the word in the beltway , she said in a reference to the u.s. government .
still , discussion in washington was focused more on what went wrong with the niger operation .
the deadly incident has become a political football in washington amid criticism of trump s handling of condolence messages to the families of the dead soldiers .
the u.s. military is investigating the incident , and the fbi said it was assisting as it has done in the past when american citizens are killed overseas .
hours after parly s visit to the pentagon , mattis visited capitol hill to meet senator john mccain , who threatened to issue a subpoena to get information about the ambush in niger after complaining about being kept in the dark .
after their talks , mattis acknowledged that we can always improve on communication , remarks echoed by mccain , the powerful chairman of the senate armed services committee .
we have had our problems and issues .
but i m proud to work with him , and i m proud of the work that he is doing , mccain said .
from initial accounts , the 40-member patrol , which included a dozen u.s. troops , came under attack by militants riding in a dozen vehicles and on about 20 motorcycles .
under heavy fire , u.s. troops called in french fighter jets for air support , but the firefight was at such close quarters that the planes could not engage and were instead left circling overhead .
french aircraft evacuated the wounded , but the body of one of the dead soldiers was recovered by nigerien soldiers only after two days .
the u.s. military s africa command issued a statement on friday explaining that the 800 u.s. military personnel in niger were on a mission supporting african forces .
the u.s. military does not have an active , direct combat mission in niger , it said .
long-term exit strategy ?
parly said the g5 sahel force was meant to bolster the security capacity of chad , niger , burkina faso , mali and mauritania , which are all former french colonies .
french officials see the success of the g5 sahel as a long-term exit strategy for paris .
for decades , france has mounted military operations in its former african colonies but in recent years it has looked to spread the cost .
until now the g5 force has only received a quarter of its estimated 423 million euro budget , according to a report by the u.n. secretary general , who said financing the operation would remain a significant challenge for several years .
it will start its first operations soon .
it needs support .
the u.n. wants to give support .
i hope everyone can become convinced that a robust u.n. assistance is necessary , parly said .
french defense officials say they expect the first g5 patrols to begin this month and hope that will provide momentum ahead of a donor conference in december .