new york ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe said on wednesday that countries need to unite to enforce sanctions and apply pressure on north korea to abandon its nuclear and missile programs .
now is not the time for dialogue .
now is the time to apply pressure , abe told a gathering of investors at the new york stock exchange , remarks he later reiterated in an address to the annual united nations general assembly .
on tuesday , u.s. president donald trump warned north korea in his speech to the u.n. that the united states would totally destroy the country if threatened .
in contrast , japan s asian rival china , and russia , have called repeatedly for a return to international diplomacy and talks with north korea to resolve the crisis over pyongyang s weapons programs .
we can t be satisfied that the u.n. has approved new sanctions against north korea , abe said .
what s crucial now is to put sanctions into effect without lapses and that requires close cooperation with china and russia .
in his u.n. speech , abe said north korean nuclear weapons either already were , or were on the verge of becoming , hydrogen bombs , presenting an unprecedented threat .
it is indisputably a matter of urgency , abe said .
we must prevent the goods , funds , people , and technology necessary for nuclear and missile development from heading to north korea , he said .
whether or not we can put an end to the provocations by north korea is dependent upon the solidarity of the international community .
there is not much time left .
abe said japan , a treaty ally of the united states , consistently supported the u.s. stance that all options are on the table in dealing with north korea .
on sept. 11 , the u.n. security council unanimously stepped up sanctions against north korea over its sixth and most powerful nuclear test , imposing a ban on the isolated nation s textile exports and capping imports of crude oil .
north korea fired a missile on friday that flew over hokkaido in northern japan and landed far out into the pacific ocean , according to japanese and south korean officials , further ratcheting up tensions in the region .
abe said diplomatic attempts to get north korea to abandon its nuclear aspirations have failed over two decades .
dialogue for the purpose of having dialogue is meaningless , abe said at the new york stock exchange .