our culture is what makes this nation great and very exceptional .
unfortunately , we ve elected a president who s changing our nation at warp speed with refugees ( their words ) deposited into towns everywhere : working and middle class whites are becoming a slave class that toils to provide benefits to the third worlders imported to empower the ruling class of elitist liberals .
the culture war we re inamericans believe that they are exceptional because their country is exceptional .
so the left eagerly swarms to argue that america is not exceptional , except maybe that it s exceptionally bad.americans believe that individuals succeed with hard work .
obama and elizabeth warren bray that you didn t build that .
americans believe in religion and family .
the left sets out to destroy them by proving that these institutions are evil and oppressive .
religious leaders are pedophiles .
the family is setting for abuse that makes gay people feel bad .
when the dust settlers , the only good religion and family are the kind defined by the left .
having destroyed the existing system of organization , the left replaces it with its own .
that is the ultimate goal of a culture war .
not mere destruction , but absolute power.the culture war begins by attacking abstract ideas .
then it attacks organizations .
then it attacks people.by attacking the ideas , it undermines the organizations based on them so that it can seize control of them or destroy them .
once that s done , it controls a sector of society and begins enforcing its conformity agenda on individuals .
much of that is underway .
the war is drilling down to the individual level .
we are approaching the tyranny threshold.at the individual level , the goal of the culture war is to destroy your will to resist them .
the left has many tools for doing this.please read the entire piece by daniel greenfield : this culture war we re inobama escalates cultural genocideit isn t enough to invite illegal aliens to invade the usa in their numberless hordes and then quickly distribute them along with their exotic diseases throughout the country .
obama is now using your money to fly them directly from central america , so as to save them the bother of traveling through mexico : to facilitate the often treacherous process of entering the united states illegally through the southern border , the obama administration is offering free transportation from three central american countries and a special refugee/parole program with resettlement assistance and permanent residency .
the new arrivals will be officially known as central american minors ( cam ) and they will be eligible for a special refugee/parole that offers a free one-way flight to the u.s. from el salvador , guatemala or honduras .
the project is a joint venture between the department of homeland security ( dhs ) and the state department.readers will recall that dhs was originally set up to defend the homeland .
under the orwellian obama regime , it is in charge of orchestrating an invasion of the homeland.after pearl harbor , some feared a japanese invasion .
it would have been preferable to what is happening to us now .
if the imperial japanese had successfully invaded , they would have ruled for a time , but eventually would have been kicked out .
the current invaders aren t going anywhere , and they reproduce much faster than americans.plus the japanese never expected us to pay them to invade us : the candidates will then be granted a special refugee parole , which includes many taxpayer-funded perks and benefits .
among them is a free education , food stamps , medical care and living expenses .
a state department official promoted cam as a family reunification program that will be completely funded by american taxpayers , though the official claimed to have no idea what the cost will be.who can put a price on the future ? the fig leaf of refugees being allowed into the country ahead of immigrants likely to make a positive contribution because their lives are supposedly in danger has been dropped.the state department official assured that applicants need not express or document a credible fear to qualify under cam because we want to make sure this program is open to as many people as possible .
consider this as part of the bigger picture of what is being done to america , and it goes beyond treason .
it is cultural genocide.our rulers know exactly what they are doing .
from the official federal propaganda outfit voice of america : america s demographics are changing like never before .
in less than 30 years , whites will no longer be the racial majority in the united states.on the large scale , race and culture are inseparable .
americans are effectively becoming a minority within our own country .
our own democracy will be used against us to relegate us to a permanent second class status ( as south africa demonstrates , whites being a minority hardly spares them from affirmative action ) .working and middle class whites are becoming a slave class that toils to provide benefits to the third worlders imported to empower the ruling class of elitist liberals .
eventually intermarriage will breed the last of our kind out of existence , as voa happily implies : in 1960 , multiracial marriages accounted for only 0.4 percent of all marriages in the united states .
by 2010 , that figure rose to 8.4 percent , with interracial couples accounting for 15 percent of all new marriages a trend that experts say will only continue.the voa piece was given the orwellian title , experts : coming demographic shift will strengthen us culture .
what they mean by this is that the deliberately engineered demographic shift will erase us culture , so that it can be replaced by a multicultural utopia preconceived by cultural marxists.it used to be genocide meant herding unwanted demographic sectors into gas chambers .
but that was crude and inefficient .
simply diluting us out of existence can be done without mess and incredibly , without resistance.via : moonbattery