naypyitaw ( reuters ) - a myanmar state-run newspaper on saturday corrected a report that a u.n. settlement program , un-habitat , had agreed to help build housing for people fleeing violence in the west of the country , where an army operation has displaced hundreds of thousands .
the development underscores tension between myanmar and the united nations , which in april criticized the government s previous plan to resettle rohingya muslims displaced by last year s violence in camp-like villages .
more than 600,000 have crossed to bangladesh since aug. 25 attacks by rohingya militants sparked an army crackdown .
the u.n. says killings , arson and rape carried out by troops and ethnic rakhine buddhist mobs since then amount to a campaign of ethnic cleansing against the rohingya .
the state-run global new light of myanmar ( gnlm ) newspaper said it had incorrectly stated that un-habitat had agreed with the union government to provide technical assistance in building housings for displaced people in northern rakhine .
union officials say that the issue is still under negotiation .
the gnlm regrets the error , said the newspaper .
in its report on thursday , the daily said un-habitat had agreed to provide technical assistance in housing the displaced and the agency would work closely with the authorities to implement the projects to be favorable to myanmar s social culture and administrative system .
but the u.n. told reuters in an email that no agreements had been reached so far after the agency s representatives attended a series of meetings with myanmar officials this week in its capital naypyitaw .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi has pledged that anyone sheltering in bangladesh who can prove they were myanmar residents can return , but it remains unclear whether those refugees would be allowed to return to their homes .
rohingya who return to myanmar are unlikely to be able to reclaim their land , and may find their crops have been harvested and sold by the government , according to myanmar officials and plans seen by reuters .
buddhist-majority myanmar in august suggested that u.n. agencies such as the world food programme have provided food to rohingya insurgents , adding to pressure on aid groups which had to suspend activities in rakhine and pull out most of their staff .
thousands of refugees have continued to arrive cross the naf river separating rakhine and bangladesh in recent days , even though myanmar says military operations ceased on sept. 5 .