the shocking revelations just keep on coming in this dnc it case .
the main stream media refuses to jump in on this hot story because it leads to damaging information against the democrats .
several muslim brotherhood connected people worked for the dnc and had access to the sensitive information from congress : it appears the it staffer had access to rep. pelosi s ipad : wikileaks has released the email below where it looks like imran has access to nancy pelosi s ipad !
pelosi is doing closed door meeting .
no staff or anyone allowed .
kaitlyn come to rayburn room and get her ipad for imran .
thanks.tracie and kate i will call kate .
conf in tracierosalyn kumar rep. wasserman schultzthe bottom line in this case is that red flags were everywhere so why hasn t anyone blown this case wide open ? some things stand out that should be looked at : awan smashed his hard drives in an effort to destroy them.awan and his relatives were paid large amounts of money ( $ 4 million ) over a decade but they declared bankruptcy in 2012.awan and his brothers are connected to the muslim brotherhooddebbie wasserman schultz threatened the capitol police by saying there would be consequences if they didn t give a computer back that was being kept as part of the investigation : fraud charge : awan is accused of attempting to defraud the congressional federal credit union by obtaining a $ 165,000 home equity loan for a rental property , which is against the credit union s policies since it is not the owner s primary residence .
those funds were then included as part of a wire transfer to two individuals in faisalabad , pakistan.awan s family had already fled the country with no intention of coming back : awan was arrested at dulles airport on monday evening before boarding a flight to lahore , pakistan .
his wife , hina alvi , has already left the country for pakistan along with their children .
federal agents do not believe alvi has any intention of returning to the u.s. , according to a court document .