prague ( reuters ) - czech president milos zeman said on sunday he would name andrej babis prime minister , but the tycoon leader of the anti-establishment ano party may struggle to find coalition partners despite his emphatic election win .
ano won 29.6 percent of the vote at the weekend s polls , nearly three times as much as its closest rival , but many parties expressed reluctance or rejected outright any coalition with it while babis fights off fraud charges .
zeman said the charges were not an obstacle for babis - the second richest czech who has been compared to other tycoons-turned-political leaders donald trump and silvio berlusconi - to become prime minister .
my aim is that when i appoint the prime minister , and that will be andrej babis , that there is certainty or at least high probability that this prime minister will be successful in a parliamentary vote of confidence , zeman said in a live interview on news website www.blesk.cz .
ano will control 78 seats in the 200-seat lower house so still needs partners from the other eight factions to form a majority , but babis s stance as an anti-establishment force has made it difficult to forge alliances .
opponents see babis , worth an estimated $ 4 billion , as a danger to democracy because of his commanding leadership style and business and media power that they fear could pose conflicts of interest .
police allege babis hid ownership of one of his firms a decade ago to receive a 2 million euro eu subsidy that was meant for small businesses .
he denies wrongdoing .
he moved his chemicals , food and media firms to a trust earlier this year when he held the job of finance minister , to meet conflict of interest legislation .
the center-right civic democrats , who came second in the election with 25 seats , said they would remain in opposition .
i have already ruled out talks with ano on taking part in a government or supporting a government , party chief petr fiala said on seznam.cz news website .
two small center-right parties , stan and top09 , also said they would not work with babis .
i can t legitimize him and create the appearance of normality , said jan farsky , election leader for stan .
democratic forces got trounced but they will not regain strength by cooperation with babis .
that would finish them off , he told reuters .
the center-left social democrats of outgoing prime minister bohuslav sobotka , who won just 7.3 percent of the vote , said they may enter talks with ano , their current coalition partner , but only if babis personally stays out of the cabinet .
the centrist christian democrats , the third current coalition partner , also made any potential support conditional on babis not being in the government .
the liberal pirate party , which came third in the election , also said babis s charges were obstacle to any cooperation .
babis has promised to stay out of the euro zone and pressure the european union to counter immigration , but also to keep the country firmly in the eu and nato .
but a refusal by mainstream parties to work with ano could lead babis to turn to the communists and the anti-eu , anti-immigration freedom and direct democracy party ( spd ) for political support .
spd chief tomio okamura said babis should stay out of the cabinet if he were to consider support .
his conditions for talks would be a tough stance against immigration , a ban on promoting islam and a referendum on leaving the european union , he said .
the make-up of the cabinet will influence the country s tone in the eu , but unlike poland s leader jaroslaw kaczynski or hungary s viktor orban , babis does not share the anti-liberal stance that has driven warsaw and budapest into deep spats with western partners .
president zeman said he would meet babis on monday to discuss the next steps but suggested the formal appointment would happen later .
he said he would call the first session of the new parliament after the maximum 30 days allowed by the constitution , to provide time for coalition talks .