open borders ryan might be in for a shock when his gop competitor , businessman paul nehlen gives him a run for his money in what should have been a safe seat for him in november .
after the paris terrorist attack , house speaker paul ryan declared that the united states can not turn away the hundreds of thousands of islamist migrants now being approved for visas to enter the united states .
ryan declared that it is not appropriate to consider the religious attitudes of would-be migrants seeking admission.after the san bernardino terrorist attack , ryan echoed president obama in condemning what was described as donald trump s religious test .
however , a breitbart news investigation now reveals that while paul ryan wants no religious test for who gets admitted into america , ryan sends his children to a private school that uses a religious test in its admissions process.ryan sends his children to a catholic school connected to the parish where he was an altar boy as a child.breitbart news reached out to the school as a perspective applicant and obtained a copy of the school s 2015-2016 registration papers and tuition contract .
the document inquires specifically into the applicant s religious background in particular , it asks whether the applicant is a parishioner at the associated catholic parish .
the school recruits through the parish by offering a tuition discount to those who have been baptized and are members of the parish.the registration form defines what qualifies as a parishioner : a parishioner as defined for the purposes of this contract and the attached addendums is a person who : is officially registered at [ this ] catholic parish has had their children baptized ; fulfills the sunday mass obligation and other holy days of obligation ; offers consistent financial support ( whether weekly , monthly , quarterly , or annually ) through the church offertory envelopes or direct deposit for a minimum of $ 800 per calendar year ; volunteers service to the parish ; and participates in parish ministries when asked , or if they feel called to share their talent of time .
instead of doing an explicit ban on muslim students , ryan s school applies a religious tax on non-parishioner students thereby creating a two-tiered system for students and their families depending upon whether or not they are parishioners .
the registration form explains that the cost to educate a child at [ this ] school for the 2015-2016 school year is $ 4,673.00 .
the school charges non-parishioner families a rate that is higher than the cost of educating the child : for families who do not have at least one parent or guardian who is a parishioner , a minimum of 4,900 tuition per child will be expected .
by contrast , parishioners pay less than the cost to educate one child paying only a minimum of $ 1900.00 tuition per child plus an additional parish contribution of $ 800 i.e .
a total of $ 2,200 less per year than what is owed by non-parishioners .
parishioners even receive the recruitment incentive of free pre-kindergarten.by signing the contract , parents agree that the tuition they pay is considered an investment in the catholic education of my child .
as the registration forms explain , the school exists for the express purpose of helping to foster catholic children : [ this ] school is a catholic school established and subsidized by the members of [ this ] parish , janesville , wisconsin for the purpose of assisting catholic parents in fulfilling the responsibility to raise their children in the catholic faith.therefore , as the school s website explains , the school primarily serves children of parish families and non-parishioner families are welcome as space allows .
while muslim students could presumably get into ryan s school , the school s reliance on the parish as a recruiting center and the above-cost tuition fees would , by definition , function as a mechanism for screening them out .
when breitbart news spoke to a school representative about the school s religious diversity , the representative said that no student currently enrolled wears a headscarf , even as paul ryan s migration policies increasingly introduce this new element into other families schools.moreover , in addition to the school s religious tax in the form of higher tuition for non-parishioner students , the school also requires a certain degree of assimilation from its non-catholic students : namely , if a non-catholic student is admitted , she must participate in the school s religious functions , which include regular faith-based courses.if the u.s. had an immigration policy that resembled the admission policy of speaker ryan s school i.e .
it recruited migrants from churches and synagogues overseas and offered discounted migration to people who attended churches and synagogues although a muslim migrant could theoretically get in , the effect would be to substantially reduce muslim migration and increase christian and jewish migration relative to it a policy which ryan finds reprehensible for the country , but ideal for his kids school.while ryan chooses to insulate his children in an academic environment that considers religion in its admissions process , he has been adamant that the american people are not entitled to be similarly selective about who comes into their country to live as their neighbors , receive their tax dollars , fill public university slots , demand affirmative action , or potentially radicalize against their own country.days ago , speaker ryan even announced that he could not yet support donald trump against hillary clinton , after trump became the presumptive gop nominee selected by republican voters .
several candidates lindsey graham , jeb bush , john kasich , and marco rubio all ran on ryan s platform and lost by immense margins .
similarly , mitt romney also ran on the ryan platform and lost in a landslide , as did eric cantor in his own congressional district.reports have previously noted that one of ryan s central disagreements with trump stems from trump s pledge to enact a temporary pause on muslim migration a policy speaker ryan publicly denounced even though , according to exit polling data , seven in ten gop wisconsin voters support trump s plan.trump s proposal is not what this party stands for .
and more importantly , it s not what this country stands for , ryan said in december.in the next eight months , the u.s. will issue more visas to muslim migrants than the number of gop voters in ryan s district.yet , not only does ryan oppose the temporary migration pause , he has pushed to expand muslim migration .
ryan has a two-decade long history to pushing to expand immigration rates and has championed legislation that expanded muslim migration .
last december , ryan ushered his omnibus spending bill through congress , which funded visa issuances for nearly 300,000 muslim migrants , temporary and permanent , over a 12-month time span.in an interview with sean hannity in november , ryan said that he does not support any kind of religious test for determining who is admitted entrance into the country even if the would-be migrants believe that women can t drive [ and ] can t be seen in public without a male relative .
i don t think a religious test is appropriate .
that s not who we are , ryan said .
i don t think it s the appropriate test .
however , as andrew mccarthy has previously explained , the u.s. law does , in fact , require a religious test when it comes to making considerations about visa issuances.ryan grounded his attack of trump s plan to pause the admission of muslim foreign citizens on the first amendment right of u.s. citizens .
freedom of religion is a fundamental constitutional principle .
it s a founding principle of this country , ryan said.however , as sen. jeff sessions has explained contrary to a previous declaration ryan has made the role of a u.s. lawmaker is to represent u.s. citizens , not foreign nationals living in foreign countries .
as such , sen .
sessions explains that our first amendment protections extend to u.s. citizens , and not to foreign would-be migrants all around the globe .
in his remarks arguing against an amendment offered by sen. patrick leahy and supported by senate democrats that would move towards creating a global right to migrate , sessions said : there are 7 billion people in the world .
choosing who can immigrate into the united states is , by definition , an exclusionary process .
the goal is to select immigrants for admission based on the benefits they provide to society in the united states , we have protections against discrimination by religion , age , disability , country of origin , etc .
we have freedom of association .
rights of due process .
now imagine extending these as part of our immigration system .
the logical extension of this concept results in a legal regime in which the united states can not deny an alien admission to the united states based upon age , health , skill , family criminal history , country of origin , and so forth if we say it is improper to consider religion , then that means it is improper for a consular official to even ask about a candidate s religious beliefs when trying to screen an applicant for entry .
it would mean that even asking questions of a fianc seeking a visa about his or her views on any religious matter say on the idea of pluralism vs. religious supremacy would be improper , because if it is improper to favor or disfavor a religion , it is improper to favor or disfavor any interpretation of a religion are we really prepared to disallow , in the consideration of tens of millions of applications for entry to the united states , any questions about religious views and attitudes ?
a u.s.-born citizen who subscribes to theocratic islam has a freedom of speech that allows him to give a sermon denouncing the u.s. constitution or demanding it be changed .
but [ by extending these protections to foreign nationals ] a foreign religious leader living overseas could demand a tourist visa to deliver that same sermon and claim religious discrimination if it is not approved.for entire story : breitbart news