washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump will urge president xi jinping to make good on his commitments to pressure north korea when he visits china next month , a senior white house official said on monday , stepping up a strategy to have beijing help rein in pyongyang .
isolating north korea further over its nuclear and ballistic missile tests is a key goal for trump on what will be his longest foreign trip to date .
trump will call on xi to fully implement u.n. security council resolutions against pyongyang and take other steps to pressure north korea .
china , north korea s sole major ally , accounts for more than 90 percent of trade with the isolated country .
china has said it will strictly enforce u.n. security council sanctions banning imports of coal , textiles and seafood , while cutting off oil shipments to the north .
but a senior white house official who briefed reporters ahead of trump s trip said china needs to do more to comply with two u.n. security council resolutions that were approved unanimously , including with china s support .
we would like to see china follow through on those commitments .
we would like to see china do things bilaterally as well that might even go beyond things that are mandated by those u.n. security council resolutions , the official said .
though china has been angered by north korea s repeated nuclear and missile tests and demanded they stop , beijing also sees the united states and south korea sharing responsibility for rising tensions because of military drills they carry out in the region .
south korea , the united states and japan started a two-day missile tracking drill on tuesday , south korea s military said in a statement , in preparation for any missile or nuclear threats from north korea .
the exercises will be held in waters off the coasts of south korea and japan , south korea s joint chiefs of staff said , with four aegis combat system-equipped ships from all three countries participating in the drill .
china s special envoy for the north korea nuclear issue , kong xuanyou , met his u.s. counterpart , joseph yun , in beijing on monday , china s foreign ministry said , where they had a deep exchange of views on the korean peninsula issue .
the ministry did not elaborate .
trump , who has threatened to totally destroy north korea , has frequently asked china to help rein in north korean leader kim jong un .
but this strategy has so far failed to stop pyongyang conducting nuclear bomb tests at an underground facility and firing ballistic missile tests into the pacific ocean over japan .
the threat from north korea has grown to a critical and imminent level and the united states , japan and south korea must address the matter , japanese defence minister itsunori onodera told his u.s. and south korean counterparts in talks on monday .
onodera s remarks underscored the deep concern in tokyo about north korean weapons tests as pyongyang seeks to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of reaching the united states .
the white house official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said trump is looking for a peaceful resolution of the north korea standoff .
asked by reporters whether an offer by former president jimmy carter to serve as a u.s. envoy to north korea would be accepted , the official said : there s nothing planned .
singapore prime minister lee hsien loong said on monday he outlined for trump his country s efforts to pressure north korea over its nuclear program but also advised the u.s. leader to use talks to help resolve the conflict .
there is no quick and easy solution .
pressure is necessary but so is dialogue .
the u.s. will need to work with others , including china , south korea and japan and russia to resolve the issue , he said .
with xi consolidating power in the wake of a communist party congress in beijing , trump believes the chinese president will have a greater authority to take steps against north korea , senior administration officials said last week .
trump s nov. 3-14 trip will include visits to japan , south korea , china , vietnam and the philippines .
trump will also be tough on trade during talks with xi as he seeks to reduce the u.s. trade deficit with china , the white house official said .
we have huge barriers that americans companies have to surmount to gain access to the chinese market .
the president is intent on rectifying that situation , the official said .
despite trump s fierce criticism of china s trade practices during the presidential campaign , he has mostly held off on any major trade action while his administration works with beijing on north korea .
china has insisted it is doing all it can , and some chinese diplomats say the trump administration has overestimated how much influence beijing has over its defiant neighbor .
even as china has shown signs of tightening enforcement of sanctions on north korea , it has stopped short of agreeing to u.s. demands for a fuel embargo and has urged the united states to negotiate with pyongyang .