islamabad ( reuters ) - when hardline pakistani islamists signed an agreement with the government on monday to end a crippling blockade of the nation s capital , the text of their deal concluded by thanking the army chief who it said had saved the nation from a big catastrophe .
the effusive praise for general qamar javed bajwa s role as mediator has triggered some concern among moderate politicians and criticism from a judge in islamabad , where 36 hours earlier the civilian government had called in the army to restore order after police clashed with the entrenched islamists .
seven people had been killed and nearly 200 wounded in an unsuccessful police-led operation to clear the islamist protesters , who accused a government minister of blasphemy .
instead of sending in troops , general bajwa requested a meeting with prime minister shahid khaqi abbasi on sunday .
the next day , the government capitulated and met most of the islamists demands , including the resignation of law minister zahid hamid , who stood down .
a high court judge issued an order on monday demanding the government explain why the military had helped negotiate the deal .
judge shaukat aziz siddiqui said the army appeared to be overstepping its constitutional role , which requires it to act in aid of civilian government when called upon to do so .
critics worry the military may be meddling in politics - always a concern in a country where the army has repeatedly seized power - rather than simply following the orders of the civilian administration .
the job of the military is to be subservient to the government s orders , said political analyst zahid hussain .
the military s role as facilitator has raised many questions .
a ruling party spokesman said the army and government had acted in consultation and said the army did not balk at government orders .
no evidence has emerged to contradict that account .
the military itself did not respond to repeated requests for comment .
zahid said he was resigning to take the country out of a crisis-like situation , according to state-run news channel ptv .
tehreek-e-labaik , a recently formed ultra-religious party that has made punishing blasphemy its main campaign rallying cry , had blocked main roads into islamabad for nearly three weeks , demanding law minister hamid s removal .
it blamed the minister for a tweak in the wording in an electoral law that changed a religious oath proclaiming mohammad the last prophet of islam to the words i believe , a change the party says amounts to blasphemy .
the government put the issue down to a clerical error and swiftly changed the language back .
insulting islam s prophet is punishable by death under pakistani law , and blasphemy accusations stir such emotions that they are almost impossible to defend against .
last week , the islamabad high court had ordered the government to remove the protesters , but not to use firearms .
a clearing operation on saturday quickly descended into chaos , with protesters armed with iron rods and stones battling police to a standstill and scores on each side hospitalized , after which the government called in the army .
in an order made at a follow-up hearing on monday , judge siddiqui said it appeared that the role assumed the top leadership of the army is besides the constitution and beyond its mandate .
the judge said it was alarming that major general faiz hameed had signed the agreement as a mediator .
hameed is a senior member of the powerful inter-services intelligence agency , in charge of counter-terrorism , two senior military officials confirmed .
ruling party official jan achakzai confirmed that prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi and army chief general bajwa had met on sunday , but said the process was consultative and it did not constitute the military questioning orders .
the army ... suggested the government resolve it through negotiations , achakzai said , adding that the government , after deliberations , directed the interior ministry to meet the protesters demands to avert further violence .
it was affecting the whole country , he said , adding the government had yielded in the larger interest of peace and maintaining law and order .
tehreek-e-labaik leader khadim hussain rizvi gave his account of the army s role in ending the stand-off at a news conference on monday .
so the general took personal interest and sent his team , saying we will become the guarantors , and have your demands fulfilled , rizvi said .
so we said , all right .
that is what we want .
the military s press department did not respond to questions about rizvi s account .
tensions between the military and the ruling party led by former prime minister nawaz sharif have occasionally broken out into the open .
sharif had last year rejected a plan put forward by the army to mainstream some hardline islamist groups into politics , government sources have previously told reuters , including a forerunner of tehreek-e-labaik .
the islamist party has denied it has any links to the army and the military declined at the time to comment on the report .