washington/phnom penh ( reuters ) - the united states said on wednesday it would restrict entry to people involved in the cambodian government s actions to undermine democracy , including the dissolution of the main opposition party and imprisonment of its leader .
the visa sanctions were the toughest steps by any western country since a crackdown on critics of prime minister hun sen ahead of an election next year in which the authoritarian leader seeks to extend more than three decades in power .
we call on the cambodian government to reverse course by reinstating the political opposition , releasing kem sokha , and allowing civil society and media to resume their constitutionally protected activities , the state department said in a statement .
the secretary of state will restrict entry into the united states of those individuals involved in undermining democracy in cambodia .
in certain circumstances , family members of those individuals will also be subject to visa restrictions , it added .
cambodia s supreme court dissolved the main opposition party , the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , last month at the government s request .
kem sokha was arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government with u.s. help .
he has rejected the accusation as a political ploy .
the dissolution of the cnrp has been condemned by some western countries as the most serious blow to democracy since an international peace deal and u.n.-run elections in the early 1990s ended decades of war and genocide .
cambodia s government condemned the visa restrictions announced by washington .
this statement shows that the united states is destroying democracy , government spokesman phay siphan told reuters , saying that the actions against the opposition had been legal and took place through the courts and parliament .
the cnrp are not politicians , they are rebels and terrorists , he said .
the united states said after the banning of the cnrp that the election will not be legitimate , free or fair , and withdrew an offer to help fund it .
the european union has raised the possibility of withdrawing trade preferences which are vital for the garment industry that accounted for well over 60 percent of cambodia s exports last year .
hun sen has dismissed western pressure and built closer ties to china , while opposing u.s. efforts to rally southeast asian countries to stand up to beijing s expanding power in the region .
earlier on wednesday , hun sen accused sam rainsy , who stepped down as cnrp leader earlier this year in a bid to forestall a ban on the party , of committing treason by inciting soldiers to defy orders .
hun sen said rainsy , who lives in exile in france , would face new legal action over the comments .