caracas/puerto ordaz , venezuela ( reuters ) - venezuela s opposition refused on wednesday to swear in newly-elected governors before a pro-government legislative superbody it deems unconstitutional , as a small protest broke out in southern bolivar state over fraud allegations .
the pro-government electoral council announced in the middle of the night that the ruling socialists had won the bolivar governorship , meaning president nicolas maduro s government took 18 of 23 states in sunday s vote .
polls had put the opposition far ahead , and anti-maduro politicians have alleged a litany of dirty tricks including switching electoral centers to dangerous areas at the eleventh hour and gross abuse of state resources .
however , they have failed to give evidence of ballot-tampering , and some opposition candidates have conceded they lost due to high abstention in their demoralized ranks .
still , the disparate opposition coalition said its five winning candidates would not be sworn in by the controversial legislative superbody known as the constituent assembly .
the governors-elect will only be sworn in as established in the constitution and the laws of the republic , the democratic unity coalition said in a statement on wednesday .
leftist maduro has previously said that governors not sworn in by the pro-government legislative body will not be allowed to take their posts in a country reeling from widespread food and medicine shortages , a collapsing currency and soaring inflation .
he described venezuela s electoral system as the world s most secure and slammed u.s. president donald trump and other foreign leaders who questioned the veracity of the vote .
bolivar became a flashpoint after the electoral council briefly showed the opposition winning on its web site sunday night before proclaiming the socialist party candidate as winner in the early hours of wednesday .
opposition candidate andres velasquez accused the electoral council of invalidating some ballots cast for him .
pockets of his supporters protested outside the electoral board s offices in state capital ciudad bolivar , with some clashes breaking out on monday and tuesday .
some 50 people rallied on wednesday , though the protest quickly fizzled .
i am going to demonstrate to the world that this electoral process is fraudulent , velasquez told local radio in bolivar , home to many of venezuela s gold and diamond mines .
however , nationwide protest like those that rocked venezuela for four months earlier this year are not expected , given fatigue and disappointment among demonstrators .
the perennially divided opposition is in disarray after sunday s election , with some leaders calling fraud and others conceding defeat , often in uncoordinated press statements .
sunday s election has left the socialists more confident of winning a presidential vote expected in late 2018 .