berlin ( reuters ) - following donald trump s decision to decertify the iran nuclear deal this month , shaken european capitals are asking themselves what the u.s. president will do next .
diplomats have sketched scenarios they fear could plunge transatlantic relations into crisis : a trade war , military conflict over north korea , or the collapse of a cold war-era arms treaty .
they wonder if their post-war alliance can survive if any of them come true .
since trump took office nine months ago , governments in berlin , paris and london have wavered between alarm at his rhetoric and a shaky sense that his worst instincts can be contained by the grown ups in his cabinet and pressure from allies .
but the iran decision , taken despite personal appeals from france s emmanuel macron , germany s angela merkel and britain s theresa may , has changed the calculus in europe , according to diplomats , politicians and analysts .
no longer is there an underlying confidence that europe can muddle through three more years of trump without fear of major , and possibly lasting , disruptions to the relationship .
nor is there faith that trump , when the stakes are high , will listen to what his advisers and partners tell him .
the anxiety is especially acute in germany , whose own identity is anchored in its relationship with the united states and whose reliance on washington , particularly in defense and security matters , runs deeper than that of france or britain .
there is a sense of desperation in berlin , a sense that trump does not know what is at stake , that he doesn t understand the historical factors that are at play here , said wolfgang ischinger , a former german ambassador to washington and chairman of the munich security conference .
the transatlantic relationship is all about trust .
in that sense , the iran decision takes us to a new level .
it is a breach of trust , he said .
trump s decision to decertify the iran deal will not necessarily kill it .
that depends on congress , which must now decide to impose new sanctions against tehran .
but the consensus in europe is that a landmark diplomatic achievement has been seriously undermined .
merkel alluded to the breakdown in trust back in may , when she said europe might not be able to rely on the united states and must take its fate into its own hands .
that came after a contentious g7 meeting in sicily at which trump ignored pleas from allies to stick with another multilateral agreement , the paris climate accord .
since then merkel , focused on an election and efforts to form a coalition , has said little about the transatlantic relationship or trump .
macron meanwhile , has done his best to charm the american president , inviting him to paris for bastille day celebrations and meeting him again at the united nations last month .
i don t despair of making him change his mind , macron said in new york of trump s stances on climate and iran .
in private however , european officials say they are worried that trump s rejection of the iran deal could be a harbinger of other disruptive salvos from washington .
one senior european diplomat said the next conflict would likely be over trade , describing trump s attempt to renegotiate the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) and his threats to abandon it as a litmus test .
european firms , especially german carmakers who produce in mexico and export to the united states , could be hit hard by a breakdown of nafta .
there are also fears that trump could carry out a threat to introduce steel import tariffs , which would hit european exporters as well as the chinese .
so far there has been a lot of bark and no bite from trump on trade , but that doesn t mean it will stay that way , said the european diplomat .
we have to be prepared for real protectionist measures .
any steps that penalize european firms directly or indirectly would create a downward spiral .
anti-americanism north korea is another area of concern .
thorsten benner , director of the global public policy institute in berlin , believes the reaction in europe to a military conflict on the korean peninsula could be as messy as the iraq war .
the european public could view washington as the aggressor in such a conflict .
this could fuel anti-american sentiment , making it difficult for european leaders to stand with trump and emboldening voices that are already calling for a break from washington no matter how unrealistic that looks in practice .
we have to wake up to the fact that we may be dealing with trump for some time , and that there may not be a correction when he leaves , one german diplomat told reuters .
it hasn t dawned on people here that this is existential and you have to react .
concerns about such sentiments led a group of a dozen germany-based foreign policy experts to issue a manifesto this month , entitled in spite of it all , america , which warned berlin against turning its back on washington because of trump .
former ambassador ischinger shares that view .
but he too is concerned the relationship could deteriorate further .
one of his biggest fears is a collapse of the inf treaty , a nuclear arms reduction pact signed by president ronald reagan and soviet leader mikhail gorbachev in 1987 .
washington and moscow accuse each other of violating the treaty and gorbachev himself warned this month that it was in peril .
should the inf unravel , ischinger believes the divisive 1980s debate about deploying nuclear weapons in europe could resurface with devastating consequences for transatlantic ties .
all hell could break loose , politically speaking , he said .
for generations of germans , ischinger says , the symbol of the transatlantic alliance has been u.s. presidents from john f. kennedy to reagan , and from bill clinton to barack obama .
i can no longer tell my children that they are part of this alliance with trump as president , he said .
it is rather sad .
i don t know how the loss of this symbol can be replaced .