( story refiles to add dropped word not , in paragraph 10 , in the september 7th story ) by simon lewis kutapalong , bangladesh ( reuters ) - the villagers said the soldiers came first , firing indiscriminately .
then came civilians , accompanying the soldiers , to loot and burn .
now in bangladesh , 20 muslims and hindus gave interviews in which they recounted how they were forced out of their village of kha maung seik in myanmar s rakhine state on aug. 25 .
the military brought some rakhine buddhists with them and torched the village , said kadil hussein , 55 .
all the muslims in our village , about 10,000 , fled .
some were killed by gunshots , the rest came here .
there s not a single person left .
hussein is staying with hundreds of other new arrivals at the kutapalong refugee settlement , already home to thousands of rohingya who fled earlier .
nearly 150,000 rohingya have arrived in bangladesh since aug. 25 , when insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army launched attacks on security forces in rakhine state .
reuters interviewed villagers from kha maung seik and neighboring hamlets , who described killings and the burning of homes in the military response to the insurgent attacks .
reuters has been unable to verify their accounts .
access to the area has been restricted since october , when the same insurgent group attacked police posts , killing nine .
myanmar says its forces are in a fight against terrorists .
state media has accused rohingya militants of burning villages and killing civilians of all religions .
myanmar does not recognize the 1.1 million rohingya as citizens , labeling them illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
the refugees from kha maung seik , and from numerous other villages across the north of rakhine state , say myanmar forces and ethnic rakhine buddhists are intent on forcing them out .
one refugee , body alom , 28 , said he hid in forest with thousands of others when the soldiers arrived .
he waited for hours before emerging to look for his family .
he says he saw corpses in paddy fields , and eventually found his mother and brother dead with gunshot wounds .
two other villagers said they saw bodies in the fields .
it wasn t safe , so i just left them , he said .
i had no chance to give them a burial .
a military official denied that buddhist civilians were working with authorities and instead accused muslims of attacking other communities .
the military arrived at the village later but did not find any bodies , said the military source , who declined to be identified as he is not authorized to speak to media .
another military source in the state capital , sittwe , said kha maung seik was in the conflict zone and clear information about what happened had yet to emerge .
the main village of kha maung seik was home to a mixed community , with rohingya muslims in the majority along with about 6,000 rakhine buddhists , hindus and others .
the village is known to the rohingya as foira bazar for its market of about 1,000 shops where everyone did business .
but relations have been strained for some time .
a government plan to grant hindus citizenship , violence in the state in 2012 and october , and an identity card scheme that the rohingya rejected as it implied they were foreign , all contributed to tension , the refugees said .
since october , more soldiers were posted near the village , with border police .
patrols went house-to-house arresting anyone suspected of having militant links , they said .
abu kalam , 31 , showed reuters welts on his back , arms and legs , and what he said were cigarette burns on his arms .
he said he was detained by the military last month , before the attacks , as he was working in his vegetable patch with a knife .
after october , the military told us not to have knives .
when they saw me using one they arrested me , he said , adding he was kept in a barracks for six days .
they regularly tortured me , asking are you connected with al-yaqin ?
, he said , using another name for the rebels .
villagers in kha maung seik say they heard shooting at 2 a.m. on aug. 25 .
a military source in maungdaw town and two muslim residents said militants attacked a police post near the village that night .
according to the military source , the rebels attacked with grenades then turned their attention to a hindu neighborhood .
four rohingya villagers separately gave reuters accounts of how , at about 5 a.m. , soldiers entered the village , firing indiscriminately .
thousands fled .
i was at the front of a big group running for cover , but i looked back and could see people at the back getting shot , said abul hussein , 28 .
later , grenades and mortar bombs were fired into the forest , according to hussein and three other villagers .
i saw a mortar hit a group of people .
some died on the spot , he said .
from the forest , residents watched military and civilians loot and burn houses .
civilians helped gather bodies , according to body alom and two other villagers .
they collected the bodies , searching for belongings , said body alom .
they took money , clothes , cows , everything .
then they burned the houses .
members of myanmar s small hindu community seem to have been caught in the middle .
the military source said some hindus from kha maung seik were unaccounted after the militant attack .
a group of hindu women refugees in kutapalong said they saw eight hindu men killed by buddhist rakhines after they refused to attack muslims .
they asked my husband to join them to kill rohingya but he refused , so they killed him , said anika bala , 15 .
six months pregnant , she said muslims helped her get to bangladesh .
after seeing their homes burned , kha maung seik s muslim leaders decided it was too dangerous to stay .
we thought we might be able to return and live with other types of people , said mohammed zubair , 30 , assistant to the village chairman .
but we realized that s not possible .
about 100 men decided to stay and fight , body alom said .
one said to me if i have to die , i will die here .