harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s new president , emmerson mnangagwa , on tuesday announced a three-month amnesty window for the return of public funds illegally stashed abroad by individuals and companies .
upon the expiry of the amnesty at end of february next year , the government will arrest and prosecute those who have failed to comply , mnangagwa said in a statement .
mnangagwa was sworn-in as president on friday and promised to tackle corruption , which had become endemic under former president robert mugabe s 37-year rule .
those affected are thus encouraged to take advantage of the three-month moratorium to return the illegally externalized funds and assets in order to avoid the pain and ignominy of being visited by the long arm of the law , mnangagwa said .
zimbabwe s new president is under pressure to deliver , especially on the economy , which is in the grip of severe foreign currency shortages that have seen banks failing to give cash to customers .
mnangagwa told heads of government ministries on tuesday that he was putting together a leaner government , which would see the merging of some departments to enhance efficiency .
critics say zimbabwe has a bloated civil service , which chews more than 90 percent of the national budget .
mnangagwa , however , said only workers of retirement age would be laid off .
he promised to rebuild the economy and improve the livelihoods of zimbabweans .
my government will have no tolerance for bureaucratic slothfulness , which is quick to brandish procedures as an excuse for stalling service delivery to citizens , investors and other stakeholders , mnangagwa said in a statement read to the government officials .
after recovering under a unity government between the ruling zanu-pf and the opposition between 2009 and 2012 , the southern african nation s economy has unraveled with the unemployment rate above 90 percent .
mnangagwa is expected to announce a cabinet this week , with all eyes on whether he breaks with the past and names a broad-based government or selects old guard figures from mugabe s era .
an official at parliament said mnangagwa had asked for curriculum vitaes of zanu-pf legislators on tuesday as he moves to put the new cabinet in place .
meanwhile , deputy parliament speaker mabel chinomona told the house that she had been informed by zanu-pf that the party had recalled five legislators from parliament , indicating the five had been dismissed as zanu-pf lawmakers .
the members , all linked to the g40 group that supported mugabe s wife grace , include former ministers savior kasukuwere , jonathan moyo and ignatius chombo , who is facing corruption charges in court .