one california resident commented : lots of illegals vote here in california .
crooked democrats run everything here and any illegal invader can go to the dmv and get a drivers license/id card which they can register to vote with.police , a few patriotic state bureaucrats , concerned real american citizens or anyone else are not even allowed to question citizenship of obvious illegal grifters because that is considered racist .
president trump s new doj needs to come in and bust some heads and work with some real journalists to break this story wide open .
jerry brown ( d ) and all california democrats should be arrested and brought up on federal voter fraud charges.somewhere between 38,000 and almost 2.8 million non-citizens voted in the 2008 elections , according to a study published in electoral studies journal in 2014.old dominion university professors jesse richman and david earnest , the study s co-authors , concluded that some non-citizens participate in u.s. elections , and that this participation has been large enough to change meaningful election outcomes including electoral college votes , and congressional elections .
in spite of substantial public controversy , very little reliable data exists concerning the frequency with which non-citizen immigrants participate in united states elections .
although such participation is a violation of election laws in most parts of the united states , enforcement depends principally on disclosure of citizenship status at the time of voter registration , richman and earnest note .
we find that some non-citizens participate in u.s. elections , and that this participation has been large enough to change meaningful election outcomes including electoral college votes , and congressional elections .
non-citizen votes likely gave senate democrats the pivotal 60th vote needed to overcome filibusters in order to pass health care reform and other obama administration priorities in the 111th congress , they continue.the authors later say that the number of non-citizen voters could range from just over 38,000 at the very minimum to nearly 2.8 million at the maximum .
richman and earnest s study has been contested by other social scientists and was the subject of a rebuttal article challenging their findings .
that study , led by harvard political scientist stephen ansolabehere , claimed instead that the likely percent of non-citizen voters in recent us elections is 0 .
the trump white house has faced criticism over president donald trump s belief that millions of illegal votes were cast in the 2016 presidential election .
trump has declined to offer any evidence to back up his claim .
the president does believe that , i think he s stated that before , and stated his concern of voter fraud and people voting illegally during the campaign and continues to maintain that belief based on studies and evidence people have brought to him .
press secretary sean spicer said on tuesday .
spicer did not cite any specific studies to back up trump s belief.the white house has not yet returned an email from the daily caller regarding whether or not richman and earnest s study was part of trump s belief that millions of illegal votes were cast in the 2016 election and if not what other studies make up the basis of trump s belief.read more : daily caller