jakarta ( reuters ) - the indonesian unit of freeport-mcmoran inc has reopened the main supply route to its huge copper mine in papua , the company said on monday , after the road was closed on sunday following a shooting incident in the area .
no one was reported injured when shots were fired at an escort vehicle traveling from the lowlands , but freeport canceled all convoys along the road on sunday afternoon while the security situation was assessed .
freeport indonesia spokesman riza pratama said the temporary closure has had no impact on production at the world s second-biggest copper mine .
the incident was the latest in a string of shootings near the mine since mid-august that have killed one police officer and wounded at least six others .
authorities have declared a state of emergency and stepped up security in the area around tembagapura village , about 10 km from the mine .
the separatist west papua national liberation army ( tpn-opm ) , a group linked to the free papua movement , has said it is at war with police , military and freeport .
it was not immediately clear if tpn-opm was behind sunday s shooting .
police in indonesia s eastern-most province on sunday said they would issue a notice to an armed criminal group that authorities say are occupying villages in mimika regency , where freeport s grasberg mine is located , and demand that rebels surrender their weapons and turn themselves in .
timika police chief victor mackbon said they were investigating reports that an employee of pt freeport had been kidnapped by an armed criminal group .
freeport spokesman pratama said he could not confirm the reports of a kidnapping .
he also said he could not confirm police reports that a freeport excavator had been used by the group to dig up a road to banti , one of the villages authorities said was occupied by the rebel group .
freeport is deeply concerned about the escalation of violence , pratama said , adding that the company was working with authorities to ensure the safety of its workers and the local community .
grasberg workers have become uneasy amid the security concerns , union representative tri puspital told reuters , urging police to handle the matter more carefully .
despite a long history of shooting incidents in the region , efforts to end the violence had been sporadic , and not effective , puspital said , but warned that a hard approach could further escalation .
part of the problem is a perception locally that most of the benefits from grasberg go to the political elite , he said .
about 200 officers were standing by to secure the area by force if necessary , police officials said .
papua has had a long-running , and sometimes violent , separatist movement since the province was incorporated into indonesia after a widely criticized 1969 u.n.-backed referendum .
foreign journalists have in the past required special permission to report in papua , and once there , have had security forces restrict their movement and work .
president joko widodo has pledged to make the region more accessible to foreign media by inviting reporters on government-sponsored trips , although coverage remains difficult .