ankara ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s hardened stance towards iran evoked a mixture of indifference and national pride among iranians on saturday but many were concerned about economic hardship should a multinational nuclear deal unravel .
in a major shift in u.s. foreign policy , trump said on friday he might ultimately terminate the 2015 agreement that lifted sanctions in return for tehran rolling back technologies with nuclear bomb-making potential .
[ nl2n1mo0dh ] who the hell is trump to threaten iran and iranians ?
of course we don t want economic hardship , but it does not mean we will be their puppet and do whatever they say , said housewife minou khosravani , 37 , a mother of two in the central city of yazd .
within minutes of trump s speech , iranian president hassan rouhani went live on state television , ruling out any renegotiation of the deal iran signed with major powers .
he also signaled iran would withdraw from the agreement if it failed to preserve tehran s interests .
tired of economic adversity during years of tough sanctions over iran s nuclear programme , many iranians still fervently back the decision by iran s clerical rulers to resist u.s. pressure .
i am not a regime supporter .
but i side with iran s rulers against trump and his illogical pressure on iran , said hairdresser ziba ghanbari , 42 , when contacted by reuters in the northern city of rasht .
iranians around the globe took to social media in anger .
former official mostafa tjzadeh , who spent seven years as a prisoner of conscience in iran , tweeted : one nation , one message : no to # trump .
we are in this together .
long on rhetoric , short on substance , tweeted niloofar ghadiri , a journalist in tehran .
iranian authorities say 15 percent of the country s workforce is unemployed .
many formal jobs pay a pittance , meaning the true figure of people without adequate work to support themselves is probably far higher .
lack of foreign investment , if more sanctions are imposed , will deepen the unemployment crisis .
currency exchange shops are refusing to sell u.s. dollars because of the uncertainty as the rial has lost value in the past days .
iranians fear new sanctions will also see the price of food , including rice , bread and dairy products , rise .
my worry is that the economy will go back to the sanctions era when we had difficulties to find essential food and even medicine .
i want my son to have a good life , said elementary school teacher gholamali part , 43 , in tehran .
to improve iran s economy , rouhani has rolled out the red carpet for global investors since sanctions were suspended .
but so far only a few major european investors have returned to iran s market , including planemaker airbus , french energy group total and germany s siemens .
others are deterred mainly by a separate raft of sanctions washington continues to impose in retaliation for what it calls tehran s support for terrorism and human rights abuses .
iran denies involvement in terrorism .
the nuclear deal was also signed by china , france , russia , britain , germany and the european union .
despite assurances by other signatories over their continued commitment , european companies could think twice about involvement in iran if the deal can not survive .
hossein , like millions of iranians who bore the brunt of the sanctions , has no high hopes .
we are going to be sanctioned again , said hossein , who declined to give his full name .
inflation has dropped to single digits since rouhani was first elected in 2013 , but he has failed to tackle high unemployment and the gap between rich and poor is widening .
the hardline daily kayhan , which campaigned against the deal during 18-months of the nuclear talks , wrote : trump keeps the nuclear pact : advantages for america , restrictions for us !
in a report headlined mr blunder s isolation , the moderate arman daily wrote : a rare unanimity supports iran in the world is the closest definition of the mood after trump s speech last night .
some iranians are indifferent .
i don t care .
will there be holidays if the deal fails ?
that is important because i can go on a holiday with my friends , said arjang bakhtiari , 19 , whose family owns factories in several cities .
trump s decision in effect leaves the fate of the deal up to the u.s. congress , which might try to modify it or bring back u.s. sanctions previously imposed on iran .
the failure of the deal could be politically tricky for rouhani , its chief architect , who has been criticized by the country s utmost power , supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , for the country s slow pace of economic recovery .
khamenei cautiously backed the deal , but has repeatedly expressed pessimism about the united states remaining committed to it .
the economic problems caused by the u.s. pressure could weaken rouhani s stance in iran s faction-ridden and complex establishment .