we recently reported about the deadly zika virus coming to america from central america .
today , the who organization is issuing a stern warning about the spread of this deadly virus in the americas .
us border agents warned us about the potentially deadly viruses illegal aliens were bringing across our borders over a year ago .
even cdc employees openly complained about being sick of dealing with the number of sick illegal aliens flowing across our borders .
the world health organization warned today it expects that the zika virus that has spread rapidly through the americas , particularly south america , to being spreading explosively throughout the americas .
one official it expects up to 4 million cases in the region in just the next year.the virus , which is spread by mosquitoes , affects mainly pregnant women , causing debilitating , sometimes deadly , brain damage to fetuses .
although there isn t a direct link , statistics are strong that children born from women who have the virus are more likely to suffer microcephaly , a neurological disorder that result in babies with unusually small heads .
many of the children also suffer guillain-barre syndrome , a rare autoimmune disorder that can lead to life-threatening paralysis.the level of concern is high , as is the level of uncertainty , who s director general dr. margaret chan said .
we need to get some answers quickly .
dr. chan called an emergency committee meeting monday in geneva , switzerland , to address the zika virus spread .
currently , there is no way to treat zika and authorities are concentrating their efforts on controlling the mosquito population .
via : oratvthe virus is transmitted by the bite of aedes aegypti mosquitos , which are found in all countries in the americas , including the u.s. , bar canada and mainland chile.reports that the disease can be transmitted by sex are unconfirmed by the world health organization or the u.s. centers for disease control and protection ( cdc ) .
it is unclear if the virus can be transmitted through human blood.aedes mosquitos also spread the more-common dengue fever and chikungunya .
zika symptoms are typically similar to these viruses , but milder , including fever and skin rash , usually accompanied by conjunctivitis and muscle or joint pain.the outbreak has led to reports of increased numbers of women in brazil giving birth to babies with microcephaly , a rare condition that causes the brain to develop abnormally in the womb and results in a very small head.in addition , there are reports of adult zika suffers subsequently developing guillain-barre syndrome , another rare but serious nervous system disorder that can cause muscle weakness , poor coordination and paralysis.no direct links between zika and guillain-barre syndrome have yet been established .
it is unclear if the virus can be transmitted from mother to child during pregnancy or birth , although this is can occur with both dengue and chikungunya.cases among travelers returning to mainland u.s. have already been reported and these instances were seen increasing by the cdc , which has warned that imported cases could cause the virus to spread in some areas of the country.the world health organization warned on tuesday that the outbreak would likely reach all countries and territories in the americas with aedes mosquitos.barbados bolivia brazil cape verde colombia dominican republic ecuador el salvador french guiana guatemala guadeloupe guyana haiti honduras martinique mexico panama paraguay puerto rico saint martin samoa suriname venezuela