lima ( reuters ) - brazilian builder odebrecht transferred $ 4.8 million to companies linked to peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski between 2004 and 2012 , some of which was paid to a company kuczynski controlled when he held senior government roles , according to a document the company sent to congress .
in a brief recorded message broadcast on local radio program rpp after lawmakers made the contents of the document public on wednesday , kuczynski denied wrongdoing but did not deny the transfers took place .
kuczynski s office declined further comment .
odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] declined to comment .
a source in the company who spoke on condition of anonymity said the document seen by reuters was authentic .
the transfers shown in the document contradicted kuczynski s previous denials about his ties to odebrecht and prompted some lawmakers in the opposition-controlled congress to call for his resignation .
odebrecht is at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal and has admitted to paying about $ 30 million in bribes to officials in peru over a decade , including during the 2001-2006 term of ex-president alejandro toledo , when kuczynski was finance minister and prime minister .
after odebrecht s public acknowledgement a year ago , kuczynski repeatedly denied ever taking money from odebrecht or having any professional connections to the company .
but on saturday kuczynski announced on a local radio program that he once worked as a financial adviser for an odebrecht project when he did not hold public office ; he did not mention the company that paid him .
according to the document sent to congress , odebrecht made seven transfers totaling about $ 780,000 to kuczynski s company westfield capital ltd between 2004 and 2007 , including about $ 60,000 when kuczynski worked in toledo s cabinet and the government awarded several contracts to odebrecht .
later , between 2008 and 2012 , odebrecht paid about $ 4 million to first capital inversiones y asesorias .
kuczynski has previously said that first capital belongs to his friend and chilean business partner , gerardo sepulveda .
kuczynski was the sole director of westfield capital , according to his sworn declaration on the presidency s website .
kuczynski has not appeared in public since his radio interview on saturday .
he said on rpp on wednesday that he had decided to heed congress repeated calls to explain any connections he had with odebrecht to an investigative committee .
i ve never favored any company .
i m willing to clarify everything that needs to be clarified before congress and prosecutors because i have nothing to hide , kuczynski said on rpp , without taking any questions from journalists .
a spokesman for popular force , the opposition party that holds a majority of seats in peru s single-chamber congress , slammed kuczynski .
the country , mr. kuczynski , is tired of your lies and doesn t want any more explanations .
the country hasn t just lost its trust in you , but in your government as well , daniel salaverry , the spokesman , told a news conference .
in a televised plenary session late on wednesday , hardline popular force lawmaker hector becerril called for kuczynski to resign , calling the transferred funds camouflaged bribes .
an independent lawmaker also called for kuczynski to step down .
a source in the attorney general s office said prosecutors investigating odebrecht in peru were probing kuczynski s relationship with the company but could not name him as a suspect until his term and presidential immunity end .
toledo , the former president under whom kuczynski worked , has been accused of taking a $ 20 million bribe from odebrecht in exchange for help in securing lucrative highway contracts .
toledo has denied the charges .
authorities in peru are seeking his extradition from the united states .