barcelona/madrid ( reuters ) - catalan president carles puigdemont is set to call a snap regional election , political allies said , a move that could help break a one-month deadlock between the madrid government and separatists seeking a split from spain .
the uncertainty remained high however as puigdemont who had announced he would deliver an address at 1.30 p.m. ( 1130 gmt ) , first delayed it by one hour and then canceled it , triggering speculation he could still change his mind .
several members of his pro-independence coalition said he would dissolve the regional parliament and call the vote .
the regional broadcaster said he would deliver a speech in the assembly at 5 p.m. , as had initially been planned .
barcelona-based la vanguardia said he would call the vote for dec. 20 and was taking the decision in a bid to persuade the government of prime minister mariano rajoy not to enforce direct rule in the region , which he might do as soon as friday .
the catalan secessionist drive is spain s worst political crisis since the military dictatorship of francisco franco ended in 1975 .
it has fractured society and hundreds of companies have left the region .
it is also the most serious challenge to the integrity of a western european country since an independence referendum in scotland in 2014 , when voters in the end chose to stay part of the united kingdom .
european leaders fear it could spur secessionist ambitions in other parts of the continent .
but cracks appeared late on wednesday in the independence coalition as some members backed an election while others said there was no alternative to independence .
within minutes of thursday s developments , several pro-secession lawmakers and mayors announced they were stepping down .
i don t share the decision to call an election .
i am resigning as a lawmaker and a member of pdecat ( puigdemont s catalan democratic party ) , said jordi cuminal on twitter .
several hundred people also took to the streets and gathered on placa sant jaume , in front of the catalan government s headquarters in central barcelona .
puigdemont traitor , a big banner read .
far-left party cup , a key support for puigdemont s minority government , said it would oppose a vote .
until now , pro-independence supporters had one problem : the spanish state .
if elections are called , they will have two , it said on twitter .
demand for spanish debt and shares jumped when it emerged puigdemont could call an election .
spain s 10-year government bond yield - which moves inversely to price - fell 6 basis points to 1.58 percent on the news .
the stock index ibex rose 1.9 percent to a four-week high .
this news is positive for spain because it looks like puigdemont is looking for ways other than declaring independence , said ing strategist martin van vliet .
it sounds like he is calling these elections so that madrid does not have to invoke article 155 , that would allow central government to suspend the wealthy region s autonomy .
it is not yet clear whether rajoy will impose direct rule as planned or simply seek the senate s authorisation to do so but stop short of making it effective .
his government said earlier this week that calling a snap election would not be enough , and puigdemont would also have to withdraw an ambiguous declaration of independence he made on oct. 10 .
an election could either strengthen puigdemont s mandate if pro-independence parties won , or allow him a graceful exit if they did not .
an opinion poll published by the el periodico newspaper on sunday showed a snap election would probably have results similar to the last ballot , in 2015 , when a coalition of pro-independence parties formed a minority government .