karangasem , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesia kept the airport on bali closed on tuesday as ash from an erupting volcano swept the holiday island , leaving thousands of tourists stranded as authorities tried to persuade villagers living nearby to leave their homes .
a total of 443 flights , both domestic and international , were affected by the closure of the airport , about 60 km ( 37 miles ) from mount agung which is spewing smoke and ash high into the sky .
aircraft flight channels are covered with volcanic ash , the transport ministry said in a statement , citing aviation navigation authorities .
the airport - the second-biggest in indonesia - will be closed at least until 7 a.m. on wednesday ( 2300 gmt on tuesday ) , the ministry said .
frustration at the airport was starting to boil over , with an estimated 2,000 people attempting to get refunds and reschedule tickets .
there are thousands of people stranded here at the airport , said nitin sheth , a tourist from india .
they have to go to some other airport and they are trying to do that , but the government or authorities here are not helping .
others were more relaxed .
no , there s not a lot of information ... very little .
( but ) it s all right .
we re on holidays so it doesn t matter .
we don t know what s going to happen but we can get back to the bar and have another drink , said matthew radix from perth .
the airport operator said 201 international flights and 242 domestic ones had been hit .
ten alternative airports had been prepared for airlines to divert inbound flights , including in neighboring provinces , the operator said , adding it was helping people make alternative bookings and helping stranded travelers .
the airport on lombok island , to the east of bali , had reopened , authorities said , as wind blew ash westward , towards the southern coast of java island .
agung towers over eastern bali to a height of just over 3,000 meters ( 9,800 feet ) .
its last eruption in 1963 killed more than 1,000 people and razed several villages .
on tuesday , however , life went on largely as normal in surrounding villages , with residents offering prayers as the volcano sent huge billows of ash and smoke into the sky .
some villagers who fled in september , when the alert was last raised to the highest level , have gone home despite government warnings .
on monday , authorities said 100,000 residents living near the volcano had been ordered to get out of an 8-10 km ( 5-6 mile ) exclusion zone , warning a larger eruption was imminent .
while the population in the area has been estimated at anywhere between 63,000 and 140,000 , just over 29,000 people were registered at emergency centers , said sutopo purwo nugroho , a spokesman for the disaster mitigation agency .
not all people in the danger zone are prepared to take refuge , he said .
there are still a lot of residents staying in their homes .
indonesia s volcanology and geological disaster mitigation center has warned that an eruption of a size similar to that seen in 1963 could send rocks bigger than a fist flying a distance of up to 8 km ( 5 miles ) , and volcanic gas a distance of 10 km ( 6 miles ) within three minutes .
monitoring has shown the northeastern part of agung s peak had swollen in recent weeks indicating there is fairly strong pressure toward the surface , the center said .
for interactive package on agung eruptions , click : tmsnrt.rs/2hydhiq for graphic on the pacific ring of fire , click : tmsnrt.rs/2bjth6l