a move that would surely cause now deceased christian chick-fil-a founder , s. truett cathy to roll over in his grave in 2012 , the fast-food restaurant chick-fil-a came under intense criticism from homosexual groups and their supporters after ceo dan cathy said he was guilty as charged for supporting traditional marriage .
christians overwhelmingly gave their support , filling restaurants with new customers who turned out , not only for the food , but to make a statement .
that may all be about to change .
chick-fil-a is now listed as a sponsor for level ground , a faith-based lgbt film festival , reports christian news network a discovery that has sparked an online petition demanding the company clarify its corporate stance regarding previously stated christian values on marriage and stewardship .
according to level ground s website , the group creates safe space for dialogue about faith , gender , and sexuality through the arts .
the group s film festival started as a student-run event in 2013 .
it has since expanded and hosted programming in six cities across the u.s. , billing itself as the world s first film festival connecting lesbian , gay and transgender sexuality with faith and evangelical christianity .
baptist press reported participants in level ground s most recent film festival , held oct. 8-10 in nashville , tennessee , included former contemporary christian artist jennifer knapp , who came out as a lesbian in 2005 , and karen swallow prior , a liberty university english professor and research fellow for the ethics and religious liberty commission of the southern baptist convention .
gracepointe church , an evangelical church in franklin , tennessee , that came out in january in support of same-sex marriage was also a sponsor .
pryor tweeted her appreciation to chick-fil-a for its support in nashville : while the restaurant has had an outpost in new york university s food court with limited access and menu items for more than a decade , the new restaurant will be the first of two slated for the big apple .
the chain plans to open another location near rockefeller center at 46th street and 6th avenue .
the nation s eighth biggest chain by sales , chick-fil-a grew its sales 14.4 percent last year and its unit count 6.3 percent domestically , according to market research firm technomic .
this makes it the largest chicken chain in the country , beating out yum brands kfc unit .
in private hands since its founding in the early 1960s , chick-fil-a has expanded more quietly that publicly traded competitors like kfc or bojangles .
via : wnd