caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela said on tuesday it would start a criminal investigation into powerful former oil czar rafael ramirez , in an escalation of a purge of alleged corruption that has resulted in the arrest of dozens of oil executives .
president nicolas maduro and ramirez have long been rivals in the opec nation s ruling socialist party .
insiders say tensions between the two politicians have spiked in recent weeks after ramirez wrote articles criticizing the leftist leader s management of venezuela s tanking economy and crumbling oil industry , home to the world s largest crude reserves .
maduro , who is seeking to consolidate power ahead of next year s presidential election , last month stripped ramirez of his most recent job as venezuela s representative at the united nations in new york .
ramirez , a former oil minister and head of state oil company pdvsa [ pdvsa.ul ] , then left the united states for an undisclosed location last week .
on tuesday , state prosecutor tarek saab accused ramirez of being involved in the brokering of oil sales together with his cousin diego salazar , who was arrested this month in caracas .
in one of the documents that was found , the citizen diego salazar , who is rafael ramirez cousin , directly signals him , incriminates him directly as his direct partner , saab told journalists .
he did not provide evidence .
it was unclear what ramirez , who did not respond to a request for comment , would do next .
he has denied involvement in corruption , and recently told reuters that the government would make one of its worst political moves if investigators target him .
opposition critics say the recent spate of arrests is arbitrary and motivated by internal divisions in the government .
they insist that maduro has turned a blind eye to corruption when it was politically expedient to do so .
last year , the opposition-led congress said $ 11 billion went missing at pdvsa between 2004 and 2014 , when ramirez was in charge of the company .
prosecutor saab has refuted accusations that investigations are politically motivated .
he pointed to the arrests of some 67 oil managers , including two former executives who had both served as oil minister and pdvsa president , as proof of the seriousness of the probe .
last month , maduro appointed a national guard major general with no known significant experience of the oil industry to lead pdvsa , sparking fears by industry analysts that mismanagement would increase .