basra/baghdad , iraq ( reuters ) - worsening clashes among tribes and a political void is threatening security at oil installations in iraq s main southern oil producing region , officials and security sources said .
iraq has concentrated security forces in the north and west of the opec oil producer in the biggest campaign since the u.s.-led invasion in 2003 to retake territory lost to the sunni extremist group islamic state in 2014 .
that has created a void in the south , home to iraq s biggest oilfields , where fighting between rival shi ite muslim tribes over farmland , state construction contracts and land ownership has worsened in the past few weeks .
the surge in violence risks undermining government plans to lure new investment to the oil and gas sector it needs to revive an economy hit by a surge in security spending and destruction by islamic state .
stability in basra , the main southern city at the edge of the gulf , is of vital importance as a hub for oil exports accounting for over 95 percent of government revenues .
officials said tribal clashes had not affected oil output yet .
but this could change as recent fighting with mortars and machine guns had come close to the key west qurna oil phase 1 , west qurna phase 2 and majnoon oilfields north of basra city .
tribal feuds have been exacerbating recently and such a negative development could threaten the operations of the foreign energy companies , said ali shaddad , head of the oil and gas committee in basra s provincial council .
state-run south oil co. ( soc ) said the violence had started scaring oil workers and foreign contractors who in some cases had refused to move drilling rigs over security concerns .
tribal fighting near oilfields sites is definitely affecting the energy operations and sending a negative message to foreign oil firms , abdullah al-faris , a media manager at soc , said .
iraq s government has dispatched thousands of soldiers and policemen into basra which had been like the rest of the mainly shi ite south relatively peaceful since 2003 .
security force have tried to disarm tribesmen , which had seized large caches of light and heavy weapons from saddam hussein s army in the chaos following the 2003 invasion .
but security officials said forces were stretched as troops were preparing another offensive against islamic state , or daesh , in the north to retake hawija town .
strategically located east of the road from baghdad to mosul and near the kurdish-held oil region of kirkuk , hawija fell to islamic state in 2014 .
we need larger forces to control rural areas and restrain lawless tribes in the south , said army lieutenant colonel salah kareem who serves in a brigade that was based in basra before being moved to mosul .
this is a difficult job for now as most troops are busy with fighting daesh , he said .
the security challenges have been worsened by a political void after top local officials quit over graft charges .
basra s governor majid al-nasrawi stepped down last month and left for iran after iraq s anti-corruption body began investigating graft allegations against him .
in july the head of the provincial council , sabah al-bazoni , was arrested and sacked after the watchdog accused him of taking bribes and misuse of power .
graft has been a major concern in iraq but analysts say both men had also been caught in a political battle as parties from the country s shi ite majority were gearing up for national elections in april 2018 .
basra is seen as the ultimate prize given its oil wealth and investment potential .
bazoni , who belongs to former prime minister nuri al-maliki s state of law coalition , had been at odds with nasrawi from the shi ite islamic supreme council of iraq over managing the province and distributing contracts for basic services and rebuilding infrastructure in basra .
disagreements over how to award state contracts had escalated with each party publishing files alleging corruption against the other rivals , two basra politicians said on condition of anonymity .
for some political parties having the upper hand in basra is a key objective to expand their power , said baghdad-based analyst jasim al-bahadli , an expert on shi ite armed groups .
basra is forming the triangle of money , power and influence , he said .
two officials working with foreign oil companies operating in the south said the departure of top officials raised worries that the tribal clashes could get worse .
we need to see security challenges addressed to avoid working in a difficult operating environment , said one official working at a foreign oil firm in basra , asking not to be named .