new york ( reuters ) - donald trump has repeatedly called this year ’ s presidential election rigged and has coyly said “ i will keep you in suspense ” on whether he would accept a hillary clinton victory , but many republicans are less circumspect , according to a new poll .
only half of republicans would accept clinton , the democratic nominee , as their president .
and if she wins , nearly 70 percent said it would be because of illegal voting or vote rigging , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday .
conversely , seven out of 10 democrats said they would accept a trump victory and less than 50 percent would attribute it to illegal voting or vote rigging , the poll showed .
the findings come after repeated statements by trump that the media and the political establishment have rigged the election against him .
he also has made a number of statements encouraging his supporters to fan out on election day to stop ineligible voters from casting ballots .
the u.s. government has accused russia of a campaign of cyber attacks against democratic party organizations and state election systems .
clinton has said she will accept the results of the election no matter the outcome .
the poll showed there is broad concern across the political spectrum about voting issues such as ineligible voters casting ballots , voter suppression , and the actual vote count , but republicans feel that concern more acutely .
for example , nearly eight out of 10 republicans are concerned about the accuracy of the final vote count .
and though generally they believe they will be able to cast their ballot , only six out of 10 are confident their vote will be counted accurately .
among democrats , about six out of 10 are concerned about the vote count .
they , too , believe they wi1l be able to cast their ballot , but eight out of 10 are confident their vote will be counted accurately .
“ republicans are just more worried about everything than democrats , ” said lonna atkeson , a professor at the university of new mexico and head of the center for the study of voting , elections , and democracy .
additionally , seven out of 10 republicans are concerned about issues such as vote buying , faulty voting machines , or confusing ballot designs .
six out of 10 democrats feel the same way .
nearly eight out of 10 republicans are concerned that ineligible voters , including non-citizens , will illegally cast ballots .
four out of 10 democrats feel the same way .
six out of 10 respondents , regardless of party , say they are concerned about issues such as voter intimidation and suppression .
atkeson said the level of concern and mistrust in the system , especially among republicans , is unprecedented .
“ i ’ ve never seen an election like this .
not in my lifetime .
certainly not in modern history. ” the difference , she said , is trump .
“ it has to be the candidate effect. ” she worries that the lack of trust is dangerous .
it is one thing to not trust government , but quite another to doubt the election process .
“ then the entire premise of democracy comes into question , ” she said .
about one in five democrats said they would protest if their candidate loses .
slightly fewer republicans said they would do the same .
fewer than one in 10 democrats said they are prepared to take up arms in opposition compared to fewer than one in 20 republicans .
democrats are also are three times as likely to say they would leave the country .
there is one area where there is little disagreement : most people do not expect the losing candidate to concede the race gracefully .
the poll surveyed 1,192 american adults online from oct. 17 to 21 .
the results have a credibility interval of plus or minus 3.3 percentage points .
the credibility interval for democrats is 5.1 percentage points ; for republicans it is 5.5 points .
( in 4th paragraph corrects to say “ ineligible , ” not “ illegible ” )