these videos will shock you .
when you think of sweden , do you think of muslim gangs roving the streets in no-go zones lobbing hand grenades at warring migrant tribes ?
do you think of muslim men raping so many swedish women , girls , men and boys , that it has now earned the designation as the rape capitol of the world ?
do you think of children being taken from their homes for the crime of being homeschooled by their parents ?
do you think of a nation of spoiled everyone gets a trophy children ?
do you envision a nation where parenting your children is now considered taboo ?
sweden can be proud today to have shed its long standing reputation as the most boring country in the world .
the nordic state finds itself in the grip of a terrifying crime wave instead , which even new swedes describe as like being back in syria .grenade attacks in multicultural paradise malm are now so commonplace the english-speaking media has all but stopped bothering to report them .
compounding the apparent disinterest in the descent of beautiful , historic malm into a third-world ghetto where native swedes are very nearly in the minority , is a striking dearth of facts about what is actually going on there.did you know that it s illegal to home school your child in sweden ?
so much for tolerance .
you must learn what the state teaches you or you will be severely punished.it s been called one of the worst cases of government abuse ever committed against a home schooling family : the abduction by swedish authorities of domenic johansson , a happy , healthy , 7-year-old boy taken from his parents christer and annie johansson in 2009 as they waited to leave sweden on a flight to india.after the abduction , the johanssons story spread quickly on the internet.but three years later , domenic is still being kept from his parents , and swedish authorities keep finding new reasons for why the child can t go home .
this is about the most fundamental right you have .
you have the right to your own children , or you should have , christer told cbn news during the first television interview he and his wife have given since their only child s abduction.in 2008 , christer and annie were making plans to leave sweden for humanitarian work in annie s native india.they decided it would be best for domenic to be home-schooled during the final months before their departure , rather than enroll him in public school.christer says sweden s ministry of education told him they could home-school , but local officials levied steep fines and threatened the couple to discourage them from doing so.then , as the parents sat on a plane at stockholm airport for their scheduled trip to india , police came aboard and took domenic away .
they took domenic from the plane , christer recalled .
then he threw up until they took him to er .
that s how severe the trauma is .
if someone throws up so you have to take him to the hospital , that s severe .
i have no clue what went on , annie added .
there was just a stampede .
my child had no clue , and i have no clue still what s going on .
i can just hear the screams of my child all the time .
sweden s liberal approach to parenting has bred a nation of ill-mannered brats , a leading expert has warned in a new book which calls on parents to seize back control of their families .
david eberhard , who was a prominent psychiatrist before becoming a writer , warns in his new book , how children took power , that swedish parents are now unwilling to discipline their children in any way .
swedes in 1979 became the first to adopt a total smacking ban .
we live in a culture where so-called experts say that children are competent and the conclusion is that children should decide what to eat , what to wear , and when to go to bed , he said .
if you have a dinner party , they never sit quietly .
they interrupt .
they re always in the centre , and the problem is that when they become young adults , they take with them the expectation that everything is centred around them , which makes them very disappointed .
he points to sweden s growing truancy rates , a rise in anxiety disorders , and the country s declining performance in international educational league tables , as the tangible results of its liberal parenting approach .
they don t say thank you .
they don t open doors .
if you see them on the subway , they don t stand up for elderly people or pregnant women .
stricter parenting is a taboo in sweden , let alone advocating a return to smacking , a ban on which he believes has more to do with ideology than scientific evidence .
it s very difficult to contradict .
if you say i m putting forward a stricter way , then people think you re an idiot .
can you say # blacklivesmatter movement ?