sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt ) and his wife , jane sanders have hired prominent defense attorneys , amid an fbi investigation into a loan jane sanders obtained to expand burlington college while she was its president , cbs news confirms.politico magazine first reported the sanders had hired lawyers to defend them in the probe .
sanders top adviser jeff weaver told cbs news the couple has sought legal protection over federal agents allegations from a january 2016 complaint accusing then-president of burlington college , ms. sanders , of distorting donor levels in a 2010 loan application for $ 10 million from people s united bank to purchase 33 acres of land for the institution.according to politico , prosecutors might also be looking into allegations that sen. sanders office inappropriately urged the bank to approve the loan.heat street when jane o meara sanders served as president of burlington college between 2004 and 2011 , she oversaw an aggressive effort to enroll more students and expand the campus to accommodate a bigger student body .
part of that plan : taking out hefty loans to finance the $ 10 million purchase of 32 acres of prime property from the roman catholic diocese at the end of 2010.but burlington college soon found itself unable to make its loan payments .
the roman catholic diocese , which had sold off the land to help pay for a $ 17 million sexual-abuse settlement , ultimately lost between $ 1.5 million and $ 2 million , according to the letter calling for investigation , as well as several vermont media outlets .
the diocese did not respond to a request for an interview .
but a source with direct knowledge of the diocese s involvement in the land acquisition says burlington college almost immediately struggled to meet its obligations .
it was within a relatively short time after closing [ the deal ] , they were experiencing financial problems that made it impossible to pay the diocese , the source says , adding that burlington soon went into default mode on its loan.parishioners now say that to secure loans to buy the land , ms. sanders misrepresented the amount that had been pledged to the college in its fundraising push.the request for investigation notes that defrauding a bank is a federal crime ; it s punishable by up to 30 years in prison and $ 1 million in fines , according to federal code .
watch sanders rail against inequality and corruption at his commencement speech to the 2017 graduating class at brooklyn college : ms. sanders push for the liberal arts college s costly land acquisition was cited in a press release by the college when it shut down in 2016 .
and as for the claim that ms. sanders manipulated the loan application , weaver said , the loan was approved by the financial board at the college .
sen. sanders , formerly mayor of burlington , vermont s largest city , regards the claims as a political game levied against him after his run for president in the 2016 primary election , a platform which has transformed the small-state senator into an influential voice in american liberal politics .
cbs news