danang , vietnam ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte thanked moscow on friday for its timely assistance in defeating pro-islamic state militants who took over a southern city for months , expressing his willingness to buy russian weapons .
duterte last month declared the liberation of marawi city from islamist militants after 154 days of fighting , which killed more than 1,100 people , including 165 soldiers , and displaced nearly 400,000 residents .
i want to build a strong armed forces and a strong police and the reason is very important for you to know that we are eyeing - we are buying arms from russia this time , duterte told russian president vladimir putin on the sidelines of the asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in vietnam .
the philippines was to buy more than 20,000 assault rifles from the united states , but some senators , concerned with duterte s human rights record and rising killings , blocked that sale .
but china and russia , whose relations with the philippines have vastly improved in recent months , donated a total of 11,000 assault rifles and trucks .
your timely assistance to my country helped us replenish the old arms and the spent bores that were fired repeatedly and we have a new stock , he said , in transcripts sent to manila by the presidential communications office .
manila and moscow signed a military deal on logistics , including a contract with a state-owned company for the supply of equipment , during the first-ever visit by a russian defense minister to the philippines last month .
the philippines will have a 125 billion pesos ( $ 2.44 billion ) fund to modernize the military from 2018 to 2022 through a multi-year congressional allocation to upgrade its hardware , a senior military official told reuters .
we are looking at helicopters , small arms and equipment for humanitarian assistance and disaster relief operations , but we are still discussing the specifics , said the same military official who declined to be named because he was not authorized to talk to the press .
we still prefer u.s. and western equipment but they are very expensive .
if the russians and chinese equipment can be comparable in quality , then they can be excellent alternatives .