washington ( reuters ) - iraq s top sunni muslim politician said on wednesday he would back shi ite iraqi prime minister haidar al-abadi for a new term as long as conditions such as bringing shi ite militias under state control and balancing relations with other countries are fulfilled .
osama al-nujaifi , baghdad s sunni vice president , was in washington for talks with senior state department and congressional officials to discuss issues facing iraq as the battle against islamic state winds down .
iraq will hold parliamentary elections on may 15 .
abadi , who has not yet said whether he would seek a second term , took over the premiership in 2014 from nuri al-maliki , a close ally of iran .
abadi is credited with quickly rebuilding the army and defeating islamic state in its main iraqi stronghold , mosul , last july , with strong assistance from a u.s.-led coalition .
asked whether he would ally with abadi , nujaifi told reuters in an interview : this is very possible ... we may be able to ally with him but that hasn t happened yet ... we need talks , but his ( politics ) are the closest to us in the next elections .
nujaifi said abadi had to determine his position , given that he belonged to the dawa party , a shi ite group with close ties to iran .
he has to leave this umbrella and embrace the national umbrella and he can get lots of support , nujaifi said .
we support him but not without conditions .
there must be political agreement based on mutual interests of iraqis , an exit from sectarian politics ... controlling the weapons , and the balance in relationship with countries ...
if we agree on these things , we can be together .
nujaifi singled out the iran-backed shi ite militia forces known as popular mobilisation forces ( pmfs ) as one of the biggest challenges in post-islamic state iraq , and said it would be impossible to hold elections if their weaponry was not brought under government control .
iranian-backed militia groups were formed after grand ayatollah ali al-sistani called on iraqis to defend their country days after islamic state seized control of the northern city of mosul .
they played a major role in protecting baghdad and pushing back islamic state .
but the militias have also created headaches for the government .
many of them have ties to iran and have amassed vast military and political influence .
abadi has promised to rein in the militias but it is a daunting task and iraqi and western officials say he is too weak to take on the militias directly .
parliament approved a law late last year that will transform pmfs into a legal and separate military corps .
this of course shapes a threat to stability in iraq if these weapons are not controlled and melded with the armed forces .
if there s any political disagreement , it could turn into armed confrontations ...
the only correct way is to meld these forces with the armed forces and to control them .
it is unreasonable to run the elections under the shadow of the spread of all these weapons or with the displacement of millions of people ...
this will distort these elections .
asked whether the baghdad government had the will to remove them from iraqi cities , he said : i think that is natural , but they ( pmfs ) have influence in baghdad .... their role and their influence on the state is very big .
it s not easy for the prime minister to force them to do something outside their attitudes , nujaifi said .
abadi declared victory over islamic state in mosul in the summer after a months-long battle , three years after the militants seized the city and made it the stronghold of a caliphate they said would take over the world .
nujaifi said mosul would need at least $ 30 billion to rebuild the city and its infrastructure .
estimates indicate that 70 percent of the city was destroyed or largely destroyed .
the infrastructure , all aspects of life , water , energy , the hospitals are all destroyed .