lesbos , greece ( reuters ) - syrian migrant bashar wakaa and his heavily pregnant wife are days away from the birth of their third child , stranded on the greek island of lesbos in a muddy , garbage-strewn olive grove with no running water or toilets .
nearby , three syrian men share a flimsy tent designed for two .
like the expectant couple , they arrived by rubber dinghy from turkey only to find the island s migrant camp in a disused military base was severely overcrowded .
this is not a life for humans , said 23-year-old anas bakour , one of the men who shares the rain-sodden tent .
the animals have a better life .
the hundreds sleeping in the woods are among more than 8,500 asylum-seekers stuck on lesbos , where facilities for migrants were only designed to accommodate about 3,000 .
thousands more are on four other greek islands close to turkey .
a deal between the european union and turkey struck in 2016 stemmed the uncontrolled exodus of nearly a million people across the aegean sea the year before .
under the agreement , anyone crossing to greece from turkey who does not qualify for asylum must be deported .
greek prime minister alexis tsipras discussed cooperation on migration with turkish president tayyip erdogan , who arrived in athens on thursday for the first visit to the country by a turkish head of state since 1952 .
though arrivals collapsed in 2016 following the deal , they have recently ticked up .
in the four months to november , 15,800 asylum-seekers arrived on greek islands , up 27 percent from last year , according to data from the u.n. refugee agency ( unhcr ) .
the data does not give monthly arrivals by country of origin but a unhcr spokesman in greece said most were syrians , iraqis and afghans , as has been the case throughout the crisis .
aid groups and experts on europe s migration crisis say the main problem is a lack of political will to improve conditions on the greek islands , in the hope of dissuading more migrants from risking the sea crossing .
`` no one will admit it but it 's a discouraging factor , a discouraging message for anyone who may want to come , '' said konstantinos filis , research director at greece 's institute for international relations .
( for a graphic , click tmsnrt.rs/2aabfsv ) aid workers say there is now an acute shortage of medical care , the conditions are horrendous and more and more depressed asylum-seekers are cutting themselves or attempting suicide .
camp residents say gangs , some armed with knives , roam at night , drugs and alcohol circulate freely and women cower in their shelters for fear of attack .
any girl in this camp expects at any moment that she will be attacked , said shahed naji , 22 , an iraqi woman .
the eu-turkey deal does not explicitly forbid asylum-seekers from leaving the islands until claims are assessed but the process takes months and stranded asylum-seekers grow desperate and frustrated , said charity medecins sans frontieres ( msf ) .
people need to get off the island as soon as possible , said aria danika , msf s field coordinator in lesbos .
turkish officials said the increase in crossings to the greek islands in recent months did not reflect any slippage on their part in implementing its agreement with the eu .
some camp residents on lesbos said they were not aware of the deal blocking their journey onwards to northern europe .
others said they left turkey because they could not find work and found life unbearable .
no one puts his life in danger to come by small boat if turkey is good and he can live there , said amal adwan , a palestinian born in syria now on lesbos .
adwan , who made seven attempted sea crossings before reaching lesbos , said she might have had second thoughts if she had know what the conditions were like .
if i knew before , maybe i wouldn t have come , she said .
the u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi told reuters there was a certain general resistance to moving people from the islands , not to create a pull factor .
greece s migration ministry , which manages the lesbos camp , has said it is trying to ease overcrowding but could not remove people in large numbers because of the eu-turkey pact .
it declined to give an immediate comment on conditions on lesbos and other islands .
ahead of erdogan s visit , prime minister tsipras told a turkish news agency on wednesday that the eu-turkey deal was difficult but necessary .
the european commission , which has offered greece millions in emergency aid , said on thursday it was working on a daily basis with the greek authorities to try to improve the conditions on the islands but more needed to be done .
i have earlier , also in athens , expressed my frustration over the fact that although we have put so much money at the disposal of all the authorities , that still the situation on some of the islands is unacceptable , the commission s first vice-president frans timmermans told reporters .
on lesbos , the once-welcoming community is fed up .
on saturday , residents used cars to try to block a ferry from unloading containers intended to house more refugees .
the island s mayor , spyros galinos , said eu policies had turned the island into an open prison and called for protests and strikes against the deal .
sitting in his office overlooking the port , he compared lesbos to a weightlifter being asked to lift heavier and heavier barbells : today , we re buckling .
when we get crushed the situation will be completely unmanageable and explosive .
back in the olive grove , wakaa and his pregnant wife are despondent .
if they can t accommodate these people then why are they accepting them in the first place ?
wakaa asked .
let them drown in the sea .
at least they will die and rest .
( for photo essay from lesbos : reut.rs/2ays5ci )