ramallah , west bank ( reuters ) - palestinian president mahmoud abbas s administration said on wednesday it had resumed security coordination with israel in the occupied west bank , frozen in july , and sought sole security control of the gaza strip , where hamas islamist forces dominate .
the remarks , by the palestinian police chief , left open the question of how abbas might bring his former rivals in hamas to heel given their refusal to disarm as demanded by israel and the united states .
an egyptian-brokered reconciliation deal last month formally restored abbas s administrative control of gaza after a 10-year schism with hamas , though the details of implementation have yet to be worked out fully .
palestinians hope the pact will ease gaza s economic woes and help present a united front in their drive for statehood .
the vision includes the west bank , where palestinian security forces have tried to tamp down violence , often sharing intelligence and cooperating across jurisdictions with israel , despite a three-year impasse in diplomacy between the sides .
under interim peace deals with israel , abbas palestinian authority exercises limited self-rule in the west bank .
abbas halted security coordination with israel on july 21 , demanding it remove metal detectors it had installed outside a jerusalem compound housing al-aqsa mosque in response to the killing of two of its police guards by gunmen holed up there .
amid palestinian and jordanian unrest , and u.s. mediation efforts , israel dismantled the walk-through gates within days and said it would install less obtrusive security measures .
police chief hazem attallah told foreign reporters in a briefing that the suspension of ties had ended two weeks ago .
security coordination between palestinian and israeli services have resumed as it used to be before it stopped , attallah said , adding that he was referring to joint efforts to prevent militant attacks , as crime-fighting police cooperation between the sides had never stopped .
attallah said his police forces were ready to impose order in gaza , likening the situation there to the west bank a decade ago , where the palestinian authority set about disarming and dismantling hamas and other armed factions .
we will have one gun in gaza , attallah said .
how can i do security when there are all these rockets and guns ?
this is possible ?
this doesn t work .
in gaza , hamas has a guerrilla army believed to include tens of thousands of fighters and rockets .
hamas continues to police gaza with nearly 13,000 security personnel .
fatah plans to discuss security responsibility further in talks with hamas and other factions in cairo on november 21 .