new york ( reuters ) - a onetime business partner of former u.s. representative michael grimm is preparing to plead guilty to a tax charge in a case related to the prosecution that led to the congressman ’ s imprisonment , his lawyer said on tuesday .
prosecutors in a filing in federal court in brooklyn , new york , on monday said they intend to file charges against bennett orfaly , grimm ’ s former partner in healthalicious , a restaurant at the center of the republican politician ’ s criminal case .
james dipietro , orfaly ’ s lawyer , in an interview said his client is “ hoping to reach a quick resolution with a plea to a tax count. ” the filing on monday said the case would relate to the one against grimm , who represented a district in the new york city borough of staten island .
grimm was sentenced in july to eight months in prison after pleading guilty to tax fraud .
dipietro said that while the case stemmed from the investigation of grimm , orfaly will be charged in connection with other restaurants he owned .
a deal could come as soon as next week or the following , he said .
a spokeswoman for brooklyn u.s. attorney robert capers and a lawyer for grimm both declined comment .
the expected plea was first reported by the new york daily news .
grimm , a former marine who subsequently worked as an fbi agent , was elected in 2010 with a wave of conservative “ tea party ” republicans advocating low taxes and government spending , but built a moderate voting record .
from 2007 to 2010 , grimm oversaw the day-to-day operations of healthalicious , which he co-founded with orfaly , according to authorities .
at a court hearing in 2012 , a prosecutor , anthony capozzolo , said orfaly had ties to a member of the gambino family , anthony morelli , who was sentenced in 1996 to 20 years in prison in connection with a gas tax fraud .
that statement came during a bail hearing for a former campaign fundraiser for grimm , ofer biton , who later pleaded guilty to visa fraud in 2013 .
grimm was subsequently indicted in april 2014 on tax charges related to healthalicious and pleaded guilty that december to aiding and assisting the preparation of a false tax return .
prosecutors said grimm under-reported wages paid to workers , many of whom did not have legal status in the united states , and concealed over $ 900,000 in healthalicious ’ gross receipts from an accountant who prepared the restaurant ’ s tax returns .