jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel supports the establishment of a kurdish state , prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on wednesday , as kurds in iraq gear up for a referendum on independence that lawmakers in baghdad oppose .
israel has maintained discreet military , intelligence and business ties with the kurds since the 1960s , viewing the minority ethnic group whose indigenous population is split between iraq , turkey , syria and iran as a buffer against shared arab adversaries .
on tuesday , iraq s kurdish leader massoud barzani said he would press ahead with the sept. 25 referendum despite a vote by iraq s parliament rejecting it .
( israel ) supports the legitimate efforts of the kurdish people to achieve their own state , netanyahu said , in remarks sent to foreign correspondents by his office .
western powers are concerned a plebiscite in iraq s semi-autonomous kurdish region - including the oil-rich city of kirkuk - could divert attention from the war against islamic state militants .
netanyahu said israel does however consider the turkey-based kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) a terrorist group , taking the same position as turkey , the united states and the european union .
an israeli general told a conference in washington last week that he personally did not regard the pkk , whose militants have been fighting turkey for more than three decades , as a terrorist group .
netanyahu , who is due to address the u.n. general assembly on sept. 19 , voiced support for the kurds aspirations for independence in a speech in 2014 , saying they deserve political independence .
his latest remarks appeared to be a more direct endorsement of the creation of a kurdish state .
but they will cut little ice in baghdad , which has no diplomatic relations with israel and has strong ties with israel s arch-foe iran .
iraq s neighbors turkey , iran and syria oppose the referendum , fearing it could fan separatism among their own ethnic kurdish populations .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east after the collapse of the multi-ethnic ottoman empire .