paris ( reuters ) - france s prime minister , whose government has vowed to clean up politics , was forced on wednesday to defend his decision to hire a private jet for 350,000 euros ( $ 415,000 ) to fly back from japan .
opposition politicians decried edouard philippe s use of the private charter , and a non-governmental agency that pursues financial wrongdoing in high places accused him of ignoring his own government s pledges of exemplary behavior .
president emmanuel macron came under fire earlier this month for celebrating his 40th birthday in the grounds of a royal palace .
his office sought to play that down , saying the event had been paid for by macron and his wife .
philippe acknowledged on rtl radio that he and his delegation flew back to paris from tokyo , after an official trip to new caledonia , at a cost of 350,000 euros , but said he had been obliged to do so .
i totally understand the surprise and the questions of the french people , philippe said .
we knew there was no commercial flight at the time we needed to return , and we knew we had to return because the president was leaving on the wednesday morning of our return for algeria , he said .
the rule is that , whenever possible , ( either ) the prime minister or the president must be on national territory ...
i take full responsibility for this decision .
karim bouamrane , spokesman for the socialist party , said on twitter that the flight pointed to amateurism regarding the organizational skills of philippe s team .
macron put financial and ethical probity in public life at the heart of a presidential election race he won last may , and his new government passed a law to tighten up on ethical standards in french politics .
he has struggled nonetheless to shake detractors charges that he is a president of the rich after reforms including the scrapping of a wealth tax and reductions in housing benefit - moves macron says will boost investment and social mobility .
in august , social media commentators and political opponents criticized the french president after it emerged he spent 26,000 euros on makeup during his first 100 days in office .
anticor , a non-governmental agency that focuses on financial corruption and profligacy in politics , said use of a private jet was at odds with macron and his government s declarations that financial probity was a priority .
( $ 1 = 0.8450 euros )