this is what happens when you cross the left .
sadly , this is how unions have been operating for decades .
mainstream america is about to see the ugly truth about the violent tactics of the left .
anyone who could vote for a party who represents itself in such a manner should be ashamed .
by juan hernandez a hispanic trump supporter who lives in santa clara , ca.last thursday , i left work about 5 p.m. and drove to the san jose convention center to hear donald trump speak.i ve been voting for conservative candidates for 15 years and a registered republican since 2015 .
now that the general election is underway , i believe trump is the best candidate to fix our country s many problems , and i believe he s going to be the next commander in chief .
so i was excited to hear him , and to show my support .
walking into the rally with a friend , i was a little wary : trump s speech to the california republican convention in burlingame had been disrupted by protesters , and i wasn t sure whether to expect a similar scene in san jose .
but we got to the event early , and we must have been inside already by the time a crowd of protesters gathered in the streets near the convention center.the speech really got me energized .
i got a new sense of appreciation and respect for trump after a bernie sanders supporter interrupted him with a sign .
trump didn t blink : darling , there s no way he can win , but keep your sign high , he said .
that is the president that i want .
it was great being around so many republicans in the bay area , we don t have a lot of that , so it was great to feel the camaraderie of being part of the gop.my trouble began once the rally was over.my friend and i joined a crowd of trump supporters who had all left the convention center around the same time .
the garage where we had parked our car was right next to the building , but police were directing everyone around the block to another garage entrance instead .
the farther we walked , the fewer trump fans were with us people began peeling off to go to restaurants or bars in the area , or to other garages nearby.and suddenly , there were protesters everywhere .
some were holding mexican flags , or burning american ones .
they were yelling f trump !
at us and cornering us .
some of them started grabbing trump supporters they were going up and slugging people , sucker-punching people , just picking random people out .
as much as we wanted to help , because our fellow republicans were getting hit , i knew any moment that could be me .
so my friend and i just kept walking sometimes , we d be running .
we saw police standing nearby , but they didn t do anything .
that scared me , because i thought , okay , if i m next , there s going to be no cops .
about a block from the garage entrance , we turned down the street and found a line of protesters standing in our way .
to get back to our car , we d have to go through them .
my friend and i were wearing make america great again trump hats .
we were targets , and i was terrified .
i could feel it coming they would look at me and start walking up to me.before we could make it into the garage , four or five men surrounded me , and another four surrounded my friend .
they just started swinging .
we swung back as best as we could .
my main thing was i didn t want to fall ; i didn t want to be knocked down .
i m not a big guy , but i can defend myself as best i can if it s one on one but not when they have so much anger against us.one of the blows caught my nose , and blood just started pouring out .
that kind of stunned them , and they backed off a quick second .
my adrenaline kicked in ; i felt punches on my head , and i felt the punch that hit my nose , but i was in survival mode by then , and i didn t realize until later how much it hurt .
i called my friend , okay , let s go !
we ran into the parking garage , and we thought we were safe , but there were another few dozen protesters there , too .
we got in our car and headed toward the exit .
some protesters jumped on the cars in front of us , but we eventually made it out .
my friend drove me to the emergency room because my nose was pouring blood .
i had a broken nose , and because i was covered with scratches , i had to get a tetanus shot , too .
it took a lot out of me , much more than i realized at first ; my headaches and soreness didn t start to go away until a week later.watch here : i still can t believe how poorly the police handled the protests .
i live by levi s stadium , where the super bowl was .
they had every single cop out there .
yet knowing the violence that s been breaking out near trump rallies , san jose wasn t prepared for it last week ?
so the los angeles chapter of log cabin republicans held a news conference back in san jose on wednesday , to get some answers from the city s mayor , sam liccardo , and its police department about why they let me and other people get attacked and only made a few arrests.the whole thing made me angry .
here in northern california , i feel like i m a unicorn : i m a gay hispanic who s a republican .
it was much harder to come out as a trump supporter than it was to come out as gay the minute you say you re for trump , everyone comes at you but this has pushed me out of the closet about it completely.i should be able to vote for whom i want , and i shouldn t have to deal with violence to go hear my candidate speak .
if people really want to protest at rallies , they should do it peacefully .
i have a young niece and nephew , and i don t want them to think this is how politics work in the united states .
we can t let our freedom of speech and our freedom of assembly be tarnished by politicians like those in san jose who do not have our safety at heart .
follow juan hernandez on twitter : @ mrjuanhernandezvia : washington post