jamarat , saudi arabia ( reuters ) - two million muslim pilgrims performed a symbolic stoning of the devil on friday , the riskiest part of the annual haj pilgrimage where hundreds of people were killed in a crush two years ago .
saudi arabia , which stakes its reputation on organizing the world s largest annual muslim gathering , has deployed more than 100,000 security forces and medics as well as modern technology including drones and fiber optics to ensure a safe pilgrimage .
under close supervision from saudi authorities , pilgrims clad in white robes converged on jamarat carrying pebbles to perform the ritual from a three-storey bridge erected to ease congestion .
group leaders carrying flags from their countries directed pilgrims into the building .
some of the faithful held umbrellas to protect themselves from the sun , with temperatures surpassing 40 degrees celsius ( 100 fahrenheit ) around midday .
this is the embodiment of the prophets ismail and ibrahim ( abraham ) fighting the devil , said egyptian pilgrim mohammed al-jawhiri , 56 .
the ritual reveals the extent of the devil s evil and his actions to destroy this world .
the 2015 incident killed nearly 800 people , according to riyadh , when two large groups of pilgrims arrived together at a crossroads in mina , a few kilometers east of mecca , on their way to performing the stoning ritual .
counts by countries of repatriated bodies , however , showed over 2,000 people may have died , more than 400 of them iranians .
it was the worst disaster to strike haj for at least 25 years .
the saudi authorities redesigned the jamarat area after two stampedes , in 2004 and 2006 , killed hundreds of pilgrims , and the frequency of such disasters has greatly reduced as the government spent billions of dollars upgrading and expanding haj infrastructure and crowd control technology .
officials said they had prepared a strict timetable for pilgrims from various countries to follow in order to reduce congestion .
saudi arabia said more than 2.3 million pilgrims , most of them from abroad , had arrived for the five-day ritual , a religious duty once in a lifetime for every able-bodied muslim who can afford the journey .
they will continue the stoning ritual over the weekend and return to mecca to pray at the grand mosque before completing the pilgrimage .
some 90,000 iranians have returned to haj after boycotting last year amid a diplomatic rift between tehran and riyadh , which are both vying for power and influence in the region .
in previous years , jostling to perform the stoning before returning to mecca accounted for many of the stampedes and crushes that have afflicted haj .
thanks to the latest construction , this time even small children , old men , women and the disabled are being accommodated , said abdelaziz al-azmi from kuwait .
as you see , there is no problem .
king salman was in mina on friday , the first day of eid al-adha ( feast of the sacrifice ) .
he and his son , crown prince mohammed bin salman , welcomed well-wishers at a palace gathering attended by princes , clerics , military leaders and distinguished guests .
saudi authorities have urged pilgrims to set aside politics during the haj but violence in the middle east , including wars in syria , iraq , yemen and libya and other global hotspots are sure to be on the minds of many .
for a graphic on the haj journey , click : here for a graphic on haj stampedes , click : here