all of these companies should be ashamed to be contributing to a to a company that kills babies , then shamelessly negotiates for top dollar for their aborted body parts update : until this thursday , planned parenthood kept a list of corporate allies and sponsors on its website .
once coca-cola became the third corporation to ask to be taken off the list , planned parenthood took it down altogether.a snapshot of planned parenthood s donation page archived one day ago touts support from very large corporations : the news organization daily signal contacted several companies on the list asking about their purported donations to planned parenthood in light of videos revealing the organization s harvesting of fetal organs .
representatives from xerox , ford , and coca-cola deserted the abortion giant , saying they were incorrectly listed as donors they said their companies do not contribute to planned parenthood and do not match employee gifts to the organization .
all three said they have contacted or will contact planned parenthood to be removed from its website .
there are likely more desertions to come .
pro-life grassroots activists will likely keep calling and asking the remaining corporate giants from the list whether they support the sale of aborted baby parts for medical experimentation .
but now that the list is down , the world will not know how many more corporations will ask to be taken off the list of planned parenthood supporters.since the gruesome videos began to appear last week , news has gone from bad to worse for the abortion giant .
two congressional committees are investigating , along with eight state governments .
a bill has been introduced in congress to withhold planned parenthood funding for one year .
that would cost the $ 1.3 billion dollar a year nonprofit corporation $ 500 million .
via-breitbart newsin the wake of two videos allegedly showing planned parenthood officials discussing the sale of aborted fetal body parts , republicans in congress are working to ensure that planned parenthood is stripped of its federal funding.however , it s not only the government that fills planned parenthood s coffers .
according to 2nd vote , a website and app that tracks the flow of money from consumers to political causes , more than 25 percent of planned parenthood s $ 1.3-billion annual revenue comes from private donations , which includes corporate contributions.2nd vote researched the corporations and organizations to find which supported planned parenthood and found that more than three dozen donated to the group .
some companies donated directly , while others matched employee gifts.forty corporations and organizations directly contribute to the group.planned parenthood has come under heavy fire following the release of videos from the center for medical progress.the first video , released last week , showed planned parenthood senior executive dr. deborah nucatola meeting with actors portraying buyers from a human biologics company .
the buyers discussed the sale of fetal body parts with nucatola over lunch.in the second video , dr. mary gatter , president of planned parenthood s medical directors council , is seen negotiating the price of aborted fetal body parts.here are the 40 companies that have directly funded planned parenthood .
via : daily signaladobe american cancer society american express at & t avon bank of america bath & body works ben & jerry s clorox coca-cola converse deutsche bank dockers energizer expedia exxonmobil fannie mae ford groupon intuit johnson & johnson la senza levi strauss liberty mutual macy s march of dimes microsoft morgan stanley nike oracle pepsico pfizer progressive starbucks susan g. komen tostitos unilever united way verizon wells fargoevery one of these companies should be called out for donating to this evil murdered baby parts for-profit organization .