peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistani taliban gunmen disguised in all-enveloping burqas stormed the campus of an agricultural college in pakistan on friday , killing at least nine people and wounding 35 , police and hospital officials said .
police and army troops summoned to the scene killed all of the attackers at the agriculture training institute in the northwestern city of peshawar about two hours into the attack , the military s press wing said .
the pakistani taliban claimed responsibility , saying in a message from spokesman mohammad khorasani that they had targeted a safe house of the military s inter-services intelligence agency .
the gunmen arrived at the campus in an auto-rickshaw , disguised in the burqas worn by many women in the region , peshawar police chief tahir khan said .
they shot and wounded a guard before entering the campus , he said .
a wounded student , ahteshan ul-haq , told reuters the university hostel usually houses nearly 400 students , but most had gone home for a long holiday weekend and only about 120 students remained .
we were sleeping when we heard gunshots .
i got up and within seconds everybody was running and shouting the taliban have attacked , he said .
the pakistani taliban later released a video showing the attack , recorded with what appeared to be a body-mounted camera .
in it , one of the gunmen raced into a building shouting allahu akbar !
and firing his weapon as he went room to room searching for students .
the militants also issued photos of the attackers , who they said were from nearby swat valley , singing with the movement s fugitive leader , mullah fazlullah , before their mission .
shehzad akbar , medical director of hayatabad medical complex , said six people died of their wounds and 18 were being treated .
another three people died at khyber teaching hospital and 17 wounded were there , director nekdad afridi said .
in december 2014 , pakistani taliban gunmen killed 134 children at peshawar s army public school , one of the single deadliest attacks in the country s history .
the pakistani taliban are fighting to topple the government and install a strict interpretation of islamic law .
they are loosely allied with the afghan taliban insurgents who ruled most of afghanistan until they were overthrown by u.s.-backed military action in 2001 .