johannesburg ( reuters ) - a south african high court ruled on friday that it could not compel president jacob zuma to set up a commission of inquiry into alleged influence-peddling in his government .
the opposition democratic alliance ( da ) had asked the court to force zuma to establish a commission based on a report last year by an anti-graft watchdog into allegations that businessman brothers ajay , atul and rajesh gupta had influenced the appointment of ministers .
zuma and the gupta brothers have denied the accusations .
the president has challenged the report in court , arguing that the public protector had no right to ask him to form such a commission , as this was the president s prerogative .
to compel the president at this stage will not only be tantamount to denying the hearing or his day in court , but it will also be understood to mean the public protector s powers are unassailable irrespective of the content of the decision , that can not be correct , pretoria high court judge motsamai makume said .
it will be in the best interests of justice to grant the president a stay of the implementation of the remedial action pending a decision of the review application .
new allegations of inappropriate collusion between state-owned companies and the gupta brothers have put more pressure on zuma and ministers close to him .
but the ruling was a boost for the scandal-plagued zuma at a difficult time .
allegations of widespread corruption and the raiding of taxpayer funds by outside interests known locally as state capture have dented investor confidence in an economy which fell into a recession earlier in 2017 .
on wednesday , thousands of south africans marched in anti-corruption protests in a rallying cry against zuma and his powerful allies three months before a new african national congress leader is chosen .
zuma also survived a no-confidence vote in parliament in august but he lost the support of a number of anc mps , showing deep divisions within the party that has ruled south africa since the end of apartheid in 1994 .
the da said it had noted the ruling with interest , saying it approached the court to avoid delays in probing influence-peddling allegations .
on a number of occasions , including before the national assembly , president zuma has stated that he will establish a commission of inquiry .
to date , he has not done so , the party s federal council chairman james selfe said in a statement .
this matter has not been dismissed but has in fact been held back pending the outcome of the president s review application , which will be heard at the end of october , where we will also be in court to continue this fight for accountability .
some analysts said the legal battles would prolong probes into influence-peddling allegations .
the court had its legal duties to perform , and this is going to allow zuma not to perform his political duties , nkc african economics analyst gary van staden said .
ultimately its negative for state capture .
it s not going to bring any finality to what s been going on .