beirut ( reuters ) - dozens of mortar bombs landed on the last major rebel stronghold near the syrian capital damascus on wednesday , a war monitor and a witness said on wednesday , despite a 48 hour truce proposed by russia to coincide with the start of peace talks in geneva .
after a relatively calm morning , shelling picked up later in the day , accompanied by ground attempts to storm the besieged enclave , a witness in the eastern ghouta area told reuters .
the syrian army stepped up bombardment two weeks ago in an effort to recapture eastern ghouta , a rebel-held pocket of densely populated agricultural land on the outskirts of the capital under siege since 2012 .
scores of people have been killed in air strikes during the offensive , and residents say they are on the verge of starvation after the siege was tightened .
russia had proposed a ceasefire on monday in the besieged area for nov. 28-29 .
u.n. syria envoy staffan de mistura later said russia had told him that the syrian government had accepted the idea , but we have to see if it happens .
the syrian observatory for human rights said at least one person was killed when dozens of mortars crashed into eastern ghouta on wednesday .
eastern ghouta is one of several de-escalation zones across western syria where russia has brokered ceasefire deals between rebels and president bashar al-assad s government .
but fighting has continued there .
on tuesday , shelling killed three people and injured 15 , but was less intense than in previous days , the observatory said .
it had reported intense bombardment that killed 41 people over two days from sunday to monday .
a two-day truce is not nearly enough for civilians facing grave violations of international law - including bombardment and besiegement - but it is a window of opportunity to save the lives of the most desperately in need of treatment , said thomas garofalo , international rescue committee s middle east public affairs director , in a statement on wednesday .
the syrian delegation arrived in geneva to participate in the eighth round of united nation-sponsored peace talks .
it delayed its departure for one day after the opposition repeated its demand that syrian president bashar al-assad step down .
nasr hariri , head of the opposition delegation , told a geneva news conference on monday night that he is aiming for assad s removal as a result of negotiations .
the government delegation will be headed by syria s u.n. ambassador and chief negotiator bashar al-ja afari , state-run news agency sana said .
a breakthrough in the talks is seen as unlikely as assad and his allies push for total military victory in syria s civil war , now in its seventh year , and his opponents stick by their demand he leaves power .