buenos aires ( reuters ) - the family of a young protester who went missing in argentina nearly three months ago identified his body on friday , said a brother of the dead man to journalists after leaving the morgue .
investigators discovered a body on tuesday in the chubut river in patagonia , near where santiago maldonado was last seen at an indigenous rights protest on aug. 1 .
we recognized santiago s tattoos so we are convinced it is santiago , said sergio maldonado , the brother , after the family identified the body in buenos aires .
some government opposition and rights groups have said state security forces took maldonado , a 28-year-old craftsman , after police reportedly clashed with mapuche indians who claim territory throughout southern argentina and chile .
the groups allege president mauricio macri s government covered up maldonado s whereabouts .
macri s government says there is no evidence showing security forces detained him .
the disappearance and death of maldonado has overshadowed sunday s midterm congressional election in a country where potential cases of abuse by security forces are particularly sensitive .
argentina s 1976-83 military dictatorship secretly detained , tortured and killed people in clandestine prisons , and rights groups say up to 30,000 people disappeared .
the judge overseeing the maldonado case said an autopsy completed late on friday showed no signs of injury on the body .
now the cause of death needs to be determined , judge gustavo lleral told journalists .
former leftist president cristina fernandez , who is seeking a senate seat in buenos aires province , has criticized the government s handling of the case , and mass protests and social media campaigns have demanded to know what happened to maldonado .
the president s office said on friday that macri had contacted maldonado s mother to offer his condolences .
mourners left candles , flowers and cards outside the morgue in buenos aires , while protesters gathered at the plaza de mayo .