dubai ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson flew to tehran on saturday to seek the release of a jailed british-iranian aid worker .
the foreign office said johnson spoke frankly with his iranian counterpart javad zarif about consular cases of dual nationals such as nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , who britain says was visiting family on holiday when she was jailed by iran for attempting to overthrow the government .
the case has taken on domestic political importance in britain , especially since johnson said last month that zaghari-ratcliffe trained journalists , which her employer denies .
johnson later apologized .
opponents have called for him to resign if his comments lead to her serving longer in prison .
johnson is also expected to meet iranian president hassan rouhani on sunday to discuss bilateral and regional issues , a foreign office official said , during just the third visit by a british foreign minister to iran in the last 14 years .
talks with zarif were constructive , johnson s office said , despite differences between the two countries .
they both spoke frankly about the obstacles in the relationship , including the foreign secretary s concerns about the consular cases of british-iranian dual nationals , a british foreign office spokeswoman said in a statement .
the two-day visit takes place against a complex backdrop of historical , regional and bilateral tensions .
johnson stressed britain s support for iran s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers in the meeting , the spokeswoman said .
international sanctions against iran have only recently been lifted as part of the multilateral nuclear deal to curb tehran s disputed uranium enrichment program .
that deal is under threat after u.s. president donald trump decided to decertify iran s compliance with its terms .
johnson told zarif he believed the deal should be fully implemented .
johnson also met ali shamkhani , secretary of iran s supreme national security council , and parliament speaker ali larijani during the first day of his two-day visit , iran s state news agency irna reported .
the foreign office statement did not mention zaghari-ratcliffe by name , although johnson has vowed to leave no stone unturned in britain s efforts to free her .
a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , she was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted by an iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
zaghari-ratcliffe is not the only dual national being held in iran , but has become the most high-profile case .
the thomson reuters foundation is a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
it says zaghari-ratcliffe had been on holiday and had not been teaching journalism in iran .
zaghari-ratcliffe has been told she will appear in court on dec. 10 , her husband richard has said .
the visit is a test of johnson s ability to navigate a political landscape littered with potential pitfalls .
iran s 1979 islamic revolution turned it into a pariah state for most of the west and many middle eastern neighbors .
britain has voiced its continued support for the nuclear deal but is one of a number of western powers voicing concerns about tehran s destabilizing influence in the region .