moscow ( reuters ) - poised to run for a fourth term , president vladimir putin has started clearing out the old russian political elite and says he s bringing in young people with fire in their eyes .
but a reuters analysis shows that he has made limited progress so far .
in the run up to march elections that are expected to hand him a mandate to stay in power until he is 70 , putin says he is promoting a new generation of officials to drive russia s economic and political future .
one fifth of the country s 85 regional governors have been replaced this year and almost half of the lower house of parliament changed in elections last year after putin brought in a new chief of staff .
the reuters analysis of political appointments shows , however , that in the cabinet , the upper house of parliament , the security council and the presidential administration , the pace of change has slowed and the average age is almost three years higher than when he began his third term in 2012 .
kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov declined to comment on the findings .
he said it would take too long to check the data .
with no change expected at the very top , critics say the lack of fresh blood translates into a dearth of fresh ideas to stimulate politics and the economy .
there are similarities with the era of ( soviet leader leonid ) brezhnev in that we ve fallen into a malign stability from which there s no way out , dmitry oreshkin , an independent political analyst , told reuters .
opposition protesters are fond of photoshopping putin s face onto brezhnev s torso on placards , implying that putin and the system he has built is as stagnant as brezhnev s soviet union , a charge the kremlin rejects .
for putin there are no risks because the system works and obeys him , said oreshkin .
the risks are for the country and the economy .
the model of stability is underpinned by a system of loyalty and corruption .
outside moscow , which is rich , there is stagnation .
weighed down by western sanctions for its 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea and backing for a pro-russian uprising in east ukraine , the russian economy , though recovering , remains fragile and vulnerable to oil fluctuations and new sanctions .
russia 's aging political elite : tmsnrt.rs/2zrtpry reuters compared the profiles of 784 current regional governors , members of the upper and lower houses of parliament , the government , the security council , and the presidential administration to 768 who were in power in may 2012 .
it found little sign of renewal in the cabinet , the upper house of parliament , the security council and the presidential administration .
of the 784 positions , 314 had changed hands in the last two years , fewer than in may 2012 when that figure was 368 .
often when officials left their posts , they showed up in other jobs .
there were fewer changes in the cabinet , the upper house of parliament , the security council and the presidential administration .
the average age of all the officials rose from 52.6 in 2012 to 55.5 now .
in the security council , which putin chairs , the average age stands at 60.4 .
it has seen only two changes in its 12-strong permanent makeup in the last two years .
in the presidential administration , which putin uses to devise and implement his ideas , the average age is 57 compared to 53.2 in 2012 , and in the state duma , the lower house of parliament , the average age has risen to almost 53 from 51 five years ago .
this month putin told 10 governors , that as a rule they were being replaced with young people .
you have probably noticed the fire in their eyes , he said .
putin has said his aim is to create a new governors corps of young promising modern people who will think about the future of the region and all of russia .
critics say the kremlin s emphasis on youth is window-dressing designed to create the illusion of political change in a system bereft of real competition .
up to two thirds of russians want some kind of societal or political change that would raise living standards , some opinion polls show , and turnout in last year s parliamentary election fell to a post-soviet low .
in the kremlin , the thinking goes that a fresh face in the governor s seat may reduce the population s unhappiness and increase turnout in the election , natalya zubarevich , an academic , wrote in a paper for the carnegie moscow center .
putin has received a succession of newly-minted regional governors in his kremlin office live on state tv and hosted two groups of glum-looking ex-governors .
rotation is a natural and self-evident process , he told one group of five ex-governors in february .
putin s aides are also touting a program for new leaders .
applicants must be under 50 years of age and parts of the 9-month training program for top regional officials emphasize fitness and courage .
videos leaked to the rbc online news portal have shown participants leaping from a cliff into a river seven meters below and undergoing weapons and parachute training .
some kremlin watchers say the newcomers are all putin loyalists whom he can easily influence if he exits office in 2024 and assumes a father-of-the-nation role .
he s training up 30- and 40-year olds for whom he ll become a political father , sergei dorenko , the prominent head of a moscow radio station , told the komsomolskaya pravda daily .
he ll smooth their passage and give them the earth .