bogota ( reuters ) - pope francis on thursday urged colombians to shun vengeance after a bloody 50-year civil war but said leaders had to enact laws to end the darkness of injustice and social inequality that breeds violence .
at the last event of a packed day , the argentine pontiff said mass for a crowd estimated by colombian authorities at just over a million people in bogota s sprawling simon bolivar park .
under a light drizzle , he ended the day as he had begun it , urging colombians in his homily to put their differences behind them and beware the darkness of thirst for vengeance .
hours earlier , at the start of his first full day in the country , he had told government leaders in the courtyard of the presidential palace that all colombians should see peace as a long-term commitment and not allow it to be weakened by partisan politics .
colombians are deeply polarized as they prepare to receive 7,000 former fighters of the farc guerrilla group into society and aim to repair divisions after a war that killed more than 220,000 people and displaced millions over five decades .
many colombians are furious that under the 2016 peace deal , farc leaders accused of kidnapping and murder will avoid jail and may receive seats in congress as members of a political party .
president juan manuel santos , who attended both events and is the architect of the peace accord , has an approval rating of about 24 percent .
in both speeches , francis denounced the social inequality that still plagues colombia , which has extreme poverty in some rural areas .
at the morning event , he told leaders that just laws were needed to resolve the structural causes of poverty that lead to exclusion and violence , calling social inequality the root of social ills .
in the evening the leader of the world s roman catholics told colombians huddled on wet fields : here , as in other places , there is a thick darkness which threatens and destroys life - the darkness of injustice and social inequality .
as part of the peace agreement , the government agreed with the revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) to distribute more land to poor rural communities and to invest and bring development to war-torn areas .
the farc , which began as a peasant revolt in 1964 , has also pledged to help subsistence farmers switch from illegal crops like coca , the raw material that makes cocaine , to food .
we want to hear the message of love and peace , so that we open our hearts and leave hatred behind , said 54-year-old william soacha , a clothes salesman , waiting with his family under the rain for the pope s mass to begin .
the 80-year-old pope , who showed signs of fatigue by thursday night , has received a tumultuous welcome since his arrival on wednesday , with his motorcade having to stop or slow down often because of crowds mobbing the popemobile .
in his speech at the presidential palace , the pope quoted from the 1982 nobel prize acceptance speech of colombian writer gabriel garcia marquez about life and love being the proper response to oppression .
in an apparent reference to the late author s best-known work , one hundred years of solitude , he added : there has been too much hatred and vengeance .
the solitude of always being at loggerheads has been familiar for decades , and its smell has lingered for a hundred years ; we do not want any type of violence whatsoever to restrict or destroy one more life , he said .
he also prayed in the colonial cathedral before a painting of our lady of chiquinquira , the patron saint of overwhelmingly catholic colombia , before addressing a raucous crowd of young people .
he left a message in the cathedral s visitor book , writing : i come here as a witness of peace , of the peace that god wants for colombia .
this will be possible with the efforts of all .
he will visit the cities of villavicencio , medellin and cartagena before leaving for rome on sunday night .