melbourne ( reuters ) - australian lawmakers on thursday vowed to push through laws legalizing same-sex marriage by early december , after a national survey found the majority of australians favored the move .
both prime minister malcolm turnbull s liberal-national coalition government and the main opposition labor party said they were aiming to pass the law through parliament by dec. 7 .
that timeline was even earlier than the christmas deadline named by turnbull on wednesday after the country s statistics agency reported that 61.6 percent of voters surveyed favored marriage equality , with 38.4 percent against .
legislation was rushed into the national parliament s upper house senate late on wednesday , even as colorful celebrations in the major cities continued and congratulations rolled in from international supporters .
if the legislation passes as expected , australia will become the 26th nation to legalize same-sex marriage , a watershed for a country where it was still illegal in some states to engage in homosexual activity until 1997 .
the legislation faces some opposition from conservative lawmakers in the coalition , who have pledged to introduce amendments to protect religious freedom that would allow discrimination against same-sex couples .
attorney-general george brandis moved two amendments on wednesday , seeking to extend protection to civil celebrants to refuse to officiate same-sex weddings .
they ll move amendments and some of them will be accepted , turnbull told a radio station on thursday .
we re cracking ( getting ) on with it .
a rival bill proposed by the conservative faction that would have included widespread protections for religious objectors , including florists , bakers and musicians , to refuse service to same-sex couples was withdrawn after being widely condemned .
full debate on the bill , which was introduced by senator dean smith , a member of the coalition and the country s first openly gay lawmaker , is scheduled to begin on nov. 27 .
almost 80 percent of the country s eligible voters took part in the voluntary public survey - a higher voter turnout than britain s brexit vote and ireland s same-sex marriage referendum .