harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwean president robert mugabe s sacking of his deputy emmerson mnangagwa was part of a wider purge , state media said on tuesday , in a clear out analysts say is meant to neutralize any resistance to the political rise of his wife , grace .
mugabe sacked his long-time ally mnangagwa on monday for showing traits of disloyalty , abruptly removing a favorite to succeed the 93-year-old leader and boosting the likelihood of grace mugabe becoming his next deputy and potential successor .
state television zbc said the purge went beyond removing mnangagwa , 75 , as half of the ruling zanu-pf s national provincial executives separately met and passed resolutions expelling supporters of the former vice president on monday .
zanu-pf leaders in the eastern manicaland region called for the expulsion of cyber security minister patrick chinamasa , a former finance minister before he was moved in a cabinet reshuffle on oct. 9 , zbc said in an online report .
chinamasa , fellow cabinet ministers oppah muchinguri , chris mushohwe and 36 other party members and officials were accused of being mnangagwa allies who were disrespectful to mugabe .
the province recommended the expulsion of 39 individuals from the province who were involved with the mnangagwa-aligned lacoste faction , which is accused of not respecting the party s one center of power principle , zbc said .
the three cabinet ministers did not respond to calls for comment .
the process to weed out mnangagwa allies was repeated in four other provinces , the state herald newspaper said .
a senior zanu-pf official from matabeleland south province told reuters that the provincial executive there had on tuesday passed a resolution to fire 15 senior members linked to mnangagwa , including state security minister kembo mohadi .
remaining provinces were holding separate meetings on tuesday , two zanu-pf sources in harare told reuters .
recommendations by the provinces will be discussed by zanu-pf s supreme decision-making politburo at its sitting next week and if adopted will seal the fate of the officials .
international crisis group s southern africa senior consultant piers pigou said purges of zanu-pf members seen as supportive of mnangagwa would neutralize any potential fight-back .
survival is going to be the name of the game for many people , he said .
five zanu-pf provinces and the youth wing also recommended that grace become vice president , zbc said , opening the way for the first lady to serve next to her husband in government .
grace has said zanu-pf plans to change its charter this month to allow mugabe to appoint a female vice president at a special congress set for mid-december .