washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential frontrunner donald trump often tells crowds at his campaign rallies that he doesn ’ t need outside financial support to get to the white house , but some of his fans are starting to feel differently .
donors to an independent political spending group formed to promote trump ’ s candidacy said in interviews on sunday they were worried by reports describing the millions of dollars trump ’ s opponents are spending to attack him .
they said they admired the billionaire businessman ’ s professed financial independence but thought a cash boost would help keep his fight for the republican u.s. nomination fair .
so 767 people sent in small sums - $ 25 here , $ 100 there - hoping it would help prepare him to face his many , moneyed foes .
“ he needs all the help he can get , ” said diane abair , 83 , a real estate agent in redding , california , who sent $ 50 to the group , great america pac .
she said she didn ’ t think her donation tarnished trump ’ s claim that he won ’ t have to pander as president to any special interest groups because he ’ s not backed by big donors .
“ i ’ m not somebody that he can be beholden to , ” she said .
trump is facing an onslaught of attacks from other republicans alarmed by his success , even after controversial statements like his call to temporarily ban muslims from entering the united states .
big donors who demurred for months have begun to spend heavily to defeat him .
this poses a new challenge for the candidate , who has so far spent less than his opponents .
between june and february , he loaned his campaign $ 24 million and raised nearly $ 10 million more from small donors .
hope hicks , trump ’ s spokeswoman , did not respond to a request for comment .
great america raised just under $ 74,000 during the first two months of 2016 , according to regulatory filings .
its co-chair , eric beach , said it had taken in enough since then to commit to spending $ 1 million on pro-trump ads .
beach , a california businessman and political strategist , gave $ 25,000 .
“ when it comes time for the general election i hope the pac has got some money left because he ’ s going to need it , ” said scott abadie , 54 , a veterinarian in new orleans who donated $ 100 to great america pac .
the group gives $ 5 of each donation it receives directly to trump ’ s campaign .
according to co-founder amy kremer , this allows each donor to be named individually on financial reports .
“ they too can be recognized for even a small donation , ” she said .