madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s leaders said on saturday they would not accept direct rule imposed on the region by the spanish government , as a political crisis that has rattled the economy and raised fears of prolonged unrest showed no signs of easing .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy announced earlier on saturday he would invoke special constitutional powers to fire the regional government and force a new election to counter the region s move towards independence .
catalan president carles puigdemont , who made a symbolic declaration of independence on oct. 10 after a referendum to secede , called rajoy s moves the worst attacks against the people of catalonia since spain s military dictatorship .
it is the first time since spain s return to democracy that the central government has used its powers to seize control of a regional administration .
rajoy said it was necessary to end a crisis that has fractured the country and prompted spain to reduce growth forecasts for the euro zone s fourth-largest economy .
after taking party in peaceful demonstration , puigdemont expressed his rejection of madrid s move , but stopped short of saying he would make good his threat to push ahead with the independence bid before direct rule takes effect .
i ask the ( catalan ) parliament to meet in a plenary session during which we , the representatives of the citizens sovereignty , will be able to decide over this attempt to liquidate our government and our democracy , and act in consequence , puigdemont said in a televised address .
rajoy , who acted with backing from the main opposition party in madrid and king felipe , needs the authorization of spain s upper house of parliament to impose direct rule .
our objective is to restore the law and a normal cohabitation among citizens , which has deteriorated a lot , continue with the economic recovery , which is under threat today in catalonia , and celebrate elections in a situation of normality , he said .
the senate vote that would give madrid full control of catalonia s finances , police and public media and curb the powers of the regional parliament for up to six months is scheduled for next friday .
that could give the independence movement room to maneuver .
the regional parliament s speaker , carme forcadell , said she would not accept madrid s move and accused rajoy of a coup .
prime minister rajoy wants the parliament of catalonia to stop being a democratic parliament , and we will not allow this to happen , forcadell said in a televised speech .
the assembly is expected to decide on monday whether to hold a session to formally proclaim the republic of catalonia .
catalan media have said puigdemont could dissolve the regional parliament and call elections by next friday .
under catalan law , those elections would take place within two months .
that would enable puigdemont to go the polls earlier than envisaged by rajoy , who spoke of a six-month timetable , and to exploit the anti-madrid sentiment running high in the region .
pro-independence groups have previously mustered more than 1 million people onto the streets in protest at madrid s refusal to negotiate a solution .
puigdemont and his cabinet colleagues joined a demonstration in barcelona , wearing yellow ribbons in support of two senior independence campaigners who have been jailed on charges of sedition .
freedom !
freedom !
tens of thousands of protesters chanted as they waived independence flags and signs reading defending our land is not a crime , and let s proclaim the republic .
( rajoy ) triggering this article will not resolve anything , said 38-year-old builder abel fernandez , attending the demonstration with a pro-independence flag tied around his neck .
they won t be able to keep quiet the half of catalonia that is in favor of independence and those who favor the right to decide .
catalan authorities said about 90 percent of those who took part in the referendum on oct. 1 voted for independence .
but only 43 percent of the electorate participated , with most opponents of secession staying at home .
the independence push has met with strong opposition across the rest of spain and divided catalonia itself .
it has also prompted hundreds of firms to move their headquarters out of the region .
rajoy on saturday urged them to stay .
his center-right people s party ( pp ) government has insisted that puigdemont has broken the law several times in pushing for independence .
it received unequivocal backing from the opposition socialist party .
differences with the pp on our territorial unity ?
none !
said socialist leader pedro sanchez .
heavy-handed police tactics to shut down the referendum were condemned by human rights groups , and secessionists accused madrid of taking political prisoners .