this is a shocking story of corruption and collusion even for a clinton .
hillary should ve been locked up for this one but instead , her campaign finance director takes the fall .
how ironic that hillary would admit to a top donor that she doesn t do emails because of being under so many investigations .
that must be a badge of honor for a democrat .no matter the size of the scandal , hillary and bill always find some magical way to escape prosecution .
the scandal seen in the undercover video below shows movie producer peter paul discussing emails with hillary clinton .
paul claims he spent $ 2 million to produce a major fundraising event for hillary .
peter paul admits he hosted the event in order to gain access to the clintons .
the campaign laws that were in effect at that time limited campaign gifts to $ 2,000.watch peter paul s stunning story below : peter paul s whistleblower site explains the timeline and the significance of the smoking gun video.after [ paul ] began to blow the whistle in march , 2001 , to four us prosecutors on hillary s role in the false fec reports filed by her campaign that hid more than $ 1.2 million in his expenditures , the attorney general [ s office ] launched a four year investigation leading to the indictment and trial of hillary s finance director , david rosen , in may 2005 , for election law fraud .
rosen was solely indicted for providing information that only he knew was false , to hillary s treasurer for reporting to the fec the federal judge , howard matz , ( appointed by the clintons in 1998 ) who officiated over the subsequent trial of rosen in los angeles , made ethically questionable statements to the jury , prior to the commencement of the trial , stating unequivocally that hillary clinton was not involved in any direct way whatsoever in the illegal fundraiser on fox news in 2005 , doug schoen , a former clinton adviser , said that , the prosecutors and defense attorneys said she is not involved prosecutors made the decision that mr. rosen should be tried , it s a fact-based case .
it has nothing to do with senator clinton .
the video appears to directly counter these assertions and instead links hillary and her aide to the planning of the fundraiser .
hillary clinton is not a part of this case in fact , if clinton participated in the planning of the fundraising event , it : would make paul s substantial contributions a direct donation to her senate campaign rather than her joint fundraising committee , violating federal statutes that limit hard money contributions to a candidate to $ 2,000 per person .
knowingly accepting or soliciting $ 25,000 or more in a calendar year is a felony carrying a prison sentence of up to five years in the tape , clinton is heard via speakerphone thanking paul , business partner stan lee and other colleagues for their efforts in putting together the fundraiser she also describes the role of longtime aide kelly craighead as assisting in day-to-day involvement in preparation for the event as her liaison with paul and his producers craighead , clinton says , talks all the time with paul , so she ll be the person to convey whatever i need .
the aide s hands-on role is significant , because the law also implicates a candidate if any of his or her agents are involved in coordinating expenditures with a donor in another portion of the tape , clinton is heard discussing her direct solicitation of a large contribution from the entertainer cher .
paul s legal team , the u.s. justice foundation , argues the value of cher s performance alone vastly exceeded the fec limits the hillary clinton felony video the video itself is fascinating .
the preface to the tape states that it shows hillary clinton in the process of committing at least four or five felonies under federal election law -via : doug ross journalpeter paul filed and won a civil suit against the clinton s in 2010 .
the segment below is from the supreme court precedent setting film hillary the movie by citizens united , shows the polygraph test taken by hillary s largest donor , peter paul , corroborating his claims the clintons promised to have bill clinton work with his public company in exchange for paul paying more than $ 1.2 million to elect hillary to her first political office .
this video supports the allegations in the civil fraud suit filed by paul in 2003 and settled with the clintons in 2010 .