mexico city ( reuters ) - an indigenous woman backed by mexico s rebel zapatista movement registered on saturday to run as an independent candidate in next year s presidential election , adding to a growing list of hopefuls bucking established political parties .
maria de jesus patricio martinez is the spokeswoman for the national indigenous congress , the political arm of the zapatista national liberation army ( ezln ) , and in may was picked to be the group s 2018 presidential candidate .
local media reported that after patricio martinez registered with the national electoral institute ( ine ) , she pledged not to accept any funding from the government to run her campaign .
mexico s major political parties have struggled to gain support in recent years , and voter surveys show all presidential hopefuls struggling to win support from as much as a third of the electorate .
the front-runner in most polls is former mexico city mayor and two-time presidential runner-up andres manuel lopez obrador , a leftist with nationalistic leanings .
the ruling centrist institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) of president enrique pena nieto , who is barred by law from seeking a second term , has yet to pick a candidate .
already , more than 10 first-time independent candidates have registered to run .
three of those contenders failed to meet initial requirements , according to the ine .
also on saturday , maverick nuevo leon governor jaime rodriguez , a former pri member , expressed his interest to register his own independent run for the presidency .
last week , armando rios piter , an independent former member of the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) , formally registered his candidacy , further crowding the pool of anti-establishment candidates .
independent presidential aspirants have four months to gather 866,593 signatures , representing 1 percent of the electorate , in at least 17 regions of mexico to qualify as an independent candidate ahead of the july 2018 vote .
patricio martinez , a traditional healer and native nahua speaker , is originally from the central mexican state of jalisco .
her support from the zapatistas marks a more visible turn for the insurgent movement , which has faded in recent years .
just after the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) went into force in 1994 , the ezln led armed indigenous insurgents in a declaration of war against the government in southern chiapas state .
a 12-day battle with the army claimed at least 140 lives and become an early symbol for supporters of the anti-globalization movement .