attendees at the 2017 conservative political action conference were seen waving russian flags with trump stamped on them .
whether this was a trolling operation remains to be seen but the flag wavers were reportedly trump supporters .
it s a tough call with conservatives remaining unconcerned over trump s ties to russia , even though the alleged president is plagued with scandals.reporter peter hamby shared the news on twitter .
staffers at cpac staffers rushed over to confiscate the flags.crowd at cpac waving these little pro-trump flags that look exactly like the russian flag .
staffers quickly come around to confiscate them .
pic.twitter.com/yhppkwfcnc peter hamby ( @ peterhamby ) february 24 , 2017when asked by a twitter user if the flag wavers were protesters , hamby said they were unwitting college kids .
no .
unwitting college kids .
https : //t.co/7iwxb66wa5 peter hamby ( @ peterhamby ) february 24 , 2017on the air , msnbc s kasie hunt said , in the room there was back and forth about a section of the crowd that appeared to be waving russian flags .
i just want to clear that up .
it seems that people who were waving them may have been unwitting .
they appeared to be people who were celebrating president trump here , she added .
they were participating in chants of usa , usa .
while chanting usa !
usa !
usa ! , the trump supporters literally waved russian flags .
that s totally not weird at all.wait so some trump supporters were waving russian flags while chanting usa !
usa !
at the cpac convention ? ? ? ?
wth ? ? ?
? ?
james jackson ( @ mahantaji ) february 24 , 2017 # cpac crowd waving pro-trump flags that look exactly like # russia flag .
you can t make this stuff up .
pic.twitter.com/t2pzdoxvaf abraham white ( @ abwhite7 ) february 24 , 2017this is not a joke : trump s cpac flags look exactly like little russian flags .
? ? coincidence ?
pic.twitter.com/i2iapeexej mikel jollett ( @ mikel_jollett ) february 24 , 2017putin s gop at cpac are now waving russian flags with trump printed on them .
he s just rubbing our noses in it now , no pretence whatsoever pic.twitter.com/u3lmrp7bf2 a once great nation ( @ usaredorchestra ) february 24 , 2017trump fans at cpac wave mini russian flags during trump s speechhttps : //t.co/mcoisqbogq pic.twitter.com/tymd5qvasf sky palma ( @ deadstatetweets ) february 24 , 2017also seen , was an attendee wearing a make russia great again t-shirt.spotted : a guy wearing a make russia great again t-shirt .
# cpac2017 sarah posner ( @ sarahposner ) february 24 , 2017trump at cpac .america .america .then you see russian flags all throughout the crowd ? ? ?
traitors ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/skdwql7pzb beckoh ( @ beckoh ) february 24 , 2017trump s # cpac speech : an abject nightmare come-to-life where americans proudly wave russian flags pic.twitter.com/tlc4i8rcqt lincoln park ( @ linc0lnpark ) february 24 , 2017cpac attendees waving little trump russian flags is the first honest thing i ve seen come out of # cpac2017 livingblue ( @ livingblueinred ) february 24 , 2017those pro-trump flags at cpac look a lot like russian tricolors .
?
pic.twitter.com/idbnxx2qbg ian bremmer ( @ ianbremmer ) february 24 , 2017this is really bad timing for trump .
explosive revelations were reported yesterday stating that the fbi refused the white house s request to publicly knock down media reports regarding communications between trump s associates and russians known to u.s. intelligence during the 2016 presidential campaign .
that exact type of behavior led to richard nixon s resignation in 1974.image via twitter .