new york ( reuters ) - president donald trump is more popular with likely voters than he is with the general public , according to a reuters/ipsos poll that underscores why republican lawmakers have largely stuck with the polarizing president despite his plunging approval ratings .
the poll , released on wednesday , shows he polls better among people who voted in the 2016 presidential election than with the overall u.s. adult population – a group that includes both voters and non-voters .
only about 60 percent of the voting-age public took part in last year ’ s election .
in october , for example , 44 percent of 2016 voters said they approved of trump ’ s performance in office , compared with 37 percent of the general population .
among republicans , 82 percent of voters approved of trump in october , compared with 75 percent of all republicans .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/2zoic1a ) some 85 percent of those who voted for trump in 2016 said they would do so again , the poll found .
the findings suggest that republican candidates in the 2018 congressional elections who shun the president risk alienating his followers , republican strategists and political scientists said .
at the same time , those who embrace him in the early primary races that choose party candidates risk losing moderate voters in the general election .
“ it ’ s very difficult for any republican candidate to distance themselves from trump , ” said michael mcdonald , an expert on voter turnout at the university of florida .
that dilemma played out in virginia on tuesday , when ed gillespie , the republican candidate in the governor ’ s race , was soundly beaten by his democratic opponent .
gillespie had adopted some of trump ’ s hardline positions but had avoided campaigning with the unpopular president .
gillespie ’ s strategy had been closely watched within the party to see if it could provide a template for other republican candidates in 2018 , when control of the house of representatives and the senate will be up for grabs .
gillespie ’ s loss sparked debate among republicans on the way forward on wednesday .
trump suggested in a tweet that the outcome could have been different had gillespie fully embraced him , but critics pointed out that exit polls showed that a third of virginian voters had turned out to signal displeasure with trump , double the number who cast ballots to express support for the president .
tuesday ’ s results clearly signal that opposition to trump has grown , even though he remains popular among 2016 republican voters , said elaine kamarck , an expert in presidential politics at the brookings institution .
for republicans , “ the hurdle won ’ t be with getting out the base , ” kamarck said .
“ it will be in getting anyone else to vote for you ” in elections where republican voters are outnumbered .
reuters/ipsos was able to compare the opinions of voters with the general public by creating two separate surveys : a poll of voters and a poll of the public .
for the voter poll , reuters/ipsos reconnected with people who took its exit poll on nov. 8 , 2016 , the day of the u.s. presidential election .
those voters were sent additional questionnaires in may , july and october that asked if they approved or disapproved of the president .
their responses were then compared with the results of a separate survey – the reuters/ipsos national tracking poll – that surveys all adults in the united states .
in may and july , the results of both polls were nearly identical , with about 40 percent of voters and the general adult population expressing approval for the president .
the two polls diverged in october , however , with voters expressing stronger levels of approval than the general public .
jan leighley , an expert on political behavior at american university , said it makes sense that trump is more popular among people who voted in the 2016 election .
they were more likely to be white and less likely to identify with democrats than the general public , she said .
the reuters/ipsos poll is conducted online in english throughout the country .
some 1,206 of those 2016 voters took the survey between may 10-12 , followed by 1,296 who took the july 11-12 survey and 1,195 who took the survey between oct. 18-19 .
individual responses were weighted so they would reflect the latest population estimates , as well as the support their presidential pick received in the election .
each of the voter polls had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group and 5 percentage points for republican voters .