beijing ( reuters ) - a prominent chinese general under investigation for corruption has committed suicide , state media said on tuesday , the latest development in a sweeping anti-graft campaign that has shaken the armed forces .
zhang yang , a former member of the powerful central military commission ( cmc ) , was being investigated over links to disgraced generals guo boxiong and xu caihou , the official xinhua news agency said .
the investigation into zhang , 66 , had verified that he gravely violated discipline , was suspected of giving and taking bribes and the origin of a huge amount of assets was unclear , xinhua said , citing the commission .
on the afternoon of nov. 23 , zhang yang hanged himself at home , the agency said .
a suicide by an officer who held such a senior post is rare , though experts have said the frequency of officials from various levels of government taking their own lives may have increased as a result of the intensity of the corruption crackdown since president xi jinping took power five years ago .
a commentary carried on both the defense ministry and military s official websites said the cmc decided on aug. 28 to investigate zhang , who had lost his moral bottom line and used suicide as a means to escape punishment from the party and country , an extremely abominable act .
this former general of high position and great power used this shameful way to end his own life , the commentary said .
he would exhort loyalty but be corrupt behind others backs , a typical two-faced person , it said .
sources had told reuters that zhang , who had served as director of the military s political work department , had been subject to an investigation , but the government had not announced it .
zhang s downfall was foreshadowed in september when he failed to make a list of 303 military delegates to the ruling communist party s key five-yearly congress , along with fellow cmc member fang fenghui .
both men were replaced at the congress , held last month , as part of a sweeping military leadership reshuffle in which xi install trusted allies in key positions .
china s military , the world s largest and undergoing an ambitious modernization campaign , has been an important focus of xi s deep-seated fight against corruption .
serving and retired officers have said graft in the armed forces is so pervasive it could undermine china s ability to wage war .
dozens of officers have been investigated and jailed , including xu and guo , both former vice chairmen of the commission , which xi heads .
xu once ran the political work department , which is in charge of imbuing political thought and makes military personnel decisions , and along with guo was accused of taking bribes in exchange for promotions .
guo was jailed for life last year .
xu died of cancer in 2015 before he could face trial .