riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia , the birthplace of islam , is to monitor interpretations of the prophet mohammad s teachings to prevent them being used to justify violence or terrorism , the culture and information ministry has said .
in a decree , king salman ordered the establishment of an authority to scrutinize uses of the hadith - accounts of the sayings , actions or habits of the prophet that are used by preachers and jurists to support teachings and edicts on all aspects of life .
the ministry said late on tuesday that the body s aim would be to eliminate fake and extremist texts and any texts that contradict the teachings of islam and justify the committing of crimes , murders and terrorist acts .
the body will be based in medina and overseen by a council of senior islamic scholars from around the world , according to the decree .
the ministry offered no specific details of how it would work in practice .
islamist groups such as islamic state and al qaeda have used interpretations of hadiths - numbered in the thousands and pored over by scholars for centuries - to justify violence and to urge supporters to carry out attacks .
saudi arabia s approach to religious doctrine is important because of its symbolic position as the birthplace of islam , while its oil exports allow it to fund mosques abroad .
its ultra-conservative wahhabi clergy have been close to the al saud dynasty since the mid-18th century , offering it islamic legitimacy in return for control over mosques and universities .
the traditional wahhabi doctrine favors a strict version of islamic law and a return to early muslim practices , and views shi ites as heretics .
but senior clergy have denounced militant islamist doctrines such as those of al qaeda or islamic state , while the government , which vets clerics in saudi arabia s 70,000 mosques , has sacked many for encouraging violence or sedition .
foreign minister adel al-jubeir said last month that thousands of extremist clerics had been dismissed , although he gave no timeframe .
the government has begun to promote an alternative narrative of saudi identity that keeps wahhabism as a central focus , but still allows secular themes such as nationalism and cultural heritage that predates islam to shine through .
the ministry said the body would serve islam by creating a solid scientific reference to vet and verify the authenticity of hadiths , which are second in importance only to the koran in islam .
it did not say what form the reference would take .
the decree issued by the king , whose official title is custodian of the two holy mosques - islam s most revered places in mecca and medina - said the body would be chaired by sheikh mohammed bin hassan al-sheikh , a member of the council of senior scholars , which serves as saudi arabia s highest religious body .