barack obama s white college girlfriend sheila miyoshi jager , who is now a professor at oberlin college , tells a story of a very calculating man who was not about to let her race get in the way of his political ambitions : in the winter of 86 , when we visited my parents , he asked me to marry him , she told garrow .
her parents were opposed , less for any racial reasons ( barack came across to them like a white , middle-class kid , a close family friend said ) than for concern about obama s professional prospects , and because her mother thought sheila , two years obama s junior , was too young .
not yet , sheila told barack .
but they stayed together.in early 1987 , when obama was 25 , she sensed a change .
he became .
.
.
so very ambitious very suddenly , she told garrow .
i remember very clearly when this transformation happened , and i remember very specifically that by 1987 , about a year into our relationship , he already had his sights on becoming president .
discussions of race and politics suddenly overwhelmed sheila and barack s relationship .
the marriage discussions dragged on and on , but now they were clouded by obama s torment over this central issue of his life .
.
.
race and identity , sheila recalls .
the resolution of his black identity was directly linked to his decision to pursue a political career , she said.at harvard , the obama the world has come to know took clearer form .
in his late 20s now and slightly older than most classmates , he had a compulsion to orate in class and summarize other people s arguments for them .
in law school the only thing i would have voted for obama to do would have been to shut up , one student told garrow .
classmates created a obamanometer , ranking how pretentious someone s remarks are in class .
if garrow is indeed correct in concluding that obama s romantic choices were influenced by his political ambitions , it is no small irony that michelle obama became one of those most skeptical about obama s political prospects , and most dubious about his will to rise .
she constantly discourages his efforts toward elective office and resents the time he spends away from her and their two young daughters .
obama vented to a friend how often michelle would talk about money .
why don t you go out and get a good job ?
you re a lawyer you can make all the money we need , she would tell him , as the couple struggled with student loans and the demands of family and political life .
( garrow sides with michelle , highlighting how , on the day after sasha was born , barack went downtown for a meeting .
) as he considered a u.s. senate bid , obama s team commissioned a poll that covered , among other questions , his name .
barry , as he was known from childhood into his early college years , polled better than barack , but obama never considered resurrecting the old name .
he had made his choice , of identity and image , long ago .
sheila recalls that one of the few times obama became genuinely angry with her was in hawaii , when she heard relatives calling him barry , and she did so as well , just for fun .
he became irrationally furious , she said .
he told me that under no circumstances was i ever to use that name with him .
there was no going back.the sense of destiny is not unusual among those who become president .
( see clinton , bill . )
but it created complications .
obama believed that he had a calling , garrow writes , and in his case it was coupled with a heightened awareness that to pursue it he had to fully identify as african american .
obama had considered donald trump long before either man won the presidency , and brushed off his existence as a misguided national fantasy .
americans have a continuing normative commitment to the ideals of individual freedom and mobility , obama wrote in the old harvard book manuscript , now more than 25 years old .
the depth of this commitment may be summarily dismissed as the unfounded optimism of the average american i may not be donald trump now , but just you wait ; if i don t make it , my children will .
for entire story : the washington post