new delhi ( reuters ) - the indian government on thursday told the supreme court that rohingya refugees were a threat to national security , pushing back against condemnation of its plans to deport them .
india s top court is hearing a challenge to prime minister narendra modi s government s decision to deport rohingya muslims , filed by two rohingyas living in delhi who fled their village in myanmar s western rakhine state about six years ago .
the decision to deport rohingyas comes as myanmar s military crackdown in rakhine has forced hundreds of thousands of rohingyas to seek shelter in bangladesh , in a process the u.n. has described as ethnic cleansing .
myanmar says its forces are carrying out their legitimate duty to restore order after guerrilla attacks on aug. 25 on security posts and an army camp in which about a dozen people were killed .
close to 40,000 rohingya muslims live in india after fleeing myanmar over the past decade .
nearly 15,000 have received refugee documentation , according to the united nations , but india wants to deport them all .
rohingyas are denied citizenship in buddhist-majority myanmar and regarded as illegal immigrants , despite claiming roots that date back centuries .
some groups allied to modi s bharatiya janata party have stepped up calls for rohingyas to leave , and modi said last week that india shared myanmar s concerns about extremist violence in rakhine state .
on thursday , a senior lawyer representing india s government told the supreme court that the state considers that rohingyas are a threat to national security .
intelligence agencies suspect that rohingya muslim leaders in india are in touch with pakistan-based militant groups , the lawyer said .
the lawyer declined to be named because an affidavit the home ministry is preparing to file with the court has not yet been finalised .
bangladesh is also growing hostile to the rohingya , more than 400,000 of whom live there after fleeing myanmar since the early 1990s .
from bangladesh , some rohingyas have crossed into india .
aid groups and human rights activists have criticized the plans to expel rohingyas , and some lawyers say deportation would violate india s constitution .
india s supreme court is expected to start hearing the case on monday .
india this week sent 53 tonnes of relief materials to bangladesh for rohingyas fleeing myanmar .