when trump promised to drain the swamp , he surely wasn t talking about the vile , horrible place that is his twitter timeline .
on thursday , the donald took a break from attacking vanity fair for being mean to him by telling the truth to take aim at the president and apparently , his aim was so terrible that he ended up attacking the english language instead.once again railing against the horribly unfair way people are focusing on the confirmed fact that not only did russia interfere with our election with the intent of getting him elected something he asked them to do in front of millions of people while campaigning but vladimir putin ( a man trump once said he hoped would be his new best friend ) personally directed the operation , trump decided to attack the white house next over the revelations .
the media tries so hard to make my move to the white house , as it pertains to my business , so complex when actually it isn t !
he wrote , completely neglecting to mention that he is a walking , talking conflict of interest.the media tries so hard to make my move to the white house , as it pertains to my business , so complex when actually it is n't !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 15 , 2016but it was his next tweet the one he deleted that provided the internet with the day s entertainment : trump , of course , deleted the tweet and sent out the corrected version of his attack on the white house for its decision to not get involved in the discussion until after the election ( can you imagine trump s reaction if obama had pointed out that putin was doing the donald a bunch of favors before we voted ?
) , but the internet is an unforgiving place if one is as stupid as donald trump , who still refuses to concede that russia did indeed hack the election.if russia , or some other entity , was hacking , why did the white house wait so long to act ?
why did they only complain after hillary lost ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 15 , 2016naturally , people are not willing to let him live the general stupidity of the tweet down : @ realdonaldtrump if the russians helped hillary , & you won popular vote by 3m , but she won the election you would 've started a civil war .
rahul sood ( @ rahulsood ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump that 's the difference between you and @ potus .
he usually thinks about the consequences of his words .
you should too .
rahul sood ( @ rahulsood ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump because you would have squealed like a baby and whined about unfairness if hacking had been revealed before the election .
the socialist party ( @ officialspgb ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump the internet is forever , sport .
* wait pic.twitter.com/8si3ngeotn jade helm commander ( @ anomaly100 ) december 15 , 2016 .
@ realdonaldtrump it breaks my heart to see you so defensive , but sweet donny , everyone waited until there was a comprehensive cia report .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump get off twitter and do some real work you bizarre tangerine jizzflute technicallyron ( @ technicallyron ) december 15 , 2016i actually remember many people complaining when you , @ realdonaldtrump , specifically asked russia to hack hillary 's e-mails .
where were you ?
david g. mcafee ( @ davidgmcafee ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump this tweet makes way more sense since you fixed the typo !
for a second , i was confused & thought you were a fucking idiot !
jon bershad ( @ jonbershad ) december 15 , 2016 .
@ realdonaldtrump is it such a dumb question you had to tweet it twice ?
they were talking about it for months .
how ab condemning putin ?
isaac saul ( @ ike_saul ) december 15 , 2016 @ davidjelizondo `` why did the white house waite so long to act '' must be his short stubby fingers chris jackson ( @ chriscjackson ) december 15 , 2016 @ metalollie @ realdonaldtrump why did he wait so long to learn to spell 'wait ' ?
judith sawyer ( @ judsawyer ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump waite , did n't you tweet this earlier .. ?
graham love ( @ glove39 ) december 15 , 2016just an fyi @ realdonaldtrump , `` if i really did it , why did it take you so long to catch me ? ''
is what a guilty child says when caught .
d. danger lieblein ( @ douglaslieblein ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump are you admitting something here ?
chad pinkston ( @ chadpinkston ) december 15 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump because dummy you would have been screaming that the white house was interfering with the election .
mikeoatway ( @ mikeoatway1 ) december 15 , 2016it s interesting that trump chose the phrase waite to complain .
it s almost as though he who , once again , very publicly asked russia to hack his political opponents knew that vladimir putin was spearheading an effort to do that and more.maybe the donald got the wish he expressed in his 2013 tweet in which he , a hopeful little billionaire , dreamed of being new besties with vlad putin : do you think putin will be going to the miss universe pageant in november in moscow if so , will he become my new best friend ?
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 19 , 2013featured image via getty images ( drew angerer ) /screengrab