it s no secret that bill maher , comedian extraordinaire and host of hbo s real time , is no fan of gop presidential nominee donald trump .
so , of course he couldn t resist live tweeting the entire first general election presidential debate between trump and democratic nominee hillary clinton .
the whole thing was one brilliant insult against trump after another .
here are a few of the better tweets : gop won expectations game when it nominated an orangutan .
as long as he does n't fling his poop , `` surprisingly dignified trump last night '' bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016want to see hillary come out and say `` the russians just handed me your tax returns '' just to see if trump bolts bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016trump adjusting his spanx right now , and one final pass with the can of final net bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016trump proud of himself that he called her `` secretary clinton '' as opposed to what , bitchula ?
bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016trump .
wearing a tie made in china , just sayin ' bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016ok , i hope she 's playing rope-a-dope , and i do mean dope , because i 'm getting tired of this vile nincompoop bullying and lieing and its early bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016trump : `` being in iraq was a disaster , but we shld take the oil '' we wld have to be back in iraq to take the oil !
they wo n't give it to a drone bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016btw , you know a charge agst trump is 100 % provably true when he interrupts with `` wrong ! ''
# debates bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016and , of course , for his closers , maher had to do what he s been doing on his show ever since it became clear who the nominees would be , and hit those who refuse to vote for hillary : however this comes out , i have so little respect for the electorate just that its this close .
she 's right , she shld be 50 points ahead .
bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016but he definitely saved his best line for last , as he called trump his favorite phrase : negative ads in a political race are `` not nice ? ''
there 's no crying in politics , you # whinylittlebitch !
bill maher ( @ billmaher ) september 27 , 2016let s face it , no matter how trump s surrogates try to spin this and they are already out in force doing their damndest he lost this thing tonight , badly .
he made an absolute fool of himself .
there s just no way around it .
of course , his uneducated core supporters will still vote for him , but there s no way this one got the undecided voters into trump s corner .
the one thing tonight did do , though , is give us plenty of entertainment.featured image via sara d. davis/getty images