atherton , calif./washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama on thursday called the supreme court ’ s decision to delay implementation of his administration ’ s clean power plan “ unusual ” and expressed confidence that the white house would prevail .
“ we ’ re very confident that we ’ re on strong legal footing here , ” he told a group of democratic donors in california in his first public remarks about the move .
in washington , gina mccarthy , obama ’ s head of the environmental protection agency , told state energy and environmental regulators that the ruling “ is not going to slow us down. ” the supreme court on tuesday delivered a blow to the plan , the centerpiece of obama ’ s climate change policy and backbone of his administration ’ s commitment to cut greenhouse gas emissions pledged last year in paris .
obama said the supreme court had in fact required the epa to regulate carbon emissions under the clean air act if they were shown , as scientists had , to be harmful to public health .
he said some people had commented to him in recent days that the supreme court ’ s decision had struck down the clean power plan .
“ that ’ s not true .
so don ’ t despair , people , ” he said .
mccarthy told state regulators tasked with complying with the rule she is confident the plan will survive the legal challenges and tried to boost morale among the officials .
“ i want you to do as i am doing , ” mccarthy told the crowd .
“ pick myself up , rededicate myself and tell the people in this country that we are there to serve them , ” she said , while shaking her fists in the air .
the supreme court stay was a “ small pause ” in what has been a years-long effort of the epa and states to get the clean power plan off the ground , she said .
the plan was designed to lower carbon emissions from u.s. power plants by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels .
the supreme court ordered a delay in implementation until legal challenges to the regulation are completed .
“ this supreme court has said the environmental protection agency is required to regulate carbon emissions if it ’ s a threat to the public health .
and we clearly can show that that ’ s the case , ” obama said .
fighting climate change is critical to the president ’ s legacy as he completes his final year in office .