wuhan , china ( reuters ) - in the mid 1980s , as a wave of economic reforms swept china , qi jing s parents fled the poverty of their farming village to seek opportunity in the bustling city of wuhan .
her father found a job as a glass cutter , and later as a security guard , while her mother took care of their home .
thirty years later , in a country transformed , qi headed in the reverse direction in search of her own future .
soft-spoken and rail thin , qi grew up a city girl whose only inkling of the hardship her parents and grandparents knew came during annual trips back to their village in henan province .
in college , qi majored in english and grew to love romantic british literature .
one of her favorite books was jane austen s emma .
she was attracted by the main character , a woman of strength and individuality .
she wanted to study sociology in graduate school , but failed to make it into the school of her choice .
instead , she applied for a program to turn fresh graduates into rural officials .
she had been a red-scarf-wearing young pioneer as a child - like almost all her classmates - and then a member of the communist youth league in her teens .
when a college professor suggested she take the next step and join the communist party it seemed like the logical thing to do .
as did going to work for the party .
i ve all along been in touch with what my advantages are , where my abilities lie , she said .
and in going through certain experiences , she added , i ve discovered what kind of profession i m suited to .
this is how my dream has become more and more clear .
qi moved from wuhan , in central china , to a nearby village to be the assistant to the local party boss .
it was an eye-opening experience , with a heavy work load and problems far more complex than she d imagined .
two years later she moved to putuan , a rural township further afield , to run the local branch of the communist youth league , the organization in charge of cultivating future party members .
i really wanted to explore the flashpoints of humanity .
in college it was all theoretical .
the villagers posed complicated challenges , but sometimes so did her superiors in the system in which she worked .
she felt she had a more open mind , and more creative ideas than some older officials up the chain of command .
last year , she helped the township organize its first lotus flower festival to attract tourists .
she contacted a photo studio and spent her own money and a weekend having photos of herself taken in traditional robes , hair extensions flowing , among the lotus fields .
she posted the photos on the messaging app wechat .
local media picked up the story , dubbing her the goddess party secretary - and the pictures went viral .
but five years into her new life in the countryside and approaching the age of 30 , qi feels like she s nearing a crossroads .
she would like to find a boyfriend and get married , but her attempts to date rural boys haven t panned out .
a long-distance relationship with someone in wuhan , an hour away , doesn t seem practical .
i used to be fairly optimistic , but now i m neutral , she said .
at a certain age , one s opportunities get fewer and fewer , especially for women when it comes to your work and family choices .
you must face them all .