scott and clint eastwood are a great father/son duo in their latest interview with esquire magazine .
the banter between the two is so good that you just know they have a close relationship .
they look so much alike it s pretty amazing.the best parts of the interview are clint s honest assessment of the p * ssy generation in true eastwood style , he calls out all of the people who re calling everything under the sun racist .
you ve got ta love his common sense attitude when he tells those offended liberals to just get over it .
he s a trump guy and totally understands where trump is coming .
you ll love his assessment of hillary it s dead on ! in an interview with esquire published wednesday , the actor/director/producer said young america which he has dubbed both the kiss-ass and pussy generation needs to stop throwing the word racist around so freely .
trump s onto something , because secretly everybody s getting tired of political correctness , kissing up , he said .
we re really in a pussy generation .
everybody s walking on eggshells .
we see people accusing people of being racist and all kinds of stuff .
when i grew up , those things weren t called racist .
eastwood also said that he isn t inclined to support democratic nominee hillary clinton if she continues upholding the status quo .
i d have to go for trump you know , cause she s declared that she s gon na follow in obama s footsteps , he said .
there s been just too much funny business on both sides of the aisle .
she s made a lot of dough out of being a politician .
i gave up dough to be a politician .
though eastwood said he hasn t formally endorsed anybody , he dismissed the furor caused by trump s comments about the mexican heritage of judge gonzalo curiel , who presided over federal lawsuits against trump university .
yeah , it s a dumb thing to say .
i mean , to predicate your opinion on the fact that the guy was born to mexican parents or something .
he s said a lot of dumb things .
so have all of them .
both sides , eastwood said .
but everybody the press and everybody s going , oh , well , that s racist , and they re making a big hoodoo out of it .
just f ing get over it .
it s a sad time in history .
read more : the wrap