guatemala city ( reuters ) - guatemala s attorney general and a u.n. anti-graft body accused the mayor of guatemala city , alvaro arzu , of corruption on thursday , adding him to a long list of influential politicians under investigation for suspected wrongdoing .
arzu , who was also guatemalan president from 1996-2000 , rejected the accusations after they were announced by ivan velasquez , head of the international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) , and attorney general thelma aldana .
velasquez , who has unsuccessfully tried to impeach president jimmy morales but was instrumental in bringing down his predecessor otto perez , said arzu was suspected of creating fake payrolls and using public funds for his re-election bid in 2015 .
it was possible to document existence of bogus positions in the guatemala municipality , velasquez , a veteran colombian prosecutor , told a news conference that arzu also attended .
velasquez said the positions were created for relatives of byron lima , a former security official for arzu and army captain who died in a prison riot in 2016 while serving a 20-year sentence for the murder of bishop juan gerardi in 1998 .
velasquez and aldana , who worked together to bring charges against the now-imprisoned perez , need supreme court approval to strip arzu of the immunity he enjoys as an elected official .
arzu , one of the most influential politicians in guatemala and mayor of the capital since 2004 , tried to get hold of the microphone to face down his accusers during the news conference .
this pair are trying to get back at me because they couldn t carry out their coup with another president , arzu told reporters .
these were not bogus positions , those people came to work every day .
they should go ahead and investigate me , i m not bothered ( that they are trying to strip my immunity ) , he said .
arzu has been a vigorous supporter of president morales who , unlike perez , managed to avoid being stripped of his immunity by congress when it was put to a vote last month .
that followed cicig accusations that morales used illicit campaign financing during his run for the presidency in 2015 .
velasquez and aldana have also accused guatemala s main political parties of engaging in illegal campaign financing , setting much of the establishment against them .
former president perez and his ex-vice-president are in prison and on trial for corruption .
many senior officials from his cabinet are also under investigation for suspected graft .