geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations is trying to evacuate at least 140 aid workers from the yemeni capital amid fighting that has cut off the airport road , but is awaiting approval from the saudi-led coalition , u.n. and other aid officials said on sunday .
coalition aircraft bombed houthi positions in sanaa overnight , residents and local media said , aiming to shore up supporters of former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh as they battle the houthi group , which is aligned with iran .
it was the fourth day of clashes in which dozens have been killed , the red cross said .
there is a plane on stand-by in djibouti for 140 international staff , a u.n. official in sanaa told reuters .
about half were from non-governmental organizations , he said .
fighting is moving toward the airport and the situation is very tense .
we can t even evacuate staff , he said .
united nations staff have been confined to their living quarters in sanaa since clashes erupted on thursday , he said .
shells were falling near the un compound in sanaa on siteen street on sunday , with one source on the scene saying stray bullets had hit the compound .
the compound is empty as staff had been told to stay at home and not report to work .
another aid worker with an independent agency in yemen , who declined to be identified , said the u.n. was planning to evacuate as many as 180 u.n. and other aid workers , but u.n. officials considered the airport road was not safe enough .
russell geekie , a u.n. humanitarian spokesman in new york , said the u.n. planned to reduce the number of non-essential staff in sanaa , but they could not yet safely move , and exact numbers were unclear due to the fluidity of the situation .
we re very concerned by the clashes in sanaa city , which have reportedly resulted in civilian deaths and have negative implications for the humanitarian response , geekie said in an emailed response to reuters .
at present , fighting is restricting movement within the city , including on the airport road .
the airport remains closed with sanaa residents holed up in their homes .
clearance to land at sanaa airport has yet to be received from the coalition , who control the skies over the houthi-controlled capital , aid workers said .
saleh said on saturday he was ready to turn a new page in ties with the coalition fighting in yemen if it stopped attacks on yemeni citizens , in a move that could pave the way to end nearly three years of war .
the apparent shift in position came as saleh s supporters battled houthi fighters in hadda , a district in southern sanaa where members of saleh s family , including his nephew tareq , live .
in geneva , spokeswoman elodie schindler of the international committee of the red cross said : in light of the current chaotic situation , the icrc is looking to downsize staff presence in yemen to a core team .