kampala ( reuters ) - ugandan authorities postponed a bill to extend leader yoweri museveni s rule after protesters took to the streets against it on thursday , confronting police who fired teargas .
parliament speaker jacob oulanyah told lawmakers during a raucous session that the legislation due to be introduced on thursday afternoon was bringing tension and would come back on another , unspecified date .
activists , campaign groups , religious leaders and even some members of museveni s own ruling party have objected to the proposed change to the constitution , saying it is undemocratic .
groups of students at makerere , a public university in the capital kampala , rallied to start marching toward parliament before police dispersed them with teargas .
protesters regrouped through the morning , throwing stones back at police .
we are not going to allow anybody to hold protest marches .
the teargas was to deter that , police spokesman asan kasingye said .
museveni , aged 73 , has already been in power for more than three decades .
the change to the constitution would have removed a rule banning anyone older that 75 running for president that currently bars him from running for re-election at polls in 2021 .
the move to amend legislation mirrors similar tactics used in rwanda , burundi and the democratic republic congo to extend limits , a trend that has alarmed democracy watchdogs .
museveni won plaudits in the early years of his rule for restoring stability after years of turmoil , and became a key western ally who sent ugandan troops to fight islamist militants in somalia .
but accusations of rampant rights violations , entrenched graft and dysfunctional public services have since fueled opposition to his rule .
police have also raided the premises of at least two pro-democracy organizations in kampala , including that of the local unit of johannesburg-based actionaid international .
security personnel blockaded staff inside their offices late on wednesday and conducted searches , staff members of the organizations told reuters .
there was intelligence that we got that they received funding for people who are planning to cause chaos and violence , police spokesman kasingye said .
local media said kampala s mayor erias lukwago - an opposition party member - was detained early on thursday , though kasingye said he was unaware of the reports .
museveni s bid has also met increasing denunciation from some members of the ruling national resistance movement ( nrm ) party , exposing cracks .
the nrm counts about three-thirds of all parliament members .
ultimately ... museveni has ample patronage at his disposal and , when push comes to shove , few lawmakers will be prepared to risk political exile by not backing the president , said charlotte king , a uganda analyst at the economist intelligence unit .
the u.s. embassy in kampala condemned the raids on pro-democracy groups .
the united states is deeply concerned that recent arrests and raids stifle the ugandan people s right to free expression and tarnish uganda s global image , it said in a statement .