two high profile black people giving commencement speeches at predominately black universities with two very different messages .
one speaker delivered a message of hope , humility and encouragement .
the other speaker delivered a message of racism , hate , resentment and a call to stand up and fight against the oppressive white man who spends his time looking for a reason to discriminate against them.dillard university s 218 members of the class of 2015 received a special treat in addition to their diplomas academy and tony award-winning actor denzel washington to deliver the keynote commencement address .
and in contrast to the whiney , racial and excuse-driven address delivered by first lady michelle obama at another historically black university , washington s was filled of hope , humor , inspiration and love of his creator .
no .
1 , he resolutely told the graduates of the new orleans university , put .
god .
first !
washington told the class that god has kept him centered throughout his life , i ve been protected , i ve been directed , i ve been corrected .
i ve kept god in my life and it s kept me humble , he said .
i didn t always stick with him , but he s always stuck with me .
stick with him in everything you do .
toward the end of his brief address , he gave some sage advice .
i pray that you put your slippers way under your bed tonight , so that when you wake up in the morning you have to get on your knees to reach them , washington said .
and while you re down there , say , thank you .
thank you for grace , thank you for mercy , thank you for understanding , thank you for wisdom , thank you for parents , thank you for love , thank you for kindness , thank you for humility , thank you for peace , thank you for prosperity .
say thank you in advance for what s already yours .
true desire in the heart for anything good is god s proof to you , sent beforehand , to indicate that it s yours already , washington said .
don t just aspire to make a living , he concluded , aspire to make a difference .
on saturday the same day as washington s address the first lady delivered her own commencement speech at tuskegee university.https : //youtu.be/4w3efivuhqq but instead of inspiration-driven , hers was racially motivated .
the road ahead is not going to be easy .
it never is , especially for folks like you and me , she said .
because while we ve come so far , the truth is those age-old problems are stubborn , and they haven t fully gone away .
her resentment was as palpable as washington s gratitude was evident .
one graduating class got rewarded for its time , anyway.via : bizpacreview