palong khali , bangladesh ( reuters ) - mohammad ayas , a 12-year-old rohingya refugee in the sprawling palong khali camp , is busy hawking piazu , a fried mixture of onions , lentils and spices .
the 150 portions of piazu , made by his mother from the aid package the family received after fleeing violence in myanmar , sell for 1 taka each , or a little more than 1 u.s. cent .
i started my trading here with the relief i got , mohammad told reuters .
i did not buy anything .
i got this relief package five days ago and my mum made this piazu this morning .
myanmar s rohingya muslims have endured killings , arson and rape by myanmar troops and ethnic rakhine buddhist vigilantes since aug. 25 , in response to rohingya insurgent attacks on security posts , the united nations says .
it says problems like children trafficking existed in bangladesh s camps , even before they were overwhelmed by the more than 600,000 new arrivals .
now , driven by a need for food and other essentials , trade is starting to thrive in the palong khali camp , located about 4 km ( 2.5 miles ) from the naf river that marks the border between bangladesh and myanmar .
for the photo essay on trading inside the camps click on : reut.rs/2a5sg7v some refugees are returning to their previous occupations to eke out a living .
abul fayaj , a 50-year-old vegetable seller from buthidaung township in rakhine , now sells green chilies to residents of the camp .
he said a bangladeshi lent him money for the chilies , which he sells for 200 taka ( $ 2.39 ) per kg , higher than the local market price of 130 taka per kg .
i don t have the money to take lots of food , that s why i have to take a loan , he said .
i have to pay more to the lender who gave me the money to buy the vegetables , so there is only a small profit , said fayaj , adding he takes home 100 taka a day .
obaidul mannan , 40 , with five daughters and two sons , traded clocks in myanmar until the military came to his village , arresting people and burning homes .
he now sells betel nut that he bought with 9 grams ( 0.3 ounces ) of gold that belonged to his wife .
his complaints are common to shopkeepers everywhere .
the problem i m facing here is that i m selling next door to traders who are also selling the same items , he said .
some bangladeshi shopkeepers have hired rohingya to run shops within the camp .
kalim ullah , 42 , fled from the buthidaung area with his wife , six sons and a daughter .
he used to transport goods in myanmar , but was told that rohingya could not own a business in bangladesh .
ullah joined up with a local business owner and now sells snacks and red chilies in the camp for a daily wage of 100 taka .
two bangladesh government officials confirmed that the refugees are not legally allowed to own businesses in the country since they are not citizens .
we are giving all kind of humanitarian assistance .
they are not our citizens , said a senior home ministry official .
the myanmar government will have to take them back .
bangladeshis are aware of the opportunities that the rohingya exodus provides for trade and a number of them have moved closer to the camps .
abdur razzak , 26 , sells knives , pots and water buckets in the palong khali camp where he set up shop three months ago .
after paying rent on his shop , wages for two assistants and transporting goods from the town of ukhia , about 9 km ( 5.4 miles ) north of the camp , razzak earns about 500 taka profit on sales of 2,000 taka .
i m not making a lot of money .
i just profit a little , he said .
( $ 1 = 83.7000 taka )