beirut ( reuters ) - thousands of people took to the streets of tehran on wednesday to bury a soldier whose beheading by islamic state has come to symbolize the righteousness of iran s military involvement in syria .
in what has become an iconic image on iranian media , 25-year-old revolutionary guard mohsen hojaji is shown looking calmly into camera after his capture as he is led away by an insurgent with blood on his face , holding a knife .
the photograph was posted by islamic state .
even iranians critical of their government s military intervention in syria to help president bashar al-assad have taken to social media to express their admiration for hojaji , who was killed last month .
the revolutionary guards , iran s most powerful military force who also oversee an economic empire worth billions of dollars , were initially quiet about their role in syria .
but in recent years , as casualties have mounted , they have been more outspoken about their engagement , framing it as an existential struggle against the sunni muslim extremists of islamic state who see shi ites , the majority of iran s population , as apostates .
guards killed in syria and iraq are touted as protectors of shi ite holy sites and labeled defenders of the shrine on websites linked to the guards .
supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei prayed over hojaji s coffin and met with his family on wednesday , state media reported .
large crowds carrying red flags , symbolizing martyrdom , and pictures of hojaji processed to the funeral in tehran , pictures on state tv showed .
parliament speaker ali larijani and former president mahmoud ahmadinejad were among the dignitaries who attended , state media said .
look at what a stir the martyrdom of this youth has created in the country , khamenei said , according to his website .
hojaji s funeral comes only three days before ashura , one of the most important religious events for shi ites and a traditional period of mourning which commemorates the death of imam hussein , the grandson of the prophet mohammed .
the guards recovered hojaji s body through a deal between islamic state , the syrian army and lebanese shi ite group hezbollah .
more than 300 is fighters and about 300 family members were allowed to evacuate syria s western border with lebanon under the ceasefire agreement .
on june 7 , islamic state claimed an attack on tehran s parliament and the mausoleum of ayatollah ruhollah khomeini , the founder of the islamic republic , killing 18 people .
the revolutionary guards fired missiles at islamic state bases in syria on june 18 in response .