ankara ( reuters ) - turkey said it will start the first foreign deliveries of aid on wednesday to northwestern myanmar , where hundreds of people have been killed and nearly 125,000 have fled over the border to bangladesh in the last 10 days .
a spokesman for president tayyip erdogan , who has described the violence against rohingya muslims there as genocide , said the deliveries were approved after erdogan spoke by phone with myanmar leader aung san suu kyi on tuesday .
spokesman ibrahim kalin said 1,000 tonnes of food , clothes and medicine would be distributed by military helicopters .
he said myanmar had given approval for officials from turkey s state aid agency tika to enter the country and deliver the assistance , in coordination with local authorities in rakhine state .
suu kyi has faced increasing pressure from countries with muslim populations to halt the violence against rohingya muslims which has prompted their flight to bangladesh .
reuters reporters saw hundreds more exhausted rohingya arriving on boats near the bangladeshi border village of shamlapur on tuesday , suggesting the exodus was far from over .
erdogan told suu kyi that the violence against the rohingya was violation of human rights and that the muslim world was deeply concerned , turkish presidential sources said .
indonesian foreign minister retno marsudi , in dhaka to discuss aid for the fleeing rohingya , met her bangladeshi counterpart , abul hassan mahmood ali , a day after urging suu kyi and myanmar army chief min aung hlaing to halt the bloodshed .
the latest violence in myanmar s northwestern rakhine state began on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked dozens of police posts and an army base .
the ensuing clashes and a military counter-offensive have killed hundreds .
erdogan , with his roots in political islam , has long strived to take a position of leadership among the world s muslim community .
on friday , he said it was turkey s moral responsibility to take a stand over the events in myanmar .
foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu will travel to bangladesh on wednesday evening and hold meetings on thursday , turkish sources said .