london ( reuters ) - north korea s reckless behavior is a global threat and requires a global response , the head of the nato military alliance said on sunday .
nato has not been directly involved in the crisis , which saw pyongyang carry out its sixth and most powerful nuclear test a week ago , but has repeatedly called on north korea to abandon its nuclear and ballistic missile programs .
the reckless behavior of north korea is a global threat and requires a global response and that of course also includes nato , nato head jens stoltenberg said in an interview with bbc television .
asked whether an attack on the u.s. pacific territory of guam would trigger nato s article 5 , which requires each member of the alliance to come to the defense of any other , stoltenberg said : i will not speculate about whether article 5 will be applied in such a situation .
we are now totally focused on how can we contribute to a peaceful solution of the conflict , he said .
there is no easy way out of this difficult situation , but at the same time we have to ... continue to work for political solution , continue to press also the economic sanctions .
the united states and its allies had been bracing for another long-range missile launch in time for the 69th anniversary of north korea s founding on saturday , but no fresh provocations were spotted while the north held numerous events to mark the holiday .
throughout last week , south korean officials had warned the north could launch another intercontinental ballistic missile in defiance of u.n. sanctions and amid escalating tensions with the united states .
british defense minister michael fallon also told the bbc he was very concerned about the situation .
we are doing now what we can to bring about a diplomatic solution , what we have to avoid at all costs is this spilling over in to any kind of military conflict , he said .
the u.s. is fully entitled to defend its own territory , to defend its bases and to look after its people but this involves us , london is closer to north korea and its missiles than los angeles .
fallon said he did not believe north korea currently had a missile capable of hitting london but said the missile program was accelerating and their range was getting longer and longer .
we have to get this program halted because the dangers now of miscalculation , of some accident triggering a response are extremely great , he said .