beijing ( reuters ) - a workaholic keen swimmer with an extensive knowledge of foreign literature china s state news agency xinhua on friday cracked open the door to president xi jinping s private life in an unusual and glowing profile .
the private lives of senior chinese leaders have traditionally been shrouded in secrecy , and tell-all books with juicy gossip strictly off limits .
but since xi took power five years ago the government has on occasion released personal details , as it seems both to burnish his image as an approachable man of the people who will lead china to greatness , and control the narrative about who he is .
xi emerged from a twice-a-decade communist party congress last month with his power ever further cemented and key allies appointed to top new positions .
in a lengthy story published in chinese and english in the early hours of friday , xinhua hailed xi as the unrivalled helmsman , a term more frequently used to refer to the founder of modern china mao zedong rather than any other leaders .
wherever he works , he makes a remarkable impact , xinhua said .
while some of the anecdotes have previously been reported by state media - like his 2014 stroll around old beijing alleyways during one of the city s periodic smog crises - others were new .
xi personally reviews every draft of major policy documents , sentence by sentence , xinhua said .
sources close to him told xinhua that all reports submitted to him , no matter how late in the evening , were returned with instructions the following morning .
but he also takes time out of his busy schedule to swim over 1,000 meters a time , it added , without saying how often he manages to fit this in .
xi can reel off the names of foreign , especially russian , writers , and his extensive knowledge of literature and the arts makes him a consummate communicator in the international arena .
xi treats everyone with sincerity , warmth , attentiveness , and forthrightness , it said .
however , underscoring china s sensitivities about more difficult parts of its recent past , the chinese version of the profile skipped a description of the suffering inflicted on xi s father xi zhongxun during the chaos of the cultural revolution , when mao declared class war .
in 1962 , xi zhongxun s 16 years of suffering from political persecution began .
however , he never gave in to adversity and ultimately helped clear the names of others who were persecuted , xinhua said in its english profile .
when his father was wronged , xi jinping went through some tough times , it added , without elaborating .
public discussion of the cultural revolution is generally taboo in china .