, ( reuters ) - the widow of a u.s. army sergeant killed in niger this month said on monday that president donald trump had made me cry even worse in a condolence telephone call when he said her husband knew what he signed up for .
myeshia johnson s comments in an abc interview , her first to the media about the call from trump , fueled a controversy that has raged for a week over how the president has handled consoling relatives of slain service members .
after the interview aired , trump again defended himself , saying in a twitter post that his conversation with johnson had been very respectful .
in the good morning america interview , johnson also said she has been told little about how her husband , sergeant la david t. johnson , was killed and has not been allowed to see his body .
la david johnson was one of four u.s. army special forces soldiers killed during an oct. 4 ambush in the west african nation .
last week , a member of the u.s. house of representatives and friend of johnson s family , frederica wilson , said she listened to the call on speakerphone in a car as she rode with them to receive the late sergeant s body at a miami airport , and that trump had upset the relatives .
that drew a rebuke from the president , who dubbed wilson wacky and denied her account .
i didn t say what that congresswoman said , trump told reporters last week .
i had a very nice conversation with the woman , with the wife who ... sounded like a lovely woman .
in monday s interview , myeshia johnson said , the president said that he ( her husband ) knew what he signed up for , but it hurts anyway ... and it made me cry because i was very angry at the tone of his voice and how he couldn t remember my husband s name .
in his tweet after the interview aired , trump said , i had a very respectful conversation with the widow of sgt .
la david johnson , and spoke his name from beginning , without hesitation !
johnson said the military has told her little about what happened to her husband and his comrades in niger , where about 800 u.s. troops are engaged in counter-terrorism operations against an affiliate of the islamic state militant group .
she also said she was upset she has not been allowed to see his body .
i don t know what s in that box , said of the coffin .
it could be empty for all i know .
johnson said she did not say anything during the call with the president , adding that afterward , she was very upset and hurt .
it made me cry even worse .
asked what she might now tell trump , she said she had nothing to say to him .
republican u.s .
senator john mccain , a veteran who spent more than five years as a prisoner of war in north vietnam and who chairs the senate armed services committee , said on monday that lawmakers want answers about the ambush in niger .
we should not be fighting about a brave american who lost his life serving his country .
that should not be a topic in america today , he told abc s the view program , adding that his committee needed more information about the incident .
unless you learn the lessons , then you re going to repeat them , he said .
in separate interviews on sunday , republican senator lindsey graham and democratic senator chuck schumer both said they backed mccain s efforts to get more details , and that they had not been aware that the united states had so many military personnel in niger .
u.s. forces do not have a direct combat role in niger , but they help its army with intelligence and reconnaissance in the government s efforts to target violent extremist groups .
the current controversy erupted after trump said a week ago that some of his predecessors as president didn t do anything to console the relatives of fallen soldiers .
he did not back up the claim and it was shown to be false .
[ nl2n1ms0m9 ] the acrimony generated around his call with johnson echoed a controversy last year during the presidential campaign , when trump sparred with khizr khan and ghazala khan , whose son was killed while serving in iraq in 2004 .