phnom penh ( reuters ) - critics of cambodian prime minister hun sen have grown used to following upstart news service fresh news to find out what the government s next target might be .
from treason accusations against detained opposition leader kem sokha to the tax demand against the now-shuttered cambodia daily to allegations against the recently expelled u.s. national democratic institute , it was on fresh news first .
its rise , just as pressure is growing on more critical media , reflects a shift in control of information in the run-up to next year s general election at the same time as a crackdown on hun sen s opponents .
if any news needs to be reported , i may contact the prime minister or the prime minister may contact me , 37-year-old fresh news chief executive lim chea vutha told reuters .
lim rejected accusations it publishes unsubstantiated reports to serve the government s interest and said it was just ambitious to break news the same as any major news agency .
cambodia has long had one of southeast asia s most open media environments , but journalists with publications critical of the government say work is becoming tougher than during any period of hun sen s more than three-decade rule .
this means an imbalance of information , said pa nguon teang , head of the partly eu-funded voice of democracy radio station , banned from broadcasting to its estimated 7.7 million listeners last month and now trying to publish via facebook .
eighteen other radio stations were ordered off air while channels were also forbidden from rebroadcasting the u.s.-funded voice of america and radio free asia .
the cambodia daily newspaper , whose editor described it as a burr in hun sen s side since it was started 24 years ago , was forced to close by a crippling $ 6.3 million tax bill news of which first appeared on fresh news .
the three-year-old publication also published the video that formed the basis for arresting opposition leader kem sokha for treason charges his lawyers dismiss as nonsense .
it s not fresh news , it s not even fake news , it s bad news - bad news for the future of cambodia , said mu sochua , a deputy of kem sokha in his cambodia national rescue party .
cambodia is not the only southeast asian country where the media is under pressure , with journalists and bloggers in thailand , the philippines , myanmar and vietnam facing everything from verbal threats to arrest to violence .
hun sen has said his attitude to media he does not like is no different to that of u.s. president donald trump , who has branded some liberal u.s. news organizations fake news and has refused to take questions from their reporters .
for hun sen , a 65-year-old former khmer rouge soldier , critical media are like children challenging their father , said huy vannak , president of the partly state-funded union of journalist federations of cambodia .
they only mock his good faith to the nation .
that s why he s not tolerant , he said .
praised openly by hun sen , fresh news now has more than 100 employees .
at the company s ninth-floor offices near a busy phnom penh junction , signs tell journalists the first enemy of success is laziness .
facebook is one of the main channels for fresh news to publish and has also been embraced by hun sen since the opposition almost won the 2013 election , partly with the help of their social media strategy .
while declining to give company financial details , lim said he received no money from the government .
a government spokesman said there was no funding for fresh news or anyone publishing on social media beyond official accounts .
lim said he was supported only by advertising .
flipping through his mobile phone , he showed ads for everything from range rover to coca-cola to local businesses thriving in an economy growing at around 7 percent a year .
but business and government are entwined in cambodia and the leadership and its family members control many of cambodia s biggest enterprises - including media businesses .
hun sen s oldest daughter , hun mana , chairs kampuchea thmey daily and bayon tv and radio among at least a dozen other firms .
senate president and the deputy leader of the ruling cambodia people s party , say chhum , owns rasmei kampuchea , cambodia s most popular newspaper .
according to a 2015 study , media organizations with politically affiliated owners accounted for 41 percent of print readership and 63 percent of television viewership .
of those owners , eight out of 10 were close to the ruling party .
businesses won t give advertising to media seen as pro-opposition because it won t help them , said huy vannak .
the government doesn t need to sponsor you when your content is positive .
business will come to you , he said .
despite international awards for its reporting , the cambodia daily was not a big commercial success .
by the end , it said it was barely breaking even and had no hope of paying a tax bill it disputed before the sept. 4 deadline set by government .
the paper appeared to get limited sympathy from lim .
it s the right of the government to shut it down , he said .
as we reported , it s a legal matter .