moscow ( reuters ) - the latest test of a new north korean intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) is a provocative act , russia said on wednesday , calling on all sides involved to stay calm to avoid a clash .
north korea said it successfully tested a powerful new icbm on wednesday that put the entire u.s. mainland within range of its nuclear weapons .
the latest test was the highest and longest any north korean missile had flown , landing in the sea near japan .
certainly , this new missile launch is a provocative act , which provokes further growth in tension and which moves us further away from the point where a settlement of the crisis can begin , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said on a conference call with reporters .
north korea s first missile test since mid-september came a week after u.s. president donald trump put north korea back on a u.s. list of countries it says support terrorism , allowing it to impose more sanctions .
washington has said repeatedly that all options , including military ones , are on the table in dealing with north korea while stressing its desire for a peaceful solution .
diplomatic options remain viable and open , for now , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said .
while condemning the latest test , the kremlin s peskov said : we hope that all the sides involved are able to preserve calm , which is so necessary to avoid the situation on the korean peninsula sliding towards a worst-case scenario .
russia and china have proposed a roadmap for defusing the crisis in the region .
on wednesday , russia s foreign ministry repeated its offer to use the plan , calling on north korea to stop its missile and nuclear tests , while urging the united states and south korea to abstain from their unprecedentedly large-scale , unscheduled military air exercises announced to be held in early december .
asked if the kremlin believed that the proposed roadmap was being considered by the north korean leadership , peskov said : let s put it this way : there are no grounds for substantial optimism .