president trump spoke in the rose garden today in a presser with romania s leader it got contentious when cnn s jonathan karl asked questions about the comey testimony it s a classic ! trump knows how to throw down the hammer on people .
it s awesome ! jonathan karl recently had a run in with sara huckabee-sanders : abc s jonathan karl asked a very spunky sara huckabee-sanders ( yes , sara is the daughter of the very funny and sarcastic former arkansas governor mike huckabee ) if vice president pence was in the dark about the firing of fbi director james comey ?
sara snapped back , nobody was in the dark jonathan !
you wan na create this false narrative .
if we want talk about ah contradicting statements and people that were maybe in the dark , how about the democrats ?
let s read a few of them .
you wan na talk about em ?
here s what democrats said not that long ago about james comey : harry reid said , comey should resign and be investigated by the senate .
senator chuck schumer , i don t have confidence in him anymore .
senator bernie sanders said , it would not be a bad thing for the american people if comey resigned .
nancy pelosi said , comey was not in the right job .
former dnc chair , debbie wasserman schultz said that she thought comey was no longer able to serve in a neutral and credible way .
president obama s advisor valerie jarrett reportedly urged him to fire comey .
just yesterday , representative maxine waters said that , hillary clinton would have fired comey .
you wan na talk about people who are in the dark ?
the people that are in the dark today are the democrats.boom ! earlier today , we posted a video that president trump posted to his twitter page pointing out the absurd hypocrisy of the democrats and their allies in the liberal media .
this video pretty much sums up how hypocritical democrats and their media arm really are when it comes to anything related to trump.watch : the democrats should be ashamed .
this is a disgrace ! # draintheswamp pic.twitter.com/ufbkeecm2v donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) may 11 , 2017