chittagong , bangladesh ( reuters ) - mohammed idrees , a 10-year-old rohingya boy , does not remember how he landed at the hospital in bangladesh with a part of his right ear blown off .
but he says he won t return to his home country , neighboring myanmar , until there is peace .
idrees is one of around 60 badly injured rohingya muslims admitted to the hospital in chittagong since violence flared in rakhine state in the northwest of myanmar in late august .
rohingya insurgents attacked several police posts and an army base on aug 25 , leading to a military crackdown that has resulted in the deaths of at least 400 people and sent 146,000 people fleeing to bangladesh .
apart from creating a humanitarian crisis , the unrest has also brought waves of international criticism of myanmar s leader , the nobel peace prize winner aung san suu kyi , for not speaking out for a minority that has long complained of persecution .
the rohingya are denied citizenship in myanmar , a mainly buddhist country .
almost all the rohingya being treated at the chittagong medical college hospital , the largest in southeast bangladesh , have been injured by gunshots or bomb blasts , according to a hospital document given to reuters .
around a third of the total injured are teenagers or younger , including a six-year-old boy .
the myanmar military has repeatedly said that it has been targeting only insurgents in the crackdown .
ajoy kumar dey , who is in charge of the hospital , said he had not seen similar wounds during previous influxes of rohingya from myanmar .
he said the large number of young men and children , like idrees , underlined the gravity of the situation in rakhine .
i don t remember what happened to me , but i want to go see my mother , idrees said , lying on his bed in a soiled white shirt and a checked longyi , a myanmar-style sarong .
his head was bandaged and he was clutching the hand of his father , sitting by his side .
it hurts a lot .
he cried as his father , mohammed rasheed , described how myanmar security forces sprayed bullets into their village , kyauk chaung , on the morning of aug. 25 .
one bullet took off a chunk of idrees ear as his family crouched behind a canal near their house .
six fellow villagers from kyauk chaung died in the hour-long shooting , said rasheed .
a bleeding idrees was carried on a bamboo stretcher over some hills near the border to reach bangladesh the same night .
his mother , three sisters and a brother arrived on sunday .
we are lucky all of us are alive , said rasheed .
across the ward , a rohingya man with bullet wounds in one shoulder , the back of a thigh and a shin , writhed in agony .
a plastic nasal pipe was helping him breath .
the government hospital in chittagong is usually crowded at the best of times ; now it is receiving twice as many people as it has beds - many of them rohingya with shattered faces , shredded legs and damaged eyes who are fighting for their lives .
around two dozen young rohingya men , some groaning in pain , were laying on blue hospital mattresses on the floor of a corridor on wednesday , their legs or hands heavily plastered .
zaw htay , aung san suu kyi s spokesman , said thursday that myanmar was in discussions with dhaka on what to do about what he said were terrorists in the hospital , a charge the myanmar military made earlier in the week .
the bangladeshi foreign secretary , shahidul haque , denied being contacted by myanmar about militants being treated at the hospital .
however , he said that bangladesh had previously handed over two terrorists after being given their names by myanmar .
he did not provide further details , but said bangladesh would hand any terrorists to myanmar if it provided more names and the individuals could be found .
a united nations source said that on sept. 3 alone , 31 rohingya with bullet injuries and six with burn injuries were admitted to the chittagong hospital .
there have been many people who have come with bullet wounds on the backs of their bodies , said h.t .
imam , a political adviser to prime minister sheikh hasina of bangladesh .
that is most reprehensible .
this is a killing mission , plain and simple .
myanmar officials have said the country has the right to defend itself from attack , adding that security personnel were told to keep innocent civilians from harm .
rohingya who have fled to bangladesh are in urgent need of medical and humanitarian assistance given the massive scale of the influx , doctors without borders said wednesday .
many of the arrivals have serious medical needs , such as violence-related injuries , severely infected wounds , and advanced obstetric complications , pavlo kolovos , the humanitarian group s head in bangladesh , said in a statement .
without a scale-up of humanitarian support , the potential health risks are extremely concerning .
one such person with severe injuries is mohammed jubair , 21 , who , according to doctors treating him in the burns and plastic surgery department , is on his deathbed .
the right side of jubair s face has been smashed up completely ; the left has severe burns , as does his lower body .
he was fleeing his village in rakhine with his five-year-old sister when myanmar forces in a helicopter hurled a bomb at them on aug. 26 , killing the girl on the spot , according to his older brother , nur mohammed .
unlike me , my brother was carrying our young sister as we fled to the hills when the army came and started setting our houses on fire , he said .
i could move ahead faster , now allah save my brother .
like the attack on the village reported by rasheed , it was not possible to independently verify mohammed s account .