seoul ( reuters ) - after a summer filled with flaming rockets and an earth-shaking nuclear blast , north korea s state media is portraying kim jong un as a leader who has temporarily traded weapons for workshops .
the new portrayal appears designed to build domestic support by delivering on promises to develop the economy alongside the nuclear program and to reassure citizens amid tightening international sanctions .
state media photos released on wednesday showed kim examining equipment at a tractor factory , test driving one of the vehicles and laughing with workers , the latest in a stream of photos in the past two months depicting a smiling kim visiting farms and factories that make shoes , cosmetics , trucks .
between june 21 and sept. 20 , kim did not conduct a single public activity related to the economy , instead focusing almost exclusively on appearances at events including missile tests or tours of weapons factories , according to data collected by south korea s ministry of unification .
the resumption of public , economic-related activities has coincided with a lull in missile testing .
north korea has not fired a rocket or tested a nuclear weapon since it launched a ballistic missile over japan on sept. 15 .
the break in testing matches lulls at similar times in past years and north korea is almost certainly continuing its push for more capable nuclear weapons , south korean officials say .
but the renewed focus on economic development could be a bid to unify north koreans and strengthen support for the leadership , said baik tae-hyun , a spokesman for south korea s unification ministry .
while north korea still shows the will to continue developing its nuclear and missile program , their focus on the economy is also helping the north korean people come together , baik said .
north korea may be starting to feel the pinch of sanctions , tightened after its sixth and most powerful nuclear test in september , and its leadership could be under pressure to limit their impact , said nam sung-wook , a professor of north korean studies at korea university in seoul .
kim jong un has been simply doing what he does best - encouraging his people to achieve rapid economic growth and boost production , nam said .
taking care of the economy and his people are the top priorities .
since taking the reins of the reclusive regime after the death of his father at the end of 2011 , kim has embraced a goal of simultaneously pursing economic development and advanced nuclear weapons .
new u.n. security council sanctions in august and september banned imports of coal , textiles and seafood , while restricting oil shipments to the north .
north korean officials have said in state media the sanctions were causing a colossal amount of damage to ordinary north koreans , while leaders have shown defiance , arguing that self-reliance can overcome international pressure .
the main key to foiling the extremely vicious sanctions and pressure of the u.s. imperialists and their vassal forces and turning misfortune into a blessing is just self-reliance and the sci-tech strength , kim said in an oct. 7 speech to leaders of his ruling workers party of korea , according to state media .
benjamin katzeff silberstein , a researcher with the foreign policy research institute who tracks north korea s economy , said there was a push to expand manufacturing and decrease reliance on imports of a wide range of goods .
north korea was also looking to expand exports of products not covered by sanctions , such as tractors , silberstein added .
while analysts say there is anecdotal evidence the sanctions are beginning to the north s economy , it is not clear to what degree .
prices of petrol and diesel have spiked , but the cost of foods likes corn and rice have remained relatively stable , according to a reuters analysis of market data collected by the defector-run daily nk website .