washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. federal program that pays elderly americans ’ hospital bills will exhaust its reserves in 2028 , two years sooner than last year ’ s estimate , trustees of the program said on wednesday , but spending growth remained within forecasts .
the medicare program , which provides health coverage for more than 55 million older as well as disabled people , said that the projected growth rate for per capita spending has not exceeded its target .
that put aside the need for the program ’ s regulator , the centers for medicaid and medicare services , to establish a savings target and to initiate mandatory spending cuts , their annual financial report said .
as such , the government would not need to immediately set up an independent payment advisory board to make proposals on the cuts , it said .
drug stocks gained after the release of the report on wednesday , with the nasdaq biotechnology index up 2.5 percent .
it had lost ground ahead of the report ’ s release .
wall street analysts had worried that if the mandatory savings clause was triggered , the new board might have tried to implement cuts in prescription drug prices .
“ not hitting the trigger is good news for healthcare investors , ” sanford bernstein analyst timothy anderson wrote in a research note .
in the annual financial review , the trustees also said that the combined social security and disability trust fund reserves are estimated to run out in 2034 , the same projection as last year .
medicare spending in 2015 totaled $ 647.6 billion .
the medicare program ’ s trust fund for hospital care is still scheduled to have sufficient funding 11 years longer than the estimate given before the affordable care act was passed , the trustees said .
the trustees put the shorter timeline down to changes in estimates of income and cost , particularly in the near term .
a depletion in funds available for medicare and social security does not mean the programs would suddenly stop .
at the current rate of payroll tax collections , medicare would be able to cover 87 percent of costs in 2028 .
this would fall to 79 percent by 2043 and then gradually increase .
social security would be able to pay about three-quarters of scheduled benefits from 2034 to 2090 , the trustees said .