yaounde ( reuters ) - militants seeking independence for cameroon s english-speaking regions killed four soldiers and two policemen in attacks this week , president paul biya said late on thursday , vowing to eliminate the secessionists as a threat to peace .
dozens of civilians have been killed since october , after the government cracked down on members of a movement protesting their perceived marginalization by cameroon s francophone-dominated government .
the repression has driven many into the arms of a once-fringe separatist movement , which has launched a series of deadly raids before presidential elections in 2018 .
i think things are now perfectly clear to everyone .
cameroon is the victim of repeated attacks , biya said as he arrived home from a summit of european union and african leaders in ivory coast .
faced with these attacks of aggression , i assure the cameroonian people that all measures are being taken to end these criminals ability to do harm , he said .
two secessionist leaders confirmed the movement carried out the first raid , late on tuesday in the town of mamfe , near the border with nigeria in cameroon s southwest region , in which four soldiers were killed .
one of the main objectives is to clear the checkpoints that they have put on our roads .
they are the symbols of occupation , ben kuah , the chairman of the defense wing of the ambazonian governing council ( agc ) , told a reuters reporter in dakar .
the separatists claimed to have looted weapons during the raid .
ambazonia is the name the separatists have given to the homeland they hope to create .
we will dismantle all of these military outposts that have been used to prosecute the occupation of our homeland , said cho ayaba , another leading member of the agc .
two police officers were killed in a similar attack the following night in the nearby town of out .
separatist leaders were not immediately available to comment on that raid .
cameroon s language divide is a legacy of world war one , when the league of nations split the former german colony of kamerun between allied french and british victors .
the two entities were reunited following independence .
( this version of the story has been refiled to fix typo in paragraph five )