new york ( reuters ) - republican president-elect donald trump vowed on the campaign trail to repeal obamacare , but making good on that promise may be easier said than done .
president barack obama ’ s 2010 national healthcare reform law extended medical insurance to 25 million more people by expanding the medicaid plan for the poor and creating subsidized coverage for individuals .
republican lawmakers , who have voted more than 50 times to repeal all or part of the law , have begun pressing trump to deliver .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell said on wednesday repealing obamacare is a “ pretty high item on our agenda ” for the new congress .
but a complete repeal of obama ’ s affordable care act may not be immediately in the cards , as republican lawmakers now hold 51 seats in the senate at latest count , well short of the 60 seats required to overturn it .
instead , health policy experts said , trump could try to dismantle key elements through a process called budget reconciliation .
that would allow him to eliminate funding for the income-based subsidies that make the new insurance plans affordable , or cut the money providing expanded medicaid benefits in 31 states .
“ some of the policy experts on the republican side would say tearing it up and starting over would be very disruptive , ” said paul howard , director of health policy at the conservative manhattan institute .
parts of the law have been weakened through legal challenges .
several of the largest u.s. health insurers have pulled out of the exchanges for individual coverage after losing money on a sicker-than-expected group of patients .
consumers not eligible for government subsidies have seen premiums rise sharply , including a projected average increase of 25 percent for 2017 .
scrapping the law altogether without a clear plan for providing replacement coverage for so many people would be politically risky , experts said .
trump also would face a tight deadline were he to try to dismantle the insurance exchanges by 2018 ; many state-based health insurance regulators require insurers to submit plans for the upcoming year by april or may - only a few months into a new administration .
trump also could seek changes to other provisions of the law , such as a tax on medical device makers , or the so-called “ cadillac tax ” that is due to hit rich employer-based healthcare plans in 2020 .
however , some elements could not be eliminated by depriving the law of funds .
for instance , the law prevents insurers from denying coverage to people based on their health or pricing insurance based on gender .
mandatory coverage of preventive benefits also would be unaffected - short of a complete repeal .
it also is not clear if trump would try to reverse the individual mandate , which requires people to purchase health insurance or pay a penalty .
the goal of the requirement was to broaden the pool of policyholders to include more healthy americans .
aetna chief executive officer mark bertolini said on thursday at a new york times dealbook conference that some elements of the law are so popular that they are likely to continue , even if there is something trump calls “ repeal. ” they include allowing young adults to stay on their parents ’ plans and people with health problems to buy insurance without paying more .
medicaid could continue to expand , he said , though with a different type of federal financing .
trump ’ s surprise victory over democratic candidate hillary clinton rattled healthcare investors on wednesday , depressing shares in hospital operators and some insurers .
medicaid focused health insurer molina healthcare inc. fell nearly 16 percent , and hospital chain tenet healthcare corp dropped 25 percent .
large insurers , who have been losing money on the exchanges , gained , with anthem inc. up 1.5 percent .
enrollment opened on nov. 1 for 2017 coverage and once those plans are purchased , it would be legally difficult for trump to cancel them before the one-year contracts run out , said molina healthcare chief executive officer dr. mario molina .
“ any changes they make will have to be on a prospective basis to begin in 2018 , ” molina said .
it ’ s not clear what trump ’ s plan to replace obamacare would look like .
options he raised on the campaign trail include replacing the obamacare individual coverage with high-deductible healthcare plans , and lumping the sickest people together into high-risk pools that are insured separately .
“ i think there is going to be a lot of confusion and a lot of anxious people , ” molina said .
among the worries for some people covered under obamacare is how long it will last .
before the law took effect , marc dobin , a 57-year old mediator and lawyer in jupiter , florida , said his insurer put a surcharge on his premium because he has heart stents .
under obamacare , insurers are barred from charging more for pre-existing conditions .
“ imagine the disaster if , part way through the year , they cancel it , ” dobin said .
for others , the cost of premiums bolstered their support for trump .
crista simmons , 63 , a piano teacher in kalamazoo , michigan , spends about a third of her gross income on premiums and medical care .
“ there are people who pay more in premiums than their mortgage , ” she said .