manila ( reuters ) - the philippines said on tuesday it would investigate whether safety regulations were ignored at an office where a fire killed 37 call center employees , and vowed to impose sanctions if firms had not met standards .
the remains of 37 employees of the u.s.-based research now ssi killed by saturday s fire in davao city have been recovered and a criminal investigation will be launched by the justice department .
labour secretary silvestre bello said he had instructed the government s workplace health and safety agency and the labour ministry s regional office in davao , president rodrigo duterte s hometown , to investigate if there were lapses in safety standards .
the fire broke out at a furniture store on the third level of the 14-year-old new city commercial center and quickly engulfed an outsourcing business on the upper floor , based on an initial report from the city government .
we will immediately look into possible violations of some safety and health standards , bello told reuters .
we may not issue any clearance to operate , he said when asked to clarify sanctions that could be imposed on the mall or call center management if culpable .
research now ssi has confirmed 37 of its 500 employees in its davao call center were lost in the fire .
we can not comment on what is an ongoing investigation , said barbara palmer , company senior vice president for global marketing , in an email in response to a reuters query on tuesday about safety protocols at the company s davao office .
on sunday the firm said in a statement it was helping to support funeral arrangements and would create a fund for contributions for victims families .
the fire is a setback for the philippines $ 23 billion business process outsourcing ( bpo ) industry , which is an economic lifeline in the country of more than 100 million .
the sector employs about 1.15 million people , with jobs forecast to grow to 1.8 million by 2025 .
along with remittances from overseas workers , bpo revenues are a major earner of foreign exchange for the country , driving what is one of asia s fastest-growing economies .
the bpo industry employees network ( bien ) has expressed concern about postings on social media that said the building was made of sub-standard materials , had locked its fire exits , and had not held fire drills .
it was not possible to immediately check the accuracy of the postings .
bien said the government should look into every bpo firm s compliance with occupational health and safety standards .
justice must be served to the victims and those accountable must be penalized so as to avoid future workplace deaths , bien said in a statement .
on monday night , duterte told relatives of victims that the national bureau of investigation , police and fire protection bureau would get to the bottom of the disaster .
the truth will come out , he said .
research now ssi has offices in texas , california , new york and toronto and more than 3,500 market research , consulting , media , healthcare and corporate clients .
the call centre association of the philippines ( ccap ) said it was waiting for a full report from research now ssi , but saw no problem with its members meeting workplace safety standards .
we always comply with government safety regulations because our priority is the welfare of all our employees , ccap president jojo uligan told reuters .
but the associated labour unions-trade union congress of the philippines ( alu-tucp ) said safety standards were not being adhered to and the labor department and companies were not living up to their responsibilities to enforce and comply .
this deaths-causing fire could have been minimized to the barest damage to property , alu-tucp spokesman alan tanjusay said .