how corrupt is this ?
the usps allowed employees to work for presidential candidate hillary clinton .
can you imagine if candidate trump did this ?
there would be hell to pay ! the u.s .
postal service spent $ 90,000 on overtime to cover for employees who took time off to campaign in advance of the 2016 election , according to a new report .
in other words , the american taxpayers made a donation of $ 90k to the clinton campaign ! employees at all levels were involved and focused on key battleground states like florida and nevada !
the osc determined the usps engaged in systemic violations of the hatch act , a federal law that limits certain political activities of federal employees .
while employees are allowed to do some political work on leave , the report said the postal service showed a bias favoring the union s 2016 campaign operation.the investigation was launched months ago after senate committee on homeland security and governmental affairs chairman ron johnson , r-wis. , brought constituent complaints to the osc in october .
the constituent , identified as a usps employee , was concerned the postal service incurred unnecessary overtime costs and improperly coordinated with the national association of letter carriers ( nalc ) when it released members for several weeks of union official leave without pay to participate in campaign work .
the labor 2016 program sought to elect hillary clinton and pro-worker candidates across the country , the report said , citing campaign work like door-to-door canvassing , phone banks and other get-out-the-vote efforts.according to the report , roughly 97 nalc members requested the leave without pay to participate .
the nalc , which endorsed clinton last june , compensated those usps workers using the letter carrier political fund , the union s pac.postal workers are allowed to take unpaid holidays but government employees aren t supposed to actively campaign for a candidate .
the inspector general is currently investigating whether the postal workers who took time off violated that precept .