washington ( reuters ) - senate democrats teamed up with some of their republican counterparts on thursday and blocked a wide-ranging u.s. energy bill in a fight over aid to flint , michigan , to help rectify its drinking water crisis .
the republican-led senate failed in two procedural votes to advance the bill after behind-the-scenes bipartisan talks broke down .
negotiators hope to find a compromise on an amendment that would have allocated millions of dollars to replace flint ’ s contaminated water system and provide healthcare for people sickened by it .
the legislation fell far short of the 60 votes needed to clear procedural roadblocks and bring it to a vote .
democrats are making support for flint , a poor city of mostly african americans and latinos near detroit , a wider issue ahead of the november presidential election .
democratic candidates hillary clinton and bernie sanders are due to hold a march presidential debate in flint .
senator lisa murkowski , a republican from alaska and a co-sponsor of the bill , proposed making up to $ 550 million available to flint .
only $ 50 million would be immediately available to the city , where thousands of children have ingested lead from polluted water , and the water is still dangerous .
“ it ’ s not about the money , it ’ s about how quickly it could get to the state and the form of it .
what we need is dollars up front , ” democratic senator debbie stabenow of michigan told reporters after the vote .
financially strapped flint changed its water supply in 2014 from detroit ’ s system to the flint river .
corrosive water from the river that runs past dumping grounds caused lead to leach from aging pipes in flint , a city of 100,000 .
lead is a toxin that can harm the brains of children and cause other health problems .
stabenow and michigan senator gary peters had proposed an amendment to the bill to direct up to $ 600 million to flint .
the energy bill would have taken steps to speed permitting of liquefied natural gas facilities , fund research into advanced nuclear reactors and protect the power grid from cyber attacks .
senator john cornyn of texas , the senate ’ s no .
2 republican , said democrats were trying to “ embarrass ” republicans by making it look like they did not want to help flint .
stabenow noted that when a fertilizer plant exploded in west , texas , in 2013 , cornyn pressed the federal government to direct millions of dollars to deal with the crisis .
republican senator james inhofe of oklahoma had proposed a deal in which money for flint would come from a fund for advanced vehicles .
democrats said such a deal would harm workers in the region , an automotive industry hub .