washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court on monday rejected north dakota ’ s bid to revive a restrictive republican-backed law struck down by a lower court that would ban most abortions once a fetal heartbeat can be detected , as early as six weeks after conception .
the court turned away the state ’ s appeal , leaving in place a july 2015 ruling by the 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals that blocked the 2013 law .
north dakota ’ s law was among the strictest of a series of statutes passed at the state level imposing limits on abortion .
the law was challenged by north dakota ’ s only abortion clinic , the red river women ’ s clinic in fargo .
in a separate case , the high court is due to hear arguments on march 2 in a challenge by abortion providers to parts of a restrictive , republican-backed texas law they contend are aimed at shutting clinics that perform the procedure .
it will be the court ’ s first abortion case since 2007 .
in the north dakota case , the appeals court had said it was bound in its ruling by u.s. supreme court precedent on abortion , which holds that states may not prohibit abortions before a fetus reaches viability .
but the appeals court said “ good reasons exist ” for the high court to re-evaluate its past abortion decisions in light of medical and scientific advances that show the concept of viability is subject to change .
republican backers of the north dakota law had said 40 years of medical advancements should not be ignored .
opponents said a ban at six weeks would mean abortion would be outlawed at a gestation time when many women do not yet even know they are pregnant .
on jan. 19 , the high court refused to hear a similar case in which arkansas sought to revive a republican-backed law also blocked by lower courts that would ban abortions after 12 weeks of pregnancy .
the high court legalized abortion in 1973 , but abortion remains a contentious issue among americans .
some states , particularly those governed by republicans , have sought to chip away at a woman ’ s right to end a pregnancy by passing laws imposing a number of restrictions .
viability , according to medical experts , occurs around 23 to 24 weeks into a pregnancy .
lawmakers in north dakota , arkansas and other conservative states have sought to ban abortions at an earlier stage , citing among other things hotly debated medical research suggesting a fetus feels pain starting at 20 weeks of gestation .
the north dakota case was 15-627 , stenehjem v. mkb management , u.s. supreme court , no .
15-627 .