new york ( reuters ) - a new york jury on thursday ended its second day of deliberations without a verdict in the trial of a turkish banker accused of helping iran evade u.s. sanctions .
the jury had begun deliberating on wednesday following the three-week trial of mehmet hakan atilla , an executive at turkey s majority state-owned halkbank .
the trial featured testimony from turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who pleaded guilty to charges of violating sanctions and testified for u.s. prosecutors , and from huseyin korkmaz , a former turkish police officer who said he investigated zarrab in 2012 and 2013 .
jurors on thursday sent notes asking to review a part of korkmaz s testimony .
they have also asked for clarification of a part of u.s. district judge richard berman s legal instructions .
the jurors are expected to resume deliberations on friday .
zarrab testified that atilla helped design fraudulent transactions of gold and food that allowed iran to spend its oil and gas revenues abroad , including through u.s. financial institutions , defying u.s. sanctions .
both zarrab and korkmaz implicated turkish officials in their testimony , including president tayyip erdogan .
attempts to reach erdogan s spokesman for comment on the allegations at the trial have been unsuccessful .
erdogan has publicly dismissed the case as a politically motivated attack on his government .
korkmaz testified that he was jailed in retaliation for his investigation and eventually fled turkey last year .
an istanbul prosecutor has issued arrest warrants for korkmaz s parents , the hurriyet newspaper reported on wednesday .
korkmaz testified that he left some evidence from his investigation with his mother .
atilla , testifying in his own defense at the trial , denied all the charges against him .
halkbank has denied taking part in any illegal transactions .
u.s. prosecutors charged nine people in the criminal case , though only zarrab , 34 , and atilla , 47 , were arrested by u.s. authorities .