many people around the world are using this viral video as an example of a beautiful exchange between a father and son in paris following the terrorist tragedy .
humanity in the face of inhumanity is how this exchange between a father , his young son and a reporter is being described.the young boy is asked by a reporter , do you understand what happened ?
do you understand what they ( the terrorists ) did ?
the boy replies , yes , because they are very , very , very bad .
the father then explains , there are bad people everywhere .
the boy then replies , they have guns , they can shoot at us because they are very very bad , daddy .
it is then the father tells the son , they have guns , but we have flowers .
the boy then says something that is undeniable ( except of course , to a progressive ) , but flowers do nothing , to which the dad responds that the flowers are there to fight against the guns.while the father is clearly making an effort to calm the fears of his toddler son , for us , it s a perfect example of the delusional progressive european mindset .
progressives live in a make-believe world where tolerance is the only way to address an evil ideology that is intent on murdering innocent people who refuse to convert to islam .
this caliphate is spreading like wildfire across an un-armed europe , and flowers are not going to stop them.less than one year ago , the entire world witnessed the blood bath that took place at the unarmed charlie hebdo headquarters in france .
make no mistake about it unarmed citizens are sitting ducks for terrorists period .
having a well armed citizenry is certainly not a guarantee that no one will ever be killed by terrorists or by some crazy mass murderer , but it sure could put a dent in their plans.no , we haven t missed the point of this video .
we have small children and understand that you have to be careful about how you address these sensitive issues .
our point is , that telling your child the bad guys have guns , but we have flowers isn t just something toddlers naively believe in france and the uk , it s a commonly held belief progressives have had for quite some time now.perhaps it s time for europeans to revisit their radical gun-free laws .
most americans understand the bad guys will always find a way to get the guns , and when all hell breaks loose , the good ( unarmed ) guys are always going to find themselves on the losing side .
maybe that s why barack obama hasn t been able to penetrate that pesky 2nd amendment with his never-ending desire for gun-control , by attempting to convince americans we should follow the european model .