shawn helton 21st century wire the gunman named in a mass shooting that was said to have killed 26 people at a small church outside of san antonio was convicted by the military several years before the tragic attack in 2012 .
this past week new information concerning the apparent first baptist church gunman 26-year-old devin patrick kelley , revealed that the previously convicted air force airman was already well-known to authorities via his bad conduct discharge from the military in 2012 .
the recent acknowledgement in kelley s case history , coupled with his unusually relaxed plea bargain deal , has only prompted more questions from those concerned about the most recent high-profile mass shooting in america.according to officials , the sutherland springs shooting at the first baptist church may have been caused by a domestic dispute involving kelley and his ex-mother-in-law michelle shields .
however , it turns out that shields was not present at church services on the morning of the mass shooting , although her mother was named as one of the victims.a more precise motive in the deadly sutherland springs massacre has yet to be uncovered by authorities texas church shooting 8 years after the fort hood mass shooting , the first baptist church attack raises big questions .
its also worth noting , the recent church shooting echoes a scene in the 2015 hollywood film kingsman : the secret service .
( photo illustration 21wire s shawn helton ) the texas church shooterwhile many in media have focused on the military s inability to log devin patrick kelley s domestic violence court-martial case into a federal database , a police report from 2012 revealed that the gunman named in the first baptist church shooting had been previously caught attempting to sneak firearms onto a cia linked military base in new mexico where he was stationed .
the el paso police report concluded that after kelley escaped the mental health facility believed to be peak behavioral health services center in santa teresa , he sought to carry out death threats against his superiors at new mexico s holloman air force base.a cbs affiliate from dallas further explained the church shooter s lengthy criminal background : the information was contained in a police incident report after devin patrick kelley briefly escaped in june , 2012 from a mental health facility in new mexico where he had been committed .
kprc television in houston first reported about the escape .
police in el paso , texas , where kelley was caught after the escape , said in the report that an official of the mental health facility told them that kelley was a danger to himself and others .
the report says that kelley had already been caught sneaking firearms onto holloman air force base .
it also says that he was attempting to carry out death threats that ( kelley ) had made on his military chain of command .
moreover , a fox news report just days ago revealed additional information concerning kelley s violent threats at holloman air force base : former air force staff sgt .
jessika edwards told the new york times that kelley would shake with rage and vow to kill his superiors when he was assigned menial tasks as punishment for poor performance .
at one point , edwards told the times , she warned others in the squadron to go easy on kelley , believing he was likely to come back and shoot up the place .
rather strangely , former air force staff sgt .
edwards still kept in close contact with the criminally convicted and discharged logistical readiness airman , stating that he asked her to be a job reference in 2015 .
shortly there after , kelley allegedly became obsessed with the polarizing case involving charleston church shooter dylann roof .
church shooter what is the real motive in the first baptist church shooting ?
( image source : nbcwashington ) the shocking claims of death threats prior to the sutherland springs church shooting taking place raises questions not only about the criminally convicted shooter kelley , who was accused of a slew of abusive behavior but also the military s handling of the gunman s well-known history of violence from a prosecutorial standpoint.question : how did kelley manage to get such a relaxed sentence considering he had several other major charges dropped including an additional incident where he allegedly pointed a loaded firearm at his wife ? furthermore , as the public and media are still bewildered over kelley s ability to legally purchase guns following his 2012 military conviction due to his prior violent abuse , information concerning his alleged plot to kill military superiors has been completely underreported and by the looks of it , may have even gone unpunished.according to official reports , kelley was sentenced to a year s confinement , reducing rank from an airman first-class ( a1c ) to airman basic .
additionally , after being convicted of crimes by a military court in 2012 , he received a bad conduct discharge following an apparent plea deal.the ny times added the following details regarding the military court case : prosecutors withdrew several other charges as part of their plea agreement with mr. kelley , including allegations that he repeatedly pointed a loaded gun at his wife.he was ultimately sentenced in november that year to 12 months confinement and reduction to the lowest possible rank .
his final duty title was prisoner .
question : did kelley s plea agreement also include the exclusion of charges concerning his alleged death threat plot against military superiors at the cia linked holloman air force base ? moreover , if that wasn t a part of the plea , how was kelley not dishonorably discharged due to the severity of charges he faced from military superiors ? although we ve been told this latest soft target shooting spree on american soil was carried out by yet another lone gunman , there have also been questions raised concerning a shooter allegedly firing from the roof top down on to church parishioners below.watch and listen to shooting survivor rosanne solis , as she recounts what she witnessed during the first baptist church shooting .
question : is it also possible that solis saw multiple shooters at the first baptist church ?
if not , how did kelley swiftly move from the roof top location to ground level in a matter of a few minutes , assuming the account told by solis is true ? the sutherland springs mass shooting , along with other high-profile active shooter incidents this year and year s past have once again predictably sparked socio-political hot button issues concerning gun reform , background checks , mental illness and ssri prescription drugs .
this is something that has prompted critics to consider that there might be even more to the story.below is a cnn video report discussing the lengthy criminal background of the first baptist church gunman .
note the strong emphasis in this report regarding kelley s access to weaponry rather than a deeper analysis over how he received such a relaxed military conviction drills , dupes & informants ? a day after the suspicious san bernardino shooting in 2015 , san antonio s nonprofit alamo community group began practicing active shooter scenarios with employees .
san antonio is only 35 miles from where the sutherland springs mass shooting took place and a city that has been rigorously training for mass casualty scenarios for the last five years , holding active shooter drills with approximately one hundred officers a week over at least the last couple of years .
here s a passage from an abc affiliate in san antonio on the matter : though it [ the training ] is simulated for active shooting scenarios , the training could easily be applied to many other mass casualty situations as well .
in past two years , about 4,000 people have been involved in san antonio s new rescue task force training program .
as 21 wire has documented over the years , many so-called shooting/terror/attacks involve individuals being monitored by security services prior to an alleged act taking place .
a place where a lone wolf graduates into the ranks of a known wolf .
although the military wasn t officially keeping kelley under watch , his case profile does exhibit potential signs of a possible informant status due to the litany of charges he managed to avoid through a cushy plea deal with the military .
historically , government operators have often made use of low-life criminals , and mentally disturbed individuals to fulfill various roles in entrapment stings or sometimes as bona fide solo actors in an actual attacks .
links between security agencies , military facilities and alleged attackers with a criminal history should arouse suspicion if they become connected to any future crimes.in january of 2015 , a strategic security service think-tank known as the soufan group , reported that a larger national security threat resides with those who ve had a lengthy criminal background with known ties to security agencies : the soufan group , a new york think tank , said a better term for lone wolves would be known wolves , given how many are already known to western intelligence agencies before they strike .
these individuals , acting alone or in small groups have been on the radar of various agencies and organisations , highlighting the difficulty of effectively monitoring and managing people at the nexus of criminality and terrorism , it said in a report this week domestically in america , it has been well documented that the fbi created a counter-intelligence program known as cointelpro ( similar in scope to the cia s operation chaos ) , not only as a way to influence , but also a way to disrupt and coerce both left and right-wing political factions from the inside out .
the fbi program infiltrated countless groups and movements across the political spectrum.over the past several years , the fbi has been routinely caught foiling their very own terror plots .
following one of america s most deadly mass shootings at the orlando pulse nightclub , reports revealed that the fbi had a close relationship with the suspected attacker through the use of a well-known confidential informant .
similarly , recent reports state that fbi , court filings have revealed how the agency allowed an alleged home grown isis attack to take place in garland , texas .
21wire had previously uncovered the suspicious nature of the cartoon/shooting event in garland when it occurred.in 2015 , another strange informant case/fbi sting attempted to persuade a group into attacking the humphrey scottish rite masonic center in milwaukee.question : is it possible the fbi or any or intelligence agency played some part in the sutherland springs church shooting whether inadvertently or otherwise ? fbi informants have reportedly played a central role in over 50 % of all domestic terror cases in the united states since 2009 .
according to reports , informants might earn up to $ 100,000 per case , as they are meant to build relationships with persons of interest .
while the sutherland springs shooting is not considered a terror case , it does fit the profile of possible soft target scenarios outlined by the fbi.here at 21wire , we ve kept a running report on many known wolf actors and other suspicious intelligence informant cases : tamerlan tsarnaev ( see his story here ) buford rogers ( see his story here ) jerad miller ( see his story here ) naji mansour ( see his story here ) quazi mohammad nafis ( see his story here ) mohamed osman mohamud ( see his story here ) timothy mcveigh ( see his story here ) salim benghalem ( see his story here ) michael adebolajo ( see his story here ) daba deng ( see his story here ) elton simpson ( see his story here ) man haron monis ( see his story here ) abu hamza ( see his story here ) haroon rashid aswat ( see his story here ) mark vicars ( see his story here ) glen rodgers ( see his story here ) omar mateen ( see his story here ) samy mohamed hamzeh ( see his story here ) tashfeen malik ( see her story here ) djamel beghal ( see his story here ) anjem choudary ( see his story here ) cherif kouachi ( see his story here ) said kouachi ( see his story here ) amedy coulibaly ( see his story here ) hayat boumeddiene ( see her story here ) salah abdeslam ( see his story here ) michael zehaf-bibeau ( see his story here ) nidal malik hassan ( see his story here ) abdelhakim dekhar ( see his story here ) abdelhamid abaaoud ( see his story here ) samy amimour ( see his story here ) isma l omar mostefa ( see his story here ) mohamed lahouij bouhlel ( see his story here ) anis amri ( see his story here ) esteban santiago-ruiz ( see his story here ) abdulkadir masharipov ( see his story here ) khalid masood ( see his story here ) khuram butt ( see his story here ) youssef zaghba ( see his story here ) sayfullo saipov ( see his story here ) according to pastor frank pomeroy , who was out-of-town at the time of the shooting with his wife sherri , the hundred member first baptist church , is slated to be demolished sometime soon .
however , prior to the demolition , the site will become a temporary memorial and the building will be scrubbed down and whitewashed , as white chairs will be placed inside to remember those who died.there are still a number of questions following the sutherland springs mass shooting tragedy * * * 21wire associate editor shawn helton is a researcher and writer , specializing in forensic analysis of high-profile crime scene and counter terrorism investigations , and the deconstruction and analysis of the mass-media coverage surrounding those cases .
he has compiled an extensive body of work covering a number of high-profile events since 2012.read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport our work by subscribing and become a member @ 21wire.tv