washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate jeb bush on monday outlined an education reform plan that would take much decision-making away from the federal government and give it to state and local school authorities .
bush , who focused on education during his two terms as florida governor and later as head of an education foundation , presented what was the latest in a series of detailed policy plans on major issues .
“ as the nation honors dr. martin luther king and his legacy today , i firmly believe that ensuring every individual has access to a quality education is the great civil rights challenge of our time , ” he said in a post on the website medium .
the united states on monday marked a holiday for the slain u.s. civil rights leader .
bush said his plan would not cost american taxpayers any more money .
he would send much of the $ 22 billion spent on federal education programs to state and local governments and create $ 2,500 annual grants for low-income children to let parents decide how best to educate them .
bush , who national polls show is trailing far behind the republican presidential front-runners , has drawn fire from conservative voters for his position on common core , an initiative designed to ensure basic education standards in basic subjects such as english and mathematics .
the former florida governor has distanced himself from common core , but believes every school district should have home-grown education standards to ensure children make progress .
“ we will empower states with the flexibility to improve their schools , while ensuring the federal government does not interfere in academic standards , curriculum or content , ” bush said .
he said “ too many regulations drown the system in compliance costs , wasting valuable resources. ” “ we need to give states the flexibility to reform and innovate to meet the unique needs of their students , ” he said .
bush said he would allow for conversion of 529 college savings accounts into education savings accounts that would enable families to save tax-free for education .
charitable donations to the esas of low-income children would be tax-deductible .
( reporting by steve holland ; editing by paul simao ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .