geneva ( reuters ) - the medical charity medecins sans frontieres ( doctors without borders ) is closing most of its 37 cholera treatment centers in yemen , saying the epidemic appears to have peaked .
some 884,368 suspected cholera cases have been recorded in the war-torn country in the past six months , including 2,184 deaths , according to the latest figures from the world health organization ( who ) .
the case fatality rate is now 0.25 percent .
the number of cholera cases reported in msf treatment centers has significantly decreased since the peak of the outbreak .
as a result , the medical organization is closing the majority of its cholera treatment centers or reducing their capacity , msf said in a statement late on monday .
some 567 new patients sought treatment for suspected cholera at msf s centers in nine governorates of yemen during the second week of october , down from 11,139 at the peak in the third week in june , it said .
only 9 percent of patients admitted by msf last week needed to be hospitalized and a limited number of patients have symptoms that correspond with the cholera case definition ( acute watery diarrhea with or without vomiting ) , it said .
the remaining cases are believed to be due to other pathogens .
ghassan abou chaar , msf head of mission in yemen , said : the cholera outbreak is not over but it is no longer our medical priority in yemen .
however , this should not eclipse the dire health situation of millions of yemenis who are unable to access basic primary healthcare .
civil war in yemen has killed more than 10,000 people since it began in march 2015 .
yemen s war pits the armed houthi movement that controls the capital against the internationally-recognized government of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi , which is backed by a saudi-led coalition that has launched thousands of air strikes to restore him to power .
cholera epidemics usually subside once the disease passes through a population , but aid agencies say the yemen epidemic lasted longer and spread wider than they initially expected because of the war s toll on health care .
u.n. humanitarian chief mark lowcock said on sunday that an aid effort by the world health organization , united nations children s fund unicef , the international committee for the red cross ( icrc ) and other agencies had managed to largely contain the devastating cholera epidemic , but warned it could flare up again without urgent investment in health , water and sanitation .
icrc said last month that the humanitarian situation in yemen is a catastrophe , and cholera cases could reach a million by the end of the year .
alexandre faite , head of the icrc delegation in yemen , said at the time that the health sector is really on its knees in yemen ... the health staff is on its knees as well because they are not paid .
preventable illnesses and deaths are increasing in yemen , and this can be partly attributed to the salary crisis , msf said , noting that doctors , nurses and other public health workers had not been paid in 13 months .