here is a portion of the interview that was conducted by a group of journalists and pope frances today : vatican insider i leaned out to greet the children and didn t see the glass , and pum !
the pope with a smile and an obvious dark bruise framing his left cheek , answers the question on how he feels after the small accident that happened to him in cartagena .
immediately after the avianca flight took off from cartagena , francis spoke for 38 minutes with journalists on immigration , climate change , trump s latest measures and the situation in venezuela .
he confirmed that he had a private meeting with the italian prime minister paolo gentiloni , but denied that there was talk of immigration .
he expressed his support to italy for what the country is doing by trying to manage the emergency landings and regulate immigration flows .
here is a list of us senators who are also catholics .
their pro-life ratings are listed in front of their names .
: senate100 % mike johanns , r-neb.100 % jim risch , r-idaho100 % david vitter , r-la.94 % pat toomey , r-pa. * * 68 % lisa murkowski , r-alaska50 % robert casey jr. , d-pa.31 % mary landrieu , d-la.23 % susan collins , r-maine11 % patrick leahy , d-vt.4 % john kerry , d-mass.2 % richard durbin , d-ill.2 % tom harkin , d-iowa2 % barbara mikulski , d-md.2 % patty murray , d-wash.2 % jack reed , d-r.i.1 % robert menendez , d-n.j.0 % mark begich , d-alaska0 % maria cantwell , d-wash.0 % kirsten gillibrand , d-n.y.0 % claire mccaskill , d-mo.does anyone see a pattern here ?
yet , no open condemnation for these lawmakers who actually have the power to stop the barbaric practice of abortion by the pope .
italy is starting to feel the climate change .
there have been many deaths in recent days and so much damage why is it that governments are delaying this realization , whereas on other issues they keep soliciting , like on the korean arms race , for example ? how ironic that the pope would suggest climate-change deniers who ve been screaming that phony climate change data and peddlers are part of a scheme to extort money from citizens that will somehow fix the not resolved science behind man-made climate change .
i have heard of the abolition of this law , but i have not been able to read the articles on how and why this decision was taken .
i do not know the situation well .
however , detaching young people from their family won t bear any good fruit for young people or the family .
this law comes from the executive and not from parliament : if that is the case , i hope that they will think it over again a little bit .
i have heard the president of the united states speak , who presents himself as a pro-life .
if he is a good pro-life , he understands the importance of family and life : the unity of the family must be defended .
when young people feel exploited , they ultimately feel hopeless .
and who steals it ?
drugs , other kinds of addictions , suicide achievable when your roots are cut off .
anything that goes against the roots steals hope .