new york ( reuters ) - before introducing donald trump to roughly a dozen republican lawmakers at the washington law offices of jones day , u.s .
senator jeff sessions paused to acknowledge the man he said had facilitated the closed-door talks .
he said it was jared kushner , a 35-year-old real estate investor and newspaper owner , who had suggested the get-together last month , arguing that it would enable trump to win more allies on capitol hill , according to a person in the room .
kushner is also trump ’ s son-in-law , having married the republican presidential front-runner ’ s daughter ivanka in 2009 .
a real-estate tycoon like his father-in-law , kushner has emerged as one of a very few advisers as trump seeks the republican nomination to the nov. 8 election , according to five people close to trump .
it is especially rare given that trump styles himself as his own best adviser and has said he consults only a few people despite a promise to hire the country ’ s top minds once he becomes president .
while “ well respected , ” kushner has no official campaign role , trump spokeswoman hope hicks said .
she confirmed however that kushner had helped with the sessions meeting and had informally advised the candidate on israel and in other areas .
in an interview kushner ’ s friend david schulhof , founder of a music publishing company , cited a level-headedness and listening skill that would make kushner a calming influence .
this could be helpful to trump , 69 , who entered the race 10 months ago hailing his having never held public office as an asset , but whose campaign has been rocked by turbulence over remarks offensive to women , muslims , immigrants , party loyalists and others .
at times kushner has urged trump to behave like a more traditional candidate , stressing the importance of building relationships with politicians and traditionally active donors , say the sources close to trump , speaking on condition of anonymity .
they also say kushner can use friendships like the ones he has with media mogul rupert murdoch and billionaire ronald perelman as a bridge to influential people with whom his father-in-law is not close .
neither murdoch nor perelman would comment for this story .
an orthodox jew , whose wife ivanka converted to judaism before they married , kushner and his family have connections to israel .
along with his father , also a prominent real-estate developer , kushner was listed in a 2015 report by the american israel public affairs committee ( aipac ) as a benefactor for its real estate committee , which required a donation of at least $ 36,000 to the powerful pro-israel lobbying group .
kushner ’ s parents donated $ 20 million two years ago to a medical school campus in jerusalem now named after them .
using his family and business ties , kushner arranged a series of meetings for trump during a trip the candidate planned to make to israel last year , the sources say .
the trip never happened .
trump scrapped it after israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu condemned his proposal to ban muslims from entering the united states .
trump later suggested that if elected he would not take sides in the dispute between israel and the palestinians , a stance he said would help him negotiate a peace deal but which was unusually neutral for an american politician looking to court voters on israel .
ahead of aipac ’ s annual conference last month in washington , kushner advised his father-in-law to lay out concrete policies that would help smooth over relations with the jewish community , according to two sources .
he further advised him to use a teleprompter for the speech , ditching his usual conversational style , the people close to trump said .
it was also kushner who fielded a call from israel ’ s ambassador to the united states , ron dermer , who wanted to offer trump the israeli government ’ s perspective ahead of the aipac speech , according to the sources .
dermer ’ s office declined to comment .
in the end , trump delivered an uncharacteristically detailed speech to the 18,000 people who attended the conference , outlining a series of policy positions broadly aligned with aipac ’ s .
an aipac spokesman declined to comment .
trump told attendees that palestinians must scrub hatred of israel from their educational system and stop naming public places after people who attacked israel .
he said the united states must stand with israel in rejecting attempts by the united nations to impose restrictions on israel or parameters for a peace deal .
he criticized the u.s. deal with iran as bad for israel .
while helping trump craft the speech , kushner sought advice from the politically connected editor of his newspaper , the new york observer .
the editor , ken kurson , a former speech writer for former new york mayor rudy giuliani , wrote in an email to reuters that he reviewed the speech before trump delivered it .
trump has loomed large in kushner ’ s life since day one of his marriage .
the new york post reported that invitations to kushner ’ s wedding , held at a trump golf club in new jersey , included a flier advertising trump ’ s other golf properties .
kushner , who with his wife has taken family vacations with news corp ( nwsa.o ) owner murdoch and his ex-wife wendi deng , has worked to calm murdoch ’ s ire with trump over the candidate ’ s criticism of the company ’ s fox news channel and star anchor megyn kelly , two people familiar with his activities say .
during regular phone calls and lunches kushner tries both to soothe murdoch and stump for his father-in-law , these people said .
despite his influence behind the scenes , kushner keeps a largely low profile on the campaign trail .
during a trump rally in south carolina last november , he hung back while other family members took the stage until his father-in-law called him out .
“ where ’ s jared ?
jared get up here , ” trump shouted .
kushner , clad in charcoal-colored pants and a black quilted down vest , shuffled up , hands jammed in his pockets .
“ jared ’ s a very successful developer and he just loves politics now , ” trump said , adding with a bit of gleeful teasing : “ look at him .
see the way he dresses ? ” ( story corrects real estate billionaire to billionaire in 10th paragraph characterization of ronald perelman ) .