republican rep. steve king : the base is going to behind president trump 's decision to pardon joe arpaio https : //t.co/17flpkpgcf cnn ( @ cnn ) august 26 , 2017cnn was apoplectic about having to cover the hurricane when they had so many opportunities to manufacture news about president trump .
they published this story tonight as hurricane harvey was hitting the coast of texas:3 headlines the white house hopes you ll miss as hurricane harvey hitsas the strongest hurricane to make landfall in the us in more than a decade took aim at texas , president donald trump s white house engaged in an age-old washington tradition : the friday news dump.transgender individuals ?
banned from joining the military .
convicted sheriff joe arpaio ?
officially pardoned .
controversial white house adviser sebastian gorka ?
out of a white house job.all three headlines popped after 6 p.m. friday as tv news broadcasts and websites turned their attention to texas , where hurricane harvey was preparing to make landfall as a category 4 hurricane the most powerful to hit the us since 2004.cnn probably forgot about barack obama s notorious friday night news dumps here are a few of obama s greatest hits : from hot air : isn t it funny what you can find out on friday evening about what our executive branch does ?
for instance , agence france-presse reported last night that barack obama bypassed congress to send $ 192 million to the palestinian authority , claiming that national security required the us to put money into mahmoud abbas pocket.congress deliberately froze those funds , and not just because of the statehood demand through unesco .
hamas , a terrorist organization , reconciled with fatah and has rejoined the pa , which means we re putting almost $ 200 million into the hands of a terrorist organization .
the language of the palestinian accountability act could not be clearer : [ n ] o funds available to any united states government department or agency may be obligated or expended with respect to providing funds to the palestinian authority .
obama literally waived that statutory language off yesterday afternoon .
from politico : reporters and capitol hill staff tracking the solyndra saga know better than to make plans for friday nights : that s when the obama administration likes to dump documents requested by congress.at least five times since last fall s bankruptcy filing and fbi raid of the california solar company , the white house and other agencies have chosen to release embarrassing emails and other materials late in the afternoon as the workweek ends a time almost guaranteed to garner the least media attention possible.from townhall : the obama administration friday pulled the plug on a major program in the president s signature health overhaul law a long-term care insurance plan dogged from the beginning by doubts over its financial solvency .
targeted by congressional republicans for repeal , the long-term care plan became the first casualty in the political and policy wars over the health care law .
the program had been expected to launch in 2013 .
this is a victory for the american taxpayer and future generations , said sen. john thune , r-s.d. , spearheading opposition in the senate .
the administration is finally admitting ( the long-term care plan ) is unsustainable and can not be implemented .
while president trump has had a very busy day today , he s clearly not so busy that he hasn t been focused on , and assessing what the federal government can do to help the victims of the hurricane this evening .
here is his latest tweet : we will remain fully engaged w/ open lines of communication as # hurricaneharvey makes landfall .
america is w/ you !
@ govabbott @ fema @ dhsgov pic.twitter.com/pryiqrxglr donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 26 , 2017here s president trump s tweet as the hurricane was hitting land in texas : at the request of the governor of texas , i have signed the disaster proclamation , which unleashes the full force of government help !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 26 , 2017 where was president obama when the most serious natural disaster happened during his 8 years in office ?
he was golfing on martha s vineyard , and refused to leave his golfing vacation to assess the situation.president obama is stirring resentment over his refusal to interrupt his martha s vineyard vacation to survey the louisiana flood the worst u.s. natural disaster since 2012 while drawing comparisons to president george w. bush s hotly criticized response to hurricane katrina in the same state.homeland security secretary jeh johnson defended mr. obama at a press conference thursday , insisting that the president is closely monitoring the situation but that he will not cut short his two-week breather in the tony massachusetts resort .
the president can t be everywhere , mr. johnson told reporters in denham springs , louisiana.louisiana gov .
john bel edwards , a democrat , backed him up , saying at the press conference that he is not complaining in any way about our federal partnership .
even so , mr. obama s lack of urgency is drawing unflattering parallels to the federal response in 2005 , when mr. bush was branded as uncaring and even racist for not touching down during a flyover two days after hurricane katrina .
washington times