how quickly the democrats have forgotten about that little incident that landed hillary in the hospital , following the death of the 4 americans that she likely caused in benghazi after reviewing more than 35 pages of email from top hillary clinton aide huma abedin , judicial watch observes that abedin advised a state department staffer that it was very important to review phone calls with clinton because she was often confused .
judicial watch notes that abedin emailed state department clinton aide and companion monica hanley from her huma @ clintonemail.com to alert her about the need to go over phone calls with clinton.additionally , abedin s emails reveal repeated security breaches , with the secretary s schedule and movements being sent and received through abedin s non-governmental and unsecured clinton server account , states judicial watch.on january 26 , 2013 , abedin had the following email exchange with hanley : abedin : have you been going over her calls with her ?
so she knows singh is at 8 ?
[ india prime minister manmohan singh ] hanley : she was in bed for a nap by the time i heard that she had an 8am call .
will go over with her abedin : very imp to do that .
she s often confused .
the emails also provide specific details of clinton s last day in office on january 31 , 2013 .
exact times and locations of all her appointments during the day are given .
huma abedin s description of hillary clinton as easily confused tells you all you need to know why it took a federal lawsuit to get these government emails from clinton s illegal email server , said judicial watch president tom fitton .
these emails also show that hillary clinton s and huma abedin s decision to use the clinton email server to conduct government business was dangerous and risky .
via : breitbart newshere is bill clinton attempting to convince the interviewer that hillary works out every week ( not every day ) and that she is the picture of health : from edward klein s book unlikeable : ed klein , whose book unlikeable hits shelves on sept. 28 , told the national enquirer that the former secretary of state is battling a host of mounting health issues including blinding headaches that have frequently plagued her .
bachmann , a former minnesota republican congresswoman , bowed out of the 2012 gop primary race after reports surfaced that she was wrestling with debilitating migraine headaches including one that kept her offstage during part of a televised debate .
a clinton friend told klein that the democrats current leading light might even be suffering from multiple sclerosis.clinton herself released a letter on july 28 from a doctor who gave her a clean bill of health.dr .
lisa bardack of mount kisco , n.y. wrote that clinton , 67 , has completely recovered from a december 2012 concussion that left her seeing double for two months.while treating that condition , doctors diagnosed a blood clot in her sinuses , requiring long-term daily doses of the blood-thinning medication coumadin.bardack added that clinton had been diagnosed with blood clots previously , in both 1998 and 2009 .
but klein s book goes far beyond talk of ordinary medical conditions .
for the first time i ve known her , she s showing self-doubt about her strength and vitality , a friend of hillary told him , according to radar online.she also reportedly suffers from severe insomnia , which has sapped her energy just when she needed it most for the campaign .
she is exhausted and depressed a lot of the time , the friend said , and has turned to sleeping pills in order to rest at night .