kabul ( reuters ) - spreading violence in afghanistan is forcing many schools to close , undermining fragile gains in education for young girls in a war-ravaged country where millions of girls have never been to school , said a human rights watch report released on tuesday .
after more than a decade and a half of international intervention in afghanistan , corruption , insecurity , waste , and other problems mean around two-thirds of afghan girls still do not go to school , the rights group said .
despite the challenges , millions of children have received education , but those gains are now threatened by spreading violence and declining international funding , the report found .
as security in the country has worsened , the progress made toward the goal of getting all girls into school may be heading in reverse a decline in girls education in afghanistan , the authors wrote .
in the most insecure areas of the country , schools are closing at an alarming rate due to insecurity .
while the war has affected schools since at least 2005 , as the fighting has escalated and spread to previously secure areas , more schools have closed .
in kandahar , for example , at least 130 of 435 schools were closed over the summer , a local government official told hrw .
threats from islamic state militants forced the closure of at least 61 schools in the northern province of jawzjan , education ministry spokesman kabir haqmal told reuters .
he said he could not yet comment on the report s findings , but acknowledged that security has a great impact on education , and when there are challenges , fewer girls attend .
access to education can be undermined by factors ranging from limited numbers of qualified teachers and community opposition to a lack of sanitary facilities .
one of the more successful education programs is also one of the most threatened by a drop in international funds , the hrw report found .
so-called community-based education ( cbe ) programs have helped expand access to schools in many areas , the researchers said .
but such programs were only a temporary solution , as they were all run by non-profit groups out a shrinking pool of international donations , they said .
the absence of long-term strategic thinking by government and donors exposes cbe programs , and students , to unpredictable closures , they added .
international aid has been essential to the progress in expanding access to education since 2001 , they concluded , but ranked bureaucratic hurdles , corruption , and insecurity among the reasons why the government often left the funds unspent .