washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump on monday vowed an unbreakable u.s. alliance with israel if he is elected president in november , seeking to clear up confusion over his repeated pledges to remain neutral in any peace negotiations between israelis and palestinians .
trump ’ s speech to the american israel public affairs committee , a powerful pro-israel lobbying group , was part of a daylong effort by the anti-washington candidate to persuade establishment republicans to get behind his insurgent candidacy and give up on an effort to deny him the party ’ s presidential nomination .
describing israel as ready to negotiate a peace agreement , trump said the palestinians would have to be willing to accept that israel will forever exist as a jewish state and able to stop attacks on israelis .
“ the palestinians must come to the table knowing that the bond between the united states and israel is unbreakable , ” the new york billionaire businessman said .
trump has drawn fire for his position on middle east peace negotiations .
he has described himself as extremely pro-israel , but has said he would take a “ neutral ” stance in trying to negotiate an elusive peace settlement between israel and the palestinians .
trump ’ s critics have said he could harm long-standing u.s. support for israel .
trump ’ s leading republican rival , u.s .
senator ted cruz , reminded the aipac gathering of trump ’ s position .
“ let me be very , very clear , ” cruz said .
“ as president i will not be neutral .
america will stand unapologetically with the nation of israel. ” democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton , a former secretary of state , used her aipac appearance to attack trump .
“ we need steady hands , not a president who says he ’ s neutral on monday , pro-israel on tuesday and who-knows-what on wednesday because everything ’ s negotiable , ” she said .
clinton also took aim at trump ’ s vow that , if elected , he would deport illegal immigrants and bar muslims temporarily from entering the united states .
“ if you see bigotry , oppose it , if you see violence , condemn it , if you see a bully , stand up to him , ” she said .
in a rarity , trump delivered his aipac speech with the aid of a teleprompter , abandoning his typical free-wheeling style .
throughout the day , his public remarks lacked their usual bombast , an obvious effort to appear more presidential .
at a news conference , trump presented himself as republicans ’ best chances of capturing the white house in the nov. 8 election .
he took steps to appear as the nominee-in-waiting , releasing the names of some foreign policy advisers and pledging to name seven to 10 people he would pick for the supreme court .
trump said establishment republicans would be making a mistake if they persuade a high-profile party leader to launch a third-party run to deny him the white house .
he said it would “ almost certainly ” mean the democrats would win the presidency .
“ if people want to be smart , they should embrace this movement , ” trump said at the site of a new hotel he is building in washington .
“ if they don ’ t want to be smart , they should do what they ’ re doing now and the republicans are going to go down to a massive loss. ” trump laid out some foreign policy priorities in a cnn interview , saying the united states is contributing more than it should to the nato alliance and that he would continue a u.s. thaw toward cuba begun by president barack obama , who is now in havana .
trump was in washington for closed-door talks with a variety of republicans organized by his top backer in the capital , u.s .
senator jeff sessions of alabama .
it was his most overt bid yet to seek party unity at a time when many establishment republicans bitterly oppose him .
the meeting , held at the offices of the jones day law firm , included some republican lawmakers and a former republican speaker of the u.s. house of representatives , newt gingrich , and former congressman bob livingston .
“ we ’ ve had almost eight years of mr. obama , who ’ s been a disastrous president .
we have now an opportunity to change course or have four more years of the same .
and i think that donald trump is the alternative , ” livingston said after the session .
also at the meeting were representatives renee ellmers of north carolina and chris collins of new york , as well as former senator jim demint , who is head of the heritage foundation , an influential conservative washington think-tank .
in a separate session with the washington post editorial board , trump named some members of his foreign policy team .
the team included walid phares , who trump called a counter-terrorism expert ; george papadopoulos , an oil and energy consultant ; and joe schmitz , a former inspector general at the department of defense .
trump ’ s rise has alarmed establishment republicans who have tried in vain to stop him .
their best hope of derailing his insurgent candidacy is to stretch the contest out and deny him the 1,237 delegates needed to formally win the party ’ s presidential nomination .
trump has 678 delegates to 423 for cruz and 143 for ohio governor john kasich , according to the associated press .
if trump does not win the 1,237 delegates , the republican nominee would be decided at the party ’ s convention in cleveland in july .