berlin ( reuters ) - fears in germany that voter apathy could boost the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) in sunday s election have driven chancellor angela merkel and her main rival in final days of the campaign to urge their backers to go out and vote .
with many voters viewing a fourth term for merkel as almost inevitable and turned off by a turgid campaign - occasionally punctured by heckling and tomato hurling in protest at merkel 's refugee policy - pollsters say turnout may be low .
a gms poll on thursday said those not planning to vote or were undecided numbered 34 percent , higher than the 29 percent who did not vote in the last election in 2013 .
my request to everyone is that they vote , and vote for those parties that adhere 100 percent to our constitution , merkel told mdr radio on thursday , pointing to the afd which has been likened by some commentators to hitler s nazis .
some of its members have called for germans to rewrite the history books on nazi era and the party has been dogged by rows over holocaust denial , a crime in germany .
although polls show conservative merkel , trusted by stability-loving germans to stand up to unpredictable leaders in the united states , russia and turkey , is on track to win , the shape of her coalition is wide open .
most pollsters say a low turnout could boost the afd which has gained popularity by focusing on migration and security .
poised to be the first far-right party to enter germany s parliament in over half a century , comments by some top members have caused outrage .
this month , one leader said germany should be proud of its soldiers achievements in world war two .
allensbach pollster renate koecher told die zeit weekly that much depended on turnout .
willingness to vote was strongest among conservative and afd supporters , she said .
most undecideds were fdp , green and left voters , indicating that a higher turnout would help the smaller parties on the left , she said .
the two biggest blocs have dipped slightly in most polls in the last month or so while some of the smaller parties have inched up .
in the gms survey , the afd was up two points at 10 percent .
merkel s conservative bloc slipped one percentage point to 37 percent and her main opponent , the social democrats ( sdp ) , were unchanged on 22 percent .
spd leader martin schulz has also urged his supporters to vote , saying everything is still possible .
in a highly unusual intervention this week , merkel s right-hand man peter altmaier , head of the chancellor s office , stirred controversy by suggesting it would be better for germans not to vote at all rather than vote for the afd .
spd justice minister heiko maas accused him of helping the afd .
telling people not to vote is helping the afd s campaign , that s exactly what they want , he said .
the latest surveys suggest coalition options are limited to another grand coalition of merkel s conservatives with the spd or a three-way jamaica alliance of the conservatives , fdp and greens which could limit merkel s room for maneuver on euro zone reform .
before the last-minute mobilization efforts by parties , the only realistic coalition option , apart from a grand coalition , is one of the conservatives , fdp and greens , said gms .
both the greens and fdp - who are at opposite ends of the political spectrum - have played down the likelihood of joining forces , fearing it would put off their voters .
but on thursday , fdp leader christian lindner struck a more positive note .
one has to go into government .
the fdp is enthusiastic about going into government .
but only if it can implement good things .
if not , then we won t , he told die welt .