nairobi ( reuters ) - police fired tear gas on friday at opposition protesters in kenya s capital who were demanding that officials involved in august s canceled presidential election be sacked .
crowds had gathered in nairobi , the port of mombasa and kisumu , the western stronghold of the opposition , for the second time this week .
last month , kenya s supreme court voided the aug. 8 presidential election , citing irregularities , but did not criticize any specific individual at the election board .
president uhuru kenyatta , who officially won by 1.4 million votes , only to have his victory annulled , has accused the supreme court of bringing the country close to judicial chaos .
opposition leader raila odinga and his supporters have turned their ire on the election board for its role in the canceled poll .
with three weeks to go until a scheduled new election , politicians from both sides have traded insults and accusations , raising fears of further turmoil in kenya , a transport and economic hub for east africa .
the opposition is threatening to boycott the oct. 26 re-run if election board officials are not removed and if parliament passes a proposed amendment to the election law .
the amendment could prevent the supreme court from annulling the results on procedural grounds again .
parliamentarians return from recess next week and may pass the bill then , an action likely to spark further protests from the opposition .
in reaction to the expected vote next week , the united states , a major donor to the kenyan government and its security forces , said in a sharply worded statement on friday : changing electoral laws without broad agreement just prior to a poll is not consistent with international best practice ( and ) increases political tension .
it said all sides have undermined the electoral board in recent weeks and stoked tensions .
earlier on friday , the nairobi county police commander said people would be allowed to protest , but anyone who tried to destroy property would be dealt with firmly .