minnesota the hotbed of liberalism and diversity in the midwest while teachers blow the whistle on the breakdown of discipline for black students in st. paul public schools , a photo has emerged from an equity training that might leave some to wonder what s actually being taught to teachers.aaron benner , a fourth grade teacher in the district , told eagnews about how black students are frequently not held accountable for their actions due to white privilege training for teachers and administrators .
as a black man i can say that they are hurting black kids , benner said .
i ve never seen anything as idiotic as peg .
everything we do , peg is at the forefront .
it s so comical .
peg says shouting out in class is a black cultural norm , and being on time is a white cultural thing .
it s so demeaning , so condescending to black kids .
if a white person were making claims like this , black people would be in an uproar .
you are not doing kids any favors by making excuses for them because they are black .
it s not a matter of culture if you re talking about norms that all cultures need to abide by you can not throw things or attack your teacher , regardless of your race .
now , a source has provided photographic evidence of the tenor of some of the white privilege training being administered to st. paul teachers.according to the source , the photo is from a training this year at bruce vento elementary during a staff meeting.it features a figure wearing a ku klux klan hood with the question , when do you wear the hood ?
the principal allegedly displayed the picture and asked the staff to sit in silence and reflect on it for 3 to 4 minutes .
the source refused to elaborate out of fear of retribution.another source said , this picture and the idea that it would be helpful in some way is totally unbelievable .
an email to scott masini , principal of bruce vento , was not immediately returned.last may , the pioneer press reported the st. paul district had spent at least $ 1.2 million on such training from pacific educational group , a san francisco-based company that conducts similar trainings in school districts across america.last fall , the star tribune reported st. paul schools inked a $ 246,500 contract with peg for equity training $ 133,500 less than the agreement approved for 2013-14 .
bruce vento elementary s website details the district s equity plan , which includes examining the presence and role of whiteness .
via : eag newsfrom the un-fair campaign which originates in duluth , mn : this campaign is about white privilege and so these suggestions are focused on what white people can do .
use the resources listed below to learn more.learn how historically white privilege has benefited you and other white people .
accept that you have unearned privilege and advantages write them down start seeing/hearing the privileges and advantages you have : below is a white privilege video put together by the un-fair campaign :