( reuters ) - turkey under president tayyip erdogan needs more westernization , and not less , to bolster dwindling free speech rights and a wobbly democracy , nobel prize-winning author orhan pamuk said on tuesday .
pamuk , 65 , also said in an online chat in the reuters global markets forum that he laments much modernization and saw his stories , including his 10th novel published last year , the red-haired woman as focused on the personal costs people pay for discarding traditions in the rush to adapt to the ways of 21st century .
the following are edited excerpts : question : is turkey , often described as a bridge between west and east , becoming too westernized ?
answer : the lack of free speech is so grave that we definitely need to be more friendly with the west and europe .
i am not worried about too much westernization , especially in these days when government is trying to push us away from western values .
q : do you see gentrification in istanbul and other western influence in turkey as threats or positives to turkey s identity ?
a : i actually do not want to bring east and west together .
i essentially want to write poetic , literary observations about the lives of the people in and around istanbul .
and since istanbul is made up of things from the west , and modernity , and also things that come from traditional cultures , and east , readers think my intention is to bridge them .
actually , there are things from east and west that are already harmoniously together in istanbul .
all i do is invent stories about them .
q : how is that theme in the red haired woman ?
a : my main character carries the weight of having an idealist political father , while he is more busy with making money .
i have many friends like that ...
they are troubled by moral issues like the ones i discussed in this book .
individuality versus belonging to community ... or economic development and comforts of modernity versus preserving the past than the old architecture and culture .
my books are always about how to be modern without losing your identity .
q : it is nobel award season .
how did your win in 2006 affect you ?
a : my books were already translated to 46 languages before i won the nobel prize .
now my books are translated into 63 languages .
the prize may have helped .
it definitely brought me new readers and some diplomatic responsibility of representing my country .