kampala ( reuters ) - ugandan legislators have each pocketed 29 million ugandan shillings ( $ 8,000 ) as a payout for consultations on legislation to extend the president s rule , a parliamentary spokesman said on tuesday , a move opponents denounced as a bribe .
the bill would scrap a constitutional age cap preventing president yoweri museveni , 73 and in power for 31 years , from standing in the next election .
it is likely to pass , given the ruling party s majority , when it is voted on later this year .
a staunch ally of western powers , museveni is widely seen as an anchor of stability in the often volatile great lakes region after decades of violent ugandan dictators .
critics say he has evolved into just another african strongman using corrupt and ruthless tactics to retain power for life .
parliamentary spokesman chris obore said the one-off payment had been released to the legislators bank accounts this week .
it s to help them to consult with their constituents on this bill , he told reuters .
mps are among uganda s best-paid public servants ; their monthly remuneration of about $ 5,900 already includes expenses for regular travel to their constituencies to consult with voters .
but low-paid public employees like teachers , police and health workers often do not see their salaries paid on time - typical delays can run to three months .
public hospitals are often missing important drugs .
public anger over waste and corruption is growing , and protests have erupted in different parts of uganda gainst the bill .
security forces have responded by using tear gas and live bullets to suppress the demonstrations .
dozens of people have been arrested and two have died in the protests .
at the moment , museveni can not run for re-election in 2021 because the existing constitution bars candidates aged above 75 years of age .
he backs the private member s bill , introduced in parliament last month , that seeks to scrap the age cap .
the amendment , which critics say will clear the way for museveni to rule for the rest of his life , has met broad resistance from some ruling party supporters , opposition , religious leaders and rights activists .
this is an outright bribe , john baptist nambeshe , one of the mps opposed to the bill , told reuters .
to claim that it s a normal parliamentary facilitation - it defeats logic .
in total , the east african country is spending about 13 billion shillings ( $ 3.55 million ) to facilitate consultations on the bill by 445 legislators , obore said .
in 2005 , mps were also offered a one-off payment of five million shillings to consult on a draft bill that removed a two-term cap on incumbency from the constitution , allowing museveni to stand again .
each term is five years .
that was the only other occasion mps have been paid to consult on a specific bill , and it also attracted wide criticism as a thinly-disguised bribe .
the bill was passed .