jerusalem ( reuters ) - a senior israeli minister on thursday declined to comment on reports that israeli aircraft had struck a target in syria the night before but repeated a threat to hit arms shipments to lebanese hezbollah guerrillas .
the air strike targeted a factory south of the syrian city of homs on wednesday night and the syrian army responded by firing a surface-to-air missile at the aircraft , a commander in a military alliance fighting in support of damascus said .
an israeli military spokeswoman declined to comment , but israel s channel 10 said the aircraft were not hit and returned safely to base .
i can t , of course , relate to reports about the israel defence forces attack in syria , but regardless , israel s position is clear : smuggling arms to hezbollah is a red line in our eyes , intelligence minister israel katz told army radio .
syria s foreign ministry called on the united nations security council to condemn israel s attack , state-run sana news agency reported .
the foreign ministry asked the security council to take strict and immediate measures to stop such israeli attacks , it said , adding that the strike hit a copper factory in the industrial town of hisya , 35 km ( 21 miles ) south of homs and 112 km ( 70 miles ) north of damascus .
the statement did not give details of any casualties .
the syrian observatory for human rights , a britain-based organization that reports on the war , said the air strike had targeted a military installation .
israel has acted in the past and it will act in the future to prevent arms smuggling to hezbollah according to intelligence information that we will have , said katz , who is a member of prime minister benjamin netanyahu s inner circle of ministers .
he said israel s red line was against arms smuggling ( and ) also against iran s consolidation in syria and that it was prepared to act to deter against our responses .
i think the other side also understands this clearly and actions that took place in the past for which we did take responsibility , were actions that were according to these lines , these red lines , katz added .
the israeli air force says it has struck arms convoys of the syrian military and its lebanese ally , the iran-backed hezbollah , nearly 100 times in recent years .
israeli officials have expressed alarm at iranian influence in syria , where iran-backed groups have played a critical role fighting in support of president bashar al-assad during the conflict that erupted in 2011 .
iran s military chief , general mohammad baqeri , warned israel against breaching syrian airspace and territory during a visit to damascus last month .
tensions between israel and hezbollah , which last fought a major conflict in 2006 , have escalated this year .
each side has warned it will unleash devastating firepower in the event of a full-scale war .