addis ababa ( reuters ) - egypt said on tuesday it had suggested to ethiopia and sudan that they all call in international experts to help settle a dispute on an ethiopian dam project on the river nile .
egypt fears the hydroelectric scheme will restrict the waters flowing down from ethiopia s highlands , through the deserts of sudan to its fields and reservoirs .
ethiopia , which wants to become africa s biggest power exporter , says it will have no such impact .
ministers from ethiopia and egypt met on tuesday to try to resolve a disagreement over the wording of a report on the environmental impact of the $ 4-billion grand ethiopian renaissance dam , which is still being built .
but egypt s foreign minister sameh shoukry said they had not managed to reach a breakthrough since the three nations last met in november .
from a practical perspective , we have to recognize that technical deliberations ... have not ( yielded ) sufficient results to enable the process to move forward , shoukry told journalists after the meeting in addis ababa .
he suggested the countries call in outside experts , without going into details .
officials who took part in the sessions said egypt had suggested involving an international body such as the world bank .
ethiopia s foreign minister , workneh gebeyehu , told the same press conference he was looking for a win-win situation , but did not comment on the egyptian proposal .
countries that share the river have argued over the use of its waters for decades - and analysts have repeatedly warned that the disputes could eventually boil over into conflict .
sudan and ethiopia say egypt has refused to accept amendments that they had put forward to the environmental report .
another source of disagreement is whether ethiopia should be allowed to complete construction of the dam before the negotiations over ensuring water flows have finished .
egyptian officials say this would violate an agreement signed by all three countries in 2015 meant to ensure diplomatic cooperation .