detroit ( reuters ) - michigan governor rick snyder said on friday he wants officials to focus on solving problems around lead-contaminated drinking water in the city of flint instead of laying blame as he said some have been doing .
“ there are a number of folk out there that are spending their time mainly on the political side and the blame side , ” he said at a meeting in flint of local and state officials responding to the crisis .
snyder ’ s comments came a day after liberal group progress michigan released emails showing high-ranking state officials knew about an increase in legionnaires ’ disease in genesee county , where flint is located , and a possible link to the contaminated water almost a year before the governor said he got information about the outbreak .
snyder , who has repeatedly apologized for the state ’ s poor handling of the crisis , previously said he did not learn of the rise in legionnaires ’ cases until last month .
the governor and state officials have been criticized for not catching the contaminated water sooner , with some calling for snyder to resign .
later on friday , snyder ’ s office said the former head of the state department of environmental quality ’ s drinking water and municipal assistance unit , liane shekter smith , was fired .
she and a second employee were suspended last month , and a state spokesman cited a civil service rule allowing for termination due to failure to do one ’ s job .
a second deq employee , environmental manager stephen busch , remains on suspension and no decision has been made on his status , state officials said .
flint , near detroit , was under the control of a state-appointed emergency manager when it switched the source of its tap water from detroit ’ s system to the flint river in april 2014 to save money .
it switched back last october after tests found high levels of lead in samples of children ’ s blood .
the more corrosive water from the river leached more lead from the city pipes than detroit water did .
lead can damage the nervous system .
on friday , lawmakers on a u.s. house of representatives panel said they plan to hold a hearing next month to address flint health and infrastructure issues .
the energy and commerce panel did not have details on the date or who would testify .
this week , congress held its first hearing into the flint crisis .
the house oversight committee did not invite snyder , a republican , to testify , something democrats on the panel complained bitterly about .