johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s anc delegates started voting early on monday to elect a leader to succeed president jacob zuma as head of a party that has ruled since the end of apartheid but has faced scandals and corruption allegations .
whoever emerges at the helm of the african national congress , a 105-year-old liberation movement that dominates africa s most industrialized economy , is likely to become the country s next president after elections in 2019 .
deputy president cyril ramaphosa and former cabinet minister nkosazana dlamini-zuma were the only candidates nominated for the anc leadership at a party conference on sunday , an election official said .
the vote is perhaps the most pivotal moment for the anc since it launched black-majority rule under nelson mandela s leadership 23 years ago .
with scandal and graft accusations having tainted zuma s presidency , the party is deeply divided and its image tarnished at home and abroad .
after procedural delays that held up the start of balloting , the contest remained too close to call .
most grassroots delegates backed ramaphosa , 65 , while zuma s preferred candidate , his ex-wife dlamini-zuma , 68 , came second .
ramaphosa drew the majority of nominations from party branches scattered across the country .
but the complexity of the leadership race means it is far from certain he will win when the votes are finally counted .
owing to the delays , the outcome is now expected only on monday , anc deputy secretary general jessie duarte said .
we don t rush results ; we would like them to do a thorough and proper job , she said .
the anc said 4,776 delegates would be allowed to vote .
voting for the # anc national officials has begun , the anc said on its twitter feed .
as well as electing a new leader , candidates for senior posts like deputy president , chairman , secretary general and others were also nominated .
the anc will also set policy priorities for the run-up to the 2019 election .
under anc rules , a majority of nominations at the branch level is not the same as the most votes at the conference , and delegates are not bound to vote for a particular candidate .
how the delegates do cast their ballots may also be subject to vote-buying and intimidation - widely acknowledged to have swayed previous leadership contests .
nobody has been caught red-handed that i know of , but we have heard rumors going around , said lindiwe sisulu , a nominee for the position of deputy president .
anc chairwoman baleka mbete , also speaker of parliament and running for the anc s top seat , publicly endorsed ramaphosa .
we publicly endorse comrade cyril ramaphosa , she told reporters after saturday s opening session at the conference .
mbete said she had not held talks with dlamini-zuma .
a senior anc source said : it is going to be very close .
both camps have spreadsheets where they have calculated the number of delegates on their side .
both sides have different assumptions and guesswork .
neck-and-neck contest social development minister bathabile dlamini , who heads the influential anc women s league , endorsed dlamini-zuma , the first woman to be nominated as a candidate for the anc presidency .
we are ready for a female president , dlamini said .
carl niehaus , a key member of dlamini-zuma s campaign , said she would be propelled to victory by the grassroots and the poor .
that is important in south africa because we have a huge gap between rich and poor .
dlamini-zuma pledged during her campaign to tackle the racial inequality that persists in south africa since the end of white-minority rule .
ramaphosa , a former trade union leader who later became a businessman and is now one of the richest people in south africa , has vowed to fight corruption and revitalize the economy .
that message has gone down well with foreign investors .
colin coleman , managing director of goldman sachs in south africa , described the two candidates as quite divergent in their views on how to revive a lackluster economy .
there will be intense lobbying before the voting ends , political analyst ralph mathekga said .
in a boost to ramaphosa , courts ruled that officials from some provinces seen as supporting dlamini-zuma had been elected illegally and were barred from the conference .
the rand currency firmed more than 2 percent after that news on friday , extending its gains to more than 2 percent on sunday .
anc youth league leader collen maine , who backs dlamini-zuma , said 122 delegates would now be prevented from voting , something he called not significant .
in his last speech as anc leader on saturday , zuma announced plans to raise subsidies for tertiary colleges and universities , a move analysts said was timed to appeal to the more populist members of the party .
zuma , who has been head of state since 2009 and anc leader since 2007 , has faced accusations that have damaged the anc s stature and caused sharp internal rifts .
in august , he narrowly survived another attempt in parliament to force him from office after some members of his party voted with the opposition in a no-confidence vote .