san francisco ( reuters ) - president barack obama on friday told donors that republican presidential candidates donald trump and ted cruz were doing democrats a “ favor ” by exposing extreme views within their party on issues such as immigration and national security .
“ i actually think that donald trump and ted cruz have done us a favor , ” obama said , referring to policy positions that would restrict muslims and mexicans from entering the country .
obama said trump and cruz , the two front-runners in the republican nomination contest ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election , have upset mainstream “ establishment ” republicans with their insurgent campaigns .
but he told about 100 people at the annual “ signature ” fundraising dinner for nancy pelosi , democratic leader in the house of representatives , that trump had laid bare what some in the republican party had been saying for years .
“ he said , ‘ you know what ?
i can deliver this message with more flair , with more panache , ’ ” obama said .
speaking in an opulent two-storey atrium with marble pillars in the home of billionaire oil heirs gordon and ann getty , where donors paid $ 33,400 per couple to benefit the democratic congressional campaign committee , obama mocked trump .
“ in 10 months , i will no longer be president of the united states .
but in 10 months , i will - contrary to mr. trump ’ s opinion - still be a citizen of the united states , ” he said , drawing laughter and cheers from the crowd .
trump had long raised questions about whether obama , who was born in hawaii , was actually born outside the united states .
it was obama ’ s fourth stop on a fundraising swing through san francisco and los angeles .
earlier , in san francisco , obama held a private roundtable at the potrero hill home of susan sandler and steve philips for the democratic national committee with about 25 people who paid up to $ 33,400 to attend .
he started friday in los angeles with a breakfast event at the brentwood home of “ spiderman ” actor tobey maguire , closed to the media , where an undisclosed number of $ 33,400-tickets raised money for the democratic senatorial campaign committee .
on thursday , he spoke at a fundraising dinner for the dccc in a tent with seating for about 80 people outside the bel air home of alan horn , chairman of walt disney studios , and cindy horn , an environmental activist .