johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress ( anc ) is holding hundreds of branch meetings as grassroots members nominate candidates to take over from president jacob zuma as party chief in december .
the frontrunners are deputy president cyril ramaphosa and nkosazana dlamini-zuma , former chair of the african union and zuma s ex-wife , but with several other senior anc figures running , the contest is too close to call .
the anc s next leader will probably become president in 2019 given the party s electoral dominance .
first they face the tough task of winning back voters disillusioned with zuma s rule and investors spooked by ratings downgrades .
the fractious , sometimes violent , branch meetings start the decisive final stretch of the race to succeed zuma , whose rule has been marred by corruption allegations and a sharp economic slowdown .
ramaphosa , a former union leader and one of the country s richest people , is viewed more favourably by foreign investors , who help cover the country s deficits .
many of them are unsettled by dlamini-zuma s calls to radically redistribute wealth and change the ownership structure of the central bank .
ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma s campaign teams did not reply to requests for comment on reports of intimidation and manipulation of the nomination process in some provinces .
the real fight is in december , but psychologically the battle for the soul of the anc has begun , said stan itshegetseng , who chaired a branch meeting in the diepkloof district of the sprawling soweto township on sunday .
it took 11 hours for itshegetseng s branch of over 320 members to nominate ramaphosa for anc president , recommend more than 20 other officials for the party s national executive committee and agree on a delegate to send to the december party conference .
nominations in the branches matter because they send 90 percent of the more than 5,000 delegates who will vote in december .
branch meetings started last month and are due to end in mid-november .
for a factbox on the anc leadership contest , see : unless change comes under the anc s next leader , some analysts believe the anc could lose the 2019 election , a once unthinkable scenario for a party that has led comfortably since sweeping to power under nelson mandela at the end of apartheid in 1994 .
as the anc s electoral majority has shrunk , so the battle for control of the party has intensified between the factions backing dlamini-zuma and ramaphosa .
zuma and the anc s youth and women s leagues he controls want dlamini-zuma , while ramaphosa is backed by a diverse group of labor unions , communists and anc members who say the party has lost its way under zuma .
provincial anc leaders are split .
carol sono , a branch member in diepkloof , said dlamini-zuma s stints as health minister , foreign minister and home affairs minister meant she was the most qualified .
it s only because of patriarchy that she wasn t chosen sooner , sono said .
kedi saletese , a branch secretary in the orlando district of soweto , said only ramaphosa could tackle corruption and help the anc reclaim its image as a defender of ordinary south africans .
now people see the anc as a stepladder to enrich themselves .
it makes you ashamed to wear an anc t-shirt , she said .
saletese s branch - like itshegetseng s in diepkloof - nominated ramaphosa on sunday .
the gauteng province , where soweto and the country s commercial capital , johannesburg , are based , is an area where ramaphosa enjoys strong support .
ramaphosa also polls well in the eastern cape and limpopo provinces , whereas dlamini-zuma is likely to receive a greater share of votes in provinces including her native kwa-zulu natal and mpumalanga , where the premier is viewed as a zuma ally .
earlier this year there was a spate of political killings in kwa-zulu natal , and some officials have expressed concern there could be more bloodshed as the leadership race nears its climax .
at the three branches reuters visited in soweto on sunday , there was no sign of violence , though a coordinator for ramaphosa s campaign said he had been threatened with being taken out permanently for his choice of leader .
activists for ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma mingled with party members , urging loyalty before the nominations began .
as ramaphosa supporters emerged victorious from their branch meeting in diepkloof , they started singing things will change .