the corrupt covering for the corrupt .
chicago politics at its best hillary clinton could be prosecuted in federal court for failing to tell president barack obama about her private email server at the time she was running it , according to a veteran fbi agent .
obama said flatly during a 60 minutes interview on sunday that no , he did not know clinton sidestepped security protocols with her a home-brew email setup while she was his secretary of state.the fbi agent who spoke with dailymail.com has had a 20-year career in federal law enforcement and serves in a supervisory capacity in a domestic fbi field office.he said on friday that failing to put obama in the loop could be enough to send her to prison for ten years .
via : daily mailever since he opined that the police had acted stupidly prior to the infamous and embarrassing beer summit , obama has shown himself eager to interfere with ongoing investigations for political reasons .
when thuglet trayvon martin provided an good example of why jumping and beating down a stranger is a bad evolutionary strategy , obama jumped on the race-baiting bandwagon saying if he had a son , that son would look like martin .
when the justice department was looking into the illegal use of the irs to harass opponents of the administration , obama said there is not even a smidgen of corruption .
when deserter and failed turncoat bowe bergdahl was released by the taliban , obama had his hippie parents over for a rose garden ceremony even though he was known at the time to be a deserter .
now obama has interjected himself into the investigation into the fate of top secret documents illegally stored on hillary clinton s private server .
from his 60 minutes interview with steve kroft on october 11 : steve kroft : do you think it posed a national security problem ? president barack obama : i don t think it posed a national security problem .
i think that it was a mistake that she has acknowledged and you know , as a general proposition , when we re in these offices , we have to be more sensitive and stay as far away from the line as possible when it comes to how we handle information , how we handle our own personal data .
and , you know , she made a mistake .
she has acknowledged it .
i do think that the way it s been ginned-up is in part because of in part because of politics .
and i think she d be the first to acknowledge that maybe she could have handled the original decision better and the disclosures more quickly .
but steve kroft : what was your reaction when you found out about it ? president barack obama : this is one of those issues that i think is legitimate , but the fact that for the last three months this is all that s been spoken about is an indication that we re in presidential political season.steve kroft : do you agree with what president clinton has said and secretary clinton has said , that this is not not that big a deal .
do you agree with that ? president barack obama : well , i m not going to comment on steve kroft : you think it s not that big a deal president barack obama : what i think is that it is important for her to answer these questions to the satisfaction of the american public .
and they can make their own judgment .
i can tell you that this is not a situation in which america s national security was endangered.steve kroft : this administration has prosecuted people for having classified material on their private computers.president barack obama : well , i there s no doubt that there had been breaches , and these are all a matter of degree .
we don t get an impression that here there was purposely efforts on in to hide something or to squirrel away information .
but again , i m gon na leave it to this can only be seen as an attempt by obama to tell the federal prosecutors who will ultimately decide what , if any , charges should be made in this case that there is nothing to see here : those statements angered f.b.i .
agents who have been working for months to determine whether ms. clinton s email setup had in fact put any of the nation s secrets at risk , according to current and former law enforcement officials.investigators have not reached any conclusions about whether the information on the server had been compromised or whether to recommend charges , according to the law enforcement officials .
but to investigators , it sounded as if mr. obama had already decided the answers to their questions and cleared anyone involved of wrongdoing.the white house quickly backed off the president s remarks and said mr. obama was not trying to influence the investigation .
but his comments spread quickly , raising the ire of officials who saw an instance of the president trying to influence the outcome of a continuing investigation and not for the first time.a spokesman for the f.b.i .
declined to comment .
but ron hosko , a former senior f.b.i .
official who retired in 2014 and is now the president of the law enforcement legal defense fund , said it was inappropriate for the president to suggest what side of the investigation he is on when the f.b.i .
is still investigating .
injecting politics into what is supposed to be a fact-finding inquiry leaves a foul taste in the f.b.i .
s mouth and makes them fear that no matter what they find , the justice department will take the president s signal and not bring a case , said mr. hosko , who maintains close contact with current agents.several current and former law enforcement officials , including those close to the investigation , expressed similar sentiments in separate interviews over several days .
most , however , did so only on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to speak publicly about the case.contrary to what hillary s campaign is saying , we now have it on pretty good authority that the fbi is conducting an investigation under the part of the espionage act that pertains to gross negligence in the handling of defense information .
that information , at a minimum , is the two top secret keyhole satellite derived documents discovered by the intelligence community ig though it could be any of the over 400 emails containing classified information that have been uncovered so far .
( f ) whoever , being entrusted with or having lawful possession or control of any document , writing , code book , signal book , sketch , photograph , photographic negative , blueprint , plan , map , model , instrument , appliance , note , or information , relating to the national defense , ( 1 ) through gross negligence permits the same to be removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of his trust , or to be lost , stolen , abstracted , or destroyed , or ( 2 ) having knowledge that the same has been illegally removed from its proper place of custody or delivered to anyone in violation of its trust , or lost , or stolen , abstracted , or destroyed , and fails to make prompt report of such loss , theft , abstraction , or destruction to his superior officer shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than ten years , or both .
via : red state