des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - the long and sometimes arcane ritual of electing the next u.s. president begins on monday in more than 1,100 schools , churches and libraries across iowa , a state that wields political influence far greater than its small size .
after more than a year of up-close and personal evaluation of the candidates , iowans will gather with their neighbors on what promises to be a cold wintry night to kick off the state-by-state process of picking the republican and democratic nominees for the nov. 8 presidential election .
the starring opening-night role of the largely rural midwestern state in the presidential drama , now four decades old , is a source of pride for iowa voters , who spend months evaluating the candidates , looking them in the eye and asking questions .
“ iowans see it as a great privilege and a great gift .
they take their role very seriously , ” said tom henderson , chairman of the democratic party in polk county , home to iowa ’ s biggest city , des moines .
the caucuses will begin on monday at 7 p.m. cst , and results are expected within two or three hours .
most gatherings will be in schools , community centers or other public locations , although at least two republican caucuses will be in private homes and one democratic caucus will be held at an equestrian center .
turnout varies by community , with up to 1,000 people typically gathering in cities like des moines , while a few dozen or less may gather in more sparsely populated areas .
the state republican and democratic parties run their caucuses separately , although in some areas they hold them in different parts of the same building .
republicans will have more than 800 caucus sites , and democrats will have about 1,100 .
the two parties also have different rules .
iowa democrats gather in groups by candidate preference in a public display of support , a tradition that can allow for shifts back and forth .
if a candidate does not reach the threshold of support of 15 percent of voters in a caucus needed to be considered viable , that candidates ’ supporters are released to back another contender , leading to another round of persuasion .
republicans are more straightforward .
they write their vote privately on a sheet of paper that is collected and counted at the site by caucus officials .
a surrogate or volunteer from each campaign may speak to their neighbors in a last-ditch plea for support , adding to the uncertainty going into the process .
neither party is offering voter turnout estimates this year , although many iowans predict the republicans will surpass the 121,503 who turned out in 2012 .
in the last contested democratic caucus , in 2008 , excitement over barack obama ’ s candidacy spurred a record turnout of 239,872 .
iowa , the 30th most populated state , and tiny new hampshire , which holds the second nominating contest on feb. 9 , have traditionally served as early filters to winnow out the losers and elevate the top contenders for later contests .
but iowa republicans recently have had a spotty record at backing the ultimate presidential nominees .
neither the republican winner in 2008 , former arkansas governor mike huckabee , nor the winner in 2012 , former u.s .
senator rick santorum , managed to win the party nomination .
iowa democrats did back the party ’ s last two nominees : john kerry in 2004 and obama in 2008 , which ultimately launched obama ’ s drive to the white house .
( editing by leslie adler ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .