washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump urged the chief executives of the big three u.s. automakers on tuesday to build more cars in the country , pressing his pledge to bring jobs to america and discourage the car industry from investing in mexico .
trump , who has threatened to impose 35 percent tariffs on imported vehicles , opened a white house meeting with general motors co ceo mary barra , ford motor co ’ s mark fields and fiat chrysler automobiles nv ’ s sergio marchionne by saying he wanted to see more auto plants in the united states .
in return , the new republican president has vowed to cut regulations and taxes to make it more attractive for businesses to operate in the united states .
he promised during his campaign to be a job-creating president and stressed that message in his inaugural address last friday .
“ we have a very big push on to have auto plants and other plants - many other plants , ” he told reporters at the start of the meeting .
“ it ’ s happening .
it ’ s happening big league. ” matt blunt , who heads a u.s. automaker trade association and attended the meeting , told reuters that trump asked what his administration could do “ on domestic and trade policy that would help make the united states more competitive and strengthen the ability of automakers to add production here. ” the hour-long meeting was the latest sign of trump ’ s uncommon degree of intervention for a u.s. president into corporate affairs as he has repeatedly pressured automakers and other manufacturers to “ buy american and hire american. ” it was the first time the heads of the big three automakers met jointly with a u.s. president since a 2011 session with barack obama to tout a deal to nearly double fuel efficiency standards by 2025 .
automakers have urged the trump administration to rethink those aggressive mandates .
the auto executives on tuesday raised the issue of the fuel efficiency rules , trade policy and other regulatory matters , another person briefed on the meeting said .
marchionne told reporters afterward that trump did not give them specifics on what regulations he would cut .
the companies also discussed autonomous and electric vehicles and trump asked about advanced vehicles , the person said .
with flattening u.s. auto sales and excess capacity in the united states , u.s. automakers have been reluctant to open new u.s. auto plants in recent years .
gm and ford last built new u.s. assembly plants in 2004 , while fiat chrysler opened a new transmission plant in indiana in 2014 .
kristin dziczek , an analyst at the michigan-based center for automotive research , said automakers still had excess capacity in north america after suffering in the 1990s and 2000s from overcapacity and shifts in market share .
building a new plant would take three or more years and cost at least $ 1 billion , industry experts said .
automakers have expanded operations at existing u.s. plants to meet rising demand for trucks and suvs .
gm , ford , fiat chrysler and foreign automakers have announced new u.s. jobs and investments in recent weeks .
coinciding with tuesday ’ s meeting , toyota motor corp said it would add 400 jobs and invest $ 600 million in an indiana plant , aiming to boost production of a popular suv by 10 percent .
ford ’ s fields said automakers wanted to work with trump to create a “ renaissance in american manufacturing ” and that trump ’ s economic priorities were encouraging , including his move on monday to formally bow out of the 12-nation trans-pacific partnership trade pact championed by obama .
“ the mother of all trade barriers is currency manipulation .
and tpp failed in meaningfully dealing with that , and we appreciate the president ’ s courage to walk away from a bad trade deal , ” fields told reporters after the meeting .
barra said there was a “ huge opportunity ” to work together with the government to “ improve the environment , improve safety and improve the jobs creation. ” u.s. automakers have collectively added more than 78,000 jobs since 2009 , the year when gm and chrysler , now a unit of italian-american fiat chrysler , filed for bankruptcy as part of government bailouts during the u.s. recession .
they have invested more than $ 40 billion in u.s. facilities during that period .
despite the vocal pressure from trump , the companies are unlikely to truly change their existing business plans for now , said sam fiorani , vice president of global vehicle forecasting with autoforecast solutions .
“ we need to have more concrete policies from the president , ” he said .
“ automakers will make decisions on whether there is a solid business case .
does it make more sense to build outside the u.s. or to build in the u.s. ? ” gm said in 2014 it would invest $ 5 billion in mexico through 2018 , a move that would allow it to double its production capacity , and barra has said the automaker is not reconsidering the plan .
while automakers are adding u.s. jobs , they are also cutting u.s. production of small cars .
on monday , gm ended two shifts of production of small cars in ohio and michigan , cutting about 2,000 jobs .
barclays auto analyst brian johnson said in a note on tuesday that “ automakers will be willing to make a deal that would bring back jobs to the u.s. in return for a slower ramp of ( fuel efficiency ) targets and related state-level mandates. ” auto stocks rose on tuesday .
u.s.-listed shares of fiat chrysler gained 5.84 percent to $ 10.88 , while ford was up 2.44 percent to $ 12.61 and gm rose 0.96 percent to $ 37 .