washington ( reuters ) - after years of focusing divided iraq on a shared fight against the islamic state group , the united states is now straining to leverage its limited influence to avoid a full-blown conflict between the iraqi and kurdish forces it has armed and trained .
experts say that a path toward reconciliation , in some form , exists .
but it will be a long , arduous test of nerves that could expose the u.s.-backed war effort in iraq to risks from insurgents and from militia backed by neighboring iran .
u.s. president donald trump declared on monday that the united states was not taking sides in the internal conflict between baghdad and independence-seeking kurds , as iraqi government forces captured the kurdish-held oil city of kirkuk .
we don t like the fact that they re clashing .
we re not taking sides , trump told reporters at the white house .
we ve had for many years a very good relationship with the kurds as you know and we ve also been on the side of iraq , he said .
that neutral approach met a cool reception from the kurdish government representative in washington , bayan sami abdul rahman .
in particular , she said the united states had already helped isolate the kurds by publicly calling for them to postpone the sept. 25 referendum on independence that triggered the dispute with baghdad .
with every step ( washington ) emboldened baghdad , iran and turkey ... each one of them thinking : well , so the kurds are on their own , we can do whatever we like , she told reuters .
the iraqi government s capture of kirkuk was the most decisive step yet by baghdad to block the kurd s independence bid .
it also put washington in the awkward position of recognizing the iraqi government s authority while maintaining ties with its close kurdish allies .
kurdish peshmerga forces said baghdad would be made to pay a heavy price for triggering war on the kurdistan people .
u.s.-led coalition military support for iraqi and kurdish forces was decisive during the most critical phases of the war against islamic state .
however , washington s leverage has yet to be fully tested after the recapture of major cities from the militant group .
it is unclear , in particular , how much influence the united states has with kurdish leader masoud barzani after already failing to delay the independence referendum , in which the kurds voted to secede .
paul salem , from the middle east institute think tank in washington , said barzani was learning that he had very few friends and he is a much weaker player than he thought before the sept. 25 vote .
( the u.s. ) has some leverage , salem said .
michael knights , an expert at the washington institute for near east policy , said the united states needed to take steps to avoid alienating the kurds in the region .
those steps included sending a u.s.-led military coalition officer to a key military base there and pressing for an interim kurdish governor of kirkuk .
this would maintain the basic power-sharing compact negotiated by kirkuk community leaders in 2007 , knights said .
the pentagon confirmed that u.s. forces had a presence in the vicinity of kirkuk but declined to say where .
such a presence could help deter further conflict , a tactic it used in syria to keep kurds and turks from fighting each other .
the u.s. state department urged all sides to restore calm and warned that the dispute was distracting from the battle against islamic state , which swept through iraq in 2014 by exploiting the country s vast ethnic and political divisions .
we strongly urge all parties to avoid provocations that can be exploited by iraq s enemies who are interested in fueling ethnic and sectarian conflict , it said in a statement .
former u.s. ambassador to iraq , james jeffrey , said he believed iran - which backs shi ite iraqi militia - was positioned to gain influence because of the iraqi-kurdish conflict .
he said the united states needed to make certain that iranian-backed forces don t surge forward into the kirkuk area to challenge kurdish peshmerga fighters .
the united states has to make it very clear : we are not going to defend kirkuk ... but if the iranian militias move forward , then we will help the peshmerga , if necessary , jeffrey said .
trump unveiled last week a more aggressive u.s. approach to iran , whose elite islamic revolutionary guard corps backs the militias in iraq .
abdul rahman was wary of iran s role in the unfolding crisis and criticized the u.s. military s characterization of an exchange of fire early on monday as a misunderstanding , downplaying the loss of life .
i think the u.s. needs to be very , very aware of the statements that it makes and the statements that it doesn t make , she said .
the threat of iraqi and kurdish forces turning u.s.-supplied weapons against each other has raised alarms in congress .
senator john mccain , the chairman of the senate armed services committee , warned iraq s government of severe consequences over any further misuse of u.s.-provided weaponry against kurdish forces .
the united states provided equipment and training to the government of iraq to fight ( islamic state ) and secure itself from external threats - not to attack elements of one of its own regional governments , mccain said .