phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s detained opposition leader , who is accused of treason by the government of strongman prime minister hun sen , denied the charges against him on monday in his first comments since his arrest last month .
kem sokha , head of the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) is accused of trying to overthrow the government with help from the united states and of espionage - charges he denies and says are politically motivated .
his arrest last month is part of ongoing efforts by the government to silence political opponents and independent media ahead of a general election next year .
earlier on monday hun sen , a former khmer rouge officer who defected and has ruled cambodia for more than three decades , attacked opposition figures as rebels in the city bent on staging a revolution .
in a three-page letter posted on his facebook page on monday kem sokha said that he was seeking positive change in cambodia through the ballot box and not through revolution as charged .
as the leader of the cnrp and a representative of more than half of the country s population , i always choose changes through elections without violence , he said in the letter .
rights groups say hun sen , 65 , is determined to extend his rule and dismantle the burgeoning popularity of the cnrp , who have gained from public anger over inequality and cronyism in the country under hun sen s rule .
the u.s. embassy has rejected any suggestion of interference in politics .
kem sokha s sept. 3 arrest sparked condemnation from western countries , and the cnrp has said about half its members of parliament have fled cambodia fearing a crackdown .
in his letter , kem sokha called his arrest unconstitutional and urged supporters not to be intimidated .
please , the cambodian people , remember that i am with you .
even though my body is in prison , but nobody can detain my conscience , he said .
he called on the international community for help .
democracy in cambodia is already at its last breathe , he said .
a spokesman from hun sen s cambodian people s party ( cpp ) said that kem sokha had confessed to the charges against him .