former fbi director james comey admitted to the senate intelligence committee on thursday that he asked a columbia professor friend to leak a memo he kept regarding his conversation with president trump to the press.the memo was leaked to one of the key players in the witch hunt for a russian connection with president trump russia , the new york times , the leftist media arm of the democrat party .
the new york times ran with the story that trump was pushing comey to drop the flynn investigation.gp : comey also told the senate intelligence committee he knew the new york times was publishing leaked reports that were not accurate .
but james comey said he would not tell the ny times about their fraudulent report because that would not be right ( ?
) .jame comey s priorities are a bit confusing.zero hedge for those of you who continue to consume anonymously-sourced news from the likes of cnn , nyt , wapo , etc , as pure fact and a perfect substitute for actual , unbiased journalism , while blindly ignoring the overwhelming evidence which continues to suggest these outlets are simply pushing a sensationalized narrative aimed at bringing down an administration of which they disapprove , please consider comey s testimony from earlier today in which he describes a february ny times story , which alleged numerous contacts between trump associates and russia , as almost entirely wrong meanwhile , in earlier testimony with senator risch , comey further explained why anonymously sourced stories can often be pure nonsense .
comey : in the main it was not true .
and , again , all of you know this , maybe the american people do not , the challenge , and i m not picking on reporters , about writing stories about classified information is , the people talking about it often don t really know what s going on and those of us who actually know what s going on are not talking about it.and we don t call the press to say hey , you got that thing wrong about his sensitive topic . '
i mentioned to the chairman the nonsense around what influenced me to make the july 5th statement .
nonsense , but i can t go explaining why it s nonsense .
as a special reward for publishing fake news about president trump , he offered the new york times a special seat in the back row of his press conference right next to univision ! the white house has put the new york times in the last row at today 's joint press conference with trump and romania 's president pic.twitter.com/chfgmdpgti gabby morrongiello ( @ gabriellahope_ ) june 9 , 2017according to gabby morrongiello , a reporter for the nyp , president trump also made answering the questions of the fake news us reporters a low-priority : romanian reporters have gotten 5 questions at this press conference so far .
american reporters : 2 gabby morrongiello ( @ gabriellahope_ ) june 9 , 2017