before we explore the actual details of marco rubio s extravagant purchase , let s take a look at the brilliant tweet by bill sanderson , pointing out the hypocrisy of the left by comparing marco rubio s family home to hillary s : https : //twitter.com/mrgeology/status/608344761758568448after doing a deep dive on the rubio s traffic violation history last week ( just kidding , it wasn t a deep dive but instead information handed over by the far left american bridge ) , the new york times is back for more publishing of american bridge material .
this time , the nyt is letting everyone know just how broke the rubio s were when they were young ( er ) , just like everyone else in america .
oh , and that he s had trouble with his finances like every other person in america .
and , he likes fun toys like any good man in america.for years , senator marco rubio struggled under the weight of student debt , mortgages and an extra loan against the value of his home totaling hundreds of thousands of dollars .
but in 2012 , financial salvation seemed to have arrived : a publisher paid him $ 800,000 to write a book about growing up as the son of cuban immigrants.in speeches , mr. rubio , a florida republican , spoke of his prudent plan for using the cash to finally pay off his law school loans , expressing relief that he no longer owed a lady named sallie mae , as he once called the lender .
oh , and guess what guys ?
marco rubio had the nerve to buy a speed boat in florida .
how irresponsible .
update : it was a fishing boat for his family , not an extravagant luxury speedboat as the nyt claims.but at the same time , he splurged on an extravagant purchase : $ 80,000 for a luxury speedboat , state records show .
at the time , mr. rubio confided to a friend that it was a potentially inadvisable outlay that he could not resist .
the 24-foot boat , he said , fulfilled a dream.here s a photo of the boat , and no , that isn t rubio driving the boat.this is so ridiculous i m actually laughing at my computer right now .
rubio had student loan debt ?
yeah , so ?
a lot of people do .
the rubios had trouble balancing their spending ?
who doesn t ?
rubio took out a loan on his home to make ends meet ?
good for him , lots of people do .
he was paid a hefty amount of money to write a book about his upbringing that he used to pay off debt ?
even better .
he had more than one home now ?
cool , wish i did too .
he spent $ 80,000 on a speed fishing boat in ocean surrounded florida after paying off his debt ?
how could he ?
! marco rubio and his family are normal people chasing the american dream and that scares the hell out of dead broke so we could pay mortgages hillary clinton supporters .
the different between rubio and clinton is that rubio embraces success and policies that allow every american to own multiple homes and a speed boat someday .
clinton , however , relishes in wealth instead of encouraging americans to become wealthy themselves to live the good life .
according to clinton , not everyone can be queen.via : townhall