does anyone even care that this american man was picked out of thin air to be used as a scape goat to cover for hillary s incompetence ?
one day he s an innocent man making third rate videos and posting them on youtube , and the next day , he s being hauled off to jail for a video he produced that hillary and her lying staff claimed inspired a terror attack in benghazi !
this could have been any american .
of all the evil things hillary has done , this has to rank at the top , just below the four dead americans who she left unprotected to die in benghazi .
yet , the benghazi butcher rolls on without missing a beat , as the mainstream media cheers her on like she s the horse they re betting on at the kentucky derby in september 2012 hillary blamed an awful internet video for the deaths of four american heroes in benghazi.hillary clinton made the statements as the bodies of the four dead americans were brought back to us soil.she made the public comments just three days after the assault on the compound that killed ambassador chris stevens , sean smith , tyrone woods and glen doherty.but thanks to leaked wikileaks emails we now know that hillary clinton wrote chelsea during the benghazi attacks telling her americans were killed by an al-qaeda like group.hillary later lied and blamed the attack on a youtube video .
and the director of the youtube video was later arrested.nakoula basseley nakoula ( c ) is escorted out of his home by los angeles county sheriff s officers in cerritos , california september 15 , 2012 ( reuters / bret hartman ) four years after the deadly benghazi terrorist attack hillary clinton is running for president and nakoula basseley nakoula is broke , destitute and living in a homeless shelter.and isis is in control of much of libya.fox news reported : four americans died in the 2012 terror attack in benghazi , and those who survived saw their stories of heroism told in a hollywood movie , but the filmmaker whose work was wrongly blamed for touching off the event lives in obscurity , poverty and fear , foxnews.com has learned.nakoula basseley nakoula , the coptic christian whose short video the innocence of muslims was initially faulted for sparking the sept. 11 , 2012 terror attack at u.s. diplomatic compounds in libya , is now living in a homeless shelter run by first southern baptist church in buena park , calif .
he has served time in prison , been shamed publicly by the white house and threatened with death .
hmmm i wonder if hillary is willing to cough up ( pun intended ) a few of her secret service agents to help protect the life of this innocent man , who will forever live in the fear of being killed by muslim extremists .