berlin ( reuters ) - for weeks , chancellor angela merkel endured taunts and whistles whenever she ventured out on the campaign trail in her home region of eastern germany .
and on sunday , it was voters in the east , incensed by her decision to allow hundreds of thousands of refugees into the country , that helped send her conservatives to their worst result since 1949 and vaulted a far-right party into the german parliament .
preliminary results showed the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) winning 22.9 percent of the vote in the former communist east , well above their national result of roughly 13 percent .
the afd performed especially well with east german men , 26 percent of whom backed the party .
merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) scored 27.6 percent well below their national result of nearly 33 percent in the five states that became part of a reunified germany in 1990 .
merkel did secure a fourth term on sunday , but she limped to the finish line and must now cobble together an unwieldy coalition with two other parties the business friendly free democrats ( fdp ) and environmentalist greens that have diametrically opposed views on many of the big issues .
the result suggested that pollsters may have underestimated the lingering impact of the refugee crisis in the election and the outsized influence it would have in the east , where voters continue to behave very differently than their brethren in the west 28 years after the fall of the wall .
earlier this month , a top aide to merkel described the east german hecklers as a small minority and suggested the refugee crisis was no longer a negative factor for merkel .
the results on sunday suggested otherwise .
east german voters are more extreme and less loyal to the traditional parties .
this is how it has been ever since the wall fell , said hendrik traeger , a political scientist in leipzig .
appearing on german television on sunday night , merkel was pressed once again on her decision two years ago to allow thousands of refugees who had set out on foot from the main train station in budapest , hungary into germany .
in the months that followed , thousands more made their way across the aegean sea to greece and up the balkans to germany , encouraged by scenes of germans welcoming migrants with food and clothes , and possibly also by selfies that refugees took with merkel .
we ve gone over and over what happened in the autumn of 2015 and i remain convinced that all the other options that were discussed at the time - perhaps deploying water cannons on the german border and such - were out of the question for me , merkel said .
i think this decision was right .
during her campaign appearances , merkel told her audiences repeatedly that the influx of 2015 would never be repeated .
but she was denounced as a traitor to the people at numerous campaign events in the east , language that would have been unthinkable before the refugee crisis .
merkel grew up behind the iron curtain in the town of templin north of berlin .
her father , a lutheran pastor with socialist leanings , moved the family from west to east shortly after merkel was born , and before the berlin wall was built .
in the last german election in 2013 , merkel s conservatives won 38.5 percent of the vote in the east , more than 10 points better than sunday s result .