chicago ( reuters ) - chicago mayor rahm emanuel moved this week to bolster his sagging political fortunes , delivering within a few hours both a labor pact with the city ’ s teachers and a no-drama 2017 city budget devoid of any big tax hikes .
on tuesday morning , emanuel unveiled a $ 9.8 billion city spending plan for fiscal 2017 that includes $ 3.7 billion for operations , relying on $ 82.3 million in revenue growth , savings from efficiencies and a few one-time measures .
since winning re-election last year , the democratic mayor has been dealing with racially charged fallout from the 2014 police shooting of a black teenager and the pension-driven financial hardships facing the city and its school system .
“ it is a budget free of an immediate pension crisis , free of the black cloud of insolvency threatening the retirements of city employees and the financial future of chicago , ” emanuel told the city council .
twelve hours earlier , he signed off on a four-year tentative contract deal with teachers in the country ’ s third-largest public school system to avert what would have been a third strike in four years .
the pact , which still must be ratified by the chicago teachers union , relies on a bigger injection of surplus revenue he controls from the city ’ s development districts .
to be sure , the spate of good news for emanuel does not mean the mayor is free of political trouble .
in 2016 , emanuel reeled from the effects of street protests stemming from the death of unarmed , 17-year-old laquan mcdonald , whom a white police officer shot 16 times .
emanuel ’ s administration kept a police video of the killing under wraps while he ran for re-election last year .
more broadly , street violence in chicago continues unabated , leaving the city with more murders this year than new york city and los angeles combined .
the city budget emanuel outlined accommodates the initial phase of a two-year plan to add 970 police positions to address the city ’ s sharp spike in violence .
“ until we see the focus on crime in the city and the policing issue from the mayor in more ways than we saw this summer , which was not a lot of focus until it was absolutely necessary , that ’ s one of the biggest issues in the city , ” said alderman scott waguespack , an emanuel critic and member of the city council ’ s progressive bloc .
financially , the city has faced a series of credit rating downgrades due to an unfunded pension liability that moody ’ s investors service has said is the highest among u.s. municipalities it rates .
that liability stood at $ 33.8 billion at the end of fiscal 2015 for chicago ’ s four retirement systems .
the mayor last year pushed through a $ 543 million phased-in property tax increase for police and firefighter retirement systems .
the city enacted a new tax on water and sewer usage last month to rescue its largest pension fund for municipal workers from insolvency .
a chicago-based government finance watchdog group welcomed emanuel ’ s budget blueprint on tuesday .
“ generally , our initial reaction to the mayor ’ s plan is this is a good-news budget for the city of chicago , ” said laurence msall , president of the civic federation .
emanuel ’ s top city council ally , alderman patrick o ’ connor , said the mayor is making solid progress in digging chicago out of its fiscal and social mess .
but no one is saying it yet amounts to a platform for a possible third term in 2019 , which the mayor has not yet ruled out .
“ there are ebbs and flows to popularity .
there are ebbs and flows to crisis , ” o ’ connor said .
“ who knows what the crisis of the day is going to be a year from now or two years from now ? ”