washington ( reuters ) - a u.s. senate committee approved legislation on thursday that would broaden sanctions on north korea over its nuclear program , human rights record and cyber activities , the latest bid by u.s. lawmakers to crack down on pyongyang after its fourth nuclear test .
the senate foreign relations committee passed the measure by unanimous voice vote and members said they expected it would be approved by the full senate within weeks , and signed into law by president barack obama .
u.s. lawmakers have been clamoring for a clampdown on north korea since pyongyang earlier this month tested a nuclear device which it said was a hydrogen bomb .
the u.n. security council is also discussing more action against the country , although it is not clear what would be supported by china , north korea ’ s lone major ally and main business partner .
the senate bill would sanction anyone who engages in , facilitates or contributes to north korea ’ s proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , arms-related materials , luxury goods , human rights abuses , activities undermining cyber security and the provision of metals or coal for use in such activities .
penalties include the seizure of assets , visa bans and denial of government contracts .
committee members said they wanted to make washington ’ s resolve clear not just to pyongyang , but to other governments .
they said they expected the house of representatives would back the senate legislation .
“ we must also send a strong message to china , ” said republican senator cory gardner , chairman of the panel ’ s asia subcommittee and co-author of the legislation .
an obama administration official said the administration does not oppose the legislation , saying it is deeply concerned about north korea ’ s recent actions and sees the most recent test as a “ serious setback. ” u.s. officials told reuters on thursday the united states had seen increased activity around a north korean site suggesting preparations for a possible space launch in the near future , raising concerns that the country was seeking to develop an inter-continental ballistic missile .
north korea conducted a nuclear test on jan. 6 that it said was the explosion of a hydrogen bomb , although the united states and other governments and experts voiced scepticism that it had made such a technological advance .
the house passed its own , less extensive , bill to broaden sanctions on jan. 12 by a near unanimous 418-2 vote .
the senate is due to begin considering the bill approved by the foreign relations committee during the week of feb. 8 .