beirut ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias in syria have declared victory over islamic state in its capital raqqa , a milestone in the fight to roll back the theocratic caliphate declared in 2014 ..
here are facts about raqqa : raqqa sits on the euphrates river around 90 km ( 56 miles ) from the turkish border in north central syria .
sunni militant group islamic state overran raqqa in january 2014 , seizing control from rebel factions opposed to the rule of syrian president bashar al-assad .
the united states has said islamic state planned and sent teams from raqqa to carry out attacks on cities including paris , brussels and istanbul .
the anti-is offensive the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of mostly kurdish and arab militias , began to advance towards raqqa city in november 2016 .
after encircling the city , they launched the offensive to take it , facing tough resistance .
the united states-led coalition supported the sdf with air strikes and special forces on the ground .
the battle for raqqa has taken a severe toll on civilians .
the united nations said in march the city contained around 200,000 people , just under its pre-war population .
since late last year , fighting around and in raqqa has displaced tens of thousands of people .
many have fled the city to camps in surrounding territory now under the control of the sdf and its strongest component , the kurdish ypg militia .
civilians who were trapped inside the islamic state enclave in the city endured miserable conditions for months , lacking water , power , food and healthcare .
as the sdf captured parts of raqqa they were mostly been cleared of residents .
air strikes , fighting and islamic state snipers and mines have killed many hundreds of people .
the coalition says it is careful to avoid civilian casualties in its bombing runs in syria and iraq .
but the u.n. human rights office and rights group amnesty international have raised concerns about reports of high civilian deaths .
islamic state imposed its very strict interpretation of islamic law on raqqa s residents .
the fighters have carried out public executions , lashings and violent punishments for infringements of their rule .
the raqqa campaign has stirred tension between the united states and nato-ally turkey .
potential kurdish influence in the future of the mainly arab city is sensitive both for some activists from raqqa and for turkey .
the ypg has become the main u.s. partner in the fight against islamic state in northern syria .
ankara views it as a syrian extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has waged a three-decade insurgency within turkey , and fears growing kurdish power along its border .
the sdf s political allies have set up a raqqa civil council of people from the city , which the sdf has said it will hand control to after islamic state s defeat .
this echoes the pattern in other towns and cities that the sdf captured .
the u.s.-led coalition has helped train a new police force for the city .
islamic state has made enemies of all sides in the more than six-year syrian conflict , with separate offensives now trying to clear it from its last foothold in the towns along the euphrates river in eastern syria near the iraqi border .
besides the u.s.-backed sdf , the syrian army , with russian jets and iran-backed militias , is also waging its own campaign against islamic state in eastern syria .
a modern-day provincial transport hub and market town , raqqa was built by the abbasid islamic caliphate in the eighth century , serving as its capital at one point .
it has been inhabited since antiquity and contains important archeological and architectural sites .
the united nations has said they have been extensively looted during the war and religious buildings have been damaged .
islamic state militants released a video of them bombing a large part of the uwais al-qarani shrine complex in march 2014 .