beijing ( reuters ) - china s largely rubber-stamp parliament formally extended a law banning disrespect of the national anthem on saturday to cover hong kong , a move that critics have said undermined the chinese-ruled city s autonomy and freedoms .
in the past few years , some hong kong football fans have booed the national anthem during world cup qualifiers and other matches , mirroring protests in the united states where football players knelt during the national anthem , a practice denounced by u.s. president donald trump .
china passed a new law in september mandating up to 15 days in police detention for those who mock the march of the volunteers national anthem , a law that also covers the chinese territories of hong kong and macau but was not immediately given a legal basis for enforcement there .
the national anthem law , which went into effect on oct. 1 , has now been included in an annex of hong kong s basic law , or mini constitution , state news agency xinhua said .
it will also be included in an annex of macau s basic law , xinhua reported .
he shaoren , spokesman for the national people s congress standing committee , said in a news conference on saturday that it was up to the hong kong government to enact a local law to abide by the amendment in a timely manner .
a hong kong official said on wednesday that the special administrative region would enact such a law as soon as possible .
hong kong is a former british colony that returned to chinese rule in 1997 under a so-called one country , two systems formula that promises the city a high degree of autonomy , including an independent judiciary .
china s growing reach into hong kong s affairs has , however , stoked tensions and mass protests including the 2014 occupy civil disobedience movement that blocked major roads in the city for 79 days to pressure china to allow full democracy .
chinese authorities have strived to instill greater patriotism into hong kong , while condemning a push from democracy activists to distance hong kong .
china s national legislature on saturday also passed an amendment to its criminal law that extends punishments for publicly desecrating the national flag and emblem to disrespecting the national anthem .
punishments include jail terms of up to three years , xinhua reported .
this law does not appear to apply to hong kong or macau .