riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabian authorities have made further arrests and frozen more bank accounts in an expanding anti-corruption crackdown on the kingdom s political and business elite , sources familiar with the matter said on wednesday dozens of royal family members , officials and business executives have already been held in the purge announced on saturday .
they face allegations of money laundering , bribery , extortion and exploiting public office for personal gain .
but the sources , speaking on wednesday , said a number of other individuals suspected of wrongdoing were detained in an expansion of the crackdown , widely seen as an initiative of the powerful heir to the throne , crown prince mohammed bin salman .
others under scrutiny are being telephoned by investigators about their finances but appear to remain at liberty , one of the sources said , adding that the number of people targeted by the crackdown was expected eventually to rise into the hundreds .
the number of domestic bank accounts frozen as a result of the purge is over 1,700 and rising , up from 1,200 reported on tuesday , banking sources said .
a number of those held most recently include individuals with links to the immediate family of the late crown prince and defence minister prince sultan bin abdulaziz who died in 2011 , the sources said .
others appear to be lower-level managers and officials , one of the sources said .
many saudis have cheered the purge as an attack on the theft of state funds by the rich , and u.s. president donald trump said those arrested had been milking their country for years .
but some western officials expressed apprehension at the possible ramifications for the secretive tribal and royal politics of the world s largest oil exporter .
saudi arabia s stock market continued to fall in early trade on wednesday because of concern about the economic impact of its anti-corruption purge .
the saudi index .tasi was 1.0 percent lower after half an hour of trade .
shares in companies linked to people detained in the investigation slid further .
late on tuesday , crown prince mohammed bin salman and the saudi central bank sought to ease worries about the crackdown .
they said that while individuals were being targeted and having their bank accounts frozen , national and multinational companies - including those wholly or partly owned by individuals under investigation - would not be disrupted .
anti-corruption authorities have also frozen the bank accounts of prince mohammed bin nayef , one of the most senior members of the ruling al saud , and some of his immediate family members , the sources added .
prince mohammed , or mbn as he is known , was ousted as crown prince in june when king salman replaced him with the then deputy crown prince mohammed bin salman .
since sunday , the central bank has been expanding the list of accounts it is requiring lenders to freeze on an almost hourly basis , one regional banker said , declining to be named because he was not authorized to speak to media .
mbn made his first confirmed public appearance since his ousting at the funeral on tuesday for prince mansour bin muqrin , deputy governor of asir province , who was killed in a helicopter crash on sunday .
no cause has been given for the crash .
among business executives detained in the probe so far are billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal , chairman of investment firm kingdom holding 4280.se ; nasser bin aqeel al-tayyar , founder of al tayyar travel 1810.se ; and amr al-dabbagh , chairman of builder red sea international 4230.se .
the u.s. state department said on tuesday it had urged saudi arabia to carry out any prosecution of officials detained in a fair and transparent manner .
commenting on the purge , human rights watch called on saudi authorities to immediately reveal the legal and evidentiary basis for each person s detention and make certain that each person detained can exercise their due process rights .
it s great that saudi authorities are declaring that they want to take on the scourge of corruption , but the right way to do that is through diligent judicial investigations against actual wrongdoing , not sensationalistic mass arrests to a luxury hotel , right watch official sarah leah whitson in a statement .