new york ( reuters ) - former connecticut governor john rowland on friday urged a federal appeals court to overturn his conviction on charges that the republican tried to use sham contracts to hide his political work in two u.s. congressional campaigns , saying prosecutors went too far in applying the law .
the 2nd u.s .
circuit court of appeals in new york heard arguments over whether rowland used illegal consulting contracts for candidates who in 2010 and 2012 ran unsuccessfully for the house of representatives .
rowland , who was sentenced to 2-1/2 years in prison in march 2015 , is free on bail during his appeal .
he had previously spent 10 months in prison following his 2004 guilty plea to separate charges arising from his acceptance of illegal gifts while he was governor .
rowland resigned from office that year .
andrew fish , rowland ’ s lawyer , told the appeals court on friday that a draft contract rejected by one of the candidates , mark greenberg , did not constitute a falsified document .
“ frankly , the government saying that a contract proposal is a falsified document makes little sense , ” fish said .
he said prosecutors went too far in trying to criminalize rowland ’ s conduct under the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 , a governance law passed after enron corp ’ s collapse , that prohibits falsifying documents to hide financial wrongdoing .
assistant u.s. attorney liam brennan countered that the case was in the “ heartland ” of the statute .
“ this is creating a fake record to have in the file in case there is an investigation , ” he said .
a federal jury in new haven found rowland guilty in march 2015 on charges of conspiracy , falsifying records in a federal investigation , causing false statements to be made to the federal election commission , and causing illegal campaign contributions .
prosecutors said rowland , 58 , sought to advise greenberg , who testified that in 2010 he rejected rowland ’ s offer and a contract to conceal the ex-governor ’ s role .
rowland was also accused of negotiating a deal to work for a nursing home company owned by brian foley , the husband of 2012 congressional candidate , lisa wilson-foley , and receive $ 35,000 intended to compensate him for advising her campaign .
wilson-foley and foley pleaded guilty to conspiring to make illegal campaign contributions .
wilson-foley received a five-month prison term , while foley was sentenced to three months in a halfway house .