the irs is the epitome of an incompetent government agency the internal revenue service issued more than $ 46 million in erroneous tax refunds due to a computer glitch and ineffective monitoring , issues that left uncorrected could cost taxpayers up to $ 230 million over the next five years.the treasury inspector general for tax administration ( tigta ) released an audit monday faulting the irs for approving thousands of potentially fraudulent tax refunds in 2013 .
tigta identified that because of a programming error , over $ 27 million of refunds were erroneously issued for 13,043 tax year 2013 tax returns , the audit said .
the programming error is overriding the irs s two-week processing delay on some refund tax returns that are identified by the irs as potentially fraudulent .
the audit said the returns were flagged for claiming a questionable tax credit but were then automatically issued before the irs could complete its verification process.in addition , the audit identified 3,910 potentially fraudulent tax returns that were issued due to ineffective monitoring , totaling $ 19 million .
the irs did not ensure that tax examiners timely completed their verification work , the audit said .
name mismatches in irs systems prevented refund holds from posting to tax accounts .
refund holds were either not set correctly or not functioning as intended .
rep. diane black ( r. , tenn. ) called for irs commissioner john koskinen to step down for what she called the latest misstep by the agency .
we didn t need another reminder that the irs is mired in incompetence and mismanagement , but we got it anyway , she said in a statement .
this latest study comes on the heels of stinging reports that irs employees failed to pay their own tax bill and granted illegal contracts to tax cheats .
it is abundantly clear that commissioner john koskinen has failed in his duty to restore trust at the irs and must be replaced , but congress is not guiltless either .
just last week , my colleagues voted over my objections to give this bureaucracy another $ 290 million in the bloated omnibus bill , black continued .
only in washington is this kind of ineptitude rewarded with a bigger check .
taxpayers have every right to be outraged by the dysfunction at the irs i know i am .
the audit predicted that the programming error could lead the irs to issue $ 135.5 million in erroneous refunds over the next five years .
ineffective monitoring could also cost taxpayers more than $ 95 million in erroneous refunds because tax returns are not being verified as required .
in all , the mistakes could cost $ 230.4 million over the next five years .
via : wfb