establishment republican reince priebus is gone the establishment republican so many have blamed for white house leaks or ties to white house leakers met his fate today .
after only 6 months as president trump s white house chief of staff , trump went around the media and announced on twitter he was being replace with general john f. kelly : i am pleased to inform you that i have just named general/secretary john f kelly as white house chief of staff .
he is a great american .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 28 , 2017 and a great leader .
john has also done a spectacular job at homeland security .
he has been a true star of my administration donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 28 , 2017mr .
priebus , a former chairman of the republican national committee , lost his job just hours after the president s signature drive to repeal his predecessor s health care program collapsed on the senate floor and a day after an ugly feud with the new communications director erupted in a public airing of the deep animosities plaguing the white house.the announcement capped a fraught 24 hours in which the president s advisers waited for a change they had long anticipated .
mr. priebus accompanied mr. trump on air force one for a day trip to long island as his fate was being decided .
making for a tense flight , his rival , anthony scaramucci , the communications director who had publicly vowed to force mr. priebus s resignation , was also on the plane and in the motorcade.was priebus the leaker ?
according to a report by mediaite , fox s the five host and friend to the president , kimberly guilfoyle told president trump on wednesday night he was fox news host kimberly guilfoyle appears to have echoed anthony scaramucci s sentiments on reince priebus to president donald trump during a wednesday night dinner at the white house , only without the profanity.the five co-host was invited , along with her colleague sean hannity and former fox news executive bill shine , to the white house wednesday night to dine with the president .
and a report from the new york times alleges that guilfoyle told trump that his chief of staff was a problem and a leaker during that dinner .
according to an anonymous source who was briefed on their conversation , guilfoyle also told the president that priebus was someone who was not serving his agenda .
on thursday night , guilfoyle confirmed to her co-hosts on the five that she did have dinner with the president .
and while she refrained from going into detail about her conversations with trump , she claimed that he was in a very , very good mood and was enthused about his agenda going forward.guilfoyle didn t go after priebus on-air , but she did say that something needs to be done regarding to the numerous white house shakeups .
mediaitein barely half a year on the job , mr. priebus never won the full confidence of the president nor was granted the authority to impose a working organizational structure on the west wing .
always seeming to be on the edge of ouster , mr. priebus saw his fate finally sealed a week ago when mr. trump hired mr. scaramucci , an edgy wall street financier , over the chief of staff s objections .
mr. priebus s ally , sean spicer , the press secretary , resigned in protest .
nyt