the state of michigan has , since the gop takeover of 2010 , been a petri dish for libertarian republican policies , and nearly all of them have been complete and total failures.while most of the nation knows about the water crisis in flint , michigan , in which the town s residents are drinking lead-filled water because republicans insisted on changing the source of flint s water in a money saving exercise.there have been fewer headlines about another of michigan s experiments .
people who occasionally need help from the government have long been demonized by republicans .
it s assumed that somehow , just because someone is poor , they are somehow pulling something on the rest of us .
clearly , that makes no sense at all , but the stereotype lives on .
most predominantly , republicans insist that poor people must , just must , have substance abuse problems , so before being given the most paltry sustenance possible , they must be tested .
that s what michigan is doing .
they are drug testing some welfare recipients .
guess how many positive results came up ?
none , not a single one.this wasn t done on a particularly large scale .
republicans passed a new law two years ago that allowed the state to drug test any welfare recipients that might be suspected of drug abuse .
after the law passed , michigan did one intelligent thing : they tested it .
for one year beginning in october of 2015 , they tested 27 potential substance abusers out of 443 welfare recipients.dhhs conducted the pilot in allegan , clinton and marquette counties between oct. 1 , 2015 , and sept. 30 , 2016 , the report said.although a total of 443 people in those counties were either receiving or applied for cash assistance during those 12 months , previous court decisions limited the actual drug-testing to individuals who failed a substance-abuse screening test.the report said that 27 of the 443 people were identified as potential substance-abusers .
of those 27 , 10 were already getting treatment through community mental health , three had their cases closed for other reasons and 14 went through the screening test.source : michigan liveone of those tested was found by a clinician to have a reasonable suspicion of use of a controlled substance and require a substance use test .
the person agreed to the test , but the case , for some reason , was closed prior to the test .
not a single other person even raised a red flag.these results are hardly surprising .
in states where they have enacted drug testing for welfare recipients , the results have been similar.it s doubtful these results will do much .
republicans feel that poor people must be punished , that any assistance must be micromanaged , while corporate welfare needs no oversight whatsoever.in 2015 , despite lack of evidence that programs in other states accomplished their goals , three more states have implemented similar regimes .
and a thinkprogress survey of the 10 states that now have these programs in place found that they continue to be expensive and not especially effective .
all told , states spent another $ 850,909.25 on the testing regimes in 2015 to uncover just 321 positive tests in more than one state , none at all.this came after a february 2015 thinkprogress examination of the seven states that had implemented drug testing programs for tanf applicants and/or recipients .
at that time , those states had spent about $ 1 million to create and implement a complicated system of screening and urine testing and found just 407 drug users.in other words , this supposedly fiscally conservative position is not at all about saving money .
it s expensive and punitive .
but hey , it s trump s america , where being an unscrupulous billionaire gets you the presidency and being legitimately poor labels you a criminal.featured image via sean gallup/getty images