paris ( reuters ) - french catalans have a villa with a swimming pool and other safe houses ready in the event that carles puigdemont and other leaders of spain s catalonia region have to seek refuge from madrid .
while the idea of catalan leaders fleeing spain and setting up an underground network abroad still appears remote , french backers of catalan independence are taking no chances .
they say they have 52 houses and flats lined up near the spanish border .
it s all ready .
we have the logistics to be able to house about 200 people for now , and more if needed , said robert casanovas , an activist and head of the committee for the self-determination of north catalonia the french catalan area .
our aim is to be ready if there are arrest warrants issued against members of the catalan government , and in particular its president , he said in a phone interview .
the spanish government is threatening to impose direct rule on catalonia , a region with its own language and culture , which held a referendum on independence on oct. 1 that spanish courts declared illegal .
thousands of catalan speakers live across the border in france , mainly in the eastern pyrenees region along the mediterranean coast , territory ceded to france by spain in the 17th century .
top catalan officials sought refuge in france in the late 1930s from spain s military dictator francisco franco .
catalan leader puigdemont and his government have called for civil disobedience to defy the direct rule move .
they have not publicly discussed exile .
casanovas said his group had decided unilaterally to offer the safe-houses .
he declined to say whether there had been an answer , saying it was too sensitive .
unlike their spanish counterparts , french catalan activists do not seek independence for their territory but ask for more autonomy , including on tax matters .
casanovas said his 30-strong committee leads a 300-strong french catalan group .
around 400,000 people live in the area of france that activists call north catalonia .
casanovas said among the safe-houses on offer was his own home in theza , a short drive from the spanish border .
it s a pretty nice house with a swimming pool , it s quite big , with a 7,000-square-metre garden , so it would work out really well , he said .
we couldn t put him in a two-bedroom ... we need something worthy of a head of government .