london ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may withstood new attempts to force concessions on her blueprint for leaving the european union on wednesday , the second day of a parliamentary debate that is deepening divisions over brexit .
may has been weakened by losing the conservative party s majority in a june election and faces hostility from many lawmakers , including some conservatives , to various parts of the eu withdrawal bill which requires parliamentary approval .
all attempts to amend the bill , on severing ties with the eu , have been voted down so far , but a debate next month on precisely when britain should leave , and whether a time should be set at all , is be to test her authority .
may urged lawmakers to work together ahead of a debate on several amendments aimed at entrenching eu protections on a wide range of issues from the environment to workers rights .
we will be leaving the european union on the 19th of march , 2019 , and of course there is a lively debate going on in this place and that s right and proper , and that s important , may said during the weekly prime minister s question time .
we are listening carefully to those who wish to improve the bill and i hope that we can all come together to deliver on the decision that the country took that we should leave the european union .
the debates are likely to last for weeks on a bill seen by may as crucial to give companies confidence that there will be no major legal changes that affect business when britain leaves the eu in march 2019 .
on the first day of debate on tuesday , lawmakers broke down party lines in turning on each other with catcalls , jeers and accusations of treachery .
behind the debates is the fear of pro-brexit lawmakers that britain may never leave the eu , and of pro-eu politicians who are worried britain might crash out of the eu without a deal .
exit day has become the focus for most in parliament with some lawmakers saying pro-brexit politicians want a firm date on the bill - 11:00 p.m. on march 29 , 2019 - to limit flexibility in talks with the eu that are deadlocked largely over money .
may and her ministers are stepping up contacts with eu officials , trying to find ways to put pressure on negotiators in brussels to try to push the talks forward by december , movement businesses say they need to make investment decisions .
on wednesday , may met manfred weber , a leading lawmaker in the european parliament and an ally of german chancellor angela merkel , in london , where he expressed confidence that the difficulties in the talks could be overcome .
the parliamentary debate is yet another headache for a prime minister , who has lost two ministers to scandals and faces calls to fire her foreign minister , boris johnson , over remarks he made about a jailed iranian-british aid worker in iran .
she has tried to ease tensions by offering lawmakers some concessions on the bill , but has yet to convince all her lawmakers , many of whom have said they will not vote with the government on at least one of the debates , namely on exit day .