dakar/bamenda , cameroon ( reuters ) - troops and attack helicopters opened fire on protesters at the height of separatist rallies in english-speaking areas of cameroon over the weekend , killing and wounding people , witnesses and rights groups said .
the army dismissed the reports from sources in five towns as completely false and said helicopters had only been used for surveillance .
any use of air attacks would mark a major escalation in a government crackdown on separatist protests that have been rumbling in anglophone districts of the central african oil producer for almost a year .
thousands took to the streets in towns across the northwest and southwest regions on sunday , oct. 1 , calling for independence from the country s french-speaking majority .
rights groups said they started to collect reports on ensuing violence in the areas bordering nigeria as the week progressed .
eight people in the towns of bamenda , buea , ndu , tombel and kumbo told reuters that police and soldiers moved in to stop the protests and in some areas , low-flying attack helicopters fired tear gas and live rounds on the crowds .
etienne ndage , a 31-year-old journalist for savannah frontier radio in the northwest tea-plantation town of ndu said he saw helicopters firing at around 1 pm local time , killing two protesters as a 1,000-strong march gained momentum .
they were firing like in a war film , he told reuters .
hilary manjong , private secretary to a local member of parliament in ndu , said witnesses had shared similar accounts with him .
army spokesman didier badjeck dismissed the accounts .
reports that the helicopters fired on protestors is completely false .
the helicopters were only conducting surveillance , he said .
the government earlier this week said about 10 people had died on sunday including five in a prison fire that may not have been linked to the protests .
the governor of southwest region , bernard okalia bilai , told the cameroon tribune newspaper in an article published on tuesday that protesters had ambushed soldiers in kumba , forcing them to open fire in self defense .
amnesty international told reuters on thursday that more than 20 people were killed between oct. 1 and 2 .
demonstrations began nearly a year ago when anglophone lawyers and teachers protested against having to work in french , saying it showed the wider marginalization of the english-speaking minority .
the protests gained support and have increasingly called for cameroon s five million english speakers to get their own country .
the rallies have also have become a lightning rod for opposition to president paul biya s 35-year rule .
campaigners called more protests on sunday , the anniversary of anglophone cameroon s independence from britain .
in the southwest town of tombel , a resident who spoke on condition of anonymity told reuters that a military helicopter came so low over the town center that the wind gusts threw a man off his motorbike .
first the helicopter fired teargas to disperse the crowd , then it opened fire , the resident said .
normally they fire rubber bullets , but i could tell from the sound that these were real , they added .
outside buea , police on the ground and a helicopter opened fire on protestors who had run into the bush to bypass a military checkpoint , said louis anuchem , a 35-year-old taxi driver from buea .
the helicopter came close to the ground , he added .
we heard the gunshots and the bullets coming through the trees , he told reuters .
after the demonstrations police went door-to-door in some towns , rounding up young men and women , residents said .
soldiers came to our neighborhood and broke into homes and carried boys away , said lanya joel , a 21-year-old kumba resident .
i am scared and will be away until it s all over .
rights group the southern cameroon s public affairs committee said in a report that a 12 year-old girl was shot by security forces from a helicopter in the town of kumbo .
the bamenda provincial episcopal conference of anglophone christian bishops said in a statement this week that is was disturbed by reports that some of our christians were ... arrested , some maimed , and some were simply shot to death , some from helicopters .
helene mekem said her son was shot dead by security forces outside his home in kumba on sunday , even though he was not involved in the protests .
they are killing the innocent ones , she told reuters .