riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi air defenses shot down a ballistic missile fired by yemen s houthi group towards riyadh on tuesday , the saudi-led coalition said , in an attack that could escalate a proxy war between the kingdom and iran .
there were no reports of casualties or damage .
in contrast , a u.n. human rights spokesman said coalition air strikes had killed at least 136 non-combatants in war-torn yemen since dec. 6 .
the iran-aligned houthi movement said it had aimed the missile at the saudi royal court at al-yamama palace , where a meeting of saudi leaders was under way .
it described the attack as a new chapter in the conflict .
the saudi-led coalition said the missile , the latest of several fired towards riyadh , had been directed at residential areas and there had been no damage .
quoting a statement from the coalition , saudi state news agency spa said iranian-made missiles were a threat to regional and international security .
it accused the houthis of using humanitarian entry points into yemen to smuggle in missiles from saudi arabia s regional arch-foe iran .
coalition forces confirm intercepting an iranian-houthi missile targeting ( the ) south of riyadh .
there are no reported casualties at this time , the government-run center for international communication wrote on its twitter account .
saudi palaces , military and oil facilities are within range of such missiles , the houthis said in a statement carried by the group s al-masirah television .
the u.s. state department condemned the missile attack and called on iran to stop arming the houthis .
at the united nations , u.s .
ambassador nikki haley said the houthi missile strike bears all the hallmarks of previous attacks using iranian-provided weapons .
haley said she was exploring , with some u.n. security council colleagues , several options for pressuring iran to adjust their behavior .
haley is likely to struggle , however , to convince some members , like veto powers russia and china , that u.n. action is needed .
saudi arabia and iran are locked in struggle for influence in the middle east .
the conflict in saudi arabia s backyard yemen has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced over 2 million .
the houthis for their part have fired several missiles at the kingdom , but have not caused any serious damage .
the attack came as the houthis marked 1,000 days since the saudi-led coalition began military operations in yemen in march 2015 after the iran-aligned group drove yemeni president abd-rabbu mansour hadi into exile .
the enemies had their own mirage calculations ... but over 1,000 days , there has been this great steadfastness , said abdel-malek al-houthi , a houthi leader , in a speech on the group s al-masirah tv .
the united arab emirates , a close ally of saudi arabia and part of its coalition , said the latest houthi attack underscored the need to keep the military campaign in yemen going .
with every iranian missile fired by the houthi militia against civilian targets , the necessity of ( operation ) decisive storm becomes clear , united arab emirates minister of state for foreign affairs anwar gargash wrote on his twitter account .
lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri condemned the attack , saying such actions exacerbated divisions in the region .
saudi arabia and iran are also competing for influence in iraq and syria .
reuters witnesses described hearing a blast and said they saw smoke in the northeast of riyadh .
saudi arabia s crown prince , mohammed bin salman , has described what riyadh says is iran s supply of rockets to the houthis as direct military aggression that could be an act of war .
iran has denied supplying such weaponry to the houthis , who have taken over the yemeni capital , sanaa , and other parts of the country during its civil war .
saudi arabia said on nov. 4 it had intercepted a ballistic missile over riyadh s king khaled airport , an attack that led the coalition to close yemeni ports .
on nov. 30 , saudi arabia shot down another missile near its southwestern city of khamis mushait .
last week , the united states presented for the first time pieces of what it said were iranian weapons supplied to the houthis , describing them as conclusive evidence that tehran was violating u.n. resolutions .
the arms included charred remnants of what the pentagon said was an iranian-made short-range ballistic missile fired from yemen in the nov. 4 attack , as well as a drone and an anti-tank weapon recovered in yemen by the saudis .