singapore ( reuters ) - the u.s. navy on monday confirmed recovery of the remains of all 10 sailors killed after the warship john s. mccain collided with a merchant vessel in waters near singapore and malaysia .
the guided-missile destroyer collided with the alnic mc east of singapore last week while approaching the city state on a routine port visit .
the u.s. navy and marine corps divers have now recovered the remains of all 10 uss john s.mccain sailors , the seventh fleet said in a statement on its website .
the news follows the navy s thursday announcement that it had suspended wider search and rescue operations after finding and identifying the remains of one sailor .
the navy found the remains of missing sailors inside sealed sections of the damaged hull of the warship , which is moored at singapore s changi naval base .
the incident is under investigation to determine the facts and circumstances of the collision , the statement added .
aircraft , divers and vessels from australia , indonesia , malaysia , singapore , and the united states joined a search-and-rescue operation for the missing sailors over an area of about 5,500 sq .
km .
( 2,124 square miles ) around the crash site .
the pre-dawn collision , the fourth major accident for the u.s. pacific fleet this year , has prompted a review of its operations .
the navy has removed seventh fleet commander vice admiral joseph aucoin from his post , citing a loss of confidence in his ability to command after the run of accidents .
rear admiral phil sawyer takes command of the fleet from aucoin , who had been due to step down next month .
the u.s. navy has also flagged plans for temporary and staggered halts in operations across its global fleet to allow staff to focus on safety .
in a one-day operational pause last wednesday , officers and crew of seventh fleet ships deployed at a facility in yokosuka , japan , received fresh training in risk management and communications .
the seventh fleet , headquartered in japan , operates as many as 70 ships , including the u.s. navy s only forward-deployed aircraft carrier , and has about 140 aircraft and 20,000 sailors .