washington ( reuters ) - gathering speed toward winning the democratic presidential nomination , hillary clinton did not wait long after a streak of wins on super tuesday to gird for battle with republican front-runner donald trump .
the former first lady won 7 of 11 states up for grabs on tuesday , sweeping the south and creating more distance between her and rival bernie sanders in the race to represent the democratic party at the nov. 8 election for the white house .
the wins , which include the heavily populated state of texas , mean she can turn an eye toward billionaire reality tv star trump , who also won heavily on tuesday .
in another good sign for clinton , her fundraisers say donors are eager to fund her campaign into the general election .
“ hillary will be the nominee , and now she needs to start focusing on taking on trump , ” said dane strother , an unaligned washington dc-based democratic strategist .
on tuesday night , clinton took aim at trump ’ s reputation for spewing insults at his opponents , and repeated an attack on the real estate mogul ’ s proposal to build a 1,000-mile wall along the border with mexico .
“ the stakes in this election have never been higher and the rhetoric we ’ re hearing on the other side has never been lower , ” she said during a rally in miami after she won in several states .
“ trying to divide america between us and them is wrong. ” clinton ’ s wins give her 527 delegates to the democratic nominating convention , to sanders ’ 325 , according to a new york times delegate count early on wednesday .
a democratic candidate needs 2,383 delegates to win .
jim manley , a washington-based democratic strategist who supports clinton , said her move to swiftly target trump was necessary but potentially dangerous for her .
“ she has to start looking toward the general election , but it ’ s not without its risks , ” he said .
he said trump would strike back : “ he ’ ll go right in the gutter. ” trump has frequently criticized clinton ’ s handling of crises like iraq and syria during her four years as secretary of state , and suggested he will dredge up old scandals involving former president bill clinton .
some clinton fundraisers said the campaign is noticing renewed interest among donors to support her beyond primary season .
her campaign , they add , appears more open to accepting that cash , an indication they believe she will win the nomination .
“ i think they are taking a shift towards the general ( election ) , ” said tom sacks-wilner , a member of clinton ’ s national finance committee .
“ the finance department ’ s not objecting to it at this point , ” he said .
campaign donors are allowed to give $ 2,700 to an individual candidate for the primary phase of an election , and another $ 2,700 for the general phase , for a grand total of $ 5,400 .
another clinton fundraiser , in los angeles , said that he has had more donors in his area ask him about giving money for the fight beyond california , and he added that the recent victories also make it easier to bring in campaign volunteers .
the upbeat attitude marks a shift from three weeks ago , when clinton ’ s campaign was bruised by sanders ’ resounding win in new hampshire , and a close second place finish in iowa , where he carried a large proportion of the youth vote .
the shift became more pronounced last week after clinton ’ s victory in south carolina , where she enjoyed broad support among african-american voters - a bloc sanders has struggled to draw with his democratic socialist platform .
nationally , support for clinton has increased since just before the feb. 27 south carolina primary .
nearly 53 percent of democrats said they ’ d vote for clinton , compared with 43 percent for the u.s .
senator from vermont , according to the reuters/ipsos tracking poll from feb. 26 to march 1 .
they were in a dead heat earlier in the month .
sanders has also worked to position himself as a general election candidate against trump .
his campaign sent out a statement on tuesday touting his $ 42.7 million fundraising haul in february .
“ donald trump is going to have plenty of money to compete in november , ” said jeff weaver , sanders ’ campaign manager .
“ it ’ s important that our nominee be able to raise the hundreds of millions of dollars necessary to defeat the republicans in november. ” one group tied to the democratic party ’ s progressive wing said it would be wrong to write off sanders regardless of tuesday ’ s results - in part because he polls better in whiter northern states that come later in the election cycle .
“ washington ’ s professional pundits were wrong when they claimed the fight for the democratic nomination was over before bernie sanders got into the race , they ’ re wrong if they claim this fight is over now , ” charles chamberlain , democracy for america ’ s executive director , said in a statement .
( editing by richard valdmanis and alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .