berlin ( reuters ) - support for chancellor angela merkel s conservatives has slipped and over a third of germans are still unsure how they will vote , an opinion poll showed on friday , fuelling uncertainty about what kind of coalition will emerge from an election on sept. 24 .
the weekly survey , conducted by pollster forschungsgruppe wahlen for zdf television , showed support for merkel s conservative bloc falling 2 points to 36 percent a result that would still make it the largest group in parliament .
support for its nearest rivals , the left-leaning social democrats ( spd ) , rose by 1 point to 23 percent .
the business-friendly free democrats ( fdp ) and the anti-immigration , euro-hostile alternative for germany ( afd ) were both on 10 percent .
the poll of 1,383 voters , conducted from sept. 12 to sept. 14 , also showed that 39 percent of those surveyed were still unsure how they would vote .
more than ever , all these polls should be taken with a grain of salt now .
there surely could be some surprises on election night , said gero neugebauer , political scientist at berlin s free university .
he doubted the spd could overtake merkel s conservatives , who he expected to be the largest parliamentary party with the social democrats the second biggest .
but in the fight among the smaller parties for third place and possible power in a coalition , everything is still up in the air , neugebauer added .
with the election likely to install six parties in parliament , up from four now , germany will be marked by a more fractured political landscape after the vote .
this could make coalition-building difficult .
friday s poll showed support for the far-left linke stood at 9 percent , with the environmentalist greens on 8 percent .
foreign minister sigmar gabriel , a senior social democrat , told broadcaster swr he favored a so-called traffic light coalition with the fdp and greens .
however , the poll put support for such an alliance at just 41 percent .
[ b4n1jz031 ] the survey showed there would be sufficient support for both a repeat of the incumbent grand coalition of merkel s conservatives and the spd , and for a so-called jamaica coalition of the conservatives , fdp and greens .
however , greens co-leader cem ozdemir sounded a skeptical note about a possible three-way jamaica tie-up a reference to the parties colors : black ( conservatives ) , yellow ( fdp ) and green ( greens ) .
i don t see how we should get together with the fdp , he told the daily berliner zeitung .
fdp leader christian lindner also played down the likelihood of such an alliance .
the greens have long since bid farewell to jamaica by raising their demands to the max , he told der spiegel magazine .
lindner , a potential finance minister if the fdp joins a ruling coalition , also set out red lines on euro zone policy ahead of potential coalition negotiations .
i fear that chancellor merkel and french president macron are agreed on new pots of money in the euro zone to create a gigantic financial transfer system , he said , before taking aim at european commission president jean-claude juncker .
mr juncker wants to expand the euro zone , though its consolidation should be the priority now .
neither would be on with us , lindner added , with reference to a transfer system and euro zone expansion .
neugebauer said the fdp was fishing in the afd s waters .
fdp leader lindner has turned a former pro-european party into some kind of afd-light , he added .
the poll s margin of error was some 3 percentage points .
with support for merkel s conservatives and the fdp natural allies who have ruled together in the past at 46 percent , the margin of error suggests they could yet squeak into power .
a separate poll released on thursday showed support for the spd had slumped to its lowest level this year - at 20 percent - with merkel s conservatives steady at 37 percent .
there is high volatility not only because of those who are still undecided , said neugebauer .
there are also many swing voters who change tack at the last minute for tactical reasons to ensure or prevent a certain coalition option .