jennifer garner has not given up on donald trump s washington.the 44-year-old actress spent the weekend lobbying the town s pillars of power to support early education for poor rural children .
she spent friday on capitol hill meeting dozens of top staff members .
on saturday , she delivered the keynote address before the annual national governors association winter meeting here .
a potential sit-down with ivanka trump , who is advocating for more funding for child care , fell apart because of scheduling conflicts , but garner remained optimistic about a face-to-face discussion soon.other hollywood liberals have shunned the new commander in chief notably during sunday s academy awards ceremony , when many jokes were told at president trump s expense .
but garner , a true-blue democrat who campaigned for hillary clinton last year and held a fundraiser for barack obama in 2008 , is taking a unique approach : pushing a cause that would benefit the new administration s political base.the west virginia native has long worked to bring assistance to poor , rural communities in desperate need of it .
she has no plans to change that just because most of those communities went big for trump in last year s election .
in fact , she sees an opportunity to hold the president accountable for the pledges he made to the country s rural working class.while other celebrities merely attach their names to charities to promote themselves , actress jennifer garner is actually very involved in helping poor children in her home state of west virginia.according to a study by british academics , when celebrities lend their names to a good cause , they are usually the main beneficiaries i m looking forward to helping him make good on what they saw as promises , a mandate from him , that he was going to make their lives better , garner said in a 45-minute interview with the washington post.that makes trump s presidency a psychological test of sorts for some members of the hollywood elite , who can either demonstrate their true commitment to the causes they push or expose their charity work here as more about bolstering themselves.very much in the former camp , garner acknowledged that some of her friends want to turn their back to this administration .
.
.
[ and ] just wouldn t even want to engage .
not her .
if he s willing to help the poor kids who got him elected , then let s do it .
they certainly think he s going to , she said.she grew up solidly middle class , but she knew plenty of poor children who started elementary school behind and never caught up .
they lived in the same sort of communities that robert f. kennedy , shriver s uncle , visited in the mid-1960s along the mississippi delta , shaping the ideas of his 1968 presidential campaign.garner returned home to west virginia last year to help raise money after devastating flooding in the state .
reliably democratic during her childhood , west virginia ended up giving trump his largest margin of victory something she could see coming by talking to people in economically depressed areas .
people felt like trump really understood them , that he was going to come in and create jobs for them , she said .
they felt like they needed something to just turn everything upside down .
it s that level of despair that leaves garner willing to deal with trump when some of her friends want to offer nothing but resistance .
she may even be willing to meet the president .
send me a ticket to mar-a-lago .
i m ready to go down and have a steak and a good chat , she said , only half joking about the prospect .
i really think it s great , if he s willing to help the poor kids who got him elected .
washington postwe applaud garner for her courage and her true commitment to poor children in her home state of west virginia.watch this short clip explaining why garner s so passionate about helping these kids in west virginia :