des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - if hillary clinton pulls off a victory in her close race for the democratic presidential nomination with bernie sanders , she will have women like joan pinnell to thank .
pinnell , a 32-year-old chicagoan and former volunteer for barack obama ’ s 2008 campaign , has been knocking on doors in iowa in support of clinton , obama ’ s democratic former rival .
her dedication stems in part from the desire for a president who can “ personally understand the struggle that it is to be female ” – a factor that was far less important to her back in 2008 when she was in her mid-20s .
“ i get annoyed when i hear women say ‘ it doesn ’ t matter at all , ’ ” pinnell says of the gender issue .
“ it matters. ” with iowans ready to cast the first votes of the 2016 presidential race on monday , polls show sanders and clinton locked in a statistical dead heat in the state , although she leads the u.s. senator from vermont in national polls .
the enthusiasm that sanders has sparked with college students and those just out of college – including young women – has generated buzz around his campaign .
what has gotten far less attention , however , is the split that exists between women in their late teens and early 20s and their cohorts in their 30s .
though democratic women aged 18 to 29 say they prefer sanders to clinton 57 to 24 percent , those aged 30 to 39 , like pinnell , prefer clinton to sanders 45 to 28 percent , according to a reuters/ipsos tracking poll of 3,466 respondents taken from jan. 1 to jan. 26 .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/20bi5ry ) in interviews with women voters aged 30 to 39 nationally , many said that in 2008 they had been drawn to obama ’ s idealistic message of “ hope ” and “ change , ” but this time around they say they value the experience of clinton , a former first lady , senator and secretary of state .
after navigating their first apartments , careers , moves , marriages and children , these women also said they like clinton ’ s emphasis on issues such as reproductive health and equal pay for women .
still , sanders ’ fiery rhetoric and liberal agenda are drawing support from young women like abigail gill , 19 , a student at keene state college in new hampshire , who say gender does not matter .
“ to vote for hillary just because she is a woman is just as bad as not , ” gill said .
clinton played down her gender in 2008 but this time around urges voters not to miss the chance to make history by electing the first woman president .
she has worked hard to court women “ millennials ” – the generation born beginning in the early 1980s .
she taped an episode of “ broad city , ” a sometimes raunchy comedy about two twenty-something women living in new york city and has created a “ girl power ” music playlist .
she makes a point of calling on young women at town hall events and takes countless “ selfies ” with them .
clinton ’ s senior aide and protégé , huma abedin , 39 , headlined a new york city networking event for women .
clinton ’ s daughter , chelsea , 35 , has hosted a fundraiser at the trendy workout spot soulcycle .
kellie lewis , 36 , brought her 19-month-old daughter and 5-month-old son to hear clinton speak at a bowling alley in adel , iowa last week .
lewis said she is eager to help make history by supporting clinton .
“ i feel like we ’ ve had men looking at government for so long , a new perspective is exactly what is needed to get a more equal society , ” lewis said .
but erin batchelder , a junior at smith college in massachusetts , is conflicted .
she says she ’ d like to see “ one of my own ” in the oval office but is drawn to sanders , a self-described democratic socialist whose message centers on fighting income inequality and the excesses of wall street .
batchelder plans to vote for sanders but her best friend , also a smith student , recently switched from backing sanders to supporting clinton .
“ that ’ s what i ’ m grappling with right now , especially with my best friend making that shift , a lot of women at smith are making that shift , ” batchelder said .
( editing by caren bohan and mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .