santiago ( reuters ) - billionaire conservative sebastian pinera will begin a second term as chile s president in march with a strong mandate after trouncing his center-left opponent in sunday s election , and local markets soared on hopes of more investor-friendly policies .
still , pinera will face a divided congress and an upstart leftist coalition that has promised to fight his plans to lower taxes and refine the progressive policies undertaken by outgoing center-left president michelle bachelet .
pinera s previous stint as president , from 2010 to 2014 , was marked by huge student protests .
speaking to reporters after meeting with bachelet on monday , pinera struck a tone of unity , saying he would work to form a broad cabinet , of continuity and change .
chile s peso strengthened more than 2 percentage points against the dollar on monday , while the ipsa stock index hit an all-time high and was up nearly 7 percent , as investors bet on more business-friendly policies under a pinera administration .
chile is the world s top copper producer and the country s vast mining industry is also counting on pinera s support .
the business magnate has promised to cut red tape and has pledged support and stable funding for state-run miner codelco , saying the company is reinventing itself and needs investment .
codelco needs strong management and must improve its efficiency , he told reporters .
with his nine-percentage point win over center-left senator alejandro guillier in sunday s runoff presidential election , pinera , 68 , won more votes than any presidential candidate since chile s return to democracy in 1990 .
it was the biggest ever loss for the center-left coalition that has dominated chile s politics since the end of augusto pinochet s dictatorship .
other south american countries including argentina , peru and brazil have also shifted to the political right in recent years .
the results of a first round vote and a congressional election last month pointed to a more divided country , however .
far-left candidate beatriz sanchez captured 20 percent of votes , nearly as many as the more moderate guillier , suggesting some dissatisfaction with chile s long-standing free-market model .
guillier on sunday acknowledged the harsh defeat and urged his supporters to defend bachelet s progressive policies , which have included overhauls of tax , labor and education laws in an effort to fight persistent inequality in one of south america s most developed economies .
pinera said bachelet had confirmed she plans to present parliament with a bill to recast chile s dictatorship-era constitution before her term ends in march .
such a change was also a key campaign promise of guillier .
pinera said he agreed on perfecting it ( the constitution ) but in a climate of unity .
pinera s chile vamos party has 72 of 155 representatives in the lower house , more than any other bloc .
still , without an outright majority in either chamber of the legislature , pinera s supporters will have to form alliances to pass most laws .
sanchez s coalition earned its first senate seat and around 20 seats in the lower house in november s election .
the frente amplio commits to continuing to work for a changing chile , with more rights and more democracy , she wrote in a tweet congratulating pinera , referring to the leftist broad front party .
efforts by pinera s ideological allies in brazil and argentina to reduce fiscal deficits by cutting spending and reforming pension systems have faced political opposition and sparked protests in recent months .
what i think he s going to do is perfect bachelet s reforms , make them more effective , more efficient , maybe help out business a little bit more , said analyst kenneth bunker , of political research group tresquintos .
but he ll be cutting around the edges , he s not going to have power in congress to do everything he would otherwise .
pinera has sought to strike a conciliatory tone .
in a speech at his home following his meeting with bachelet , he said , yesterday chileans handed us a great victory .
but i will be the president of all the chileans , both those who voted for me and those who voted for alejandro guillier .