baghdad ( reuters ) - nearly 30,000 kurds have been displaced from a multi-ethnic city south of kirkuk where sectarian tension flared after iraqi forces took control of it , humanitarian organizations said on wednesday .
most of those displaced from tuz khurmato are in need of urgent aid and staying in open shelters , officials from two international humanitarian organizations told reuters .
a third , amnesty international , said on tuesday that satellite images , videos , photos and dozens of testimonies indicate that hundreds of properties were looted , set on fire and destroyed in what appeared to be a targeted attack on predominantly kurdish areas of the city of about 100,000 people .
the kurds fled after kurdish peshmerga fighters withdrew from the city on oct. 16 , as government forces and iranian-backed sh ite popular mobilisation moved in retaliation for an independence referendum held by the kurdistan region authorities last month .
tuz , located between oil-rich kirkuk and baghdad , is also inhabited by sh ite turkmen and arabs .
many of the people displaced are staying in the open and in public places , in schools , mosques or unfinished buildings , said jennifer connet , oxfam s program manager .
they need emergency aid and also psychological support as many lost contact with children and relatives or witnessed traumatic incidents as they fled .
the official of the other organization confirmed that account but gave only as background information in order not compromise its access to the displaced people .
at least 11 civilians were killed , amnesty said , citing testimonies of people who escaped from the city who said they were attacked by turkmen shiite paramilitaries .
popular mobilisation , a paramilitary force trained in iran and supporting the iraqi government in the region , was not involved in the violence that happened in the city , spokesman karim nuri told reuters in baghdad .
it was not forced displacement , our kurdish brothers fled fearing reprisals , he said , calling on government security to put an end to the unrest .
problems happened between the different components , clans , families , he said , refuting the political nature of the exodus .
the kurds displaced from tuz fled to the neighboring regions of diyala , sulaimaniya , and some to erbil , further north , said connet .
humanitarian access to the displaced families is possible but going to tuz is extremely difficult , she said .