rome ( reuters ) - a libyan coast guard vessel fired shots and boarded a humanitarian ship in the mediterranean on tuesday , demanding that the migrants on board be handed over to them , a spokesman for the mission lifeline charity said .
the libyan man said : this is our territory , said axel steier , a spokesman for the german-based charity that performed its first rescues on tuesday .
after a while , they fired shots , he said , probably into the air or sea .
no one was wounded .
afterward two libyans boarded the lifeline ship to try to persuade them to hand over some 70 migrants they had just taken off a wooden boat in international waters .
we told them we don t return migrants to libya .
after a while , they gave up , steier said .
the two men spent about 15 minutes on board , he said .
a libyan coast guard spokesman in tripoli declined to comment , saying he was seeking information .
italy s coast guard , which coordinates rescues , did not respond to repeated telephone calls .
it was the latest incident reported between the libyan coast guard and humanitarian rescue ships operating off north africa .
financed , trained and equipped by italy , the tripoli-based coastguard is intercepting a growing number of migrant boats .
last month , the libyan coast guard ordered a spanish rescue vessel to sail to tripoli or risk being fired upon , though it later let it go .
the worsening security situation has prompted several groups to halt rescue operations , and those who remain tend to patrol further from shore .
this year the libyan coast guard had stopped 16,567 people before they were rescued and taken to italy , according to the international organization for migration .
but overall departures are down more than 20 percent and they dropped more than 80 percent in august after an armed group in sabratha clamped down on smuggling .
italy is counting on the libyan coast guard together with the tripoli and municipal governments to put a halt to migrant arrivals from a country that has been torn by civil war and factional fighting since the ouster of muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
the policy has been harshly criticized by humanitarian groups because of the dire conditions of libya s detention centers and the inhumane treatment of migrants in general in libya .
despite recent declines in departures , almost 1,000 migrants were rescued on tuesday .
save the children s vos hestia ship picked up some 750 people in six different rescues , a spokeswoman said , and the lifeline had more than 200 on board .
sos mediterranee s aquarius ship picked up 20 libyans on monday .
there is no longer any work in libya and you risk being attacked , a 26-year-old libyan rescued told members of the sos crew .
it is impossible to live in libya , it has become too dangerous .