kiev ( reuters ) - a ukrainian judge released the son of ukraine s interior ministry from custody on wednesday on the condition he appear in court as required in connection with an embezzlement case .
on tuesday , ukraine s national anti-corruption bureau ( nabu ) detained three people in connection with the suspected embezzlement of $ 521,000 through a contract to supply backpacks to the interior ministry .
ukrainian media reported former deputy interior minister serhiy chebotar and interior minister arsen avakov s son , oleksandr , were among those taken into custody .
according to news agency interfax ukraine , a kiev district court ruled oleksandr avakov could be released provided he appear as demanded by investigators and report on his movements .
the so-called backpacks case has been openly discussed in ukraine since 2015 , and the detentions were welcomed by anti-corruption activists as a sign that nabu is fulfilling its mandate to investigate high-profile graft cases linked to officials .
nevertheless , the detention of a senior cabinet minister s family member has also been interpreted as a sign of a possible power struggle within the political elite .
in a statement , the interior ministry said the case was politically motivated , while avakov said his son would fight all allegations in court .
neither my son nor the firms he has founded have or had a single kopeck ( cent ) from the ukrainian budget , he said on facebook .
the individuals are suspected of allowing the interior ministry to be overcharged for a contract to purchase backpacks in 2015 , according to the nabu investigation .
the goods were not delivered on time and did not meet the requirements set by the ukrainian interior ministry , as a result of which the state was hit with a loss of over 14 million hryvnias ( $ 521,000 ) , nabu said .
nabu was established as part of ukraine s western-backed reform drive under which kiev promised to root out graft and modernize the economy in exchange for billions of dollars in international funding .
but ukraine s backers have seen a failure to bring corrupt lawmakers and senior officials to justice as an indication the authorities may lack the commitment to eliminate the power of vested interests .