madrid ( reuters ) - european commission president jean-claude juncker on thursday called on europe to stand up against separatism at a time when the catalan independence push has deeply divided spain .
the standoff between madrid and supporters of catalan independence , triggered by a banned oct. 1 referendum splitting with spain , has stirred separatist feelings far beyond spanish borders .
nationalisms are a poison that prevent europe from working together , said juncker in a speech at a university spanish city of salamanca , where he received an award .
we can not stay with our arms crossed because it is time for us to do what needs to be done .
i say no to any form of separatism that weakens europe and further widens the existing fissures .
juncker s comments will further disappoint deposed catalan president , carles puigdemont , who went into self-imposed exile in belgium last week after spain s central government responded to an independence declaration by firing his administration .
puigdemont had ambitions to garner support for his independence campaign in the heart of the european union and has appealed for eu intervention , which so far has not been forthcoming .
the secessionist drive has dragged spain into its worst political crisis since the return of democracy four decades ago .
the catalan parliament s speaker and five lawmakers are appearing on thursday before spain s supreme court in madrid to answer charges of rebellion and sedition for their roles in staging the referendum .
the european union is also currently facing a huge challenge to its unity in britain s impending exit from the bloc .
the spanish dispute also bears some similarities with the battle for scottish separation , which culminated in a 2014 referendum that narrowly rejected independence .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy , who was with juncker in salamanca , thanked him for his support in such difficult times .
juncker has supported the spanish government s actions , has expressed his respect for our constitution , our laws and our legal system , he told students and professors at the event .