apparently , the u.s. leader has attitude issues .
president barack obama has been slated by his own brother and revealed he will back republican donald trump in the presidential race .
speaking live from kenya on british tv , malik obama also spoke about his relationship with barack and claimed he has to make appointments to see him .
and he told good morning britain hosts piers morgan and susanna reid that the us leader has issues with attitude .
he said : [ barack ] has this attitude like i m the president , i ve made it , i m the star here .
i do understand that but i m just expressing my opinion and how i feel .
in a swipe at his sibling s incredible political career , malik added : looking back , he made so many promises when he was running for president .
he was riding on the promise of hope .
there was so much excitement and we thought he would do so many things .
but look at the middle east right now .
it s a mess .
people are being killed all over the place ; berlin , florida , france , brussels .
and look at the situation in iraq right now .
malik also sounded pretty miffed when he revealed he has to request an appointment when he wants to see his brother .
i have to go through this woman and make a request , saying i would like to see him , malik added .
then i just have to wait .
the last time i requested to see him was june 15th and i ve only just got a response .
and that s how it usually works .
it all depends on whether there s an opening in his diary .
the most shocking point malik made during the interview was that he plans to vote for barack s rival donald trump in the upcoming u.s. elections.although the president is backing his friend hilary clinton for the job and has made no secret of his feelings towards donald , malik was more than happy to explain why he isn t supporting his brother .
something is going on with hilary that i don t like , he explained .
donald on the other hand , he speaks his mind and is straight forward .
and remember , the republican party is the party of abraham lincoln who freed slaves and freed the black man .