hillary is guilty as hell ; she is without question the godmother of birtherism .
and our media is without question a left-wing pack of degenerate liars and cover-up artists .
john noltethe birther movement came under new scrutiny friday as a reporter accused sidney blumenthal of spreading the malicious rumor during the 2008 campaign , just as donald trump finally renounced the conspiracy about president obama friday.trump kicked off a new examination of the myth when he stated friday that clinton and her campaign started the birther controversy .
the press is in cahoots with clinton and her surrogates here are a few of the things the media won t tell you about the big lie of birtherism : in order to justify this audacious lie , the media engages in a transparently desperate act of hyper-literalism .
through the anti-science art of defining the definition of birtherism down to meaning only the questioning of barack obama s place of birth , they seem to believe they can hide the elephant.yes , in order to shield hillary , america s entire political media , thousands of so-called independent journalists across dozens of competing news outlets , are coordinating to remove the definitions of birtherism that hillary is clearly guilty of .
this includes , smearing obama as a muslim , her campaign s stated goal of questioning his lack of american roots , her focusing on obama s exotic foreignness ; and yes , the questioning of obama s place of birth.for social media purposes , let me arm you with the facts .
and your job now is to not just use whatever means are at your disposal to disseminate these facts , you should also use these facts to challenge our corrupt media and ask them ( politely ) why they are letting hillary off the hook.here are 11 things our corrupt media does not want the public to know about hillary clinton s role in inventing birtherism .
please note that all of my sources are mainstream media sources.1 .
birtherism was birthed in a hillary clinton campaign memoin 2007 , a full year before anyone would know the name orly taitz , hillary s chief campaign strategist mark penn would craft a wide-ranging strategy memo that included questioning the very american-ness of then-senator barack obama , who was even then seen as hillary s chief rival for the nomination.the atlantic : [ penn ] wrote , i can not imagine america electing a president during a time of war who is not at his center fundamentally american in his thinking and in his values .
penn proposed targeting obama s lack of american roots .
from bloomberg s 2012 article : the democratic roots of the birther movement penn also suggested how the campaign might take advantage of this .
every speech should contain the line that you were born in the middle of america to the middle class in the middle of the last century , he advised clinton .
and talk about the basic bargain as about [ sic ] the deeply american values you grew up with , learned as a child , and that drive you today .
he went on : let s explicitly own american in our programs , the speeches and the values .
he doesn t let s add flag symbols to the backgrounds [ of campaign events ] .
2 .
hillary s hardcore supporters first raised the question of obama s birthas the contest between obama and hillary became increasingly ugly , it was hillary s hardcore supporters who first raised doubts about the origins of obama s birth .
hillary gave her blessing through her silence .
it wouldn t take long , though , before her campaign became directly involved.politico : that theory first emerged in the spring of 2008 , as clinton supporters circulated an anonymous email questioning obama s citizenship .
barack obama s mother was living in kenya with his arab-african father late in her pregnancy .
she was not allowed to travel by plane then , so barack obama was born there and his mother then took him to hawaii to register his birth , asserted one chain email that surfaced on the urban legend site snopes.com in april 2008.the daily telegraph s 2011 article : the birther row began with hillary : it was not until april 2008 , at the height of the intensely bitter democratic presidential primary process , that the touch paper was properly lit.an anonymous email circulated by supporters of mrs. clinton , mr obama s main rival for the party s nomination , thrust a new allegation into the national spotlight that he had not been born in hawaii.3 .
hillary clinton s own campaign distributes obama-is-a-scary-muslim emailspolitifact : in the fall of 2007 , it was clear that clinton was losing ground in iowa .
the presumptive front runner was vulnerable and people in the campaign knew it .
on dec. 5 , 2007 , the online magazine politico posted the text of an email that had been forwarded by judy rose , the volunteer chair of the clinton campaign in jones county iowa on nov. 21 , 2007 .
the email was a quintessential smear that offered a distorted biography of obama s early years .
rose offered no commentary on it .
she simply passed it along .
obama takes great care to conceal the fact that he is a muslim , the email said , and it ended with , the muslims have said they plan on destroying the u.s. from the inside out , what better way to start than at the highest level through the president of the united states , one of their own ! ! ! !
4 .
judy rose was not fired until after the media discovered her emailpolitifact : the public airing of the email brought a quick reaction from the clinton campaign .
on dec. 6 , 2007 , the associated press reported that rose had resigned as chair of her county committee.5 .
a second hillary campaign staffer sent a similar emailpolitifact : a few days later , a second volunteer in a different county stepped down when it was learned that she had forwarded a similar email in october.6 .
obama privately confronted hillary over her birtherismthis is such a juicy story.politifact : the episode in iowa fueled a testy exchange between obama and clinton on the tarmac of reagan national airport in december 2007 .
according to accounts from people who were there , obama complained about the emails and clinton boiled over in anger.when asked about clinton and the obama-muslim myth , josh schwerin , a spokesman for the clinton s current campaign , told us clinton never pushed that .
read the rest of the 11 things the media won t tell you : daily wire read more : daily mail