budapest ( reuters ) - the hungarian socialist party s candidate to be prime minister after the 2018 parliamentary election resigned on monday , accusing a political mafia of undermining leftist parties he had hoped would support him .
laszlo botka s resignation leaves the left in disarray and cements right-wing prime minister viktor orban as favorite to win a third term in april s vote .
the socialists governed hungary for three terms in the 1990s and 2000s and have tried to forge a leftist coalition to unseat orban s ruling fidesz party .
last week botka , chosen as the socialist candidate in january , made an offer to half a dozen parties to hammer out an electoral coalition , but most rejected his offer .
botka said other parties were not fighting hard enough to replace orban and said fidesz had infiltrated the opposition .
i made a mistake , botka wrote in a statement on monday .
i did not think democratic parties only wanted a few seats in the parliament of the orban regime and not victory in 2018 ...
i did not know how much a political mafia has infused the democratic opposition , including my own party .
the democratic coalition ( dk ) , led by former prime minister ferenc gyurcsany , which rejected botka s coalition offer , said : it hurts everyone when the largest party of the democratic opposition descends into chaos like this .
( botka ) lost support gradually , failed to gain new voters while alienating others and fellow opposition parties , said dk spokesman zsolt greczy .
momentum movement , which entered politics with its successful referendum campaign to stop budapest s 2024 olympic bid earlier this year , said in a statement it was this kind of navel-gazing that meant a new political generation was needed .
peter jakab , a spokesman for the radical nationalist party jobbik , which has toned down its message in an effort to capture more support , told reporters : not only the socialists but the entire left-wing imploded today .
the only force to unseat the government is jobbik .
jobbik offers an alternative to everyone who wants a different government .
that includes leftist voters .
socialist vice chairman istvan ujhelyi , a member of the european parliament , also resigned his party post .
orbanistan clearly infiltrated the opposition , installing its people in nearly all potent movements , he said .
for now , it seems the coup has reached its goal : the democratic forces have become extremely divided .
the socialists had been the strongest leftist party in opinion polls before botka s resignation .
socialist chairman gyula molnar told a news conference the party would continue to seek options to unseat orban .
the socialist party can not on its own defeat the current regime , but i continue to see a way to cooperate with the other forces .
that includes the democratic coalition , he said .
fidesz , which has a firm lead in polls , said in a statement botka s candidature was full of scandals and his demise is not surprising ... their next candidate will come from the same socialist mould .