tallinn/paris ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel s call to stop turkey s european union accession talks drew a mixed response from the bloc s foreign ministers on thursday , while french president emmanuel macron said ankara remained a vital partner of the eu .
nato allies germany and turkey have traded increasingly bitter words over the last two years , contributing to an overall souring of ankara s relations with the eu .
president tayyip erdogan s crackdown on dissent following a failed 2016 coup attempt has drawn broad condemnation in the bloc .
merkel announced her toughened stance on turkey s long-stalled eu bid in a tv debate last sunday as she faced off with her main rival in national elections due on sept. 24 .
her foreign minister sigmar gabriel , arriving for talks with his eu colleagues in the estonian capital tallinn , said it was turkey itself that was moving away from the eu .
austria s sebastian kurz reiterated his line that the talks should end .
but finland and lithuania spoke out against breaking off the talks , which opened formally in 2005 but stalled over erdogan s track record on human rights and the unresolved issue of cyprus - a mediterranean island that belongs to the eu but of which part falls under an unrecognized protectorate of turkey .
no , we should continue the process and engagement .
it s not easy but we have to value contacts , lithuania s linas linkevicius told reporters .
by stopping , by cutting , we will ... encourage them even more to go away .
i think the effect would be the opposite than what we d wish .
eu entry talks , no matter how protracted , had long been seen in themselves as a stimulus to turkish democratic reform ; but eu officials see a slide back in recent years with judicial independence and freedom of speech in peril .
turkey s eu ties minister , omer celik , is due to join the bloc s 28 officials for talks in tallinn later on thursday .
the eu is wary of upsetting erdogan , eager to preserve a deal that stemmed the mass migration via turkey of people from conflict zones in the tumultuous middle east .
we have to tread very carefully and , while discussing turkey s status as a candidate country , we should also discuss the future relationship in all its aspects , estonia s sven mikser said in tallinn .
he said he did not expect the eu to make any formal decision this year , adding that the bloc needed to cooperate with ankara on migration and security in particular .
the french president told greece s kathimerini newspaper that ties with turkey should be maintained .
turkey has indeed strayed away from the european union in recent months and worryingly overstepped the mark in ways that can not be ignored , he said .
but i want to avoid a split because it s a vital partner in many crises we all face , notably the immigration challenge and the terrorist threat .
with other countries in the eu also advocating more strategic patience , the unanimity of 28 member states required to kill off turkey s bid seems absent .
but suspending accession talks , which the european parliament has already called for repeatedly , would only require the backing of majority of eu states .
merkel wants to discuss that with fellow eu leaders at their summit planned in october 19-20 , more than three weeks after germany s election .
a senior turkish official said eu states must decide whether they wanted turkey as a member , but there was a sense they no longer want the marriage ... ( but ) want cohabitation .
kati piri , a european parliament speaker on turkey , advised suspending the membership track but pushing ahead with customs union talks as the most realistic leverage the eu can now have to try negotiate some standards with turkey .
turkey under this government does not even uphold the minimum human rights standards now .
but we should not take away the eu perspective from the turkish people , and in suspending talks we would have to name conditions for reviving them .
but this german twist is triggered by german elections , not by some change on the side of turkey .
so what does merkel really mean ?
i think it s likely she will return to her usual pragmatism after the elections , piri told reuters .