kansas city , mo./bloomington , ill. ( reuters ) - donald trump has called them thugs , professional organizers and supporters of democratic presidential contender bernie sanders .
but the protesters who have stepped up their actions against the republican presidential front-runner are a disparate group from different walks of life , with no national organization to speak of .
they assemble through a patchwork of facebook pages and myriad advocacy groups .
after demonstrators swarmed a large trump rally in chicago on friday and forced its cancellation over security concerns , protesters are looking for ways to keep up the momentum as the billionaire businessman seeks in primaries this week to clear a path toward the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election .
trump has drawn fervent support as well as harsh criticism , including from within his own party , for his calls to build a wall along the u.s.-mexico border and impose a temporary ban on muslims entering the country .
kevin bailey , 25 , who helped lead an anti-trump protest on behalf of the progressive youth organization at the candidate ’ s kansas city , missouri , rally on saturday , said protesters had two goals - to disrupt proceedings as much as possible and signal their outrage over trump ’ s divisive rhetoric .
trump spent a good part of his time on stage shouting down the protesters .
bailey said his group watched a similar protest staged by a sister organization in st. louis on friday as well as other protests to see if there were lessons to be learned .
“ we want to learn what works as far as , especially , going inside and disrupting rallies , ” he said .
using smaller groups of protesters to enter rallies and station themselves around the venue , as well as staggering the disruptions to maximize their duration , are some of the strategies that seem to work best , bailey said .
before friday ’ s rally at the university of illinois at chicago , organizers used facebook and worked with student groups on campuses in the chicago area to encourage them to attend .
inside the stadium , there might have been as many protesters as supporters and a long line of people were waiting to get in when the trump campaign scrapped the event .
skirmishes broke out between the two camps , making for some tense minutes that received national television coverage and raised security concerns around the trump campaign .
one organizer , nathaniel lewis , a 25-year-old graduate student , said the cancellation was “ the last thing we expected to happen .
it shows the power of unity. ” it happened just days before five nominating primaries on tuesday in which trump , 69 , is trying to cement his lead over his remaining republican rivals - u.s .
senators ted cruz of texas and marco rubio of florida and ohio governor john kasich .
trump ’ s republican and democratic rivals accused him of sowing tension with divisive rhetoric .
but on sunday , he said : “ i don ’ t accept responsibility .
i do not condone violence in any shape. ” he called the protesters professional “ disrupters ” sent to his events by sanders , the u.s. senator from vermont .
“ be careful bernie , or my supporters will go to yours ! ” trump said on twitter on sunday .
trump ’ s campaign rallies have been boisterous , with the real estate mogul often pausing to scold protesters and ask security officers to take them away .
at some events , protesters and journalists have been punched , tackled or hustled out .
a 78-year-old man was charged with assault and communicating a threat after he was seen on video punching a young black protester at a north carolina rally last week .
the threat of violence affected trump personally on saturday .
secret service officers rushed on stage to protect trump when a man broke through a security barrier at a rally in ohio .
trump said the man “ was looking to do harm. ” some in the trump camp believe the protesters ’ actions in chicago will benefit their candidate by galvanizing his supporters .
“ some people were energized , ” said michael mckinney , 47 , as he attended a trump rally in ohio with his family on sunday .
“ i watched a lot of videos - all the protesters were throwing the first punch , ” he added .
over the weekend , president barack obama made a call for civility in the political process and “ resolving our differences without encouraging or resorting to violence. ” while young people are a visible contingent among the protesters and some are supporters of sanders , the demonstrators are a mixed group operating in small clusters .
for a trump rally in bloomington , illinois , on sunday , sonny garcia , a 44-year-old facilities manager , said a loosely organized group called “ dump trump illinois ” rallied protesters through a “ dump trump ” facebook page .
some 2,000 people gathered .
forty members of the local chapter of a national anti-hate advocacy group called “ not in our town ” showed up to protest , wearing white armbands .
high school student aishwarya shekara , 16 , joined them .
“ i ’ m here because trump stands for everything i don ’ t , ” she said .
“ he ’ s the definition of a demagogue . ”