hong kong ( reuters ) - three judges in hong kong s court of appeal are set to decide the fate of a former british banker who was jailed for life last year for the murder of two indonesian women he tortured and raped after his appeal hearing closed on wednesday .
rurik jutting , 32 , a former bank of america employee , had denied murdering sumarti ningsih , 23 , and seneng mujiasih , 26 , in his luxury apartment in 2014 on the grounds of diminished responsibility due to alcohol and drug abuse and sexual disorders .
the cambridge-educated jutting pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter in a case that gripped the asian financial hub .
during the one and a half day appeal hearing in the former british colony , jutting s lawyers said the judge who presided over the gruesome trial last year had misdirected the jury .
defence lawyer gerard mccoy argued that the judge had narrowed down the scope of the defence case by conflating an abnormality of mind with a psychiatric disorder .
jutting s defence is that while a disorder can cause an abnormal mind , his mental state can be abnormal without a disorder .
mccoy said jutting showed severe traits of psychiatric disorders , far beyond the normal range and was therefore not in control of his actions , said mccoy .
abnormality of mind is absolutely not confined to a disorder or a disease .
here the judge locks it down , reinforcing to the jury it is disorder , he said .
jutting , dressed in a navy blue shirt and thick squared glasses , watched animatedly throughout the hearing and occasionally chuckled , particularly during the presentations by prosecutor john reading .
reading stated that the previous judge had exercised considerable care in crafting his directions on the law in consultation with both sides .
judges michael lunn , andrew macrae and kevin zervos are to return judgement on the appeal which may include granting jutting the opportunity for a new trial , but they did not give a time frame .
deputy high court judge michael stuart-moore said in strongly worded closing remarks at the end of the trial last year that the case was one of the most horrifying the chinese-ruled territory had known .
he described jutting as the archetypal sexual predator who represented an extreme danger to women , especially in the sex trade , and cautioned that it was possible he would murder again if freed .
the jury unanimously found jutting , the grandson of a british policeman in hong kong and a chinese woman , guilty of murder and he was sentenced to life in prison in november 2016 .
jutting s defence team had previously argued that cocaine and alcohol abuse , as well as personality disorders of sexual sadism and narcissism , had impaired his ability to control his behavior .
the prosecution rejected this , stating jutting was able to form judgments and exercise self-control before and after the killings , filming his torture of ningsih on his mobile phone as well as hours of footage in which he discussed the murders , bingeing on cocaine and his graphic sexual fantasies .
in previous high profile murder cases such as that of nancy kissel , an american woman serving a life sentence for the milkshake murder of her merrill lynch banker husband , retrials have been given .
kissel lost her final appeal against her conviction in 2014 .