( reuters ) - a man suspected of shooting an idaho pastor who led a prayer at a rally for u.s. republican presidential candidate ted cruz was arrested on tuesday and was facing attempted murder charges , police said .
kyle odom , 30 , was taken into custody in washington d.c. in connection with the sunday afternoon shooting of pastor tim remington outside the altar church , coeur d ’ alene police department chief lee white said in a late tuesday news conference .
odom was apprehended by secret service officers after he tossed several items , including flash drives , over the fence of the white house , white said .
the items thrown by odom were deemed non-hazardous , the u.s. secret service said in a statement .
the attack on the pastor is the latest in a spate of highly publicized shootings in the united states that have made gun control an issue in the presidential race .
remington had led a prayer at a cruz rally on saturday and was shot by odom , an ex-marine , the next day in the church parking lot in a preplanned attack , police said .
the senior pastor was shot six times , including in the skull , after sunday morning service , john padula , outreach pastor at the church told reuters .
remington regained consciousness on monday evening as a candlelight vigil for his recovery was underway , padula said .
“ he opened one eye and gave me a thumbs up , ” padula said , adding that remington does not have feeling in his right arm but appears to be improving .
“ without god , there is no way he ’ d be here. ” there is no apparent connection between the shooting and remington ’ s appearance at the cruz rally , padula noted .
cruz , an outspoken supporter of gun rights , could not be reached for comment on tuesday , but a campaign spokeswoman told nbc news on monday that they were praying for remington ’ s recovery .
odom flew from boise , idaho to washington d.c. , on march 7 , white said .
an investigation into his plans was ongoing .
the police chief , who previously said odom had a history of mental illness , read a statement from odom ’ s family saying they were thankful for his “ safe apprehension. ” local broadcaster kxly reported that a facebook page linked with odom , who police said suffered from mental illness , was updated on tuesday with a statement claiming that remington was part of an ancient martian civilization that ruled earth .
( reporting by curtis skinner and victoria cavaliere ; editing by sara catania , g crosse , kim coghill and michael perry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .