dar es salaam ( reuters ) - tanzanian president john magufuli has revealed he earns a salary of 9 million tanzanian shillings ( $ 4,000 ) per month , making him one of the lowest paid african leaders as he pursues a much-criticized policy of deep public spending cuts .
in a speech to local officials in the capital on tuesday he also said his government had slashed salaries of executives at state-owned companies at 15 million tanzanian shillings ( $ 6,700 ) a month more than his own .
they can leave if they don t want it , he said .
he said abuse of public funds was rampant at state firms and that he had rejected requests from some local officials to more than double their allowances , saying he could not do so while many citizens lack access to water , health care and electricity .
since taking office in november 2015 , magufuli nicknamed the bulldozer has cut government spending by imposing measures such as restrictions on foreign travel for government officials and the removal of ghost workers from the state payroll .
some critics say his cost-cutting measures are excessive and argue they could undermine growth in east africa s second-biggest economy and some have slowed investment in critical sectors such as mining .
magufuli s salary is a small fraction of that of other african leaders .
he has no other publicly known sources of income and his government said last year it plans to submit a parliamentary bill that would prohibit public leaders from engaging in business to avoid conflicts of interest .
by contrast kenya s president earns a monthly salary of around $ 14,000 .
jacob zuma of south africa is paid around $ 20,000 monthly , following a salary increase by parliament in 2015 .
since 2009 , zuma has been embroiled in numerous scandals and allegations of abuse of office , including more than $ 500,000 of improper state spending on security at his private home .
others with more modest pay include president muhammadu buhari of nigeria , who took a 50 percent pay cut when he took office in may 2015 .
the annual presidential salary was previously set at 14.1 million naira , which in mid-2015 was the equivalent of $ 70,000 .
( $ 1 = 2,239.0000 tanzanian shillings )