washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump called for saudi arabia on wednesday to immediately allow humanitarian aid to reach the yemeni people , suggesting washington had run out patience with a saudi-led blockade that has been condemned by relief organizations .
the saudi-led military coalition fighting the iran-aligned armed houthi movement in yemen s civil war started a blockade of ports a month ago after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward its capital riyadh from yemen .
although the blockade later eased and showed signs of breaking on wednesday , yemen s situation remained dire .
about 8 million people are on the brink of famine with outbreaks of cholera and diphtheria .
i have directed officials in my administration to call the leadership of the kingdom of saudi arabia to request that they completely allow food , fuel , water and medicine to reach the yemeni people who desperately need it , trump said in a statement , without elaborating .
this must be done for humanitarian reasons immediately , trump said .
the norwegian refugee council ( nrc ) said the first food and fuel had arrived in hodeidah and saleef ports , but supplies were at a trickle compared to what was needed , since yemen s population of 27 million was almost entirely reliant on imports for food , fuel and medicine .
oxfam international applauded trump s statement , calling it long overdue but hugely important .
democratic senator chris murphy , who has called for restrictions on u.s. arms sales to saudi arabia , said he expected the kingdom to heed trump s call .
trump s brief , one-paragraph statement is one of the clearest signs of u.s. concern over aspects of saudi arabia s foreign policy .
saudi arabia has also split with trump over his decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
publicly , trump , his top aides and senior saudi officials have hailed what they say is a major improvement in u.s.-saudi ties compared with relations under former president barack obama , who upset the saudis by sealing a nuclear deal with their arch-foe iran .
even as ties improve , however , u.s. diplomats and intelligence analysts privately express anxiety over some of the more hawkish actions by saudi arabia s crown prince , especially toward yemen and lebanon , as saudi arabia seeks to contain iranian influence .
in turn , saudi arabia has been unusually public about its concerns over u.s. policy on jerusalem .
king salman told trump ahead of his jerusalem announcement on wednesday that any decision on the status of jerusalem before a permanent peace settlement was reached would harm peace talks and increase tensions in the area , according to saudi state-owned media .
a white house official said trump s statement on aid to yemen did not represent retaliation for the saudi position on jerusalem .
it has to do with the fact that there is a serious humanitarian issue in yemen and the saudis should and can do more , the official said .
the fuel shortages caused by the blockade have meant that areas hardest hit by war , malnutrition and cholera lack functioning hospital generators , cooking fuel and water pumps .
it also makes it harder to move food and medical aid around the country .
the saudi-led military coalition stepped up air strikes on yemen s houthis on wednesday as the armed movement tightened its grip on sanaa a day after the son of slain former president ali abdullah saleh vowed revenge for his father s death .
saleh , who was killed in an attack on his convoy , plunged yemen deeper into turmoil last week by switching allegiance after years helping the houthis win control of much of northern yemen , including the capital .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on tuesday that the killing of saleh would likely worsen an already dire humanitarian situation in the country in the short term .
this is where we ve all got to roll up our sleeves and figure out what you re going to do about medicine and food and clean water , cholera , mattis said .