beirut ( reuters ) - iran will treat a british-iranian aid worker as an iranian citizen and she will serve her sentence as determined by the judiciary , iran s foreign ministry spokesman said on monday .
british foreign secretary boris johnson discussed nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe s case with iranian officials after flying to tehran over the weekend to try to seek her release .
one of the issues that johnson brought up in tehran was the issue of ms. zaghari , iranian foreign ministry spokesman bahram qassemi was quoted by state media as saying .
with regard to her dual nationality , from our point of view of course she is iranian and she has been sentenced by the judiciary and she will serve the period of her sentence .
britain says zaghari-ratcliffe was visiting family on holiday in april 2016 when she was jailed by iran for attempting to overthrow the government .
johnson said he urged the release of dual nationals .
i urged their release , on humanitarian grounds , where there is cause to do so , johnson told the british parliament .
these are complex cases involving individuals considered by iran to be their own citizens , and i do not wish to raise false hopes .
but my meetings in tehran were worthwhile , he said .
it is too early to be confident about the outcome .
zaghari-ratcliffe is not the only dual national being held in iran , but her case has taken on political significance in britain after johnson said last month that she had been teaching journalists in iran , which her employer denies .
johnson later apologized .
opponents have called for him to resign if his comments lead to her serving longer in prison .
qassemi said the iranian foreign ministry would follow up on zaghari-ratcliffe s case but said that it was ultimately a matter for the judiciary .
a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , zaghari-ratcliffe was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted by an iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
the thomson reuters foundation is a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
it says zaghari-ratcliffe had been on holiday and had not been teaching journalism in iran .
johnson also said he raised with foreign minister mohammad javad zarif what he called the official harassment of journalists working for bbc persian and their families inside iran .
the bbc has called on iran to reverse a court order which it said effectively froze the non-liquid assets of 152 staff , former staff and contributors in iran .