cairo ( reuters ) - poppy seeds found in two cargoes of imported wheat halted by egyptian authorities are not very dangerous , agriculture minister abdel moneim al-banna told reuters on wednesday , in comments that could avert a trade row .
al-banna said the cargoes from france and romania would be sieved before a decision was taken on whether to allow them into the country .
the world s biggest wheat buyer has panicked global suppliers in recent weeks by referring the two cargoes to its public prosecutor for containing what it said were drug-producing poppy seeds .
the prosecutor has yet to issue a final decision on whether the wheat should be re-exported .
supplier transgrain france and the french embassy in cairo sent letters to state-buyer gasc arguing that the strand of poppy , papaver rhoeas , in the wheat was a harmless variety not used in opium production and commonly found in wheat fields .
banna s comments are the first by an egyptian official to take a similar view .
he said the seeds were not very dangerous , and that there is still a study that has not been completed to determine whether to re-export it to the country of origin or use it after the sieving .
gasc later said it had determined that the seeds present in the romanian cargo were not harmful as per an agriculture quarantine report and that it would be sieved .
the poppy seeds found on the romanian vessel according to a report that was signed by the head of the agriculture quarantine are not of the harmful opiate kind .
the procedure therefore is sieving , gasc vice chairman ahmed youssef told reuters .
traders are watching closely , and have said that any rejection could lead them to boycott the state s massive tenders , protesting what they describe as excessive inspection measures that have made doing business increasingly risky .
all suppliers will wait and see what will happen , said one cairo-based trader .
in a similar trade row last year , egypt temporarily banned any trace of ergot , a common grain fungus , in cargoes .
that move halted the country s billion-dollar grain trade after suppliers said the zero-tolerance level was impossible to guarantee .
gasc expects to buy about 7 million tonnes of wheat in the fiscal year that began last july in order to supply a bread subsidy program relied on by tens of millions of egyptians .
inspectors from egypt s agriculture quarantine service have slammed a food inspection system launched this year that was intended to streamline trade following the ergot dispute .
they say the new system , which ends the process of sending egyptian inspectors abroad to check on grain , has allowed harmful contaminants to enter the country .
they successfully challenged the system in court , but a verdict to suspend it has not been implemented and is being appealed .
we are being exposed to the biggest campaign to enter the largest quantities possible of poor quality wheat into egypt and to make it the wastebasket of the world , a quarantine inspector said .