chuck todd exposed his nasty side when he totally abused the secretary of state rex tillerson on his show meet the press : of course , tillerson held his own and gave replies that we full of credibility and support for president trump : i have a great relationship with the president .
i understand what his objectives are .
when i m not clear on what his objectives are , we talk about it .
i am devoted to helping the president achieve his objectives , helping him be successful .
and i understand i have to earn his confidence every day with how i go about those affairs and how i go about conducting the state department s activities consistent with the direction he wants to take the country .
secretary of state rex tillerson on pres .
trump : i have to earn his confidence every day .
watch more tomorrow on # mtp pic.twitter.com/pznrqczpah meet the press ( @ meetthepress ) may 13 , 2017full interview : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=lznek71d9z4full transcript of the interview : chuck todd : when president trump fired james comey , a lot of democrats jumped to the collection that the president was trying to stymie the investigation into possible collusion between russia and the trump campaign .
and on thursday , the president told nbc nightly news anchor lester holt that he was thinking of , quote , this russia thing , when he made his decision .
yesterday , i sat down with secretary of state rex tillerson , and i began by asking him whether he agrees with the president that the russia story is fake news and a witch hunt.secretary rex tillerson : well , chuck , the president i think has made it clear that he feels it s important that we reengage with russia .
the relationship with russia , as he has described , and i have described as well , is i think at an all-time low point since the end of the cold war , with a very low level of trust.i think the world , and it s in the interest of the american people , it s in the interest of russia , the rest of the world , that we do something to see if we can not improve the relationship between the two greatest nuclear powers in the world .
so the president , i think , is committed to at least make an effort in that regard , and he has certainly asked me to make an important effort as well.chuck todd : i understand that , but you look at what s happened in these western european nations , in france and the u.k. , in germany , italy .
accusations of russian interference in their democratic process .
what message does it send to those countries that their number one ally , the united states , the president fired the man at the agency that was looking into the very problem they re dealing with , russian interference in the democracy ? secretary rex tillerson : well , chuck , what i hear from the leaders of the other nations , europe and more broadly , and the subject of russia comes up in all of our conversations , is all the other nations want the u.s. and russia to work towards improving our relationship as well , for all the reasons that i just mentioned.i think it s largely viewed that it is not healthy for the world .
it s certainly not healthy for us , for the american people , our national security interest and otherwise , for this relationship to remain at this low level .
whether we can improve it or not remains to be seen.it s going to take some time .
it s going to take a lot of hard work .
but i think the president s committed , rightly so , and i m committed with him as well , to see if we can not do something to put us on a better footing in our relationship with russia.chuck todd : can you get on a better footing with them if you don t address this issue of the russian interference ?
i mean your counterpart , the russian foreign minister , mr. lavrov , said that you guys didn t even talk about this issue of russian interference in our election because , as he put it , president trump himself says it s fake news , so it s not an issue .
why haven t you brought it up with them ? secretary rex tillerson : well , chuck , i think we have such a broad range of important issues that have to be addressed in the u.s.-russia relationship .
obviously the interference in the election is one of those .
i think it s been well documented , it s pretty well understood , the nature of that interference , here and elsewhere.and you know , these are not new tactics on the part of the russian government , directed not only at us but at others .
but again , i think we have to look at this relationship in its broadest contours , and there are many , many important areas which require our attention if we are to bring it back to a relationship that we believe is necessary for the security of the u.s.chuck todd : mr. secretary , though .
this is fundamental .
they interfered with our democracy .
i just don t understand how this is not a top issue for you to deal with with them in order to , essentially , start with a clean slate .
can t start with a clean slate until maybe they either own up to what they did , or we punish them in a way that they re not going to do this again.secretary rex tillerson : well , chuck , i think it s important to understand we re not trying to start with a clean slate .
i think terms like having a reset are overused .
you can not reset .
you can not erase the past .
you can not start with a clean slate .
and we re not trying to start with a clean slate.we re starting with the slate we have .
and all the problems that are on that slate .
we don t dismiss any of them .
we don t give anyone a free pass on any of them .
they re part of the entire nature of the discussion we re having with the russians .
and yes , there are a large number of issues that we have to get around to addressing in order to put this relationship back together , if that is indeed possible.chuck todd : during your confirmation hearings you made clear you didn t have obviously you hadn t been briefed on the intelligence reports , the 17 different agencies that came to the conclusions that the russians did make an effort to interfere in this election .
obviously there s an investigation going along to see if there was any collusion in this interference .
since you ve become secretary of state in february , have you been briefed ?
have you seen this intelligence now ?
is it clear in your mind that it is a fact the russians interfered in our elections ? secretary rex tillerson : i have seen the intelligence reports , chuck , and yes , i don t think there s any question that the russians were playing around in our electoral processes .
again , as those intelligence reports also have indicated , it s inconclusive as to what , if any , effect it had.chuck todd : i understand about the impact , but the fact that they got into it , what should the repercussions be now , in your mind ? secretary rex tillerson : well , they re just part of that broader landscape of conversations , chuck .
and i think , you know , the real impact is it serves yet again to undermine the trust between the united states and russia .
and as i have said , and the president has said , you know , we re just at a very , very low level of trust between our two countries right now .
and so what we re exploring is how do we begin the process of restoring that trust .
and ultimately it will touch on all of these issues.chuck todd : i want to give you a chance to respond to an op-ed that senator john mccain wrote , where he invoked your name , sir .
he said this .
in a recent address to state department employees secretary of state rex tillerson said , conditioning our foreign policy too heavily on values creates obstacles to advance our national interests . '
mccain goes on to write , with those words , secretary tillerson sent a message to oppressed people everywhere , don t look to the united states for hope .
our values make us sympathetic to your plight , and when it s convenient we might officially express that sympathy . '
some pretty tough words from senator mccain .
what do you say in response ? secretary rex tillerson : well , first , i d say if anyone has earned the right to express their views , senator mccain has .
and i have great respect for the senator .
i think the point that i was making , chuck , in that message to state department employees is an important one to understand.and that s that america s values of freedom , of treatment of people , human dignity , freedom of expression throughout the world , those are our values .
those are enduring values .
they are part of everything we do .
and in fact they serve as the guidepost and they serve as the boundaries as we develop our foreign policy approaches and our diplomatic efforts.but i make a distinction between values and policy .
a policy has to be tailored to the individual situation .
to the country .
to its circumstances .
to the broader issues that we are addressing in terms of advancing our national security interest , our national economic interest.and so policies have to be adaptable .
they have to change .
they have to adjust to conditions .
but our values can never change .
our values can never be put in a position of having to be compromised .
and so the values guide our policy , but if we put our values in the front of our policies and say , this is our policy , we have no room to adapt to changing circumstances to achieve our ultimate objective .
and i think if we are successful in achieving our ultimate diplomatic and national security objectives , we will create the conditions for the advancement of freedom in countries all over the world.chuck todd : secretary tillerson , i know you re busy and you ve got to get going .
you ve got this big trip ahead of you .
thank you for spending some time with us .
i appreciate it .