harare ( reuters ) - the head of zimbabwe s military looks set to be appointed vice president as the government said on monday he would retire pending redeployment in what is seen as a reward for leading a de facto coup last month that ended robert mugabe s 37-year rule and brought emmerson mnangagwa to power .
mnangagwa has said he will fill the two vice presidential posts in the next few days and constantino chiwenga is the top contender in a reflection of the army s consolidation of power since it turned against the 93-year-old mugabe .
mnangagwa has appointed several senior military officers to his cabinet and the ruling party s executive politburo since he was sworn in as president on nov. 24 .
army commander phillip sibanda will succeed chiwenga as defense forces chief , a government statement said .
the appointment of chiwenga ... , which i think is inevitable , will be a confirmation that the military is a salient factor in the politics of the country , said eldred masunungure , a political analyst at the university of zimbabwe .
it has always exercised its influence in a covert manner but now it s quite overt and this will further consolidate that coalition between the military and the ruling political elite .
mnangagwa appointed major general edzai chimonyo , zimbabwe s ambassador to tanzania , to succeed sibanda as army commander and promoted a number of other senior army officers to major general .
the government also announced the retirement of police chief augustine chihuri , an unpopular mugabe loyalist who it said has been on leave since dec. 15 .
chihuri was accused by rights groups of presiding over crackdowns on dissent and popular protest in the 18 months before mugabe was overthrown .
zimbabwe s economy collapsed in the latter half of mugabe s rule , especially after violent farm seizures of thousands of white-owned commercial farms .
monday s announcements came hours after army chiefs declared an end to their military intervention and handed back policing to civilian police .
normalcy has now returned to our country .
it is for this reason that ... we announce the end of operation restore legacy today , army chief sibanda said , referring to the name of the intervention which the army said targeted criminals in mugabe and his wife grace s entourage .
civic groups have been urging the soldiers to leave the streets since mnangagwa was sworn in to replace mugabe as president of the southern african country on nov. 24 .
mnangagwa is under pressure to revive the economy ahead of elections due next year which he said last friday may be held sooner than expected .
the elections are due by july 2018 but some say they may be as early as march .