rome ( reuters ) - prime minister paolo gentiloni remains italy s most trusted leader while the 5-star movement s luigi di maio has moved into second place , overtaking former premier matteo renzi for the first time , according to a poll published on wednesday .
the ixe survey of the leaders of the main parties said 39 percent of voters had confidence in gentiloni , who took office in december after renzi resigned following defeat in a referendum on constitutional reform .
italy is due to hold national elections by may and renzi says he will be candidate for prime minister for his democratic party ( pd ) .
gentiloni , also a pd member , is expected to fall back into the ranks when parliament is dissolved .
some 27 percent said they had faith in renzi , against 32 percent backing for di maio , who was picked to be the prime ministerial candidate for the anti-establishment 5-star movement in september , boosting his profile and standing .
in the last ixe leadership survey in august , gentiloni had an approval rating of 32 percent , renzi was on 25 percent and di maio on 18 percent .
people probably find gentiloni s composure reassuring , roberto weber , who carried out the ixe poll , told rai radio .
matteo salvini , the far-right leader of the northern league party , had a rating of 27 percent , and giorgia meloni , head of the rightist brothers of italy party , was on 26 percent .
their ally silvio berlusconi , who sees himself as the natural head of the centre-right bloc , was adrift on 21 percent .
in the previous survey , he and meloni were both on 17 percent .
opinion polls put the 5-star and pd parties roughly neck-and-neck on around 27 percent , with the northern league on 15 percent , berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy ! )
party on around 13 percent and brothers of italy on just under 4 percent .
a new electoral system voted into law last month is likely to produce a hung parliament at the forthcoming ballot , with no one party or coalition coming anywhere close to winning enough seats to govern alone .