dakar ( reuters ) - anglophone secessionists in cameroon killed at least two gendarmes on wednesday , two secessionist leaders and a security official said , signaling an escalation in their protracted dispute with the central government .
the attacks in the english-speaking city of bamenda marked the worst fighting in recent years between secessionist militants and government forces in the central african state after a year of mostly peaceful protest .
anglophone lawyers and teachers launched demonstrations a year ago against what they see as a marginalization of english-speakers by president paul biya s government in the northwest and southwest regions who were forced to work in french .
a harsh crackdown by state forces , including the use of helicopter gunships to fire on civilians , has killed dozens of people and bolstered support for the once-fringe separatist movement ahead of presidential elections in 2018 .
cho ayaba , a leading member of the ambazonian governing council , a separatist body established to create an independent state called ambazonia , said secessionist militants killed three gendarmes in two coordinated attacks in bamenda , the capital of the predominantly english-speaking northwest region .
cameroonian security sources reported the deaths of two gendarmes in an overnight attack near bamenda , with one senior military official blaming the secessionists .
another source said the gendarmes were ambushed by armed men on motorbikes .
cameroon s government spokesman and chief of police could not be reached immediately for comment .
ayaba said members of the ambazonian defence force , an armed wing of the separatist movement , killed two gendarmes in a first attack around 2 a.m. ( 0100 gmt ) at a checkpoint near bamenda airport , and a third was killed in an ambush on a gendarme patrol unit in a bamenda suburb about an hour later .
we carried out the actions , said ayaba .
their security forces are a target and we will continue attacking them until they are gone .
another separatist leader confirmed his account .
cameroon s linguistic divide harks back a century to the league of nations decision to split the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors at the end of world war one .
the secessionist movement has existed for decades underground but has only recently started to gain widespread support in the english-speaking northwest and southwest in response to the government s repression of protests .
hundreds of anglophone cameroonians were swept up in mass arrests following violent demonstrations on oct. 1 , and at least 5,000 have fled the crisis for neighboring nigeria .