iran is using the billions in cash resources provided under the landmark nuclear deal to engage in an unprecedented military buildup meant to transform the islamic republic s fighting force into an offensive juggernaut , according to a largely unreported announcement by iranian military leaders that has sparked concern among u.s. national security insiders and sources on capitol hill.the shocking truth behind the us-iran nuclear deal , as wsj reports , is that john kerry and the obama administration airlifted $ 1.7bn of cash in compromise payments ( read bribe ) to tehran to ensure the release of 4 captured sailors coincidentally the same weekend as the signing of the nuclear deal.wooden pallets stacked with euros , swiss francs and other currencies were flown into iran on an unmarked cargo plane , according to these officials .
the u.s. procured the money from the central banks of the netherlands and switzerland , they said.of course , senior u.s. officials denied any link between the payment and the prisoner exchange .
they say the way the various strands came together simultaneously was coincidental , not the result of any quid pro quo .
zero hedgeit now appears that obama s chickens are coming home to roost iranian officials announced late last month that iran s defense budget had increased by 145 percent under president hassan rouhani and that the military is moving forward with a massive restructuring effort aimed at making it a forward moving force , according to regional reports.iranian leaders have stated since the iran deal was enacted that they are using the massive amounts of cash released under the agreement to fund the purchase of new military equipment and other armaments .
iran also has pursued multi-million dollar arms deals with russia since economic sanctions were nixed as part of the deal.leading members of congress and u.s. officials working on the iran portfolio suspect that at least a portion of the obama administration s $ 1.7 billion cash payment to iran has been used to fund and support terrorists in the middle east.the latest disclosure about iran s military buildup is further fueling concerns that u.s. cash assets returned to the country which were released with no strings attached by the obama administration are helping iran pursue a more aggressive military stance against u.s. forces in the region .
president obama flat-out caved in to iran when he handed them the disastrous nuclear deal and $ 1.7 billion in cash payments that could assist iran s military , rep. sean duffy ( r. , wis. ) , an opponent of the nuclear deal , told the washington free beacon .
so it s no surprise that the world s lead sponsor of terrorism would feel emboldened to become more aggressive in the region and flex its military muscle .
iranian brigadier general kiumars heidari announced the military buildup during iran s annual army day .
while the announcement did not grab many headlines in the western media , national security insiders have been discussing the announcement for weeks , according to conversations with multiple sources.iran s goal is to turn its army into an offensive force , a major shift from its historic role as a support agent for the iranian revolutionary guards corps , or irgc , iran s extremely well funded primary fighting force.for entire story : washington free beacon