johannesburg ( reuters ) - one uber vehicle and two other taxis were torched in south africa s main business district on thursday night in a feud over fares , but no one was injured , uber and police said on friday .
the vehicles were set alight in the wealthy sandton district near the gautrain station , a popular pick-up point for taxis where previous attacks on uber vehicles have taken place .
it was not clear who torched the vehicles .
uber [ uber.ul ] drivers around the world have faced threats and protests from regular taxi operators , who say cheap fares from uber drivers are forcing them out of business .
all the drivers of the cars escaped unharmed .
it is suspected that the incident is related to the ongoing fight between the metered taxis and the ubers , police spokesman captain mavela masondo said .
a fourth car had its back window smashed in , he said .
on friday , police officers patrolled the street outside the gautrain station , which is opposite the reuters offices .
samantha allenberg , uber s communications head for africa , said only one of the torched vehicles belonged to uber .
one of the torched vehicles was likely from a different ride-hailing service , allenberg said .
we really need the government to do more here .
the violence and intimidation is simply unacceptable , she said .
uber has met the minister of transport and law enforcement agencies several times over similar incidents , she said .
footage of the burning vehicles circulated on social media .
transport minister joe maswanganyi said those behind the violence and intimidation would face the law .
more than 6,000 vehicles use the e-hailing uber application to find customers in south africa , where the service has grown swiftly as public transport has not kept up with the rising population in sprawling cities .
uber operates in more than 600 cities and has faced protests in france , brazil and hungary , and uber drivers have been threatened or attacked in kenya , costa rica , and australia .