moscow ( reuters ) - north korea is preparing to test a long-range missile which it believes can reach the west coast of the united states , a russian lawmaker just returned from a visit to pyongyang was quoted as saying on friday .
anton morozov , a member of the russian lower house of parliament s international affairs committee , and two other russian lawmakers visited pyongyang on oct. 2-6 , russia s ria news agency reported .
they are preparing for new tests of a long-range missile .
they even gave us mathematical calculations that they believe prove that their missile can hit the west coast of the united states , ria quoted morozov as saying .
as far as we understand , they intend to launch one more long-range missile in the near future .
and in general , their mood is rather belligerent .
tensions have risen in recent weeks over north korea s nuclear weapons and missile programs as pyongyang has test-fired several missiles and conducted what it said was a test explosion of a hydrogen bomb as it advances toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
morozov s comments drove up the price of u.s. treasury bonds , as investors , worried about the prospect of new north korean missile tests , moved into assets the market views as a safe haven in times of uncertainty .
reuters was not able to independently verify morozov s account , and he did not specify which north korean officials had given him the information about the planned test .
in washington , a u.s. official said that there had been indications that north korea could be preparing for a missile test on or around oct. 10 , the anniversary of the founding of the ruling korean workers party and a day after the columbus day holiday in the united states .
the official , speaking on condition of anonymity , did not disclose the type of missile that could be tested and cautioned that north korea in the past has not staged launches despite indications that it would .
a senior cia analyst , speaking at a conference in washington this week , said the north korean government likely would stage some kind of provocation on oct. 10 but did not elaborate on what form it might take .
there is a clarity of purpose in what ( north korean leader ) kim jong un is doing .
i don t think he s done , said yong suk lee , the deputy assistant director of the cia s korea mission center , which was set up this year .
in fact , i told my own staff ( that ) october 10th is the korean workers party founding day .
that s tuesday in north korea , but monday the columbus day holiday - in the united states .
so stand by your phones .
morozov s delegation had high-level meetings in pyongyang , ria news agency said , citing the russian embassy in the north korean capital .
tensions over north korea s nuclear program have been running high in recent weeks since pyongyang staged a series of missile tests , and conducted a text explosion on sept. 3 of what it said was a hydrogen bomb .
there has also been an exchange of tough rhetoric between pyongyang and washington .
u.s. president donald trump threatened to totally destroy north korea if it threatens the united states .
north korean leader kim jong un responded by calling trump deranged and saying he would pay dearly for his threat .
china , north korea s main ally , has backed sanctions against pyongyang and on saturday in response to the nobel peace prize being awarded to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons , said it backed a worldwide ban on nuclear weapons .
china has always supported a complete and total ban on nuclear weapons , but also believes that the goal of achieving nuclear disarmament can not be achieved overnight and must advance gradually within the existing disarmament mechanism .
china is willing to work with all parties to achieve a nuclear-weapon-free world , said china s foreign ministry .
morozov is a member of the ldpr , a right-wing populist party .
it casts itself as an opposition party , but hews close to the kremlin line on matters of international affairs .
describing meetings with north korean officials , morozov said they displayed serious determination and bellicose rhetoric , ria reported .
the situation , of course , demands the swiftest intervention of all interested states , particularly those represented in the region , in order to prevent wide-scale military action , the agency quoted him as saying .
russia has closer relations with pyongyang than many other world powers , linked in part to kim il sung , the founder of north korea and the current leader s grand-father , having lived for a time in the soviet union .
russian president vladimir putin has joined other world powers in condemning north korea s weapons program , but has taken a softer line than western governments .
putin has said that pyongyang will not be cowed into giving up its weapons program .
he has accused washington of trying to effect regime change in north korea , and predicted that would unleash chaos .
u.s. treasury prices surged on the report of a possible new missile test , pulling yields lower , as investors cut risk out of their portfolios and sought the safety of treasuries .
treasury prices move inversely to their yields .
benchmark 10 year u.s. treasury yields fell from the session high 2.40 percent mark us10yt=tweb to 2.35 percent around midday ( 1600 gmt ) in new york .
it has just been risk-off buying into the long ( columbus day ) weekend ... you look at the charts , it has really been a one-way trade of lower yields , said justin lederer , treasury analyst at cantor fitzgerald in new york .