new york ( reuters ) - connecticut governor dannel malloy delivered a downbeat address on wednesday , outlining plans to slash government spending and admitting to “ a visceral feeling ” that there was no going back to the prosperity of pre-recession years .
the short and somber address came on the heels of a presentation by malloy ’ s top budget official , who called for $ 570 million of reductions next year on top of millions in cuts and tax hikes in previous years .
“ our national economy , while making progress from the great recession , was fundamentally changed , ” malloy , a democrat , said at his annual state of the state address .
“ a shifting workforce , the rapid rise of technology , and stagnant wage growth have made this recovery tougher for everyone , everywhere. ” connecticut has consistently lagged the national economic recovery and has been hit by job losses in its key financial and high-tech manufacturing industries .
the state has one of the worst funded pension systems in the nation .
with required payments set to balloon to $ 6 billion by 2032 , the system presents a significant risk to the budget .
“ connecticut is not going back to that pre-recession reality , ” malloy told the democrat-dominated legislature .
“ it just doesn ’ t exist anymore. ” connecticut ’ s woes show how u.s. states have shared unevenly in the recovery since the financial crisis of 2007-2009 .
andrew cuomo , governor of neighboring new york , felt confident enough to tout a $ 100 billion infrastructure plan in january .
“ it ’ s been a really hard recovery , ” said douglas offerman , an analyst at fitch ratings .
“ the old paradigm that you would exceed your past peak in every expansion doesn ’ t appear to be holding right now. ” ben barnes , malloy ’ s top budget official , said the replacement of higher-paying jobs with lower- and middle-wage positions had been a “ major story ” in connecticut ’ s budget ills .
barnes proposed cuts of 5.75 percent to the budgets of state agencies , which could mean the elimination of several thousand jobs .
he said cuts to discretionary spending would amount to 15 percent over two years .
at the start of the legislative session , malloy urged lawmakers to pass an early budget and not wait until the last day of the fiscal year on june 30 .
but he said he would not circumvent the process .
the governor proposed overhauling the way the state runs its budget to bring the process more in line with revenue projections , shifting away from a “ current services ” model .
he also said lawmakers should implement a spending cap .