chicago ( reuters ) - an illinois voter ’ s lawsuit challenging ted cruz ’ s eligibility to run for president of the united states because he was born in canada was dismissed on a technicality on tuesday by a state judge .
cook county circuit court judge maureen ward kirby in chicago ruled that she did not have jurisdiction in the lawsuit - which had sought to have cruz removed from the state ’ s primary election ballot - because it had not been properly served on the state board of elections .
she found that the plaintiff , lawrence joyce , had not properly filed his petition for judicial review .
joyce , a lawyer and a pharmacist from the chicago suburb of poplar grove who supports cruz rival ben carson , initially filed a complaint in january with the elections board .
when the board rejected the complaint , he filed the lawsuit seeking judicial review in cook county .
kirby ’ s ruling came as voters in 12 other states were taking part in the super tuesday republican and democratic nominating contests , a milestone in the selection of candidates for the nov. 8 election .
illinois ’ primary is on march 15 , but early voting has already begun .
republican front-runner donald trump has repeatedly questioned cruz ’ s eligibility because of his canadian birth .
joyce ’ s lawsuit argued that cruz can not run for president under the u.s. constitution because the u.s. senator from texas is not a “ natural-born ” citizen .
cruz gained citizenship at birth because his mother was an american citizen , but joyce contends that was a form of naturalization .
cruz ’ s father is from cuba .
cruz , himself an attorney , has maintained he is a natural-born american due to his mother ’ s citizenship .
kirby ruled that joyce should have served the complaint directly to cruz and the election board members , not to their lawyers , citing requirements in the illinois election code .
“ i recognize that election decisions are of great importance to the public , ” the judge said .
“ but it ’ s a matter of strict compliance. ” she said she could not look at the issues presented in the case because it was not properly before her .
joyce said he has not yet decided whether he will appeal the ruling .
he said it depended on whether trump , as expected , dominates in the super tuesday contests and becomes the most likely republican nominee .
“ my main concern all along has been keeping senator cruz from being the nominee of the party .
depending on what happens today on super tuesday , that whole point might become a moot point , ” joyce told reporters .
joyce said he did not want cruz to win the nomination because he believes democrats would then seek to have the texan disqualified because he was born abroad .
an attorney who represented cruz in court , sharee langenstein , called the lawsuit “ a misguided attempt to distract the voters away from the most qualified candidate we have for president , and that ’ s senator ted cruz. ” “ there ’ s no issue here , ” she said .
“ it ’ s very clear that senator cruz is a natural-born citizen. ” voters in new york , alabama , pennsylvania and texas have also filed legal challenges to cruz ’ s eligibility .
some legal experts do not expect any court to invalidate a presidential candidate on the issue .
( reporting by fiona ortiz ; editing by jonathan oatis and mary wisniewski ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .