( reuters ) - president barack obama on tuesday unveiled his budget proposal for fiscal year 2017 , his final year in office .
but since the republican-controlled congress controls the purse strings , much of obama ’ s plan likely will be shelved and so it is primarily a political document .
the following are some of obama ’ s proposals : the pentagon asked for $ 7.5 billion to fight islamic state , up 50 percent from the amount received in the previous year ’ s budget , and wants a fourfold increase for military training and exercises in europe to support nato allies .
citing online threats as a top concern , obama sought $ 19 billion to boost cyber security across the u.s. government , a $ 5 billion increase over the current fiscal year .
in a long-shot bid to raise $ 20 billion to expand transit systems and research self-driving cars , obama proposed a $ 10.25-a-barrel tax on crude oil .
obama sought a 20 percent boost for renewable energy research funding to a total of $ 7.7 billion .
obama proposed a tax credit for businesses that invest in community college programs and then hire their graduates .
the white house asked for $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding .
some republicans argue obama might have enough in existing funds for now .
obama sought an 11 percent hike in funding for the securities and exchange commission to $ 1.8 billion , and 32 percent increase for the commodity futures trading commission to $ 330 million .
obama asked for $ 1 billion to fund a two-year effort to expand treatment for people addicted to heroin and prescription painkillers .
obama proposed $ 12.2 billion over 10 years to supplement food stamps for poor families when school meal programs are closed in the summer and a $ 15 million pilot program to help poor families move to better neighborhoods , among other aid .
the earned income tax credit for low-income taxpayers would be doubled to a maximum of about $ 1,022 a year .
it would be expanded to cover workers with earnings up to 150 percent of the poverty line and to cover single workers ages 21-24 .
the budget includes three years of federal funding to states that passed up an earlier offer to expand medicaid healthcare coverage for low-income people .
obama proposed changes to certain high-cost health insurance plans .
the white house asked for $ 5.5 billion in incentives for businesses that hire young people and setting aside $ 200 million for youth from a $ 2 billion apprenticeship fund .
obama proposed $ 4 billion for states and $ 100 million for school districts to expand computer science in schools .
the white house sought $ 755 million for vice president joe biden ’ s “ moonshot ” effort to find new cancer treatments .
obama proposed $ 500 million for a two-year initiative to boost access to mental healthcare as part of his push to address gun violence .
as part of criminal justice system reforms , obama asked for $ 24 million to review the use of restrictive housing , or solitary confinement , and expand mental health programs .
obama proposed tax credits for small businesses offering 401 ( k ) plans or expanding access to retirement savings programs , while setting aside $ 6.5 million for some states to explore state-based programs .
military and civilian federal personnel would see a 1.6 percent pay increase .
obama asked for funding to hire 200 new atf staff to enforce gun laws .