islamabad ( reuters ) - a pakistani court on friday delayed the extradition hearing of a pakistani-american man accused of plotting attacks in new york city for islamic state without fixing a new date , the man s lawyer said .
talha haroon , 19 , was arrested in pakistan in 2016 after u.s. authorities identified him as one of three men , along with a canadian citizen and a man from the philippines , planning attacks on manhattan s times square and the city s subway .
his lawyer and family deny the charges .
haroon s lawyer termed the investigation a sting operation carried out by an investigating officer motivated by career advancement .
the fbi projected this as a high-level story , but these people don t have the qualifications to kill a monkey , said the lawyer , idrees ashraf .
ashraf said his client was only in contact with the investigating officer but never directly spoke with the co-accused , raising serious doubts about the nature of the investigation .
according to the criminal complaint , the fbi agent communicated with talha online , and has said he was active in is , but no proof of militant links has been provided , ashraf added .
one of the accused men , 19-year-old canadian citizen abdulrahman el bahnasawy , has been in u.s. custody since may 2016 .
he pleaded guilty to terrorism charges in october 2016 , prosecutors said .
the third accused , 37-year old russel salic , was arrested in the philippines in april , according to the office of acting u.s. attorney joon kim .
prosecutors say salic maintained a pro-islamic state social media presence , told the undercover officer he had been communicating with el bahnasawy , and sent the officer about $ 423 from the philippines to help pay for the attacks .
haroon has been in custody for more than a year without being charged .
a bail plea will be filed for his release at the hearing once a date is set , his attorney said .
he was one of the best students in his school , haroon s father said , adding that talha moved to pakistan in 2014 after finishing high school .
he is naive and speaks from his heart , ashraf added .
he is not the sort of boy who can commit such brutal acts .
u.s. prosecutors said they expect haroon and salic to be extradited to face the charges , which include conspiracy to commit acts of terrorism and to support a terrorist organization .
if convicted of the most serious charges , they face a maximum sentence of life in prison .