usa meg mall in seattle , wa ( source : bynyalcin @ wikicommons ) 21st century wiretraditional u.s. retailers are staring out at the abyss with massive layoffs expected to continue into the next quarter of 2017 , according to a report by marketwatch .
in the last four years , traditional retailers have cut more than 200,000 jobs .
in contrast , amazon is set to create 100,000 new full-time jobs over the year in the us.in the early days of amazon.com the online retailer struggled to turn a profit .
inc. magazine explains : despite having revenues of $ 1.6 billion in 1999 , amazon still managed to lose $ 719 million .
things didn t get better in 2000 , when it was found that amazon had just around $ 350 million of cash on hand , despite raising billions of dollars .
traditional shopping malls and retailers simply can not match the lower overhead amazon business model .
the difference between running a warehouse-based infrastructure and a fully operational , brick and mortar venue is pretty obvious the costs in building and maintaining large bespoke spaces which require 24/7 maintenance and costly renovations , repairs , remodeling.bloomberg reports : the owner of the newgate mall plans to pour $ 500,000 into overhauling the outdated food court in a bid to lure restaurateurs and hungry shoppers .
rent payments from eateries are never going to recoup the renovation costs , but for landlord time equities inc. , that s not the point .
the point is survival .
costs are escalating as mall owners work to keep their real estate up to date and fill the void left by failing stores .
the companies are turning to everything from restaurants and bars to mini-golf courses and rock-climbing gyms to draw in customers who appear more interested in being entertained during a trip to the mall than they are in buying clothes and electronics .
the new tenants will pay higher rents than struggling chains such as macy s and sears , and hopefully attract more traffic for retailers at the property , according to haendel st. juste , an analyst at mizuho securities usa llc .
more than a dozen retailers have gone bankrupt this year as the shift toward online shopping accelerates .
even healthy companies are shutting hundreds of locations .
as many as 13,000 stores are forecast to close next year , compared with 4,000 in 2016 , according to brokerage cushman & wakefield inc. are we looking at a new commercial property bubble forming here as the late 20th century shopping model struggles to remain relevant ?
st. juste certainly thinks so : the math is pretty obvious , pretty compelling , but there are risks , st. juste said in an interview .
this hasn t been done before on a broad scale .
with so many traditional retailers failing to compete with amazon , it s only a mater of time before there s an over-supply of commercial retail property on the market , leading to an inevitable drop in the price per square foot .
how long until amazon moves in and buys-up large retail properties on the cheap , and rolls-out amazon s new brick and mortar digital shopping experience ? read more financial news at : 21st century wire financial filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv