washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama met with a frequent critic , house speaker paul ryan , on tuesday as the political leaders searched for areas where they may be able to overcome partisan divisions .
the oval office discussion was the democratic president ’ s first formal face-to-face meeting with ryan since the wisconsin congressman took over the top post in the republican-dominated house of representatives in october .
following the meeting , which was closed to the press , the two ate lunch together in the white house .
the session marked a rare public detente between obama and ryan , who have repeatedly clashed over issues such as gun control and immigration reform .
the get-together in the obama ’ s office also included the republican-controlled senate ’ s majority leader , mitch mcconnell of kentucky .
while the leaders said they hoped to find common ground , there were already signs on tuesday that compromise might be elusive .
sniping between the administration and the republicans resumed just hours after the meeting , as white house chief of staff denis mcdonough slammed republicans ’ latest attempt to overturn the affordable care act .
“ groundhog ’ s day is great for a movie plot , not a legislative strategy , ” mcdonough said on twitter in response to a post from ryan ’ s account .
“ groundhog day ” is a 1993 movie about a man who relives the same day over and over again .
during the meeting obama urged actions in areas where republicans had signaled some support , including ratifying the trans-pacific partnership trade deal , providing tools to help address puerto rico ’ s fiscal crisis and advancing cancer treatment .
mcconnell told reporters after the meeting that he had “ some problems ” with the trade pact and said he thought it should not be pursued before the november u.s. presidential election .
ryan also raised concerns about the trade deal , his office said in a statement .
white house spokesman josh earnest said after the meeting that the administration does not have a specific timeline for congress to act on the trade agreement , but lawmakers should act “ quickly ” once the pact is ready for consideration .
the leaders also discussed taking action to combat opioid addiction , criminal justice reform and the fight against the zika virus .
obama was pleased to meet with the republican leaders , earnest told reporters .
despite the divisiveness seen on the campaign trail , “ it actually is possible for leading republicans to sit down in the same office with a leading democrat and have a conversation about the priorities of the country , ” he said .