beijing ( reuters ) - the official newspaper of china s ruling communist party has lavished unusually high levels of praise on president xi jinping s signature leadership , as china s strongest leader in decades consolidates his personal power .
xi s leadership was cast as having forged a new way of governance for china that the paper said had been applauded worldwide and had brought china to new heights of economic , political and diplomatic success .
the paean , even more effusive than usual for the state mouthpiece , came in two parts written under the official nom de plume of the people s daily for important commentaries and was carried on its front page on tuesday and wednesday .
billed as an exposition on the changes in leadership , thought , mission and rejuvenation for china revealed during a course-setting meeting of the top party leadership in october , it marked the latest assault in a propaganda onslaught vaunting xi s contributions to china and the world .
xi has amassed positions and accolades at a level much higher than his immediate predecessors , being named the core of the party leadership last year and having his named theory written into the party charter in october .
such an honor has not been given to a sitting leader since mao zedong , communist china s founding leader .
chinese state media has taken praise for xi to new levels since the twice-a-decade conclave .
xi was given mao-like prominence with his portrait taking up nearly the entire front page of the people s daily .
a unique path , a unique theory , a unique system , a unique culture ; xi jinping s thought on socialism with chinese characteristics for a new era has developed a rich path for china that has transcended western-centric theory , and hugely excited many developing countries to confidently choose their own path , the paper said .
without xi jinping thought on socialism with chinese characteristics for a new era , we would not have a party center that is moving closer daily to the center of the world stage , the people s daily said .
china has expanded the reach of its foreign policy and military under xi , who has talked about the need for china to be confident in its own political system and to provide chinese solutions and wisdom for global issues .
however , concerns abroad about china using its influence to sway foreign business , academic , and political institutions have also grown .
xi told foreign political groups in beijing on friday that china would not export its political system and would provide more opportunities for the world through its development .
he was speaking as he opened china s first ever high-level inter-party dialogue .