hialeah , florida ( reuters ) - conservative hispanic activists fear a win by republican frontrunner donald trump in florida ’ s presidential nominating contest next week will deal a major setback to efforts to widen the party ’ s appeal beyond white voters , potentially dooming hopes of retaking the white house from democrats in 2016 .
some of the activists said in interviews they feared a trump win could prompt many latino republicans , angry at his anti-immigrant rhetoric , to stay home on nov. 8 , election day , or worse , support the democratic nominee .
“ sadly , the damage is going to be felt by the republican party for years , ” said javier palomarez , president and ceo of the u.s. hispanic chamber of commerce , of a possible trump win in florida on march 15 .
“ this is a turning point , ” he said .
trump has dominated opinion polls and early nominating contests , in large part because of his pledge to build a wall along the border with mexico ; his labeling of mexicans as criminals and rapists ; and his accusations that immigrant workers steal american jobs .
that kind of talk is well received by many white republican voters , but not by minorities , polls show .
that 's a problem for the party , because while the american electorate has become more diverse in the last three years , republican support among hispanic likely voters has shrunk , from 30.6 percent in 2012 to 26 percent in 2015 , according to an analysis of reuters/ipsos polling data .
meanwhile , hispanic democrats grew by 6 percentage points to 59.6 percent .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/1oj9spi ) trump ’ s campaign declined to comment , but he has consistently argued he can win the latino vote , in part because his companies have employed thousands of hispanics .
“ they ’ re incredible people .
they ’ re incredible workers .
i love them .
i love them , ” he said at a debate in february .
much of the establishment wing of the republican party has thrown its weight behind florida senator marco rubio , a first-generation cuban american .
rubio , however , lags trump by 15 points in polls in florida and may be forced out of the race if the new york businessman bests him .
for mark gomez , a 20-year-old cuban-american student at the university of miami and a rubio volunteer , the differences between rubio ’ s and trump ’ s approaches hit home when earlier this month on twitter , a trump supporter called him an “ anchor baby. ” gomez was born in the united states of cuban refugee parents .
immigration critics sometimes use “ anchor babies ” to describe u.s.-born children of illegal immigrants , usually from latin america .
immigration groups say the phrase is offensive .
trump , gomez said , “ is just playing into people ’ s fears. ” rubio has toured florida ’ s latino enclaves in recent weeks , switching easily between spanish and english at his rallies , while his allied super pac , or independent fundraising group , has outspent all rivals combined in ads to boost him and erase trump ’ s polling lead .
among rubio ’ s challenges in besting trump , however , could be drawing in younger generations of florida ’ s hispanics .
unlike conservatives of the past , who could take the cuban-american vote in florida for granted if they aggressively criticized the castro government in cuba , candidates are dealing with a new generation that is leaning more heavily to the democratic party .
a decade ago 64 percent of cuban registered voters nationwide identified with the republican party .
that ’ s now down to 47 percent , according to the pew research center .
and among young cubans , from 18 to 49 , more than half now identify with or lean toward the democrats .
“ a lot of those cubans who come from the island , that resentment , that pain , that hurt has really driven how they ’ ve reacted politically .
our generation is a generation removed from that in a lot of ways , ” said gabriel pendas , 33 , of miami .
he called rubio “ so outdated from how a lot of people feel. ” following mitt romney ’ s defeat as the republican party ’ s presidential nominee in 2012 , in which he received just 27 percent of the hispanic vote nationwide , the republican national committee underwent an extensive and painful self-examination to determine the root causes of its failure .
one thing was clear from the autopsy : the party needed to expand a voter base skewing too white and too old .
the hope among party leaders , like republican national committee chairman reince preibus , was that a young , dynamic field of candidates like rubio , texas senator ted cruz , and others , would position the party well to reclaim some share of latino vote from the democrats .
rubio stood central to those hopes .
young , telegenic , bilingual , and armed with a compelling backstory , he seemed made-to-order .
“ rubio ’ s tone , his aspirational message , his shared language and culture , makes him an ideal candidate , ” said daniel garza , director of the libre institute in miami , a conservative hispanic advocacy group .
but trump , as he has done so often during this election season , took a wrecking ball to those plans .
his hardline immigration stance forced many of his rivals - including cruz - to adopt a harsher approach on immigration , while leaving others such as former florida governor jeb bush , who has dropped out of the race , adrift .
“ we ’ ve lost an incredible opportunity , ” said alfonso aguilar , president of the latino partnership for conservative principles , referring to trump ’ s front-runner status .
addressing a rally on wednesday night in hialeah , home to the largest number of cubans outside of cuba , rubio spoke in both english and spanish and urged supporters to “ come out and vote in massive numbers. ” awaiting rubio at the rally , cuban-born ahmed martel , 45 , was asked what he would do if trump , not rubio , was the party ’ s nominee in the fall .
“ i won ’ t vote , ” martel said .
“ i can ’ t vote for him. ” ( additional reporting by grant smith and maurice tamman ; editing by richard valdmanis and ross colvin ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .