beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china has condemned a taiwan government probe into a tiny but passionately pro-china opposition party , the latest flashpoint between beijing and a self-ruled island it considers its own .
taiwanese investigators searched the homes of four officials from the new party , which currently has no members of parliament , on tuesday on suspicion they had violated the national security act .
a new party delegation , including at least one of those whose homes was raided , party spokesman wang ping-chung , visited china last week as part of a scheduled trip to meet china s policy-making taiwan affairs office .
the new party has denounced the raids as politically motivated and retribution for their opposition to taiwan independence and support for union with china .
taiwanese prosecutors and the government have not given details of what the party members are suspected of .
unlike in china , where the legal system is controlled by the ruling communist party , democratic taiwan has an independent judiciary .
taiwan media has reported that the case could be linked to that of chinese citizen zhou hongxu , jailed by a taiwan court in september for breaching national security laws .
speaking to reporters in taipei on wednesday , new party spokesman wang ping-chung said he knew zhou , and that zhou had attended party events held in the past .
in 2014 , when i successfully became a representative of the party , he came to an event to offer his support .
later he participated in our organization events so we of course know him .
in a short statement released late on tuesday , china s taiwan affairs office praised the new party for its stance in opposing taiwan independence and upholding the one china principle , which states that taiwan is part of china .
recently , the taiwan authorities have shielded and connived with taiwan independent splittists , and taken various moves to wantonly crack down on and persecute forces and people who uphold peaceful reunification , it said .
we strongly condemn this and are paying close attention to developments , the office said .
the new party broke off from the nationalists , who once ruled all of china , in 1993 .
defeated nationalist forces fled to taiwan in 1949 after losing a civil war with the communists .
relations between china and taiwan have soured since tsai ing-wen of the pro-independence democratic progressive party won presidential elections last year .
china suspects she wants to push for taiwan s formal independence .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security .
the chinese military has stepped up air force patrols around taiwan in recent weeks .
china has never renounced the use of force to bring what it considers a wayward province under chinese control .