beijing ( reuters ) - in his baseball cap and baggy yellow t-shirt , the rap star li yijie - better known by his stage name pissy - is an unlikely face of china s strait-laced ruling communist party .
his group , tianfu shibian , has won fans and the support of the party s youth league with songs like force of red and this is china that chime with president xi jinping s nationalist vision of china and its place in the world .
under xi , set to begin a second five-year term at a key party congress next month , the once-hidebound communist party has sought to revitalise its role in society amid challenges to its traditional authority as the country gets richer , more mobile and more digitally connected .
the party 's modernising push also comes as a significant number of educated chinese millennials , faced with a tough job market and high housing costs in big cities , have grown disillusioned about their career and life prospects .
the party s effort extends increasingly to co-opting swathes of chinese popular culture , such as tianfu shibian .
at the same time , the government is cracking down on online content and entertainment that strays beyond the narrowing definitions of what is acceptable .
if the party sticks to the old ways , it will only be more and more rejected by young people , said li , 23 , whose band s name means tianfu incident .
tianfu refers to the region around chengdu , the band s home city in western sichuan province .
we need to stand up and say : why can t younger folks be more patriotic ?
he said during an interview in beijing .
we need to step into this system , he said .
if the post-1990 generations don t enter the system , what is our country going to do ?
said li .
beijing has the same idea .
it has latched onto other acts like tfboys , a wholesome boy band whose three members each have nearly 30 million followers on the popular microblog weibo , to help spread the party message .
the band often appears at youth league events .
this kind of propaganda is a step forward that better suits the demands of its audience , said qiao mu , a media researcher and former professor at beijing foreign studies university .
ordinary people are now rejecting the old preaching ways of the people s daily newspaper and cctv news , he said , referring to the party s official newspaper and china s state broadcaster .
on its bilibili account - a video site popular with china s post 1990s generation - the communist youth league has posted hundreds of videos this year interspersing patriotic raps with more traditional fare such as defence ministry briefings .
one such guichu a fast-paced clip of repeated images , sounds and catchy music calls on citizens to be on the lookout and report people they suspect are spies to the authorities .
tianfu shibian shot to prominence in 2016 voicing patriotic values in sometimes expletive-filled songs .
force of red attacked tsai ing-wen , the president of taiwan , an independently governed island that beijing considers a renegade province .
there s only one china , hk , taipei , they are my fellas , ran the lyrics of the song in english , along with expletives aimed at tsai and her government : far away from us you forget how to act .
even dogs know to come home with a thankful bark .
the music video went viral , racking up more than 7 million views on the band s twitter-like sina weibo feed and catching the attention of the communist youth league , a training ground for elite cadres within the 90-million-strong communist party .
the group s next outing - this is china - came with production support from a youth league-backed music studio , though the band says there was no other financial backing .
the party connection deepened in september last year when beijing sent the band to woody island , in a disputed area of the south china sea , to film a music video rebuking an international tribunal ruling that rejected china s claims in the area .
li said the group now has ties across china s propaganda related agencies , and frequently dines with officials to exchange ideas .
in return they ve cleaned up their act to fit with beijing s drive towards more wholesome content .
while their songs are unabashedly pro-china , tianfu shibian s lyrics also touch on problems in contemporary china , including tainted food , corruption , and pollution .
critique with rationality has its place in our songs , but we despise those who keep complaining blindly , li told reuters .
not everyone is a fan .
a song by the band praising the late chinese leader mao zedong was criticised online as glossing over china s cultural revolution , a period of chaos and violence between 1966-1976 in which some historians estimate as many as 1.5 million people died .
others online have dismissed the band as a propaganda machine , calling it wumao - roughly 50-cents - a reference to those paid by the government to post patriotic comments online .
while countercultural or subversive art has long been at the fringes in china , it has all-but been extinguished in the xi era , with censors banning not only politically incorrect material but also clamping down on negativity .
china s most internationally recognised artist , ai weiwei , a fierce critic of beijing , spent time under house arrest and finally left china in 2015 .
he had helped design beijing s bird s nest stadium for the 2008 olympics .
erstwhile rock and roll rebels have cleaned up their acts to placate censors or been sidelined .
zuoxiao zuzhou - a music producer who was banned by the government from 2011-2014 for his connection to ai weiwei - is one who has chosen to toe the government line .
with great difficulty , zuoxiao zuzhou has now established an image that is relatively acceptable to society , his agent , qin baogui , told reuters , declining an interview with the artist because of the sensitivity of the topic .
cui jian , whose 1986 nothing to my name became an unofficial anthem for students demonstrating during the deadly 1989 tiananmen protests , pulled out of a show on chinese state television in 2014 because he was told he would not be allowed to sing the song , his manager said at the time .
on the flip side , films and music that embrace the party have benefited from state support to tap china s huge fan bases .
the overtly patriotic wolf warrior 2 became china s top grossing film after its july release , helped in part by strong state media support .
last month , u.s. organizers aiming to bring grammy award artists to china said they would only promote artists with a positive and healthy image .
as for li , he is currently working on a song in the run-up to next month s communist party congress , called a letter to president xi jinping .
however , li has not joined the party himself - though it s some distance from youthful rebellion .
it s too troublesome and complicated to write an application letter , he said .