istanbul ( reuters ) - turkey has dismissed what it said were ludicrous reports that turkish officials may have discussed a plan to seize a wanted u.s.-based muslim cleric and hand him over to ankara in exchange for millions of dollars .
in a statement , the turkish embassy in washington repeated ankara s request for the extradition of the cleric , fethullah gulen , who it says masterminded last year s failed military coup , but said turkey would not operate outside the law to achieve that goal .
the statement followed a wall street journal report that special counsel robert mueller was investigating an alleged proposal under which former u.s. national security adviser michael flynn and his son would receive up to $ 15 million for seizing gulen and delivering him to the turkish government .
nbc also reported an alleged december 2016 meeting , saying mueller s team was investigating whether flynn met senior turkish officials before president donald trump s inauguration about a possible quid pro quo in which flynn would be paid to do the bidding of turkey s government while in office .
turkey and the turkish people expect the immediate extradition of fethullah gulen from the united states to turkey , so that he can stand trial , the embassy statement said , in the first official turkish reaction to the newspaper report .
as we stated previously ... all allegations that turkey would resort to means external to the rule of law for his extradition are utterly false , ludicrous and groundless .
flynn s lawyer said on friday that allegations made against him ranging from kidnapping to bribery were outrageous and false .
around 250 people were killed in the attempted military coup against president tayyip erdogan in july last year .
turkey says gulen orchestrated the failed coup from the united states , where he has lived for nearly two decades .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim said he raised the gulen issue with u.s. vice president mike pence during talks in washington last week , but said that the extradition request was being handled by the two countries justice ministries .
we are not dealing with michael flynn , yildirim told cnn in an interview .
we are dealing with the government of the united states .
gulen s fate is one of several disagreements between turkey and the united states .
turkey has been angered by u.s. support for kurdish fighters in syria and the indictment of a turkish former economy minister over alleged violations of u.s. sanctions against iran .
washington has complained about the detention of two locally employed staff at u.s. consulates in turkey , and a month ago suspended issuing visas in the country .
it partly resumed visa services last week , prompting ankara to follow suit .
more than 50,000 people , including soldiers , teachers and journalists , have been jailed pending trial in a sweeping crackdown following last year s coup attempt .
european allies fear erdogan is using the investigations to stifle opposition and undermine the judiciary .
he has responded by saying that the purges are necessary to maintain stability in a pivotal nato country bordering iran , iraq and syria .