kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - a blaze at an islamic boarding school in the malaysian capital killed at least 23 people on thursday , most of them teenage boys who cried for help from barred windows , officials and witnesses said .
the fire broke out at around 5.40 a.m. in a top-floor dormitory in the three-storey building , firemen said , where most of the students were sleeping in bunk beds , with many of the windows covered by metal grills .
one survivor said there was just one window the boys managed to open .
two teachers were also killed in the fire at the darul quran ittifaqiyah , a 15-minute drive from the iconic petronas twin towers in kuala lumpur , police said , adding that most of the victims died from smoke inhalation .
the youngest was just seven , media said .
the disaster has renewed calls for greater scrutiny of so-called tahfiz schools , where students learn to memorize the quran .
they are unregulated by the education ministry , being the responsibility of the religious department .
deputy prime minister ahmad zahid hamidi said at least 31 fires had been reported at such schools in malaysia since 2011 , adding that they must follow safety regulations .
we will continue to carry out investigations , especially through forensics , as we found that there was some security features that should have been complied with but weren t , zahid told reporters outside the school .
fire department operations deputy director soiman jahid said the cause was likely a short circuit or a mosquito repellent coil .
the dormitory had only one entrance , leaving many of the victims trapped , he said .
the building was surrounded by metal grills that could not be opened from the inside .
the students , after realizing the fire and heavy smoke , tried to escape through the window , soiman said outside the school .
but because of the grills , they could not escape .
soiman said the school had submitted a request for fire safety approval but no new checks had been carried out as the request was still being processed .
the pupils all got locked in and they couldn t escape and got burned , nadia azalan , sister of a 13-year-old victim , told reuters in tears as distraught family members gathered outside the building .
safety should come first .
mohamad arif mawardi , 24 , who was sleeping on one of the lower floors , said he realized there was a fire only after he heard people shouting .
we wanted to help the others but we couldn t because the fire was rampant .
there was nothing we could do , he said .
about 13 boys managed to open a window and escape , arif said .
only those 13 who had access to that open window could escape , he said .
a man identified only as hazin , who lived next door to the school , said his son called the fire department after they heard screams and saw the flames .
the children were crying for help , but i couldn t help them as the door was already on fire , he said .
viewed from outside , the only tell-tale signs of disaster were the blackened upper-floor windows , otherwise the tin-roofed building appeared unscathed , with a malaysian flag hanging limply from the yellow wall .
only inside did the intensity of the inferno become clear .
the dormitory was blackened , lined with the charred frames of bunk beds .
tahfiz schools have been under scrutiny since earlier this year when an 11-year-old boy died after reported abuse in johor , north of singapore .