( reuters ) - businessman chris kennedy , a member of the kennedy family political dynasty , on wednesday officially announced his campaign for governor of illinois in the november , 2018 election .
after months of speculation , the democratic candidate formally filed paperwork with the illinois state board of elections , said his spokesman , mark bergman .
kennedy , son of senator robert f. kennedy and nephew of president john f. kennedy , said he will run against republican governor bruce rauner and will work to create more jobs and restore the economy .
“ today , i am announcing my run for governor because i love illinois , but we have never been in worse shape , ” kennedy said in an emailed statement .
“ we don ’ t need incremental improvement - we need fundamental change in state government. ” since taking office in 2015 , rauner has feuded with the democratic-led state legislature , leaving the nation ’ s fifth most-populated state without a full-year operating budget .
no other state has gone 19 months , as illinois has , without passing a budget .
bergman said kennedy had previously considered a u.s. senate run in 2009 but concluded it was not the right time .
illinois republican party spokesman steven yaffe said in a statement that kennedy secretly met with the state ’ s house of representatives speaker mike madigan to “ kiss his ring. ” rauner has said madigan ’ s law firm poses a conflict of interest for the speaker .
kennedy , 53 , a chicago resident , is a former chairman of the university of illinois board of trustees .
he leads top box foods , a nonprofit organization he co-founded with his wife that provides affordable , healthy foods to chicago neighborhoods .
he also managed the merchandise mart , a landmark chicago exhibition hall , and currently oversees wolf point , a real estate development project in the city ’ s downtown .
kennedy ’ s father , robert f. kennedy , was assassinated in 1968 while serving as a u.s. senator .
his uncle , john f. kennedy , was assassinated in 1963 during his first term as president .