william mcgurn wall street journallet s get this straight .
calling hillary clinton a bigot has reporters asking every republican in sight if donald trump has gone too far .
but the clinton campaign releases a video saying mr. trump is the candidate of the ku klux klan , and it s all okey-dokey ? then again , mr. trump has already been likened to hitler , mussolini and stalin .
small wonder there s a collective ho-hum when democratic vice presidential nominee tim kaine says mr. trump is peddling kkk values .
this is what democrats do .
it didn t start with mr. trump , either .
for years democrats have portrayed the gop as one giant hate group.each presidential election , the drill goes like this : after republicans nominate someone , he immediately finds himself having to prove he s not a hater of african-americans , of women , of gays , etc.this year democrats added a twist .
mr. trump , they claim , represents a break with all those decent and lovable republicans such as mitt romney , john mccain and george w. bush .
of course , this isn t what they were saying back when these men were running for president .
in 2000 , for example , an naacp ad recreated the gruesome murder of james byrd to imply that then-gov .
bush was sympathetic to lynching black men .
over footage of a chain being dragged by a pickup truck , mr. byrd s daughter says , so when gov .
george w. bush refused to support hate-crimes legislation , it was like my father was killed all over again .
when john mccain ran in 2008 , barack obama warned that republicans would scare people by saying , you know , he doesn t look like all those other presidents on those dollar bills .
the mccain campaign fired back , accusing mr. obama of playing the race card from the bottom of the deck .
funny thing : all those reporters always hearing dog whistles from republicans somehow didn t hear this one .
in 2012 , when mitt romney went to the naacp and told them face-to-face about his opposition to obamacare , the stories were all about how he was really just trolling for the racist vote .
vice president joe biden put it more explicitly , telling a largely african-american audience that if mr. romney were to win , he d put ya ll back in chains .
the only difference today is that republicans now have a nominee giving as good as he gets continue article at the wall street journalread more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files