beijing ( reuters ) - china s graft-busters will be required to do more to protect detained suspects , such as informing families and employers within a day of their detention , state media said on friday , as part of efforts to revise a secret interrogation system .
president xi jinping has vowed that his war against graft in the ruling communist party will not ease until officials at all levels dare not , can not and do not want to be corrupt .
xi told top party leaders in october revision of the anti-graft architecture would include the scrapping of a controversial shuanggui system of secret interrogations , and the introduction of a new detention system .
protection for detained suspects have been added to a draft national supervision law under review by the national people s congress , china s legislature , according to the official xinhua news agency .
the latest version of the legislation says both families and employers of suspects must by notified within 24 hours of their detention , unless that might result in witness interference or evidence tampering , xinhua reported .
previously , either families or employers needed to be contacted and inspectors could keep a detention a secret if they feared any kind of interference , such as with witnesses or evidence .
xinhua said physical checks of female suspects would be carried out by female workers under the new rules .
rights groups have welcomed the proposed changes saying the old system allowed abuses and torture , but urged that the new system not simply repackage old ways .
the legislation is expected to be passed in march .
it will also legally empower a state supervision commission to oversee various anti-graft agencies and all civil servants .
under the proposed new rules , assets frozen or seized from suspects and later found to be unrelated to the investigation should be unfrozen or returned within three days , xinhua said .
cases should be thrown out if no evidence of a crime is found , xinhua said .