london ( reuters ) - britain wants an outline agreement with the european union by the end of march 2018 on the transitional arrangements that will apply temporarily after it leaves the bloc , brexit minister david davis said on wednesday .
davis was addressing confusion caused by prime minister theresa may this week over the exit timetable , but he then stumbled into a new row about when lawmakers would get to vote on a final deal .
his department later issued a clarification .
may is seeking a so-called implementation period of around two years after britain s exit from the eu in march 2019 , during which its access to the eu single market would stay largely unchanged while new arrangements are put in place .
i would be aiming to get certainly the outlines of it agreed , if we could , in the first quarter ( of 2018 ) ... but it s a negotiation , davis told a parliamentary committee .
earlier this week may unnerved corporate executives , keen to know the trading rules they will face , by saying any transitional deal would not be agreed until the entire exit agreement was sealed , more likely towards the end of 2018 .
last week eu leaders said at a summit that they would begin preparations to move into phase two of the brexit negotiations in december , a step forward that would allow london to discuss its future trade relationship with the bloc .
davis said he expected to receive guidance from the eu on its approach to a transitional period by december , and that a deal allowing britain to maintain conditions similar to the status quo would be struck quickly afterwards .
however , having reassured businesses on the trade deal , davis then angered lawmakers by suggesting the eu would push negotiations right up to the end of march 2019 , meaning parliament might have to vote to approve the exit deal after britain had already departed the bloc .
political opponents accused the government of trying to subvert democracy by not giving parliament a proper say .
a spokeswoman for davis department later issued a clarification , saying the government was working to get the final deal agreed by october 2018 and that it intended to give lawmakers a vote before britain left .
this morning the secretary of state ( davis ) was asked about hypothetical scenarios .
( chief eu negotiator ) michel barnier has said he hopes to get the deal agreed by october 2018 and that is our aim as well , the spokeswoman said .
may is already facing a rough ride in parliament on her minority government s key piece of brexit legislation , which is on hold while ministers plow through hundreds of proposed amendments - some of which have enough support to inflict an embarrassing defeat .
this u-turn exposes another self-created shambles in government over brexit , pat mcfadden , an opposition lawmaker , said in a statement issued by the pro-european campaign group open britain .
despite davis s comments on the transition deal , britain and the eu remain at odds on the overall timeline of the negotiations , which incorporate a withdrawal deal on the terms of the divorce , the transitional deal , and a future trade deal .
britain wants to finish everything by the time it leaves in early 2019 , while the eu thinks it could take until 2020 to tie up trade terms .
davis said he believed britain would be able to seal a trade and customs arrangement by the end of the two-year exit process , adding that it was important to do so to avoid getting trapped in a protracted negotiation .
it s not a good position to get into to be still negotiating during such an arrangement , davis said .
if we were doing the negotiation during a period of transition , i suspect what we would get offered is a year extension and another year extension , each time paying a fee .
an eu official said on tuesday that the eu will only negotiate on the details of a free trade deal after britain has actually left in march 2019 because the eu s own laws do not allow it to negotiate trade agreements with its own members .
asked about this approach , davis said a trade deal could be signed a nanosecond after britain leaves , implying that he hoped for a more flexible approach from brussels .