berlin ( reuters ) - germany on monday said its continued support for iraq and the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government was contingent on peaceful efforts by both sides to resolve their differences .
the german government has provided more than 1 billion euros ( $ 1.2 billion ) in humanitarian , development and stabilization aid to iraq since 2014 , making it one of the biggest international donors .
our support is for iraq as a unified state , foreign minister sigmar gabriel told reporters after meeting with krg prime minister nechirvan barzani in berlin .
we want to continue that , but the precondition is that iraq solves its internal conflicts peacefully and democratically , and that we find a way out of the tense situation we are in now .
gabriel noted that germany had warned the kurdish region against holding the sept. 25 referendum , in which iraqi kurds voted overwhelmingly to break away from iraq , and said the goal was to restore dialogue between the two sides .
the kurdish vote was rejected by baghdad and triggered an iraqi military offensive that recaptured disputed areas of the north from kurdish peshmerga fighters .
gabriel said berlin would push the government in baghdad to respond to offers of dialogue by the krg .
barzani urged germany to play a stronger role in bringing us together .
barzani also thanked germany for supporting his region s fight against islamic state , and training peshmerga fighters .
the german parliament voted last week to extend its military mission in northern iraq , around 150 strong , to the end of march to allow a new government to weigh a longer extension .
but the rise in tensions between kurds and baghdad has raised concern in germany about the mission s future .
after failing to agree on a new government with two smaller parties , chancellor angela merkel is now trying to rebuild the grand coalition with the social democrats ( spd ) that has ruled germany for the past four years .
it is unclear if gabriel , a former spd leader , would stay on as foreign minister if the two blocs reach a deal .
( $ 1 = 0.8480 euros )