riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi women will be allowed to drive from the age of 18 , a government spokesman said on thursday , partially allaying speculation they could still face tighter controls than men when finally allowed behind the wheel .
in a royal decree issued on tuesday , king salman ordered an end by next year of the ban on women drivers , a conservative tradition that has limited women s mobility and been seen by rights activists as an emblem of their suppression .
saudi arabia is the only country in the world that bans women from driving .
the decree stipulated that the move must apply and adhere to the necessary sharia standards , referring to islamic law , but did not elaborate , sparking speculation that restrictions might include a higher minimum age or limited hours of the day .
the king ordered a ministerial committee to report within 30 days on how to implement the new policy by june 24 , 2018 .
asked on al-arabiya tv about the minimum age for saudi women , interior ministry spokesman mansour al-turki said : eighteen years is the age at which a person can obtain a driver s license and drive a car in the kingdom .
united nations human rights experts praised the ban s removal as a major step towards women s autonomy and independence , but urged the kingdom to do more to ensure gender equality .
we now encourage the government to repeal all remaining discriminatory laws , two experts who report to the u.n. human rights council said in a joint statement .
if it is serious about the importance of women s rights for economic reform , addressing remaining barriers to the human rights of women should be the next step in its ambitious reforms , said the un investigator on extreme poverty philip alston and kamala chandrakirana , chair of the u.n. working group on discrimination against women .
the interior minister said separately that lifting the ban would reduce the number of car crashes in saudi arabia , which has one of the world s worst traffic death rates .
prince abdulaziz bin saud bin nayef , who took over from his uncle in june , said security forces were ready to apply traffic laws to men and women , though he did not mention if women would be recruited as traffic police .
women driving cars will transform traffic safety to educational practice which will reduce human and economic losses caused by accidents , he was quoted as saying on the ministry s twitter feed .
he did not elaborate .
around 20 saudis die each day in traffic accidents - in a population of 30 million .
the government aims to reduce that by a quarter as part of its vision 2030 reform program .
while saudi women have generally welcomed the lifting of the driving ban , some men expressed concern it would increase the number of cars on already crowded saudi roads .
a typical middle- to upper-class saudi family has two vehicles , one driven by the man of the house and a second car in which a full-time chauffeur transports his wife and children .
the royal decree promises to change lifestyles for many of the more than 10 million adult women , including foreigners , who live in saudi arabia and may help restore auto sales growth in a market dented by the economic fallout from weak oil prices .
but because of conservative traditions , it may actually take years rather than months for women to become a major presence on the roads in some areas .