( refiles october 30th story to add dropped name in third paragraph ) ankara ( reuters ) - a turkish mayor announced on monday he had quit his post and left president tayyip erdogan s ruling ak party after pressure and threats beyond unbearable , becoming the sixth mayor in recent weeks to fall victim of a purge of local government .
ahmet edip ugur , mayor of the northwestern province of balikesir , became the first mayor to speak out against the purge , declaring at a news conference that democracy in turkey was broken and at one point breaking into tears .
there is no corruption , no irregularity , no failures on my side ... but despite this , there are pressures and threats coming all the way into your home and to your family .
this is beyond unbearable , ugur said , adding that he had no ties to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen .
ankara accuses gulen s network of engineering a failed military coup last year .
gulen denies involvement .
since that attempted putsch , erdogan has carried out a wideranging purge of turkish society , from the military and police to the judiciary and academia .
more than 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over alleged links to gulen , while 150,000 have been sacked or suspended from jobs .
erdogan says the action is necessary to root out subversive elements loyal to gulen and to maintian stability in turkey .
ugur said he was sorry , hurt , but in peace , before breaking into tears .
ugur s resignation followed those of the high profile istanbul and ankara mayors .
melih gokcek , a staunch erdogan loyalist who has been mayor of ankara for 23 years and won five consecutive elections , quit on saturday .
i leave my post of mayor upon orders from our leader recep tayyip erdogan , gokcek said in a televised speech .
this is not because i think i m unsuccessful , tired or for some other reason .
i am solely realising the request of recep tayyip erdogan , who i believe will make my country a leading nation .
four other ak mayors have stepped down since september , including istanbul mayor kadir topbas , on orders from erdogan , who says he is seeking a renewal of the ak party he founded and which has governed turkey since 2002 .