if his name was michael brown if he robbed a local convenience store and roughed up the store manager if he tried to take a gun from the cop who confronted him and was killed by it in the struggle , the media might have covered it .
but this was just an innocent 17 year old boy minding his own business when he was faced with the awful decision of whether to risk his own life and save the life of a total stranger or stand back and watch an elderly woman be killed .
this hero chose to sacrifice his own life .
if we lived in a world where real heroism is not celebrated because it s not controversial .
in a good and decent world , raekwon juaquay brown s name would be more of a household name than that of thug michael brown .
but we live in a world where the left celebrates victimhood and real or imagined , a good victim can always be used to prop up a cause .
# rip raekwon juaquay brown you are a hero .
seventeen-year-old raekwon juaquay brown sacrificed his life when he pushed an elderly woman out of the way of gunfire before he was slain in wednesday s daylight shooting near jeremiah e. burke high school , the grief-stricken lady told the herald just hours before a vigil honoring the young hero .
he saved my life i have a new life , the woman , 67 , said in spanish yesterday while tears streamed down her face .
he was only 17 .
i ve lived here 10 years , i ve never seen anything like this .
there needs to be more police here , she said , showing a wound to her right ankle , where police say she was grazed.the woman was one of four people struck by gunfire in the 1:15 p.m. ambush that left brown , a burke high junior , dead .
her name is being withheld by the herald because she is a witness to the murder.she explained she was in an alley by a pizza shop when the shooting broke out .
the teen , who was sitting down eating a hamburger , got up and pushed her to the side by a car , she claimed.last night hundreds of people , including at least a dozen family members , crowded in front of the market on washington street less than a block from the school where brown fell.some men turned and walked away in tears while several women dabbed their eyes with tissues from a box that was being passed around .
brown s mother , wanda graddy , supported by several relatives , walked toward a memorial for her son , where she cried , my boy , my boy .
the rev .
william dickerson of the greater love tabernacle church spoke first and called for the killer to step forward and for witnesses to name him .
we pray that justice will come in the midst of this terrible reality , dickerson said.family members said they hope that whoever pulled the trigger will surrender .
stop being cowards , said raekwon s older brother , john brown .
stand up like a man .
take your consequences .
beside him was the slain teen s godmother , jacqueline cane .
i just want you to know , whoever did it , turn yourself in , she said .
you re not going to sleep until you turn yourself in .
that was a good guy here .
this was my god-baby .
seventeen years old , you took his life .
turn yourself in or you will never rest .
mourners said another prayer and then hugged as they departed.burke school staff also took time out from the day to recall brown as a selfless teen .
raekwon was probably one of the most loving and caring students i have ever had in the sophomore academy , said cheryl windle , leader for the academy .
he actually had this warmth about him that i really believe captures his true essence .
he will truly be missed by all of us here at the burke community .
lindsa mcintyre , headmaster of burke , said students and staff will miss brown dearly .
he came to us as a vibrant , struggling , middle school student , looking for fun and full of vim and vigor .
but as he grew in his high school career , he became a metamorphosis for what a real burke student looks like .
via : boston herald