washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on monday endorsed a move by saudi arabia s future king that tightened his grip on power through the arrests of royals , ministers and investors in an anti-corruption purge .
the endorsement cemented a u.s.-saudi relationship that has improved dramatically under trump s presidency , partly because of both leaders vision of confronting riyadh s arch-rival iran more aggressively in the region .
trump tweeted on monday that he had great confidence in king salman and the crown prince of saudi arabia following the mass arrests - the biggest such purge of the kingdom s affluent elite in its modern history .
trump also tweeted that they know exactly what they are doing , adding : some of those they are harshly treating have been milking their country for years .
the purge was the latest in a series of dramatic steps by crown prince mohammed bin salman , or mbs as he is commonly referred to in western circles , to assert saudi influence internationally and amass more power for himself at home .
a u.s. official who declined to be named told reuters that mbs has become the primary driver of saudi policy-making .
he has moved aggressively to sideline opponents , concentrate decision-making authority , and establish himself as the undisputed heir to the al saud legacy .
he seeks to reinvigorate the public s confidence in the saudi monarchy by diversifying the economy , loosening religious restrictions , and carrying out wide ranging social reforms , the official said .
trump s son-in-law , jared kushner , the president s senior adviser , who has cultivated a close relationship with mbs , recently returned from saudi arabia , fuelling speculation on whether he may have had wind of mbs plans .
the white house said at the time the trip was reported that it was within the context of kushner s efforts on israeli-palestinian peace conversations .
among those arrested were billionaire investor alwaleed bin talal , who is one of the kingdom s most prominent businessmen and whose investments in companies like twitter make him the most recognized saudi name on wall street .
it s an impressive feat to have basically neutered virtually all of the sources of potential opposition , dissent rivalry , whether it s religious , media , political , military , said rob malley , vice president for policy of the international crisis group .
on the other hand ... it s always risky to make too many enemies at the same time .
it s not clear how those enemies can react , said malley , a former senior adviser on middle east affairs under president barack obama .
also detained was prince miteb bin abdullah , who was replaced as minister of the national guard , a pivotal power base rooted in the kingdom s tribes .
that recalled a palace coup in june that ousted mohammed bin nayef as heir to the throne .
a former senior u.s. intelligence official cautioned that given the national guard s loyalties , mbs could face a backlash .
i find it difficult to believe that it ( national guard ) will simply roll over and accept the imposition of new leadership in such an arbitrary fashion .
anti-iranian confrontation u.s.-saudi ties had been strained under obama , who riyadh felt considered their alliance less important than negotiating the iran nuclear deal .
but the trump administration has vowed to confront iran much more aggressively in the region , where it shares the saudi view that tehran is fomenting instability via a number of proxies in lebanon , syria and yemen among other countries .
tehran denies the allegations .
events in saudi arabia in recent days appeared to open the prospect for a sharper confrontation with iran and its proxies .
saudi arabia accused lebanon on monday of declaring war against it because of what it called aggression by the iran-backed lebanese shi ite group hezbollah .
saudi-allied lebanese politician saad al-hariri quit as prime minister on saturday , announcing his resignation from riyadh and blaming iran and hezbollah in his resignation speech .
also on saturday , saudi arabia s air defense forces intercepted a ballistic missile fired from warring yemen over the capital , riyadh .
the pentagon praised saudi arabia for exposing iran s role in yemen and tehran s provision of missile systems to houthi militia fighting there .
between that ( hariri s resignation ) and the missile launch on riyadh ... the coincidence of those two does mean that the prospect of some escalation , some strike either against hezbollah or against iran or against both is more likely , certainly than it was a few days ago , malley told reuters .