sydney ( reuters ) - approximately two hundred men held in a remote australian-run detention center will be moved to a new facility within weeks , the country s immigration minister said .
peter dutton , australia s immigration minister , said those men who have their refugee applications denied , ruling them ineligible for resettlement to the united states , and who are from countries such as iran which precludes forced deportations , will be transferred to a new detention facility within papua new guinea ( png ) after oct. 31 .
those people , who total about 200 , who have been found not to be refugees are to be moved into an alternative place of detention away from the regional processing center , dutton told australia s parliament .
dutton s comments mark the first insight into how australia plans to manage the end of its policy of detaining asylum seekers in png , where 800 men are held , many of whom for four years .
canberra s hardline immigration policy requires asylum seekers intercepted at sea trying to reach australia to be sent for processing at camps on png s manus island and on nauru .
they are told they will never be settled in australia .
question marks remain , however , about the fate of the remaining men on manus as a refugee swap deal with the united states stalls .
former u.s. president barack obama late last year agreed to resettle up to 1,250 asylum seekers held in australian immigration centers in png and nauru .
in exchange , australia agreed to take central american refugees .
australia had hoped the men would have been resettled by oct. 31 but with the swap deal stalling under president trump after the u.s. hit it annual intake cap , canberra is left seeking a solution .
australia s security contract with spanish company ferrovial sa will expire on oct. 31 , forcing the closure of the camp that has been subject to violence from locals .
png officials have sought to transfer the men to a transit center nearby but nearly all , citing fears of violence , have refused despite threats that it may rule them out of u.s. resettlement .
we are not willing to move from the center unless we are leaving for a country that is safe , said one , who declined to be identified because of the fear it would jeopardize his application for u.s. resettlement .