washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential nominee donald trump ’ s promise to restore american jobs by renegotiating international trade deals appears to be failing him in states most affected by outsourcing , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
voters in michigan , ohio and pennsylvania - three competitive states in the nov. 8 election that form the bulk of a region dubbed the rust belt for its swaths of shuttered factories - favor trump ’ s democratic rival , hillary clinton , on the issue of trade , according to the polling , with some respondents citing how international trade can bring down prices .
the results underscore the uphill battle the new york businessman faces on election day , when he needs to sweep a broad array of battleground states to win the white house .
“ trump has made a strong effort to portray clinton as favorable to trade policies that he has labeled ‘ a disaster ’ for the united states , ” said thomas nelson , a political science professor at ohio state university .
in the automaking state of michigan , which has voted reliably for democratic candidates in recent presidential elections but which trump has fought hard to win , some 40 percent of likely voters believed clinton would be better equipped to address trade , compared with 36 percent for trump .
in ohio , known for its aerospace , steel and rubber industries , 45 percent said clinton would be better on trade , compared with 38 percent for trump .
in pennsylvania , long a steel and heavy manufacturing center , 45 percent favored clinton on trade , compared with 38 percent for trump , according to the polling , conducted in mid-october .
clinton is leading trump in all three states among likely voters , with advantages of 4 points in michigan , 3 points in ohio and 6 points in pennsylvania , according to the reuters/ipsos polling .
but other polls show the race tightening in those states .
realclearpolitics , which averages data from most major polls , shows clinton leading trump by 6.6 points in michigan and 5.1 points in pennsylvania , and trump leading clinton by 2.7 points in ohio .
officials for trump ’ s campaign did not respond to a request for comment .
poll respondents reached by reuters who favored clinton on trade mainly gave two reasons - first , that international trade deals can help people by lowering prices for goods ; and second , they doubt trump can deliver on his promise to restore the u.s. manufacturing sector .
“ we all like to have inexpensive items , ” ronald lane , 56 , of canonsburg , pennsylvania , who plans to vote for a third-party candidate next week as a protest against both trump and clinton .
“ i think it ’ s important to save american jobs which have already gone overseas , but i don ’ t believe there is much that can be done to bring them back , ” he said .
christina ledesma , of grand rapids , michigan , a clinton supporter , said she also disagreed with trump that the economy would suffer a lasting negative effect from trade deals .
“ our unemployment rate is lower than it ’ s been since 2008 .
what jobs are you bringing back ? ” she said .
michigan ’ s unemployment rate was 4.6 percent in september , below the national average of 5 percent .
ohio ’ s was at 4.8 percent and pennsylvania ’ s at 5.7 percent .
trump has called the north american free trade agreement with canada and mexico one of the worst deals ever struck and blames it for manufacturing jobs being moved to mexico .
he also opposes the trans-pacific partnership , which would open markets in east asia .
trump argues that the deal , which must be ratified by congress , would motivate more u.s. companies to move their production overseas .
last week while campaigning , he called outsourcing “ the greatest job theft in the history of the world ” .
“ the jobs theft will end … the day i start the presidency .
it ’ s going to be america first again , ” he said .
clinton has offered a more tempered approach , saying she would seek to re-evaluate nafta if elected and that there were problems with some aspects of the tpp .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english from oct. 6 to oct. 17 in michigan and pennsylvania , and from oct. 6 to oct. 12 in ohio .
it included 1,370 likely voters in michigan , 1,467 in pennsylvania , and 1,200 in ohio .
all three state polls had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .