sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - about 38 percent of california republicans support billionaire donald trump ’ s bid for the u.s. presidency , but more than half say they are not satisfied with their choices of candidates , a new opinion poll shows .
the poll released by the public policy institute of california on wednesday also shows that among democrats who are likely primary voters , former secretary of state hillary clinton leads u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont with 48 percent support compared with sanders ’ 41 percent .
the survey also showed that california democrats are much more likely to be satisfied with their presidential choices than republicans .
among democratic voters surveyed , 65 percent said they were satisfied with their choices of candidates , while just 46 percent of republicans say they were satisfied with the field .
among independents , who make up nearly a quarter of registered voters in the most populous u.s. state , satisfaction with primary choices is even lower , at 34 percent .
democrats , who make up 43 percent of registered voters in the state , break along age lines in their support for clinton or sanders , the poll showed .
voters aged 45 and older skewed heavily for clinton at 63 percent , while the same percentage of voters below age 45 said they support sanders .
the u.s. presidential election is on nov. 8 .
the ppic poll showed an increase in support for trump when compared with a poll by the field research corporation in january .
in that survey , trump and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas were in a statistical tie at roughly 25 percent each .
since then , however , several candidates have dropped out of the crowded republican race .
nationwide , reuters polling conducted on tuesday showed trump with a commanding lead among republicans at 44.6 percent .
by comparison , 26.9 percent said they supported cruz and 19.8 percent supported ohio governor john kasich .
the ppic poll of 1,710 adult california residents was conducted march 6-15 , and has a margin of error of 3.6 percent .
polling ended on the night that u.s .
senator marco rubio dropped out of the race for the republican nomination .