belgrade ( reuters ) - when a court on the dutch north sea coast issues its final verdict this week , it will signal the end of an experiment that has reverberated around the world , from the killing fields of rwanda to the cia s secret cells in europe .
the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) , set up by the united nations in 1993 , marked the biggest leap in the field of international criminal law since the allies tried the nazis in nuremberg .
created in answer to the worst war crimes in europe since world war two , it set a precedent of accountability that has since put the khmer rouge and liberia s charles taylor in the dock and paved the way for a court with global ambition .
almost 25 years later , its legacy is under threat .
the international criminal court ( icc ) , opened in 2002 , is undermined by renewed west-russia rivalry , stone-walling and revolt in africa , barrel bombs in syria and a boycott by three of five permanent members of the u.n. security council .
supporters of the yugoslav tribunal say it will remain a beacon inspiring a growing demand for justice and creativeness in delivering it from ad hoc tribunals in africa to the conviction in one country of a dictator from another and that of a syrian in sweden after a post on facebook .
the glass is either half full or half empty , said alex whiting , professor of practice at harvard law school .
you can say we haven t come far enough and the new institutions , particularly the icc , have not replicated the success of the icty , but you can just as easily say it s remarkable how far we ve come in just 25 years , he said .
the icty is the north star .
the yugoslav tribunal owes a debt to history , born as it was between the end of the cold war and the 9/11 attacks on the united states , when russia was weak and the west was united in collective action .
for decades before , conflicts from vietnam to algeria , afghanistan to sri lanka escaped major judicial scrutiny .
backed by the arrest-power of western peacekeepers and the readiness of the european union to condition integration with yugoslavia s successor states on their cooperation , the tribunal issued 161 indictments and secured 83 convictions .
wednesday s verdict in the trial of bosnian serb wartime commander ratko mladic will be its last , bar appeals .
the yugoslav court was the first to indict a sitting head of state in serbia s slobodan milosevic , recognized sexual violence as a crime of war and advanced the definition of genocide .
with the u.n. tribunal for rwanda , it assembled the hybrid case law used by tribunals in sierra leone , cambodia , lebanon and ultimately the icc .
its 2.5 million pages of transcripts offer a forensic and often harrowing account of a state s dissolution that dispels the fog of wartime propaganda .
more than 4,500 witnesses took the stand .
i committed myself to speak on behalf of those who did not survive , said nusreta sivac , a former judge in bosnia who testified to her rape by bosnian serb captors .
the tribunal rulings will write history .
detractors say the court was slow , expensive and damaged by a number of high-profile acquittals .
milosevic died in 2006 while still on trial , while some cases were plagued by witness intimidation .
the tribunal was supposed to help with reconciliation , but revisionism is rife and convicted war criminals often feted as heroes .
critics argue the indictment of milosevic , at the height of nato air strikes against him , only complicated the conflict and encouraged him to cling on , which he did for another 17 months .
similar arguments have been made against the icc s pursuit of some african leaders .
established by treaty and boycotted by the united states , china and russia , the icc has little of the clout of the icty .
with only one arab member , it has found the bulk of its work in africa .
alleging bias , burundi quit the court last month .
kenya and south africa have threatened to follow .
the court s credibility has already been tested by the collapse in 2014 of a case against kenyan president uhuru kenyatta and sudanese president omar al-bashir s eight-year evasion of arrest .
most glaring is its impotence in the face of nearly half a million dead in syria , its hands tied by russian and chinese vetoes in the security council , which can refer a case to the court in a non-member state such as syria .
the icc denies any bias against africa and is at various stages of investigation in georgia , iraq , ukraine , colombia and palestine , though it can expect to make little progress in investigating conflicts involving russia or the united states .
in a watershed moment , prosecutors this month called for a formal investigation into war crimes in afghanistan , including the mistreatment of detainees by u.s. forces in the country and at cia dark sites in poland , romania and lithuania .
experts say the move is symbolic of the court s ambition , but also of its limitations , given the unlikelihood of any cooperation from the trump administration .
the yugoslav tribunal demonstrated that , with strong political and diplomatic support from the international community , justice can be achieved , its chief prosecutor serge brammertz told reuters .
but without that support , the obstacles can be almost insurmountable .
kevin jon heller , law professor at the university of amsterdam , said of the icc : i strongly doubt it is ever going to fulfill the aspirations of the people in the states that created it .
nevertheless , demands for accountability are multiplying , along with avenues to pursue them .
experts point to the 2016 conviction of chad ex-dictator , hissene habre , in a senegalese court , the first time universal jurisdiction was used to prosecute the former ruler of one country by a court in another for human rights crimes .
the same principle saw a syrian soldier convicted by a swedish court last month , partly on the basis of social media posts , while authorities in sweden and germany are each investigating more than a dozen individuals for crimes in syria and iraq .
with the security council paralyzed , the u.n. general assembly has launched its own ad hoc mechanism to investigate war crimes in syria .
a hybrid tribunal is in the works in central african republic and another mooted for south sudan .
what has not ebbed in the last five to seven years , and in fact what has only increased , is the demand for justice , and an expectation that it will translate into action , said param-preet singh , an associate director at human rights watch .
the icty and efforts since have changed the conversation , said whiting .
it is for that reason this project will never die , he said .
it will go into dormancy , but it will never die .