berlin ( reuters ) - the german government should revoke landing rights for kuwait airways given its ban on israeli passengers , a senior justice department official said on friday , saying such discrimination was intolerable .
christian lange , parliamentary state secretary in the ministry , appealed to chancellor angela merkel to personally advocate a ban on kuwait airways operations in germany .
a german court ruled on thursday that the airline had the right to refuse to carry an israeli passenger due to his nationality , a verdict that jewish groups said condoned anti-semitism .
lange told merkel in the letter that he had received countless phone calls from members of the jewish community and from others in israel , expressing shock about the court ruling , made just days after germany solemnly marked the anniversary of the nov. 9 , 1938 nazi pogroms against the jews .
we can not say never again at a remembrance ceremony , but then remain silent when activists in germany call for a boycott of israel , or , as in this case , when an airline refuses to carry israeli citizens , lange said .
especially the german government must make clear that we reject this form of discrimination and hate , and that we stand by the side of our israeli friends , he told the chancellor .
the lawfare project , the legal group that represented the plaintiff in the case , has vowed to appeal against the ruling .
to see a jewish person banned from exercising his freedoms in germany in 2017 is chilling enough .
to see that discrimination whitewashed and legitimized by a german judge is grotesque , said the group s executive director , brooke goldstein .
deputy german foreign minister michael roth also criticized the airline s policy , telling die welt newspaper that he had contacted the kuwaiti ambassador in germany about the issue .
german transport minister christian schmidt told bild newspaper that it was not acceptable to discriminate against airline passengers because of their nationality , and said the german government would address the matter with the kuwaiti government .
this requires contacts at the ministerial level , schmidt told the newspaper in an interview to be published on saturday .
we will do all we can within our legal means to prevent something like this in the future , schmidt told the paper .
there was no immediate response to a request for comment emailed to the airline .