the irony in this situation is pretty huge .
prince didn t like meddling in his music or business but now the government will be taking over half of his life s earnings in taxes .
the problem is that prince wasn t married if he d been married the estate would have gone to his wife .
pretty sad scenario of death and then taxes .if prince were married , he could have passed on the entirety of his estate to his spouse tax free .
however , without a spouse , only $ 1.6 million of prince s estate will be free from minnesota s death tax and only $ 5.45 million will escape the federal death tax .
prince , the iconic pop star who once was the artist formerly known as prince in protest of the record labels , unexpectedly died last week and he didn t have a will .
he also wasn t married , so the government will get most of the proceeds of his massive estate.since his death i ve read that he was a closet conservative , and i ve read that he was a big liberal .
so i don t know what his political leanings were , but what does seem clear is that he wasn t a fan of others profiting off of his musical genius .
so it s kind of sad that the government will take more than fifty percent of his life s work.both the federal government and minnesota s state government will assess so-called death taxes or estate taxes on prince s assets , taking away more than half his estate .
between his physical assets cash , investments , home , etc .
and his future royalties , prince s estate has been estimated to be between $ 300 and $ 500 million .
if prince were married , he could have passed on the entirety of his estate to his spouse tax free .
however , without a spouse , only $ 1.6 million of prince s estate will be free from minnesota s death tax and only $ 5.45 million will escape the federal death tax.the combination of minnesota s top death tax rate of 16 percent , plus the federal government s 40 percent rate , means that over 50 percent of prince s estate will go to the government.read more : lonely conservative