niamey ( reuters ) - gunmen on pick-up trucks and motorcycles coming from mali killed 13 gendarmes and wounded five more in an attack on their base in western niger , security sources said on saturday .
the village is a few dozen kilometers ( miles ) from where militants killed four u.s. soldiers in an ambush on oct. 4 that has thrown a spotlight on a u.s. counter-terrorism mission in niger , a country that straddles an expanse of the sahara .
niger s military officials confirmed the attack .
the assailants crossed over the border from mali and drove up to the village of ayorou , about 40 km ( 25 miles ) inside , before springing their attack , the security sources said .
they were heavily armed .
they had rocket launchers and machine guns .
they came in four vehicles each with about seven fighters , said a security source on the scene .
reinforcements later arrived and stopped them as they tried to cross back over the border , another security source on the scene said , triggering a gun battle .
they escaped into mali and were being pursued , he added .
land and air forces are pursuing the assailants with a view to neutralising them , a statement from niger s military said , confirming the death toll .
in the initial attack one of the assailants was killed in an exchange of fire but others managed to make off with four nigerien army vehicles , the first security source said .
since taking over swathes of northern mali in 2012 , and then being scattered by a french-led counter-offensive the following year , islamist militants have established themselves in lawless spaces across the desert .
they have used these areas as a springboard for a wave of attacks that threaten to destabilize west africa .
fighters have inflicted damage on military outposts , killed security officials and civilians , kidnapped westerners and sometimes mounted high-profile attacks on hotels and resorts across the region , including in burkina faso and ivory coast .
several islamist groups and well-armed ethnic militia operate in the area along the mali-niger border .
there have been at least 46 attacks there since early last year .
however , officials suspect many of them , including the ambush on the joint u.s.-niger patrol , to be the work of the islamic state in the greater sahara , led by arabic-speaking north african militant adnan walid al-sahrawi .
he has pledged allegiance to islamic state militants in iraq and syria , although the extent of their ties are not known .
no group has yet claimed responsibility for saturday s attack , nor the one that killed the u.s. soldiers .
responding to its ever growing militant threat , mali on saturday announced a year extension of a state of emergency .
i hope we won t need to continue extending the state of emergency , defence minister tiena coulibaly told reporters .
we hope that before oct. 31 , 2018 , order will be restored .
the increasingly fluid , cross-border nature of the militant threat forced the sahel countries mali , niger , chad , mauritania and burkina faso to launch a joint force known as g5 sahel in july , to try better coordinate policing their deserts .
but it has yet to receive a commitment to more than a fraction of the donor funding that it needs .
a u.n. security council delegation was in mali on saturday to discuss the force .
this tragedy is one more element that ... underlines the urgency of a strong and determined response through the creation of the joint g5 sahel force , french permanent representative to the u.n. francois delattre told journalists during the meetings .