hong kong/beijing ( reuters ) - china said on thursday it had the right to bar people from hong kong , a day after a british activist was denied entry to the former british colony , and that it had complained to britain after it demanded an explanation .
hong kong returned to chinese rule in 1997 under a one country , two systems formula that promises it a high degree of autonomy and freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland .
but critics have accused the government of bending to the will of communist party leaders in beijing and of a gradual watering down of the territory s freedoms , including freedom of speech and right to protest .
british foreign secretary boris johnson said he was very concerned that benedict rogers , a co-founder of the conservative party s human rights commission , was denied entry to hong kong on wednesday and demanded an urgent explanation from hong kong and china .
it came a week before a sensitive communist party leadership meeting starts in beijing .
johnson also said hong kong s high degree of autonomy , rights and freedoms were central to its way of life .
rogers has been a vocal critic of china-ruled hong kong s treatment of political activists , including that of jailed student leader joshua wong .
he believes the decision to bar him was made by chinese officials after the chinese embassy in london had warned him earlier , through a british member of parliament , that he wouldn t be allowed in .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said the central government had a responsibility for foreign matters related to hong kong .
the central chinese government and the special administrative region government handle the relevant issue in accordance with the law , hua said .
allowing or not allowing people in is china s sovereignty ... hong kong affairs are a purely internal matter for china .
she said china had lodged a solemn representation with britain , meaning an official complaint .
when asked about the incident on a radio talk show , hong kong leader carrie lam agreed .
ultimately , under the basic law ( hong kong s mini-constitution ) , the central government is responsible for foreign affairs , lam said .
asked if immigration controls fell under hong kong jurisdiction , lam said : it has to be considered whether foreign affairs are involved during the process of immigration .
if you say everything falls under hong kong s high degree of autonomy , this is not what the basic law says .
rogers , speaking to reuters shortly after arriving in london , said beijing s statement confirmed his assumption that the decision to boot him out was made not by hong kong but by chinese authorities .
he described the interference in hong kong s immigration controls as very alarming and a very serious threat to one country , two systems .
china has now revealed its hand .
the world ought to have woken up a long time ago , but i think now they really ought to wake up to what this means for one country , two systems , he said .
i m very sad for what this means for hong kong .
the former head of hong kong s civil service turned pro-democracy activist , anson chan , said the case was a serious breach of the basic law .
article 154 of the basic law says hong kong may apply immigration controls on entry of foreigners into hong kong .
the immigration department must have sought instructions from on high , she told reuters .
they ( beijing ) are sending a message that if you dare speak out on hong kong ... you will not be allowed in .
amnesty international s east asia director , nicholas bequelin , suggested china s definition of what constitutes national security is creeping into hong kong .
in china if you re critical of the political system , you re committing a national security crime and this is exactly the type of thing one country , two systems should protect against .
in response to a reuters request for comment on whether china was involved in rogers denial of entry , hong kong s immigration department said it did not comment on individual cases .
china has admitted asking a group of british mps to cancel a visit to hong kong in 2014 during the massive pro-democracy protests , of which joshua wong was a leader , that paralyzed highways for 79 days .
hong kong has , on occasion , barred entry to individuals including dissidents , such as former leaders of the 1989 tiananmen square protests in beijing and a danish sculptor , jens galschiot , who made a tiananmen sculpture .