london ( reuters ) - the united states must consider the full threat it says iran poses to the middle east when formulating its new policy toward tehran , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said on thursday , adding that iran had breached the spirit of a 2015 nuclear deal .
tillerson , made the comments during a visit to britain to see prime minister theresa may and foreign minister boris johnson .
the trip was billed as focusing on the relief effort after hurricane irma , how to respond to north korea s nuclear test , and resolving the political deadlock in libya .
but he was outspoken in his criticism of iran when asked whether he believed it was meeting the obligations of a 2015 international nuclear agreement designed to curb an iranian nuclear program in return for lifting most western sanctions .
tillerson cited the preface of the nuclear deal , which calls on iran to contribute positively to regional security .
in our view , iran is clearly in default of these expectations ... through their actions to prop up the assad regime ( in syria ) , to engage in malicious activities in the region , including cyber activities , aggressively developing ballistic missiles , he told a news conference .
we have to consider the totality of iran s activities and not let our view be defined solely by the nuclear agreement .
he was speaking before the united states announced it had imposed sanctions on seven iranian individuals and two entities , alleging involvement in either malicious cyber activities or enabling tehran s ballistic missile program .
u.s. president donald trump has previously expressed doubts about the nuclear deal , and in april his administration said it would review whether the lifting of sanctions against iran was in the united states national security interest .
trump is weighing a strategy that could allow more aggressive u.s. responses to iran s forces , its shi ite muslim proxies in iraq and syria , and its support for militant groups .
earlier on thursday , a north korean state agency threatened to reduce the united states to ashes and darkness for supporting a u.n. security council resolution and sanctions over its latest nuclear test .
tillerson said he was hopeful that china would decide to use the powerful tool of oil supplies to put pressure on pyongyang , but conceded that it would be difficult to agree an oil embargo through the united nations security council .
north korea carried out its sixth and largest nuclear test earlier this month .
i am hopeful that china , as a great country , a world power , will decide on their own , will take it upon themselves to use that very powerful tool of oil supply to persuade north korea to reconsider its current path towards weapons development , reconsider its approach to dialogue and negotiations in the future , he said .
commenting on violence in myanmar against the minority rohingya population , tillerson said the country faced a defining moment .
i think it is important that the global community speak out in support of what we all know the expectation is for the treatment of people regardless of their ethnicity , he added .
this violence must stop , this persecution must stop .
he said he understood that myanmar s aung san suu kyi , a nobel prize laureate and de facto head of the government in myanmar , was in a power-sharing agreement with the military and it was a complex situation in which she found herself .
( corrects seventh paragraph to say ballistic missile program , not nuclear program . )