dubai ( reuters ) - fighters loyal to the armed houthi movement on wednesday decried as evil the group s main ally in yemen s civil war , ex-president ali abdullah saleh , widening an unusual public rift as they fight a saudi-led coalition for control of the country .
the popular committees , a body of rank and file pro-houthi combatants , condemned saleh s description of them in a speech as a militia , criticizing the former leader who remains one of yemen s most powerful politicians and military figures .
what ( saleh ) said transgressed a red line and he could have only fallen into this because he s evil and void of every good , patriotic or religious characteristic , the collection of tribal and volunteer fighters said in a statement .
the tactical alliance between saleh and the houthis has often appeared fragile , with both groups suspicious of each other s ultimate motives and sharing little ideological ground .
while president , saleh waged six wars against the houthis from 2002 to 2009 and was for many years an ally of convenience for saudi arabia .
big switches of loyalty are a feature of yemen s byzantine political landscape , particularly since 2011 arab spring unrest which led to saleh s fall in 2012 .
a war of words has escalated in recent days between the iran-allied houthis and saleh , who together run northern yemen .
the two factions have traded barbs on responsibility for challenges such as unemployment and mounting hunger after 2-1/2 years of fighting the internationally recognized government , based in the south and backed by the saudi-led coalition .
the alliance intervened in the civil war in 2015 to restore the government to power in the capital sanaa .
but the conflict , which has killed at least 10,000 people , is in stalemate .
at least 30 people were killed in an air strike that hit a small hotel north of sanaa on wednesday , the houthis said .
the saudi-led coalition has controlled yemeni air space since the war began .
based in the southern port city of aden , the government struggles to impose its writ over militias and armed groups there , but strife now looms for its northern foes .
in a speech on sunday , saleh summoned party supporters to hold a mass rally in sanaa on aug. 24 , a planned show of force that has deeply irritated the houthis .
their leadership convened on wednesday and recommended the announcement of a state of emergency and suspension of all party activity , telling saleh s supporters any mass gatherings should be made on battlefronts , not in public squares .
in comments that may deepen houthi suspicions , the united arab emirates minister of state for foreign affairs , anwar gargash , spoke approvingly of the rift , saying it may represent an opportunity to break ( yemen s ) political deadlock .