climate grifter al gore is confronted about global warming and sea levels in this classic video where he just can t explain himself .
one of the challenges is taking what the scientists say and believing al goreour latest on al gore : nasa s new climate data exposes al gore s lies : the timing of his new movie couldn t be more inconveniental gore has become very wealthy from his invention of global warming and the creation of an inconvenient truth , a documentary which has been included in the science curricula of schools throughout the united states .
however , the more real climate data we see , the more obvious the hoax becomes.this data couldn t come at a worse time for al gore , as his sequel to an inconvenient truth , released on july 28 , got panned by critics.a.v .
club called an inconvenient truth less a movie than a glorified powerpoint presentation .a new study from nasa confirms sea levels are falling not rising.iceagenow.info reports : nasa satellite sea level observations for the past 24 years show that on average sea levels have been rising 3.4 millimeters per year .
that s 0.134 inches , about the thickness of a dime and a nickel stacked together , per year .
as i said , that s the average .
but when you focus in on 2016 and 2017 , you get a different picture.sea levels fell in 2016 , and with all of this winter s record-breaking snowfall , i wouldn t be surprised if they decline again this year.i clicked and zoomed on the above chart as nasa suggested , and obtained a close-up screen shot of sea levels from jan 2016 to march 2017 .
this clearly shows the decline.al gore has falsely predicted that sea levels would rise by 20 feet , with some of the world s largest cities underwater.world tribune reports : although the un s intergovernmental panel on climate change ( ipcc ) only predicts a sea level rise of 59cm ( 17 inches ) by 2100 , al gore in his oscar-winning film an inconvenient truth went much further , talking of 20 feet , and showing computer graphics of cities such as shanghai and san francisco half under water , booker noted .
we all know the graphic showing central london in similar plight .
as for tiny island nations such as the maldives and tuvalu , as prince charles likes to tell us and the archbishop of canterbury was again parroting last week , they are due to vanish .
all of the talk about the sea rising is nothing but a colossal scare story , booker said , citing swedish geologist and physicist nils-axel morner , formerly chairman of the inqua international commission on sea level change , who for 35 years has been using every known scientific method to study sea levels all over the globe .
despite fluctuations down as well as up , the sea is not rising , morner says .
it hasn t risen in 50 years .
if there is any rise this century it will not be more than 10cm ( four inches ) , with an uncertainty of plus or minus 10cm .
and quite apart from examining the hard evidence , he says , the elementary laws of physics ( latent heat needed to melt ice ) tell us that the apocalypse conjured up by al gore and co. could not possibly come about .
gateway pundit