dublin ( reuters ) - irish student ibrahim halawa was greeted by cheering crowds at dublin airport on tuesday as he arrived home following his acquittal last month in a four-year mass trial .
halawa , who was born and raised in dublin and is a son of the most senior muslim cleric in ireland , was 17 when he was arrested along with hundreds of others in 2013 as part of a crackdown on protests in egypt .
it still feels like a dream , it s a moment i ve waited for four years .
i m a free man .
i m hoping i can get my life back , get back to college and get my career , a smiling halawa , draped in an irish flag , told reporters upon his arrival home .
halawa thanked the irish people , the government and his family for working hard to secure his release .
a member of the irish government , which had lobbied for his return , was among the well-wishers .
halawa and three of his sisters were charged along with nearly 500 others with crimes including breaking into a mosque , killing 44 people , and illegal possession of firearms in violence that followed the military s overthrow of egypt s islamist president , mohamed mursi , in 2013 .
the halawas said they were on vacation visiting extended family in egypt and joined a protest against the military s ouster of mursi while they were there .
the defendants had all faced the death penalty and though none received it , hundreds were given hefty jail sentences .
halawa s sisters were released shortly after their arrests .
this case has been one of the most complex , sensitive and difficult consular cases to which the irish government has ever responded .
i and all of my colleagues are very pleased ibrahim s ordeal is now at an end , irish foreign minister simon coveney said in a statement .
halawa has said he was regularly tortured during his period in detention .
the egyptian authorities have repeatedly denied allegations of abuses from rights groups .
they all claim that ( torture ) and we have often denied ( it took place ) , a senior egyptian interior ministry source said .
in the end , there is the prosecution and the court , they are decisive .
anyone who experiences assault in jail must report it to the prosecution or the court ... and the prisons are all subjected to inspections .