( reuters ) - presidential candidate ted cruz says he is the most consistent conservative left in the republican race .
the senator from texas promises to cut taxes , slash regulations , crack down on illegal immigration and stick up for gun owners if he wins the white house .
here is a look at how cruz has pledged to handle major issues should he become the republican nominee and then win the nov. 8 election .
the policies are drawn from a review of his website , stump speeches , debates , legislative proposals and televised interviews .
cruz would boost border security by completing 700 miles ( 1,130 km ) of priority fencing along the u.s.-mexico border , tripling the number of border patrol agents and adding aircraft for border surveillance .
he would rescind president barack obama ’ s executive orders on immigration , which allow certain undocumented immigrants to stay in the country without fear of deportation .
cruz would ramp up deportations and would expand u.s. immigration and customs enforcement detention space in the united states .
he would withhold federal funding from “ sanctuary cities ” that do not prosecute undocumented immigrants .
the candidate would end birthright citizenship , in which children born in the united states are automatically citizens .
cruz introduced legislation placing a moratorium on accepting syrian refugees and letting states opt out of accepting refugees .
he supports prioritizing syrian christians for refugee status .
cruz opposes the export-import bank , which finances u.s. exports .
he opposes the trans-pacific partnership ( tpp ) trade agreement , saying in a march debate that the united states is “ getting killed ” in international trade .
he voted against giving obama fast-track authority to secure the tpp , which cruz said became enmeshed in backroom political deals .
cruz would abolish the internal revenue service .
he would establish a flat personal income tax of 10 percent , keeping deductions for charitable contributions and mortgage interest payments and the child tax credit .
he would eliminate the corporate income tax and payroll taxes , replacing them with a flat business tax of 16 percent that critics say resembles a value-added tax .
cruz would repeal the healthcare plan commonly known as obamacare , and would eliminate other regulations .
he would audit the federal reserve and move to a rules-based monetary policy .
cruz would repeal the iran nuclear deal , and would recognize jerusalem as israel ’ s capital .
he has said he would “ carpet bomb ” the islamic state militant group .
cruz has said he would oppose efforts to oust foreign dictators , which he says create power vacuums and enable terrorists .