rome ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement pummeled a center-right coalition to govern ostia , one of rome s largest neighborhoods , in a run-off vote that confirms the 5-star s strength months away from a national election .
five-star s giuliana di pillo took 60 percent of the vote , doubling her first-round result , against 40 percent for the center-right s monica picca in a closely watched contest that comes just months before a national election .
the result shows the legal troubles that have plagued the administration of rome s 5-star mayor , virginia raggi , since her election in june of last year have not dampened the maverick party s popularity in the capital .
there is a raggi effect and it s positive , luigi di maio , the 5-star prime minister candidate , wrote on twitter .
in rome we continue to win even against a coalition of five center-right forces .
the 5-star is italy s most-popular party ahead of a national vote due between march and may , while the ruling democratic party ( pd ) is a distant second , a poll showed last week .
but a center-right alliance joining silvio berlusconi s forza italia ( go italy !
) , the anti-immigration northern league and the far-right brothers of italy would pull in the most votes , though it would fall short of a parliamentary majority .
the pd failed to make it to ostia s run-off and the turnout was just 34 percent .
the previous center-left administration for the capital s seaside borough , which has more than 230,000 inhabitants , was dissolved two years ago after police said it had fallen under the influence of organized crime .
this year s campaign was marred by alleged connections between the neo-fascist casapound party , which won more than 9 percent in the first round and will have a seat on the local council , and organized crime .
ten days before the runoff , robert spada , a brother of an imprisoned mobster , attacked a journalist for rai state tv who had gone to ask questions about spada s open support for casapound .
italian organized crime groups have long sought control of local governments , and some 450 municipal administrations of different political stripes have been dissolved for mafia infiltration over the past quarter century .