the hague ( reuters ) - a u.n. tribunal that was stunned by the courtroom suicide of a bosnian croat war criminal said on thursday it was working with dutch investigators to piece together how he smuggled a fatal dose of poison into the high-security building .
slobodan praljak , 72 , died on wednesday at a hospital in the hague within hours of drinking a vial of liquid during the reading of his appeals judgment at the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia .
[ l8n1nz2ym ] preliminary testing confirmed that the cause of death was drinking a liquid that can kill , spokesman vincent veenman of the public prosecutors office in the hague said .
we can not yet say what that substance was .
further testing is needed , he said .
a 5-member icty appeals bench upheld praljak s conviction on charges of crimes against humanity over persecution , murders and expulsions of bosnian muslims from territory captured by nationalist bosnian croats and the brutal imprisonment of wartime detainees .
it also upheld his 20-year prison sentence .
the criminal investigation was immediately launched by dutch authorities , who sealed off the icty courtroom to take evidence after praljak told the court : i have just taken poison , denounced the verdict and slumped back in his chair .
dutch prosecutors said the inquiry was focused on assisted suicide and violation of the medicines act .
it will also try to determine how the poison was smuggled into the court .
the court on thursday declined to provide further comment , citing the ongoing independent investigation .
stricter procedures at the u.n. detention unit were adopted following the 2006 death of suspect slobodan milosevic , the former serbian and yugoslav president .
milosevic , who died of a heart attack before his verdict on genocide and war crimes charges , had banned medication in his cell which may have worsened an existing heart condition .
emotional reactions in bosnia to praljak s death highlighted lasting division in the balkans , where the court had aimed to bring reconciliation , but convicted war criminals are often revered as heroes .
about 1,000 nationalist supporters gathered to hold a mass for praljak , a former film and theater producer , in the bosnian town of mostar , known for the destruction of its iconic old bridge .
muslim victims of wartime violence welcomed his 20-year sentence and expressed hope it would deter future crimes .
croatian newspapers on thursday focused on a lack of security measures at the tribunal and the government s rejection of the court s finding that croatia , now a member of the european union , was also responsible for war crimes .
a verdict with consequences for croatia , read a headline in the novi list daily .
the appeals chamber found ( former president franjo ) tudjman and croatia responsible , it said .
a horrific end for the hague tribunal , read the front-page headline in the jutarnji list daily , which like all papers ran a prominent photo of praljak swallowing poison .
the dramatic events unfolded in the last minutes of the court s final ruling before it closes next month after 24 years .
[ l8n1nl7zt ] previously , two defendants awaiting their icty trial , both serbs , committed suicide by hanging themselves in their u.n. cells , according to court documents .
the icty indicted 161 suspects in all from bosnia , croatia , serbia , montenegro and kosovo in connection with atrocities in the ethnic wars during the 1990s .
of the 83 convicted , more than 60 were ethnic serbs .