paris ( reuters ) - france , the european union s largest farm producer , plans to raise regulated minimum food prices and limit bargain sales in supermarkets in a bid to increase farmers income , prime minister edouard philippe said on thursday .
the move is part of a wider field-to-fork review that closed on thursday .
farmers , an important constituency in french politics , have long complained of being hit by a price war between retailers , which has benefited consumers but hurt producers down the chain .
the measures will be put in place for a trial period of two years , philippe said .
selling at a loss is forbidden in france .
to determine the minimum level at which retailers are allowed to sell a product , france has set a resale below cost ( rbc ) threshold .
the rbc threshold is currently defined by the product s basic purchase price , minus discounts , plus transport costs to the retailer s warehouse .
the government will propose to raise the rbc threshold by 10 percent , philippe said at the close of the food review .
the aim is to rebalance trade relations for the benefit of farmers income , he said when describing the proposal .
the rise would include some of the additional costs already supported by retailers , such as the cost of logistics and staff needed to bring products from warehouses to the shelves , food industry group ania said .
this will increase the end-price of all products sold between the current rbc threshold and the new one - but not necessarily more expensive ones .
the government will propose limiting discounts on food products to 34 percent of a product s price and to 25 percent of available volumes , agriculture minister stephane travert said .
this means that retailers will be able to do promotion offers such as three products for the price of two but only for a fourth of their supplies for that product .
the war in prices had led to rebates of up to 70 percent , which are most often supported by food producers .
the aim of the measure is to avoid consumers losing the sense of prices .
it would now be promotions , not sell-offs , christiane lambert , head of france s largest farm union fnsea , said .
analysts say the measures would reduce aggressive price competition among french retailers and accelerate food inflation , potentially benefiting retailers profit margins in the short-term .
this should calm down the ( price ) game a bit but the most aggressive players on prices may be tempted to parry an attack , raymond james analyst cedric lecasble said .
a softer competitive climate could come as a relief for retailers like carrefour ( carr.pa ) and auchan [ auch.ul ] , whose profitability is under pressure and whose hypermarkets sales suffer from aggressive price discounting from the market s dominant player , leclerc , barclays analyst nicolas champ said .
leclerc is now the leading retailer in france with a national market share of 21 percent against 20.5 percent for carrefour , the latest kantar data show .
accelerated food inflation could also lead some consumers to trade down , which could benefit hard discounters like lidl .
the limitation of promotions could also benefit discounters who have mostly every day low prices strategies and reduce the attractiveness of the hypermarket stores , which are more focused on promotions .
the government s aim is to present draft legislation to parliament early next year , philippe said .
analysts say the measures are unlikely to have an impact on the food chain before the second half of 2018 .
ania had estimated that a rise of 15 percent in the rbc threshold would cost consumers an average of 30 cents ( $ 0.36 ) per person and per week .
prices of products currently sold lower than the new rbc floor level - mostly products used to attract consumers such as ferrero s nutella or coca cola ( ko.n ) soft drinks - would rise mechanically .
the government hopes that the measures will prompt retailers to loosen pressure on suppliers and food makers who would then pass at least part of the rise onto farmers .
but some are doubtful that this will happen .
we will increase some products prices by 10 percent , promising that miraculously this money , taken from consumers , will go down to the agri-food industry and that industry will give this money back to farmers .
by what miracle , we do not know , there are no tools , olivier andrault from consumer rights group ufc-que choisir told europe 1 radio .
the government will also reinforce the so-called renegotiation clause that allows parties to ask that contracts - concluded on an annual basis in france - be reviewed if there is a large swing in production prices .
to ensure that farmers are not paid below their costs , france also plans to reverse the process of determining prices by taking farmers production costs as the starting point .
( $ 1 = 0.8432 euros )