scott baio became a teen idol starring as chachi arcola on happy days from 1977-1984 and he worked pretty consistently until a few years ago , most recently as star and producer of see dad run on nick at nite .
baio spoke to the hollywood reporter about being a conservative in famously liberal hollywood.donald trump has had some gaffes recently , like insulting the khan family .
do you think they are actual gaffes or media hype ? well , let s put that up against someone who should be indicted , according to james comey , the fbi director .
it s amazing .
i mean , i don t know where you stand politically you work for the hollywood reporter so i m sure you lean left .
but it s incredible to me that she lied about people dying in benghazi , and she is still lying about her emails , and donald trump says something about this couple and it s taken completely out of context .
i was around for romney and i thought that was bad , but this is insane .
i don t know who the clintons made a deal with , but the media is , so bad .
how do you fight that ?
hollywood reporter on monday , scott baio filed a police report claiming the wife of the red hot chili peppers drummer went nuts on him at a function with their elementary school kids physically attacking him over his support of donald trump.law enforcement tells tmz , baio says he was at an event with his daughter saturday in thousand oaks , ca , when nancy mack confronted him .
mack , who s married to drummer chad smith , is a vocal anti-trump supporter who has called the prez-elect racist began berating and cursing baio , one of trump s strongest celebrity supporters.we re told baio told cops he asked her to quiet down because kids were present , but mack was undeterred , asking him how he could support a man who said , grab em by the pussy .
baio claims she repeatedly screamed , grab em by the pussy .
baio asked nancy to stop , but he claims she kept repeating the comment because she felt everyone needed to hear it , cause trump used it .
baio told cops at that point mack attacked him , grabbing him under his arms and then shaking and pushing him.for entire story : tmz