atlantic city ( reuters ) - a new jersey judge on friday rejected a bid by governor chris christie ’ s administration to freeze spending by cash-strapped atlantic city , which the governor argued was needed to protect tax revenues for city schools .
superior court judge julio mendez declined to order the city to stop all spending and divert what little remaining cash it has to the school district .
but the nearly insolvent seaside gambling hub could find itself back in court with the state , which sued on monday .
both sides are due back april 19 , unless the city makes its april 15 payment to the district or can reach a deal on payments .
christie ’ s move was one of several on monday that added to atlantic city ’ s woes and kicked off a week of escalating mudslinging , perhaps the worst so far during the city ’ s recent financial crisis , in which christie called mayor don guardian a “ liar. ” that same day , moody ’ s investors service downgraded atlantic city ’ s credit rating deeper into junk territory and the borgata casino hotel & spa won the right to appeal four years of property taxes after judge mendez , in a separate case , found the city violated an $ 88.2 million settlement agreement by failing to pay .
christie and state senate leaders want the state to takeover city operations , saying local officials have not done enough to cut expenses as the casino industry suffered from competition in neighboring states .
guardian has called that plan a “ fascist dictatorship , ” and state assembly leaders on thursday advanced an alternate rescue package with softer takeover provisions .
the city had expected to shut down on friday after running out of cash .
but this week its nine public sector unions agreed to convert to a monthly payroll schedule , giving the city breathing room until quarterly tax payments arrive in may .
christie said the city ’ s paycheck-to-paycheck budgeting will leave the schools broke .
“ the school district will not be able to operate ” if it does not receive the roughly $ 8 million a month it is owed from the city , assistant attorney general dan dryzga told the court on friday .
the city said a payment is not due until april 15 .
“ the schools can ’ t operate in a vacuum without police and fire services , ” said robert tarver , an attorney representing the city .
atlantic city ’ s budget has been under state oversight since 2011 .
guardian has said it remits payments to schools on a schedule laid out by the state .