juchitan , mexico ( reuters ) - mexico s president on monday threw himself into areas badly hit by last week s devastating earthquake amid frustration at delays in getting food and water to stricken communities where at least 96 people died and 2.5 million were left in need of aid .
accompanied by several cabinet ministers , president enrique pena nieto took on a busy schedule as he toured the battered southern state of chiapas , seeking to inspire confidence in the government s relief effort .
pena nieto s approval ratings have plumbed depths lower than any recent president , and his institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) faces a major struggle to retain power in presidential elections next july .
the law bars him from seeking re-election .
speaking in the hard-hit city of tonala , pena nieto urged construction companies to aid rebuilding efforts .
if construction firms commit to showing solidarity by building a few homes ... construction efforts can be carried out quicker , he said .
don t let anyone take advantage of you , or take control of your affairs .
the government is here .
mexican cement producer cemex said on monday it would donate $ 1 million worth of aid to reconstruction efforts .
the final cost of the quake is likely to be far higher .
among those with pena nieto were interior minister miguel angel osorio chong and finance minister jose antonio meade , both potential pri candidates for the presidency .
the quake killed at least sixteen people in chiapas and four others in tabasco .
the vast majority of deaths so far reported were the 76 in neighboring oaxaca state .
many oaxaca fatalities were in the town of juchitan , where more than 5,000 homes were destroyed .
tens of thousands of others were damaged in the region .
government officials delivered bags of simple rations including water and canned food on sunday , but many juchitan residents complained about the slow pace of assistance .
we don t have food or water , we re desperate , said jesus ramirez , 27 , who works in a plastics factory .
we re trying to eat whatever we can find , any kind of food .
much of juchitan and its surroundings had no running water , and piles of rubble were still restricting access to streets .
electricity was returning , but residents complained officials were slow to conduct house-by-house damage assessments .
alfredo jimenez , a 19-year-old engineering student , said he and neighbors banded together to help victims of seven flattened homes in the area , feeling unable to count on the government .
we see government people passing by , the army and the marines , but they haven t offered us anything , he said .
margarita lopez , 56 , a domestic worker , lined up for assistance in one juchitan neighborhood where nearly every house was severely damaged .
almost nothing has arrived from the government , and we don t know what else we can do , lopez said .
thursday s 8.1 magnitude quake was the most powerful to hit mexico in 85 years , surpassing a 1985 temblor that killed thousands in mexico city and triggered public outcry over the government response .
that disaster hurt the pri s reputation and some analysts believe it contributed to its removal from power in a 2000 vote , ending 71 consecutive years of one-party rule .
under pressure to do more at home , the government on monday withdrew an offer to help victims of hurricane harvey in texas .
mexico has been coping with heavy rains and the impact from hurricane katia on the gulf state of veracruz .
the quake struck off the coast of chiapas , and mexico s national seismological institute said more than 1,000 aftershocks have since been reported .
state-run oil company pemex said on monday it has not restarted its salina cruz refinery due to the aftershocks .