barcelona ( reuters ) - demonstrators calling for catalan independence gathered in hundreds of towns across the region on sunday following madrid s actions last week to try to block a referendum on self rule that it considers illegal .
spanish police have arrested catalan officials who were involved in organizing the oct. 1 vote and they also seized electoral material , including ballot papers and ballot boxes .
this led to several days of protests in barcelona .
but carles puigdemont , the head of the catalan regional government , has said the referendum will go ahead .
several thousand protesters gathered in central barcelona on sunday chanting we will vote !
and handing out ballot papers .
the crowds began whistling and booing a police helicopter during speeches by the protest organizers , showing growing anger among the referendum supporters about the increased police presence .
between 3,000 and 4,000 state police officers from other regions of spain have arrived or are on their way to catalonia .
we feel occupied by the spanish police , 56-year-old interior designer nuria gimenez said .
we ve been protesting for 10 years , we re not going to stop now with one week to go .
we need to keep going until the end .
on saturday , the state prosecutor in catalonia told all local and national police forces they would be placed temporarily under a single chain of command and report directly to the interior ministry in madrid .
the catalan government initially said it would refuse the order , though the head of the catalan regional police , known as the mossos d esquadra , later said he would comply with prosecutors .
speaking to the crowd in barcelona , president of the catalan parliament carme forcadell said that separatists must resist provocations by the central government .
they see violence in catalonia .
there has been none , nor will there be .
we are a peaceful people and all we want is to exercise our rights , forcadell said .
although polls show less than half of catalonia s 5.5 million voters want self-rule , most in the wealthy northeastern region want the chance to vote on the issue .