new york/san juan ( reuters ) - puerto rico ’ s much-delayed audited financial statements for 2014 are expected to be finished and issued by april , the u.s. territory ’ s governor said in a letter to u.s. house of representatives speaker paul ryan on monday .
the delay in completing the statements is due to the “ complexities posed by our current financial crisis , ” governor alejandro garcia padilla said in the letter , emailed by a representative for the commonwealth .
however , he added that there may be additional issues that arise that require an “ adjustment to such timetable. ” a draft of the financials , which cited “ substantial doubt ” about the government ’ s ability to continue as a going concern , was released last week , but did not include data from some agencies and has not been approved by auditors at kpmg .
the letter follows criticism from republicans in congress over the delay and a perceived lack of financial transparency from puerto rico .
the island ’ s leaders are hoping for legislative help from congress in tackling its $ 70 billion in debt , 45 percent poverty rate and dwindling population as locals flock to the mainland united states .
ryan has called on the republican-led house to propose legislation by the end of march aimed at addressing puerto rico .
in monday ’ s letter , garcia padilla gave a sense of what it might look like on the island if the government or its agencies failed to survive as going concerns — that is , became unable to meet financial obligations long term .
entities subject to going concern assessments , garcia padilla wrote , include not only the government itself , but prepa , the island ’ s sole power utility ; hta , which operates the island ’ s major roads ; the metropolitan bus authority , which transports thousands in the san juan area ; the puerto rico medical services administration , the island ’ s main hospital and trauma center ; and priha , which oversees medicaid benefits for 1.6 million poor residents .
garcia padilla also stressed that the government development bank , puerto rico ’ s primary fiscal agent , may not be able to make debt payments in the last quarter of fiscal year 2016 , and that the island may have to pass emergency legislation imposing a moratorium on gdb debt payments .