san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - hundreds of stranded tourists and puerto ricans seeking to leave filled the sweltering halls of san juan international airport on monday anxious for a seat on one of the few flights operating after hurricane maria devastated power and communications across the island .
fearful of checking out of hotels in case they could not get on the few flights available , worried visitors waited in long lines at puerto rico s main airport , struggling to reach loved ones and airlines by phone .
everything is hearsay at the moment because there is no communication , said 31-year-old rene kessler , a medical student from baltimore , maryland , preparing to spend the night in the terminal ahead of what he hoped would be a flight home .
a microcosm of the storm-battered island , san juan airport is a top priority in efforts by puerto rico s cash-strapped government to rebuild after maria .
experts say the work will take months and likely cost tens of billions of dollars .
the screens above american airlines desks were dark , while jetblue s displays flowed with red rows of cancellations .
staff called out the names of passengers who won seats on the few departing planes .
everyone is in the same boat , trying to get out , said leyla colon , standing in line with her 4-year-old daughter at the jetblue terminal .
without internet or cell service , she was unable to buy tickets before reaching the airport .
at this point i ll buy a ticket on any flight to get out of here , colon said .
carriers said downed infrastructure had caused operations to be scaled back sharply .
in some cases , airlines used a nearby hospital to print flight manifests .
and some customers were given handwritten boarding passes .
mike henderson , a construction firm superintendent , was trying to return to his family in detroit after his wife paid $ 2,000 dollars for a seat on a delta flight .
but airline staff were unable to tell him if he was on the passenger list , he said .
i m drained , henderson said with a sigh .
airlines on sunday were restricted to one or two flights a day , and transportation security administration workers manually inspected bags and patted down passengers .
outside the airport , rows of diesel generators roared in the heat .
they have been life-savers but have had their side effects too .
miguel gonzalez , 42 , said he was at the airport to get his asthmatic mother a flight to florida .
he was hospitalized for two weeks due to fumes from neighbors generators that were fired up after hurricane irma hit the island early in september .
maria dealt an even heavier blow to local infrastructure , putting immense pressure on medical services .
jessica negron , a resident of orlando , florida , said she had been in the airport since friday waiting for a frontier flight .
they keep changing the story , she said .
nearby , eating canned peaches with a plastic knife , were allyson and marcus singletary from georgia .
they said the storm and airport chaos had ruined their anniversary trip .
this is the vacation from hell , said allyson , 31 .
this is the walking dead without zombies .