beirut ( reuters ) - a senior u.s. official met syria s national security chief in damascus this week in the highest ranking visit to syria by a u.s. official since the start of the war in 2011 , a senior regional official close to damascus told reuters on friday .
the lebanese newspaper al-akhbar first reported the visit earlier on friday , saying that the u.s. official discussed security matters including americans missing in syria .
among them are operatives of the central intelligence agency ( cia ) .
the regional official did not name the u.s. official who met ali mamlouk , syria s national security chief .
it is an important step , but damascus does not have confidence in the american position , the regional official said .
the u.s. official traveled to damascus via lebanon .
the united states has supported the opposition to president bashar al-assad during the syrian war .
it has provided anti-assad rebels with weapons via a cia-run military aid program that president donald trump ordered shut down earlier this year .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson last week reiterated the u.s. position that assad should leave power , saying the reign of the assad family is coming to an end and the only issue is how that should be brought about .
with military backing from russia and iran , assad has recovered control of swathes of lost syrian territory over the last two years and appears militarily unassailable .
u.s. forces have been fighting in syria as part of the coalition against islamic state , helping kurdish-led militias capture raqqa and other parts of northern and eastern syria .
during the meeting , mamlouk protested to the u.s. official that u.s. forces are on syrian land and this is considered occupation , the regional official said .
the u.s. official responded that our presence is advisory and we are fighting daesh , the regional official added , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
syrian government officials could not immediately be reached for comment .