dublin ( reuters ) - ireland s minority government looked set to collapse within days on friday after the party propping it up submitted a motion of no confidence in the deputy prime minister , weeks before a summit on britain s plans to leave the european union .
prime minister leo varadkar said that if the motion was not withdrawn by tuesday , he would be forced to hold an election before christmas , a prospect eu officials say would complicate a key eu summit on dec. 14-15 on brexit .
what that would mean is me throwing a good woman under the bus to save myself and my own government , and that would be the wrong thing to do , varadkar told national broadcaster rte , dismissing demands for his deputy frances fitzgerald to quit .
varadkar is due to play a major role in the brexit talks , telling eu leaders whether ireland believes sufficient progress has been made on the future border between eu-member ireland and britain s province of northern ireland .
the border is one of three issues brussels wants broadly resolved before it decides whether to move the talks on to a second phase about trade , as britain wants .
while varadkar could go into the summit in a caretaker role , he said that any election would have to happen before christmas so that he or his successor could attend the next meeting of eu leaders in february with a fresh mandate .
the head of opposition party fianna fail , micheal martin , earlier said an election can be avoided if the government takes action by asking fitzgerald to resign .
varadkar said he would not seek , nor did he expect to be offered , a resignation .
fianna fail supports the minority fine gael government in a confidence and supply arrangement .
voting no confidence in a minister would break that agreement .
varadkar and martin met on friday and were due to speak again over the weekend ahead of the motion of no-confidence in fitzgerald , to be debated on tuesday .
the trigger is her handling of a legal case involving a police whistleblower .
at a time when issues and decisions will need to be made that will reverberate in our country for decades to come , the prospect of either an election taking place or a government not being in place afterwards is actually unconscionable , finance minister paschal donohoe told rte .
however a source familiar with fine gael s planning said it had begun to make preparations on friday for a snap poll .
as well as the border , the other issues brussels wants resolved before brexit talks move on to trade arrangements are britain s financial settlement on leaving the bloc and the rights of eu citizens living in britain .
eu brexit negotiator michel barnier assured irish foreign minister simon coveney on friday that the eu would defend dublin s position in talks with britain over the coming weeks .
coveney told parliament on thursday the government was not yet ready to allow the talks to move on to trade issues , and needed more clarity from london .
fianna fail s martin said parliament would be united behind varadkar at the december summit .
university college dublin politics professor david farrell said varadkar may be tempted to take an even harder line against the united kingdom in the talks in a bid to shore up support among irish voters , who are overwhelmingly against brexit .
i suppose the only card he can try and play to distract from the crazy shenanigans around the causes of this election is leadership in europe , he said .
an election would likely be dominated by fianna fail and fine gael , two centre-right parties that differ little on policy but have been bitter foes for decades , something that has always left the minority government one serious row away from collapse .
but it would also present an opportunity for left-wing opposition party sinn fein to see if its veteran leader gerry adams decision last week to step down will boost its support .
the party said deputy leader mary lou mcdonald would lead them into the election , if one is called .
while sinn fein , the third largest party in the republic , has said it wants to enter government , the two largest parties have ruled out doing a deal with the former political wing of the irish republican army ( ira ) .
since varadkar s appointment as fine gael leader six months ago , his party has narrowly led fianna fail in opinion polls , which suggest both parties would increase their support but struggle to form anything but another minority government .