the very people who for years talked about the problem of conspiracy theories have become the keenest spreaders of conspiracy theories .
the people who spent the past few months banging on about the post-truth politics of brexit and trump have shown they don t have the first clue what truth is .
the people who posed as champions of logic have revealed themselves as peddlers of paranoia 21st century wire says during last year s the election cycle , 21wire called-out the liberal establishment s whole russian hack conspiracy as a hoax , but even conservative media were too shy to go that far in condemning what is obviously one of the biggest put-ups in modern political history.as veteran journalist robert parry said this week on acr s patrick henningsen live show this past week , a madness has set-in in washington and throughout progressive liberal enclaves throughout america , as the opposition still clings to the desperate hope that some actual evidence to support their conspiracies theories about trump and russia will somehow manifest and provide a short-cut to his ouster.hillary clinton s internationalist tribe , american and european progressive left , is at the precipice an entire block of society who may have lost their minds and who could end up committed in a political bardo.finally , some mainstream publications are beginning to come around to call it what it is , and that s much welcome.as they say , always better late than never brendan o neil spectator the chattering classes have officially lost it .
on both sides of the atlantic.of course they d been teetering on the cliff edge of sanity for a while , following the bruising of their beloved eu by 17m angry brits and hillary s loss to that orange muppet they thought no one except rednecks would vote for .
but now they ve gone over .
they re falling fast .
they re speeding away from the world of logic into a cesspit of conspiracy and fear .
it s tragic .
or hilarious .
one or the other.exhibit a : this week s new yorker .
it s mad .
it captures wonderfully how the liberal-left has come to be polluted by the paranoid style of mccarthyist thinking since trump s victory .
it s a new yorker for a future , dystopian america that s been captured by the evil empire .
the mag s masthead is in cyrillic and its famous dandy mascot eustace tilley has morphed into putin .
it s now eustace vladimirovich tilley .
this week 's cover , eustace vladimirovich tilley , by barry blitt : https : //t.co/p43urkclmy pic.twitter.com/suunrilcf3 the new yorker ( @ newyorker ) march 2 , 2017inside the mag it s even more feverish .
a 13,000-word report , trump , putin and the new cold war , is accompanied by a drawing of a deep-red , ufo-style kremlin hovering over the white house and firing lasers into it .
it s cgi hollywood meets house un-american activities in an orgy of liberal dread over ruskies ruining the nation.it used to be right-wingers who fretted over russians and reds and pinkos colonising westerners lives and minds .
now it s lefties .
trump is regularly called putin s puppet .
he s an unwitting agent of moscow , we re told .
the new york times even called him the siberian candidate , echoing the title of the 1962 thriller the manchurian candidate , in which an american is brainwashed by korean communists to become an assassin .
that s how some seriously view trump : a putin-moulded foot soldier of russian interests who ll assassinate the american way of life , if not american citizens .
i mean , vanity fair actually asks : is trump a manchurian candidate ?
these people need a lie down .
you have to get deep into the new yorker s prolix report to discover that us officials still haven t provided evidence for their claim that putin ordered the hacking of democrat emails in order to hurry trump to power : the declassified report [ on putin s meddling ] provides more assertion than evidence .
but that hasn t stopped the left mccarthyists , these reds on the web fearmongers , from buying into all kinds of claptrap about putin putting trump in the white house.in december , a yougov survey of democratic voters found that 50 percent of them think russia tampered with vote tallies to help trump .
that is , white house-eyeing putinites actually meddled with voting machines or ballot counts .
there s no evidence whatever for this .
in yougov s words , it s an election day conspiracy theory .
a kind of delirium is spreading.the spectre of putinite meddling is now blamed for everything that doesn t go the liberal elite s way continue this story at the spectatorread more russia news at : 21st century wire russia filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv