kampala ( reuters ) - lawmakers brawled in uganda s parliament for a second day running on wednesday over a fiercely disputed move to change the constitution to let long-ruling president yoweri museveni run for re-election after age 75 .
mps exchanged blows and kicks , with some using microphone stands as crude weapons in the melee , and at least two female lawmakers were carried out of the chamber after collapsing , a reuters journalist on the scene said .
at least 25 mps opposed to the proposed constitutional amendment to prolong museveni s tenure were forcibly ejected on orders of the speaker for involvement in fighting on tuesday .
all other like-minded mps then walked out .
after calm returned , ruling party mp raphael magyezi introduced the contested motion authorizing parliament to draft and present a bill that would lift the constitution s age cap on presidential candidates .
the motion passed , parliament communications director chris obore told reuters , adding that magyezi would have about a month to submit the bill to a first reading in the house .
under the existing constitution , eligibility to stand as a presidential candidate in the east african country has an age ceiling of 75 .
that makes museveni , 73 , in power since 1986 and increasingly accused of authoritarianism and a failure to curb corruption , unqualified to seek re-election at the next polls in 2021 .
removing the age cap would erase that barrier .
the proposal , echoing steps by other veteran african leaders to void legal limits on their rule , has stirred widespread resistance from rights activists , opposition parties , religious leaders and even some members of museveni s party .
fisticuffs first broke out in the kampala parliament on tuesday , leading uganda s communication regulator to ban live broadcasts of events inciting the public .
in a notice on wednesday , the uganda communications commission said radio and television stations should stop live broadcasts of events that are inciting the public , discriminating , stirring up hatred , promoting a culture of violence ... and are likely to create public insecurity .
no station aired wednesday s proceedings , but some posted clips of the brawls on their twitter feeds .
uganda s two major privately owned tv stations , including a local unit of kenya s nation media group , and some radio stations carried tuesday s parliamentary session live .
critics said the authorities action to ban live broadcasts underscored a crackdown on anyone questioning the planned constitutional amendment .
since last week , when a motion to kick-start the amendment process was supposed to be read but never made it to the floor , both police and military personnel have been deployed around the parliament and many parts of the capital .
protests by students and opposition activists and supporters in kampala against the amendment , sometimes broadcast live , have been put down with tear gas and arrests of scores of people .
media in uganda routinely complain of harassment by security personnel .
journalists say they have been beaten , detained or their equipment damaged or confiscated during coverage of anti-government demonstrations .
on tuesday , anti-government protests also occurred in other parts of the country , including in the northern town of lira .
three local journalists there were arrested as they covered the protests , according to hudson apunyo , an official in a journalists association in the area .
robert ssempala , national coordinator for human rights network for journalists-uganda , said banning live broadcasts was to shut out ugandans and keep them in the dark on the age limit debate after the measure met broad resistance .