wellington ( reuters ) - new zealanders will likely need to wait several more days to find out who will form the new government in the south pacific island nation , the small nationalist party holding the balance of power said on thursday .
the new zealand first party was holding a fifth day of talks with both the ruling national and the opposition labour party to form a coalition government , almost three weeks after an inconclusive general election .
prime minister bill english s ruling national party won 56 seats in the sept. 23 election , while a labour-green bloc have 54 seats , leaving both needing new zealand first s nine seats to meet the 61 seats needed for a majority in parliament .
new zealand first leader winston peters said that he was pretty confident that those talks with the main parties would conclude on thursday evening , but said the nz first board would not meet to discuss its options until the weekend at the earliest .
it depends upon the logistical availability of the board which will be saturday , sunday or monday , peters told reporters .
i ll know that before too long .
asked whether the public would know who the government is by the end of next week , peters said yes , the stuff.co.nz media website reported .
the political limbo has pushed the new zealand dollar , the world s 11th most traded currency , down by around 3.3 percent since the vote .
the kiwi was trading at $ 0.7103 mid-afternoon on thursday after hitting a four-month low earlier this week .
two recent independent surveys have suggested the uncertainty is curbing business sentiment , although official data released on thursday indicated that consumer confidence remained robust .
there are also concerns that a government including the nationalist nz first would lead to more interventionist economic policies .
peters fueled those fears earlier this week when he said that exporters should welcome the recent fall in the local currency .
nz first also wants to restrict foreign investment , curb immigration and renegotiate certain trade deals .
strong immigration has been blamed for the country s hot housing market and unaffordable prices .
data from the real estate institute of new zealand released on thursday showed that the number of properties sold in september was the lowest for that month for six years , as the market awaited an election result .
peters lost his own seat in the election to a national candidate but remains the lead negotiator and eligible for a ministerial post as leader of nz first .
he said talks so far had focused on policy , with no discussions yet on ministerial portfolios or offices .
peters said he was aiming for a serious consensus from the nz first board on which party to support , but he declined to identify or number those board members .