why let this guy out ever !
he was let out on bond even though there was discussion of concern since he s a world traveler with tax payer dollars !
this guy made millions off of fraudulently scamming the ss disability system .
he inadvertently called attention to the need for this program to be totally overhauled : the scandal prompted the federal government to review the eligibility of about 1,500 people receiving benefits about 800 of those people lost their benefits .
i was always shocked that , when he was arrested , he was actually allowed out on bond .
lawyer who represents conn s former clientsa slimy eastern kentucky disability lawyer scheduled to be sentenced next month for defrauding the government of nearly $ 600 million has disappeared , the fbi said.eric conn pleaded guilty in march to stealing from the federal government and bribing a judge .
he was scheduled to be sentenced next month and had been ordered to pay the government tens of millions of dollars.but saturday , the fbi said conn removed his electronic monitoring device , violating the conditions of his bond and prompting the u.s. district court to issue a warrant for his arrest .
david habich , general counsel for the fbi s louisville office , said conn s whereabouts are currently unknown .
a call to conn s lawyer was not returned.conn started his law practice in a trailer in 1993 and built it into one of the most lucrative disability law firms in the country .
he created a persona for himself as mr. social security , fueled by outlandish tv commercials and small-scale replicas of the statute of liberty and the lincoln memorial at his office in rural eastern kentucky.but conn s empire crumbled when federal investigators uncovered he had been bribing a doctor and a judge to approve disability claims based on fake medical evidence .
as part of his plea deal in march , he agreed to pay the federal government $ 5.7 million and to reimburse social security $ 46 million .
a federal judge ordered conn to pay $ 12 million in damages and $ 19 million in penalties to the government and two former social security employees who tried to expose the scheme .
and conn is also facing a liability judgment from a class action lawsuit brought by his former clients , with a hearing scheduled for later this month to determine the damages .
it was totally predictable that he would flee , said attorney ned pillersdorf , who represents conn s former clients and said conn s frequent world traveling was brought up in court to assess whether he was a flight risk .
i was always shocked that , when he was arrested , he was actually allowed out on bond .
and there has been a betting pool going on in prestonsburg on not if he would flee , but when .
the scandal prompted the federal government to review the eligibility of about 1,500 people receiving benefits .
pillersdorf said about 800 of those people lost their benefits.read more : law newz