don t mess with daddy s little girl !
ivanka trump is nobody s fool and she is clearly not about to allow the media to define her father as someone he is not he beat 16 incredibly capable , competent people in the republican primaries , so it s not my place to change his campaign .
he fights the fighters that he feels are important for this country and he ll bring that same spirit and that same energy to the white house .
and i think people want somebody who s going to fight for them and he will be a champion of the people .
when asked whether she could provide some examples of where she and her father disagreed on policy or strategy , she demurred.her advice is provided privately , because that s the nature of our relationship , she said .
but i m very inspired by what he s done .
to critics who call her father s temperament volatile , ivanka trump challenged the characterization , calling her father incredibly level-headed .
i think that he fights , and he s strong , and he s had to fight .
he has a lot of people coming at him , trump said sitting in a windowless room deep beneath cobo center , in detroit , where the republican presidential nominee addressed nearly 1,500 business executives and supporters.now is not the time to start telling donald trump to alter his approach after so much success , according to his daughter.the new york city real estate magnate who has never run for elected office beat 16 incredibly capable , competent people in the republican primaries , so it s not my place to tell him to change his campaigning style , ivanka trump said .
i have a very close relationship with my father , she said .
i always have , since i was a young girl .
but over the last decade , i ve worked right along side of him , side-by-side with both of my adult brothers at the trump organization , she said .
he s been an amazing parent to me and an amazing father , so we have the great familial connection but we have also worked together as executives .
she graduated from the wharton school of finance at the university of pennsylvania , the same school attended by her father .
before joining the trump organization in 2005 , ivanka trump worked at forest city enterprises as a real estate project manager .
via : detroit free press