rimini , italy ( reuters ) - italy s anti-establishment 5-star movement , riding high in opinion polls , has named 31-year-old luigi di maio to lead it into parliamentary elections next year that could see it win national power .
di maio , deputy speaker of the lower house , is the party s most prominent and popular politician and had been groomed for the leadership in recent years by 5-star s founder , the 69-year-old comedian beppe grillo .
boyish-looking and usually immaculately turned out in suit and tie , di maio presents a moderate image in striking contrast to grillo , who is famous for his raucous tirades against italy s ruling elite .
you have given me an enormous responsibility ...
i assure you i ll carry it out with discipline and honor , di maio told supporters on saturday at the party s annual gathering in the adriatic coastal town of rimini .
i promise i will form a government team to be proud of for the first time in our history .
grillo , who has so far acted as 5-star s de facto chief , is now expected to gradually withdraw from the limelight .
i will always be like a dad for all of you , but i am old , he told the gathering on friday .
di maio , who has taken tough stances on law-and-order and immigration and is widely seen as on the right of the party which says traditional left-right labels have no meaning .
he won by a huge margin over seven rivals in an online member ballot , held on thursday and friday , that reflected the movement s credo of internet-based direct democracy .
his election was considered a formality because the other candidates were all little-known figures , mostly local councillors .
however , participation was much lower than the party had hoped , with just over 37,400 people casting a ballot , compared with more than 140,000 eligible .
di maio won 83 percent of the vote .
the only people seen as having any chance against him decided not to run , opening the party up to accusations of failing to run a proper contest .
di maio will now try to put that criticism behind him in the run-up to elections due by may next year .
most opinion polls , give 5-star around 28 percent of the vote , just ahead of the ruling democratic party .
however , that would not be enough to give it a majority in parliament unless it allies itself with another party , something it has so far always refused to do .
the right-wing northern league and silvio berlusconi s conservative forza italia ( go italy ) each have around 14 to 15 percent .
5-star , founded by grillo nine years ago as a protest movement , bases its appeal mainly on a campaign against corruption and vested interests .
its policies include the introduction of universal income support for the poor , boosting green energy and increasing the budget deficit to fund investments in infrastructure .
di maio will need to broaden the movement s appeal and soothe barely disguised resentment among some 5-star lawmakers over his dominant role in the party .
his first challenge will be a vote in sicily in november , which offers 5-star the chance to win control of its first ever region .
victory could be a springboard to national success while defeat would be a major setback after the party spent months campaigning intensely on the island .
( this version of the story has been refiled to add dropped words in paragraph 8 )