the gay mafia has hijacked pretty much aspect of our lives .
they apparently won t be happy until every trace of gender identity has been erased .
when will americans start fighting back ?
two daycare workers have been fired for refusing to go along with the center s transgender agenda .
madeline kirksey , one of the workers who is an author of a christian book , says her religious liberty rights have been violated .
the two were fired after refusing to call a little girl a boy.the two male parents of a six-year-old little girl told employees at the school to refer to their daughter as a boy , and to call her by a new masculine name .
the little girl s hair had also been cut like a boy s.kirksey told breitbart texas in an interview , that the problem was not so much with the transgender issue as it was with telling young children that the little girl was a boy when she was not , and with calling her john ( not the name given ) when that was not her name.she , and another worker who does not want to be identified , were fired from the childrens lighthouse learning center in katy , texas , a city just west of houston.the school distributed guidelines to the teachers called how to handle transgender students .
the printed guidelines were obtained from the internet and can be read at this link.the guidelines and the instructions given the teachers included six rules , one of which was help defend their dignity .
another , was to educate yourself and your students .
the christian worker said she did not believe it was our job , to thrust the issue on the small children of other parents .
she said the school should not force their beliefs on the children , or on her , or upon other parents.the author of the christian book , in pursuit of the promise , said the other children should not be exposed at such an early age to the issue of transgender or gender identity , and felt that the two male parents were imposing the issue on their little girl .
i don t think we should be talking to other people s children who are under the age of 18 about being transgender , kirksey said in an interview with fox26 in houston .
both of the fired workers agreed on this point.kirksey said that prior to this happening , she had been commended for the good work that she was doing at the school .
after she refused to call the little girl by her new masculine name , and to tell the other children to do so , and to say that the little girl was a little boy , the daycare worker was written-up for alleged infractions that she did not believe were based in reality .
she has worked at the school for over a year.the fired worker notified child protective services that the little girl was being told that she is now a little boy .
she believes that it is up to professionals to determine if the little girl is just confused , or if the new gender is being forced upon the little girl.kirksey says sometimes the little girl refers to herself as a little boy , and sometimes she tells the other children to not call her a boy or to refer to her by her masculine name.the childrens lighthouse in katy is just one of the school franchise s that are all over the country .
the company is based in fort worth and according to its website , there are 37 learning centers in seven states .
the school cares for children ages six weeks to twelve years old .
via : breitbart news