raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - the ancient mud brick walls circling raqqa s deserted old city are almost the only structure still intact .
inside , shops and homes spill crumbling concrete onto either side of the narrow roads , block after block .
fighting between u.s.-backed militias and islamic state in the jihadist group s former syria stronghold has peppered mosques and minarets with machine-gun fire while air strikes flattened houses .
no building is untouched .
the old clock tower could be heard from outside the walls once .
it s damaged now .
it s silent , mohammed hawi , an arab fighter from raqqa , said at a nearby home occupied by the syrian democratic forces alliance ( sdf ) .
raqqa , where islamic state plotted attacks abroad during its three-year rule , is almost captured in a months-old offensive backed by u.s. air cover and special forces .
but driving militants out has caused destruction that officials say will take years and cost millions of dollars to repair .
the nascent raqqa civil council , set up to rebuild and govern raqqa , faces a huge task .
it says aid from countries in the u.s.-led coalition fighting is is so far insufficient .
raqqa s uncertain political future , as it comes under the sway of kurdish-led forces which neighbor turkey opposes , and is still coveted by syrian president bashar al-assad , is partly what has made coalition countries hesitate , diplomats say .
but failure to quickly return services to the city that was once home to more than 200,000 people , mostly now displaced , risks unrest , they warn .
infrastructure is completely destroyed , water , electricity networks , bridges .
there s not a single service functioning , said ibrahim hassan , who oversees reconstruction for the raqqa council at its headquarters in nearby ain issa .
we gave our city as a sacrifice for the sake of defeating terrorism .
it s the world s duty to help us , he said .
a major bridge leading into eastern raqqa lies collapsed after a coalition air strike .
beyond it , damaged water towers and the skeletons of teetering residential blocks dot the skyline .
awnings hung by militants to hide their movements flap in the wind .
senior council member omar alloush estimated at least half the city is completely destroyed .
there are also bodies under rubble , of civilians and terrorists .
these need reburying to avoid disease outbreaks , he said .
amnesty international has said the u.s.-led campaign , including air strikes , has killed hundreds of civilians trapped in raqqa .
residents have reported civilian deaths , but it is difficult to establish how many people have died .
the coalition says it does all it can to avoid civilian casualties .
but the city is densely built up and militants firing from homes are often targeted by air raids .
council officials said with the battle still raging in a small , encircled area of the city center and countless explosives rigged by militants in areas they abandoned , reconstruction has not yet begun .
the focus is on emergency aid , food and water , de-mining , hassan said .
the council wants to get services up and running as soon as possible , but has limited capacity and is staffed by volunteers .
at its headquarters the offices of several departments consist of a single desk in a shared room .
support from the international community has improved and we feel less isolated , but it s been modest , hassan said .
the united states delivered several bulldozers and other vehicles to the council to clear debris recently , the raqqa council said , out of a total of 56 due to arrive .
even 700 wouldn t be enough , alloush said .
raqqa council volunteers have said they told the coalition it will take 5.3 billion syrian lira ( about $ 10 million ) a year to restore power and water supplies , roads and schools .
it is feared delays could reignite unrest .
groups that took over raqqa in 2013 didn t run it well , a western diplomat in the region said , referring to syrian insurgents who seized the city from assad s forces earlier in the six-year-old civil war , before is arrived .
that s partly what allowed daesh ( is ) to take over .
if there s a gap in humanitarian assistance and no effective local governance structure , the risk of future violence increases .
the council said coalition countries were reluctant to aid the raqqa council , made up of local engineers , teachers and doctors .
we ve suffered from bureaucracy in the decision making process for foreign aid , hassan said .
some coalition countries were concerned about relations with nato member turkey over support for a governing body perceived to be allied to kurdish militia , the diplomat said .
the sdf , which for now controls much of raqqa , is spearheaded by the kurdish ypg militia , a foe of ankara which is fighting its own kurdish insurgency .
turkey opposes the ypg s role in capturing raqqa .
council officials say raqqa will be governed independently of a self-run administration for northeast syria that is dominated by kurds , but is expected to have close relations with it .
the extent of those relations is to be decided by elected officials once elections can be held .
a second diplomat in the region said reluctance to aid the council was partly over concerns whether it properly represented the ethnic make-up of mostly arab raqqa , seeing tension if local arabs were sidelined .
several prominent council members are kurdish .
there is also uncertainty over whether raqqa will remain allied to the self-run parts of northern syria , or if it would fall back to assad in future upheaval .
assad has sworn to retake the entire country .
for now , with turkey s borders closed to sdf-controlled areas , aid to raqqa comes a longer route through iraq s kurdish region .
raqqa council says it may have to be self-sufficient .
we re waiting for help to repair the east bridge , co-president leila mustafa , a civil engineer , said .
if it doesn t arrive soon , we ll begin ourselves , using any means we have .