why are banking powerhouses , european prime ministers , a major arms manufacturer , a representative from the us state department , facebook and google all attending the same secret policy summit ?
one of bilderberg s founders and steering committee member , denis healey said in 2001 : to say we were striving for a one-world government is exaggerated , but not wholly unfair .
those of us in bilderberg felt we couldn t go on forever fighting one another for nothing and killing people and rendering millions homeless .
so we felt that a single community throughout the world would be a good thing .
from the guardian : as one summit closes , another opens .
thursday sees the start of the influential bilderberg policy conference , which this year is being held in austria , just 16 miles south of the g7 summit , and in a similarly inaccessible luxury alpine resort .
the participant list for the conference has just been released by the organisation , and some big names leap off the page.no fewer than three serving european prime ministers will be attending , from the netherlands , finland and belgium .
they will be discussing european strategy with the head of nato , jens stoltenberg , and the president of austria , heinz fischer .
two european finance ministers are on the list : one dutch , the other george osborne .
the uk chancellor is a regular attendee of the bilderberg summit , and this year he will be showing off his post-election glow .
unlike that other bilderberg regular , ed balls , who is being invited back despite having by some considerable distance the weakest job title on the list : former shadow chancellor of the exchequer.europe s hottest financial potato , greece , is on the conference agenda , and it s good to know beno t coeur , a member of the executive board of the european central bank , will be there to discuss it in strictest privacy with interested parties , such as the heads of deutsche bank , lazard , banco santander and hsbc.the scandal-hit hsbc and everyone s favourite vampire squid , goldman sachs , are both extremely well represented at this year s conference .
hsbc in particular by its chairman , its busy chief legal officer , and board member rona fairhead , who is also on the board of pepsico and chair of the bbc trust .
good to know the bbc is in such safe hands.other financial luminaries on the list include the vice-chairman of blackrock , the ceo of jp morgan asset management and the president of the royal bank of canada , which is the nation s largest financial institution .
morgan stanley will be represented in telfs by board member klaus kleinfeld , who also runs the world s third largest aluminium producer , alcoa.from the worlds of industry and manufacturing are some eye-wateringly big names .
the ceo of michelin is invited , along with the head of roche , the ceo of royal dutch shell , the chairman of bp , the ceo of siemens austria and the heads of various industrial conglomerates such as techint and investor ab , companies so large they re hard to classify .
although gigantic goes some way towards it.it s a heady step up into the big league for michael o leary , the ceo of ryanair .
he ll doubtless be hoping to thrash out a few last-minute deals over dinner with the head of airbus , thomas enders.apart from making holiday jets , airbus is also one of the world s biggest arms manufacturers , and the 2015 conference agenda has a distinct whiff of war .
chemical weapons threats and nato are both set to be discussed .
luckily the head of nato is there to discuss it.as ever , foreign policy formation is a big part of the conference .
terrorism and iran both make the agenda this year , and participants can expect a high-level briefing from senior us state department official john r allen , the special presidential envoy for the global coalition to counter isil .
and it s likely that the subject of russia will be of interest to the german defence minister and deputy defence minister , both of whom have found the time this week to be in telfs .
as has the head of the danish intelligence service , who will likely have a part to play in the session of cybersecurity.finally , it s worth noting the growing presence of google at bilderberg .
the company s executive chairman , eric schmidt , is on the group s steering committee ; he ll be joined in austria by his vice-president for engineering , advanced technology and projects , and the vice-president of engineering for the not-at-all terrifying sounding google deepmind .
they , presumably , will be leading the session on artificial intelligence .
this will be listened to with great interest by peter thiel , the founder of paypal and director of facebook , as he continues his quest to merge with computers .
but that s another story.for now , the story is : bilderberg 2015 has an extremely high-powered participant list , featuring a large number of senior politicians and public figures .
with participants this powerful , and an agenda containing this many hot topics , the telfs policy conference is sure to be covered in depth by the world s press .
and by sure to be , i mean probably won t be .
for reasons that , as ever , escape me.via : the guardian