washington ( reuters ) - puerto rico will ask the u.s. supreme court on tuesday to validate a law that could let it cut billions of dollars from what it owes in debt at some public agencies , a key test in the island ’ s efforts to weather a massive fiscal crisis .
the u.s. territory , facing what its governor has called an unpayable $ 70 billion debt and a 45 percent poverty rate , will argue its case against financial creditors , including franklin advisers and oppenheimerfunds , who want to keep contentious restructuring talks out of court .
as puerto rico leaders , creditors and u.s. lawmakers seek a debt solution in the u.s. congress , the question before the supreme court is whether the island should be allowed to restructure debts under a court-supervised regime similar to chapter 9 bankruptcy laws used by u.s. cities such as detroit and stockton , california .
“ it is very significant that the supreme court took this case — we ’ re seeing efforts to try to determine with some more clarity the status of puerto rico , ” said bankruptcy expert melissa jacoby , a professor at the university of north carolina school of law .
puerto rico , which as a u.s. commonwealth is excluded from chapter 9 , passed the recovery act in 2014 , a local restructuring law that lets it put public entities , such as power authority prepa , into bankruptcy .
two u.s. court decisions deemed the recovery act invalid after prepa creditors sued , with the supreme court agreeing in december to hear an appeal .
creditors say the act contradicts federal bankruptcy law , which prohibits states from making their own debt restructuring laws .
puerto rico argues that if it is exempt from chapter 9 , it must also be exempt from the limitation on states passing their own laws .
“ it makes no sense to read a limitation on chapter 9 to apply to a jurisdiction … that is categorically excluded from that chapter , ” it said in january .
the outcome could threaten a hard-fought , consensual restructuring at prepa , where creditors holding most of the utility ’ s $ 8.3 billion in debt agreed to take 15 percent reductions in payouts .
reinstating the recovery act could allow puerto rico to scrap that deal and instead put prepa into bankruptcy , where it could impose deeper cuts and bind holdout creditors to the deal .
jacoby said the decision might come down to the court focusing on how congress previously interpreted bankruptcy law .
“ it ’ s all about legislative history , ” said jacoby .