kabul ( reuters ) - afghan and u.s. military authorities are investigating reports that as many as 13 civilians were killed in an operation in the northern region of kunduz , officials said on monday , but details remain sketchy three days after the incident .
there were conflicting reports of the casualty numbers in friday s incident in the district of chahardara outside kunduz .
a local council member said 13 people were killed , but a spokesman for the provincial governor said it was just one .
however , the incident underlines the risk of increased civilian casualties from the recent u.s. decision to step up air strikes and special forces operations in afghanistan to break a stalemate with taliban militants .
there is a need for a proper investigation to prove these allegations and we will launch it soon , ghulam qader akbari , the governor of chahardara , said on monday .
on saturday , the nato-led resolute support mission in kabul confirmed the incident had occurred in kunduz and said an investigation had begun , but gave no details .
we are aware of allegations regarding the potential for civilian casualties as the result of a combined operation in northern afghanistan , resolute support spokesman capt tom gresback said in a statement .
resolute support takes all allegations of civilian casualties and the responsibility of human life seriously , and is assessing the facts surrounding this incident .
khosh bawar nasratyar , a member of the local provincial council , said 13 people had been killed by u.s. airstrikes in the district .
but nematullah temor , a spokesman for the provincial governor , said only one civilian had been killed and six wounded when coalition forces hit a car taking people to the villages of ghar o qeshlaq and qatl-e-am to evacuate taliban casualties .
he said other reports of civilian casualties were untrue and baseless .
afghan special forces said 48 insurgents had been killed in chahardara but denied any civilian casualties , saying the area had been evacuated before the operation .
but graphic pictures purporting to show the aftermath of the incident , and unconfirmed reports that as many as 60 people had been killed , were widely shared on social media , highlighting the risk that public opinion could turn decisively against the government over the issue .
the most recent united nations civilian casualty figures , released last month , show air strikes drove a rise of 52 percent in the first nine months of 2017 , to 205 killed and 261 injured , versus the corresponding period last year .
former president hamid karzai , who clashed bitterly with the united states over civilian casualties when he was in power , condemned the incident , but there was no comment from the government of president ashraf ghani .