pathetic predictably impotent .
we are not united we are divided .
we do not stand strong .
we sit like ducks .
waiting to be shot .
helpless , pathetic , slow.mohamed took a truck and drove it into men , women and children celebrating bastille day in nice .
he killed 84.and who yet knows of the horrors still to spew from hospital wards lives fractured , crumpled , crushed.one minute they were jubilant , locals and tourists alike celebrating bastille day together .
the next , lying splintered on the floor.and the most sickening thing of all worse than spilt blood , fractured bodies , children with legs contorted out of human control , the reek of death , is our horribly sanitized response to it all.pathetic .
predictably impotent.evil mowed us down in a monster truck .
and we tweeted like lethargic birds between egyptian cotton sheets.celebrities rushed to social media with their message not again , designers comforted with a patriotic graphic , tea candles were lit and instagrammed .
there will be a vigil in a public square .
again .
a hashtag is born # prayfornice , exploding into a thousand others as people want to # prayfor france or # prayforhumanity , failing to acknowledge the horrible truth that this attack was done in some spurious god s name .
you want to pray for nice ? you think religion will help solve this ?
religion and its bonkers side-shoots are the problem.that s true if you re talking about the religion of hate katie , but christians , jews and hindu s don t subscribe to killing innocent people to gain entry to heaven .
-100 percent fed up ! politicians tell us to stand united .
the prime minister of france has said he will not allow the country to be destabilised .
president hollande reminds us terrorism will not be tolerated.well big news : france is destabilised in a perpetual state of emergency .
we do not stand united .
we are divided , we are ripped apart .
and yet we tolerate it every time.we do not stand strong .
we sit like ducks .
waiting to be shot .
helpless , pathetic , slow.french pres .
hollande hours before # niceattack : `` what threatens us is the rise of populism . ''
https : //t.co/x9hr4jw2fe pic.twitter.com/kybedufklw paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) july 15 , 2016we are reminded to be more tolerant .
liberal lefties takes to the airways lecturing at us , not to react .
to remind us of the good and humanity in most people.muslim mayors stand and tell us we will be there , shoulder-to-shoulder with france , reminding us mohamed has nothing to do with ordinary muslims or islam.as with every other time , someone from the bbc informs us many of the victims will have been muslim , as if that helps .
trying to give credence to the notion islam can t be blamed because muslims died too .
and again , we hear a familiar refrain .
the suspect was known to the police he had a fiche s on his file marking his links to terror and isis.he was a french national from tunisia .
( why are they always french-tunisians , never tunisian/french ?
what do you think he called himself ?
) via : daily mail