harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s ruling party accused the head of the armed forces of treason on tuesday as troops took up positions around the capital in an escalation of a dispute with 93-year-old president robert mugabe over political succession .
just 24 hours after military chief general constantino chiwenga threatened to intervene to end a purge in the ruling party , a reuters reporter saw six armored personnel carriers on major thoroughfares on the outskirts of the capital .
aggressive soldiers directing traffic told passing cars to keep moving through the darkness .
don t try anything funny .
just go , one soldier said on harare drive .
the presence of troops , including the movement of at least six armored personnel carriers from a barracks northwest of harare , sparked rumors of coup against mugabe , although there was no evidence to suggest zimbabwe s leader of the last 37 years had been toppled .
the lead item on the zbc state broadcaster s evening news bulletin was an anti-military rally by the youth wing of mugabe s zanu-pf party .
the southern african nation has been on edge since monday when chiwenga , commander of zimbabwe defence forces , said he was prepared to step in to end a purge of supporters of a sacked vice president .
the unprecedented statement represents an escalation of a rumbling political struggle over who will succeed mugabe , who has been in power since the country gained independence from britain in 1980 .
mugabe chaired a weekly cabinet meeting in the capital on tuesday .
afterwards , zanu-pf said it stood by the primacy of politics over the gun and accused chiwenga of treasonable conduct ... meant to incite insurrection .
mugabe fired vice president emerson mnangagwa last week .
the veteran of the 1970s liberation war was popular with the military and had been seen as a likely successor to mugabe .
the army views his removal as part of a purge of independence-era figures to pave the way for mugabe to hand power to his wife grace mugabe .
a reuters witness saw two armored vehicles parked beside the main road from harare to chinhoyi , about 20 km ( 14 miles ) from the city .
one , which was pointed in the direction of the capital , had come off its tracks .
witnesses said they saw four armored vehicles turn before reaching harare and head towards the presidential guard compound in a suburb on the outskirts of harare .
there were about four tanks and they turned right here , you can see markings on the road , one witness on the chinhoyi highway said , referring to the armored vehicles .
he pointed to a road that links to the guard compound .
the troop movements raise tension on a continent where for decades armies regularly overthrew civilian governments .
neither the president nor his wife responded in public to the general s remarks and state media did not publish chiwenga s statement .
the herald newspaper posted some of the comments on its twitter page but deleted them .
the head of zanu-pf s youth wing accused the army chief of subverting the constitution .
grace mugabe has developed a strong following in the powerful youth wing .
defending the revolution and our leader and president is an ideal we live for and if need be it is a principle we are prepared to die for , kudzai chipanga , who leads the zanu-pf youth league , said at the party s headquarters in harare .
grace mugabe s rise has brought her into conflict with the independence-era war veterans , who once enjoyed a privileged role in the ruling party under mugabe , but who have in recent years been banished from senior government and party roles .
decades ago , zimbabwe had one of africa s promising economies due in part to its agricultural exports .
the country is currently struggling to pay for imports due to a dollar crunch , which is also sparking rampant inflation only 10 years after it suffered a financial implosion caused when the central bank began to print money .
martin rupiya , an expert on zimbabwe military affairs at the university of south africa in pretoria , said the army appeared to be putting the squeeze on mugabe .
there s a rupture between the executive and the armed forces , rupiya said .
alex magaisa , a british-based zimbabwean academic said it was premature to talk about a coup .
a military coup is the nuclear option .
a coup would be a very hard sell at home and in the international community .
they will want to avoid that , magaisa said .