johannesburg ( reuters ) - south african deputy president cyril ramaphosa was elected leader of the african national congress on monday in a close-run vote that will set the direction for the country and the scandal-plagued party that has ruled since the end of apartheid .
as anc leader , ramaphosa , a 65-year-old union leader who became a businessman and is now one of south africa s richest people , is likely to become the country s next president after elections in 2019 .
he has promised to fight rampant corruption and revitalize the economy , a message hailed by foreign investors .
[ nl8n1og07w ] jacob zuma s presidency , tainted by corruption and scandal , has badly tarnished the anc s image both at home and abroad .
the party once led by nelson mandela is now deeply divided .
ramaphosa narrowly beat nkosazana dlamini-zuma , 68 , a former cabinet minister and zuma s ex-wife , in monday s vote , marking a pivotal moment for the anc , which launched black-majority rule under mandela s leadership 23 years ago .
he smiled and hugged other party officials as the results were read out .
zuma sat stony-faced as ramaphosa s victory was announced .
political instability , including questions over who would replace zuma , has been cited by credit rating agencies as a big factor behind their decision to cut south africa to junk .
economic growth in africa s traditional powerhouse has been lethargic over the last six years and the jobless rate stands near record levels .
zuma has faced allegations of corruption since he became head of state in 2009 but has denied any wrongdoing .
the president has also faced allegations that his friends , the wealthy gupta businessmen , wielded undue influence over his government .
zuma and the guptas have denied the accusations .
the 75-year-old president has survived several votes of no-confidence in parliament over his performance as head of state .
dlamini-zuma , 68 , the president s preferred candidate , had campaigned on pledges to tackle the racial inequality that has persisted since the end of white-minority rule .
[ nl8n1og082 ] the rand currency zar=d3 had risen to a nine-month high of 12.5200 earlier , as the market priced in a ramaphosa victory .
government bonds also closed firmer before the announcement that ramaphosa had won the race .
ramaphosa was seen as the more investor-friendly of the two main candidates vying to lead the ruling party , capital economics africa economist john ashbourne said .
during the campaign , he promised to clean up corruption within the ruling party and to work with businesses and labor to boost economic growth .
in a boost to ramaphosa , courts ruled last week that officials from some provinces seen as supporting dlamini-zuma had been elected illegally and were barred from the conference .
ramaphosa drew the majority of nominations from party branches scattered across the country .
but the delegates are not bound by their branches when they vote at the conference .
mmusi maimane , the opposition leader , said in a statement : ramaphosa can not save south africa , only the voters can in 2019 , in reference to the upcoming national elections .
analysts say the bitterness of the power struggle between ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma has increased the chances that the party will find it hard to set policy and could possibly split before the 2019 national election .
after his victory , ramaphosa will be anc s flag-bearer in that election , but will have to contend with dlamini-zuma s allies in his leadership team , meaning that their policies are divergent .
dlamini-zuma is a fierce campaigner against racial inequality whose hostility to big business has rattled investors in south africa .
backers of ramaphosa , say she is peddling populist rhetoric and would rule in the mould of her former husband .
to his supporters , ramaphosa s business success makes him well-suited to the task of turning around an economy grappling with 28 percent unemployment and credit rating downgrades .
prince mashele , senior research fellow at university of pretoria , said the anc s top most decision-making group known as the top six was now split down the middle , consisting of three politicians apiece drawn from ramaphosa and dlamini-zuma s camps , which would make it hard to implement policy .
terrible combination we have in the top six , it s a paralyzed situation .
this top six will not make any ground breaking decisions , mashele , who is also a political commentator and columnist , said .
daniel silke , an independent political analyst , said : both sides will continue to vie for ascendancy within the anc .
( this version of the story was refiled to cut extraneous words in paragraph 9 , 13 , 19 , 21 )