new delhi ( reuters ) - india has been investigating how bloomberg philanthropies , founded by billionaire michael bloomberg , funds local non-profit groups for anti-tobacco lobbying , government documents show , making it the latest foreign non-government organization to come under scrutiny .
prime minister narendra modi s government has since 2014 tightened surveillance of non-profit groups , saying they were acting against india s national interests .
thousands of foreign-funded charities licenses have been canceled for misreporting donations .
critics , however , say the government has used the foreign funding law as a tool to silence non-profit groups which have raised concerns about the social costs of india s rapid economic development .
the intelligence wing of india s home ministry last year drafted a note on bloomberg philanthropies , raising concerns that the foundation was running a campaign to target indian tobacco businesses and aggressively lobby against the sector .
though the three-page note , reviewed by reuters , said the bloomberg initiative s claimed intention to free india of tobacco can not be faulted given the known risks from tobacco , it highlighted the sector s importance , noting it brings in nearly $ 5 billion in annual revenue for governments , and provides a livelihood for millions of people .
foreign interests making foreign contributions ... for purposes of lobbying against an established economic activity raises multiple concerns , the note said , including , it said , an adverse economic impact on 35 million people .
the june 3 , 2016 note , marked secret and circulated to top government officials , including in modi s office , has not previously been reported .
the probe continued until at least april this year , another government document showed .
rebecca carriero , a spokeswoman for michael bloomberg and new york-based bloomberg philanthropies , declined to comment as they were unaware of any investigation .
a home ministry spokesman said queries which relate to security agencies can not be answered .
modi s office did not respond to an email seeking comment .
the ministry s note was one of the factors behind the rejection of a foreign funding license renewal of at least one bloomberg-funded india charity last october , said a senior government official aware of the investigation .
michael bloomberg , one of the world s richest people and a former new york city mayor , has committed nearly $ 1 billion to support global tobacco control efforts .
one of his focus countries is india , where tobacco kills 900,000 people a year .
other than funding indian ngos , bloomberg s charity has in the past worked on improving road safety and supported federal tobacco-control efforts .
in 2015 , modi called michael bloomberg a friend , and the two agreed on working together on india s ambitious plan to build so-called smart cities .
the home ministry note said the bloomberg charity successfully lobbied for the introduction of bigger health warnings on cigarette packs , contrary to the recommendations of a parliamentary panel .
while the panel called for the size of warnings to be more than doubled to 50 percent of a pack s surface area , the health ministry sought a higher figure of 85 percent .
despite protests from india s $ 10 billion cigarette industry , the supreme court last year ordered manufacturers to follow the more stringent health ministry rules .
that , the note said , was the first of the three-phase bloomberg campaign targeting india s tobacco industry .
it did not explain how exactly the bloomberg charity lobbied .
while the note mirrored some of india s tobacco lobby s positions - such as how anti-smoking policies could adversely impact farmers - the government official said the investigation was not done at the behest of the industry .
anti-tobacco lobby wants to kill revenue generating activities , the official said .
a health ministry official , however , said : we don t see tobacco as an economic activity .
he added that the health ministry was unaware of the home ministry s note on bloomberg philanthropies .
india has stepped up scrutiny of ngos registered under the foreign contribution regulation act ( fcra ) .
in 2015 , the home ministry put the ford foundation on a watch list and suspended greenpeace india s fcra license , drawing criticism from the united states .
earlier this year , the government banned foreign funding for the public health foundation of india , a group backed by the bill & melinda gates foundation , saying it used foreign donations to lobby for tobacco-control policy issues , which is prohibited under fcra .
in the bloomberg case , the home ministry note included a chart showing how funds flowed from bloomberg philanthropies to its partner , the campaign for tobacco-free kids , which was then funding five local fcra-registered ngos .
these ngos , the note said , were being used by the bloomberg charity for anti-tobacco lobbying activities .
the fcra license of at least one of them - the institute of public health ( iph ) bengaluru - was not renewed in october , in part due to the home ministry s note , the government official said .
the iph said it was told by the home ministry that its license was not being renewed on the basis of a field agency report , but no details were given .
it was unaware of the investigation on bloomberg philanthropies .
in april , the home ministry wrote to the federal health ministry , citing an inquiry into foreign funding for lobbying to change laws in india .
the letter , seen by reuters , mentioned the bloomberg initiative and directed the health ministry to report on anti-tobacco lobbying by foreign donors in other countries where tobacco is widely used .
the health ministry has not yet sent that report , another government official said .
the health ministry did not respond to questions .
for a graphic on bloomberg 's efforts to reduce tobacco use globally click tmsnrt.rs/2id1qcx