bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand on wednesday marked the start of a lavish , five-day funeral for king bhumibol adulyadej with a buddhist religious ceremony attended by senior members of its royal family .
king bhumibol , who died last year aged 88 , will be cremated on thursday on a royal pyre within a cremation complex of gold pavilions in front of bangkok s grand palace , in a ceremony that is expected to draw about 250,000 mourners .
thailand has observed a year of mourning for king bhumibol , who was regarded as a pillar of stability during a reign of seven decades that witnessed political upheaval and rapid development in the southeast asian nation .
it s overwhelming , said one mourner , aporn wongdee , 60 , who hails from the southern province of nakhon si thammarat .
i ve been here for two days already and i want to see our father to heaven .
a sum of $ 90 million has been set aside for the funeral , the likes of which has never been seen in thailand , officials involved in the funeral preparations said .
king maha vajiralongkorn , known as rama x , who inherited the throne in december on his father s death , arrived at the grand palace by car on wednesday as soldiers dressed in red uniforms and black hats stood to attention .
he was flanked by his two daughters .
live television images from inside the palace showed the king lighting candles in front of his father s coffin and a symbolic royal urn .
the buddhist funeral ceremony , mixed with hindu rituals , was attended by 119 buddhist monks who chanted prayers in the ancient pali language .
queues of black-clad mourners , many carrying portraits of the king , snaked around parts of bangkok s old town , waiting to enter the cremation area .
by mid-afternoon , 25,000 mourners had gathered around the cremation site , city police said .
in what is expected to be an emotionally-charged morning , king bhumibol s body will be moved on thursday from the grand palace to a crematorium in a public square in front , where thousands of people have already pitched tents to ensure places .
on thursday , three processions will make their way from the palace to the cremation site - a series of specially-erected thai pavilions that took nearly a year to build .
some thais have folded flowers of sandalwood paper to be used in the cremation , in the belief that their fragrance guides the soul of the departed to heaven .
the cremation day has been declared a national holiday , when banks will be closed and major shopping centers will be shut from 3 p.m .