washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration has no immediate need for funding to combat the zika virus because money remains unspent from fighting the two-year-long ebola outbreak , a member of the republican senate leadership said on tuesday .
lawmakers are debating what resources are needed as zika spreads in south and central america and the caribbean and raises fears of the possibility of birth defects .
but while democrats joined with the administration to call for more than $ 1.8 billion in emergency funding , republicans say there is no need for immediate action and intend to have hearings on capitol hill , including a meeting with u.s. health and human services secretary sylvia burwell on tuesday .
“ we all believe this needs to be dealt with , ” said senator roy blunt of missouri , who will chair a hearing about zika on thursday .
“ there ’ s still money left that was appropriated for ebola , ” blunt told reporters .
“ so there ’ s no immediate shortage of money for the administration to do what they think needs to be done. ” he said that the centers for disease control and prevention the national institutes of health have received additional funding .
most of the money sought by obama would be spent in the united states on testing , surveillance and response .
a republican aide said the government had $ 1.49 billion left in ebola funding as of dec. 31 , 2015 .
the ebola outbreak began in west africa in december 2013 .
the cdc received a $ 272 million increase for 2016 , the aide said .
officials at the department of health and human services were not immediately available to comment .
democrats rejected the republican agenda of hearings and called for action on obama ’ s plan .
“ all the lip service in the world isn ’ t going to protect america from the zika virus , ” said senator charles schumer of new york , the senate ’ s no .
3 democrat .
the world health organization declared the outbreak an international health emergency on feb. 1 , citing a “ strongly suspected ” relationship between zika infection in pregnancy and microcephaly , a condition marked by abnormally small head size that can result in developmental problems .
brazil is investigating more than 4,000 suspected cases of microcephaly and has identified evidence of zika infection in 17 of these cases .
but much remains unknown about zika .