parachinar/peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - two suspected u.s. drone strikes on tuesday killed 11 people on the mountainous pakistan-afghanistan border , following a strike a day earlier that killed 20 , government and militant sources said .
the attacks came days after a canadian-american couple held hostage by the taliban were freed from the area in pakistan s northwest , striking a rare positive note in the country s often-fraught relations with the united states .
on friday , u.s. drones were seen hovering near where american caitlan coleman , her canadian husband , joshua boyle , and their three children , all born in captivity , were freed , after having been kidnapped by the haqqani network while backpacking in afghanistan in 2012 .
four unmanned drones fired six missiles in monday s attack , and four more were dropped in two strikes on tuesday , baseer khan wazir , the top administrative official in the kurram agency , part of pakistan s restive federally administered tribal areasm , told reuters .
the drones fired missiles on taliban hideouts , killing at least 31 people over two days , he added , with all three attacks taking place on the afghan side .
twenty people were killed yesterday , mostly from the afghan taliban , and 11 more were killed in today s attacks , wazir told reuters .
taliban sources said 18 members of the pakistan-based haqqani militants , allied to the taliban , were killed in monday s strike and six in one of tuesday s attacks .
there were some mud-built houses which were being used by the mujahideen ( afghan taliban fighters ) , said a member of the afghan taliban , who asked not to be identified .
no prominent militants were in the area when the drones targeted two or three different compounds , he added .
another taliban source said two commanders were killed in monday s attack , however .
witnesses said they heard the drones and saw plumes of smoke before seeing 20 makeshift coffins moved out of the area .
residents of the area said the strikes were no more than 300 meters ( yards ) from the pakistan side of the border .
there are always drones hovering over this border area , but this was the first time four drones were noticed at the same time , said kurram resident gulab sher .