jerusalem ( reuters ) - the israeli air force attacked a syrian anti-aircraft battery on monday that israel said had fired a missile at its planes while they were on a reconnaissance mission over neighboring lebanon .
no israeli planes were hit , israeli military spokesman lieutenant-colonel jonathan conricus said .
the counter-strike took place two hours later and incapacitated the anti-aircraft unit located 50 km ( 30 miles ) east of damascus , he said .
we know according to our intelligence it was a battery controlled by the syrian regime and we hold the syrian regime responsible for the fire , conricus said .
prime minister benjamin netanyahu later issued a statement saying israel would not hesitate to defend itself .
today there was an attempt to harm our aircraft this is unacceptable to us .
the air force acted quickly and accurately to destroy what needed to be destroyed , netanyahu said .
our policy is clear .
whoever tries to harm us , we will strike at him .
we will continue to act in the region as is required in order to defend israel .
but the syrian army said it struck an israeli warplane that had breached its air space at the syria-lebanon border .
the israeli enemy this morning violated our air space ... our air defense mediums confronted it , hit one of its planes directly and forced it to flee , the syrian military statement said .
over two hours later , israel launched several missiles that hit a military position in the damascus countryside and only caused material damage , it said .
syria s army warned israel against the grave consequences of repeated aggressive attempts .
syria and israel , while old enemies , have rarely traded blows directly since a 1974 ceasefire ended their last conventional war .
monday s incident was additionally unusual given its publication by israel , which rarely gives details on its air force activities over lebanon and syria to foil suspected arms transfers to iran-backed hezbollah fighters .
such missions in syria have increased dramatically during the country s six-and-a-half-year-old civil war , israeli officials say .
all efforts , they say , are made to avoid accidental clashes with russian forces helping damascus beat back insurgents .
russian defence minister sergei shoigu began a visit to israel later on monday but did not mention the air strike during public remarks at the start of a meeting in tel aviv with his israeli counterpart , avigdor lieberman .
i would like to talk about the things related to syria .
the operation there is close to the end .
there are several problems which require urgent solution and the prospects of further development of the situation in syria require discussion , shoigu said .
conricus said the israeli military had informed russia of its syria strike in real time or immediately before it took place , and would brief shoigu .
the lebanese army says israeli aircraft regularly violate lebanon s air space .
conricus said a syrian attack on israeli air force planes over lebanon was unprecedented .
syrian anti-aircraft missiles were launched at israeli warplanes over syria in march .
they were unscathed but one of the missiles , on its descent , was intercepted by israel s arrow air defense system .
according to conricus , the syrian battery struck on monday had carried out the launch against the israeli planes in march .