pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo s newly-elected prime minister , ex-guerilla commander ramush haradinaj , pledged on saturday to maintain dialogue with a former foe serbia and put an end to endemic corruption .
haradinaj was chosen to form a new government on thursday after his coalition struck an agreement with a smaller party , paving the way for them to take power .
lawmakers endorsed his appointment on saturday with 61 votes in the 120-seat parliament - ending a political deadlock that has persisted since elections on june 11 .
there is no alternative to dialogue with serbia , haradinaj told parliament .
despite a tragic history , we can not change the fact that we are neighbors , he said .
haradinaj s coalition comprises parties made up of former guerrillas who fought serbian forces in 1998 and 1999 .
that campaign led to accusations of war crimes against him , but he was acquitted twice by a united nations war crimes tribunal .
his arrest in france in january on a serbian arrest warrant for war crimes soured relations between belgrade and pristina .
haradinaj said his new government would fight corruption that has been deterring investors since kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 .
we have an endemic corruption in all institutions , he said , ahead of an expected vote on his new cabinet in parliament where his party will command a slim majority .
on saturday , belgrade officials gave support to 10 serb deputies who have pledged to vote for haradinaj s government in parliament in return for three ministerial posts .
but opposition lawmakers criticized haradinaj for relying on votes of serb deputies who they say would seek belgrade s approval for any decisions they take .
it is unfortunate that after all these years the creation of kosovo institutions is entirely in the hands of belgrade .
this is a catastrophic cabinet , avdullah hoti of the opposition democratic league of kosovo ( ldk ) said .
opposition mps left the chamber as the vote took place .
central bank governor bedri hamza was appointed finance minister and behgjet pacolli , whom media refer to as the richest man in kosovo , as foreign minister .
the new government will have the difficult task of tackling 30 percent unemployment , and improving relations with serbia , a precondition for the neighbors to move forward in their efforts to join the european union .
kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 , almost a decade after nato air strikes drove out serbian forces that had been accused of expelling and killing ethnic albanian civilians in a two-year counter-insurgency .