dandong , china ( reuters ) - north korean workers have begun to leave the chinese border city of dandong , following the latest round of sanctions seeking to restrict pyongyang s ability to earn foreign currency income , local businesses and traders say .
almost 100,000 overseas workers , based predominantly in china and russia , funnel some $ 500 million in wages a year to help finance the north korean regime , the u.s. government says .
dandong , a city of 800,000 along the yalu river that defines the border with north korea , is home to many restaurants and hotels that hire north korean waitresses and musicians .
their colorful song and dance performances are a tourist attraction .
thousands of predominantly female workers are also employed by chinese-owned garment and electronics factories in dandong , with a significant proportion of their wages going straight to the north korean state .
the wing cafe used to advertise its beautiful north korean waitresses on its shopfront by the yalu .
the sign is now gone , and cafe staff said the waitresses had returned home in recent weeks after their visas expired .
there have been changes in government policy , the manager of another restaurant said .
it s not convenient to say more .
recent videos circulating on chinese social media appear to show hundreds of north korean women waiting in line to clear immigration at dandong s border gate .
a reuters reporter saw a group of around 50 north korean women waiting to cross the border on friday morning .
four traders , who deal in goods ranging from iron ore and seafood to ginseng and alcohol , told reuters the sanctions had all but crippled the usual trade .
more stringent customs checks and patrols by chinese border police have also made it harder to smuggle goods across the border , according to the traders , who declined to be named due to the subject s sensitivity .
the impact has been huge .
dandong s economy has always counted on border trade , said one chinese trader .
in response to pyongyang s sixth and largest nuclear test last month , the u.n. security council on sept. 11 passed a resolution prohibiting the use of north korean workers , strengthening an aug. 5 resolution that put a cap on the number of workers allowed overseas .
successive rounds of u.n. trade sanctions have now banned 90 percent of the north s $ 2.7 billion of publicly reported exports .
the sept. 11 sanctions also ordered the closure of all joint business ventures with north korea and added textiles to a list of banned exports , which already included coal , iron ore and seafood .
in a statement on thursday , china s ministry of commerce ordered the implementation of the new sanctions across the country within 120 days .
the sanctions allow workers to serve out existing contracts .
business people in dandong , through which most of trade between the two countries flows , said contracts could not be renewed and new visas were not being approved .
a chinese supervisor at a factory making electronic wiring for automobiles said while most of its 300 north korean workers were on multi-year contracts expiring at different times , those who arrived in dandong after aug. 5 had already been forced to leave .
he did not say how many .
the sanctions have come as a rude jolt to dandong businesses and traders who had long rolled with north korea s unpredictability but believed their neighbor s economic reliance on china would keep its belligerence in check .
dandong is one of the larger cities in liaoning province , whose rustbelt economy has struggled under national campaigns to curb industrial overcapacity and ease pollution .
liaoning was china s worst performer in the first half of 2017 , registering gdp growth of 2.1 percent , compared with the national rate of 6.9 per cent , according to official statistics .
the economy hasn t been doing well here for the past two years , said one trader .
this is making a bad situation worse .