21st century wire says is washington preparing to carpet bomb raqqa ?
if so , what will be the trigger for this boldly adroit military maneuver to deploy b-52 bombers to the middle east ? back in dec 2015 , gop contender ted cruz vowed he would carpet bomb isis if elected president ( and to hell with any collateral damage ) .
he recently repeated that call on fox network s kelly file show .
if i am elected president , we will defeat radical islamic terrorism , and we will utterly destroy isis , he said .
and yes that means carpet bombing them into oblivion .
but it s not cruz ramping up the pentagon s military footprint it s barack obama who is the international aggressor , but he s leading from behind safely in the background in order to preserve his party s fast-diminishing dovish allure in a delicate election year.regardless , the u.s. are desperate to save face in the middle east after 5 years of failed policy and arming terrorists in syria and northern iraq while acting as if they were forming a coalition to defeat the terrorists a totally fraudulent narrative ( yes , you read that correctly , and the evidence is now in ) .is this a sign of thing to come .. ? in a conventional conflict , the b-52 can perform air interdiction , offensive counter-air and maritime operations .
during desert storm , b-52s delivered 40 percent of all the weapons dropped by coalition forces .
it is highly effective when used for ocean surveillance , and can assist the u.s. navy in anti-ship and mine-laying operations .
two b-52s , in two hours , can monitor 140,000 square miles ( 364,000 square kilometers ) of ocean surface .
all b-52s are equipped with an electro-optical viewing system that uses platinum silicide forward-looking infrared and high resolution low-light-level television sensors to augment the targeting , battle assessment , flight safety and terrain-avoidance system , thus further improving its combat ability and low-level flight capability .
( u.s. air force photo ) rtamerican b-52 stratofortress bombers have been sent for their first middle east operational deployment since the 1991 gulf war 26 years ago .
the aircraft are flying from qatar to bomb islamic state targets.an undisclosed number of b-52s have arrived at the al udeid air base on sunday , the us air force said .
the b-52 will provide the coalition continued precision and deliver desired airpower effects , lt. gen. charles q .
brown jr. , commander , us air forces central command said in the statement.the b-52 is a long-range multi-purpose heavy bomber .
the central command last used them during operation desert storm against saddam hussein s iraq , when the aircraft flew sorties from saudi arabia.the deployment is meant to replace a contingent of b-1 lancer swing-wing bombers which departed the middle east in january for maintenance and a series of upgrades , the us army s stars and stripes reported .
the b-52 demonstrates our continued resolve to apply persistent pressure on daesh and defend the region in any future contingency , brown said , referring to islamic state by its arabic-language acronym.the deployment comes shortly after russia used its long-range tupolev tu-22 , tu-95 and tu-160 bombers to strike terrorist targets in syria .
the russian aircraft flew from their home bases over the caspian sea , iran and iraq to reach the syrian territory.read more pentagon news at : 21st century wire pentagon files