lima ( reuters ) - peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski pardoned former authoritarian leader alberto fujimori late on sunday , triggering christmas eve street clashes as protesters denounced the decision as part of a crude political deal .
the decision clears fujimori of convictions for human rights crimes and graft when his right-wing government was in power from 1990 to 2000 , and could define kuczynski s legacy and rewrite political alliances .
at least two ministers in kuczynski s cabinet who objected to the pardon told him they wanted to resign , and kuczynski might reshuffle the cabinet as early as this week , a government source said .
two ruling party lawmakers quit his party as his political group planned next steps .
kuczynski , a former wall street banker who vowed as a candidate not to pardon fujimori , based his decision on a medical review that found fujimori suffered from a progressive , degenerative and incurable disease , according to a statement from the president s office .
late on sunday , fujimori was taken to hospital from prison by ambulance to treat a drop in blood pressure and abnormal heart beat .
but many in peru saw the pardon as part of a quid pro quo .
three days earlier , fujimori s loyalists - led by his lawmaker son kenji - unexpectedly saved kuczynski from a vote in congress that nearly removed him from office .
in a video kenji shared on social media , a gray-haired fujimori , connected to tubes in hospital , was seen smiling after reading kuczynski s announcement of the pardon on a cellphone with kenji .
to save his own skin he cut a deal with fujimori s supporters to infamously pardon a corrupt killer , said veronika mendoza , a leftist leader who competed against kuczynski in last year s presidential election .
kuczynski s center-right government has repeatedly denied that a pardon for fujimori was part of political negotiations .
fujimori is a deeply divisive figure in peru .
while many consider him a corrupt dictator , others credit him with ending an economic crisis and bloody leftist insurgency when in power .
he s the best president peru ever had , said maria luisa cuculiza , a friend and former minister of fujimori , adding that he no longer had any political ambitions .
he doesn t want to return to politics .
he just wants to be a good grandfather , cuculiza told reuters by telephone .
police fired teargas at scores of fujimori s opponents in downtown lima , who waved pictures of the victims of a bloody counterinsurgency campaign during his term .
officers in riot gear stood guard at kuczynski s house in the capital s san isidro financial district as protesters called for the march to make its way there .
fujimori s family and supporters cheered the pardon as a long-overdue vindication for a misunderstood hero .
holding a vigil at the hospital where fujimori remained late on sunday , his followers waved banners reading freedom for fujimori !
but the pardon was a blow to the relatives of victims , prosecutors and human rights activists who helped put fujimori behind bars in a lengthy judicial process that earned peru global plaudits for fighting impunity .
kuczynski , you ve betrayed justice , democracy and victims .
history will never forgive you , said indira huilca , a leftist lawmaker whose union leader father was shot dead in 1992 in what the inter-american court of human rights deemed an extrajudicial killing .
kuczynski , who like fujimori is 79 , ran for office to cap a prestigious career in finance and public administration .
the pardon may expose him to allegations of ideological bias as he leads regional criticism of leftist venezuelan president nicolas maduro , whom he has called a dictator .
the pardon might also prompt one of the biggest political realignments in peru since fujimori fled to his parents homeland of japan in 2000 as a corruption scandal brought his decade in power to an end .
fujimori was extradited back to peru in 2007 and later found guilty of commanding death squads that massacred civilians , bribing lawmakers and having a hand in the kidnapping a journalist , among other crimes .
despite his downfall , the right-wing populist movement that fujimori built has remained one of the most potent political forces in peru .
his eldest daughter , keiko , leads the opposition party popular force that controls congress , while kenji has courted ties with kuczynski s government as he challenges his sister s past decade of leadership of their father s populist following .
on thursday , kenji led a surprise defection in popular force that deprived keiko s followers of the votes they needed to remove kuczynski from office in the wake of a graft scandal .
we re eternally grateful to you , kenji told kuczynski on twitter , noting that he was speaking for fujimori s family .
kenji said fujimori was recovering in intensive care and would not likely go home for a few days .
as the pardon inflamed long-dormant political tension in peru , a representative of the political arm of the maoist-inspired rebel group shining path called for kuczynski to release its historic leader .
freedom for dr abimael guzman reinoso !
guzman s attorney , alfredo crespo , wrote in a message to journalists .
enough of hate and persecution !