united nations ( reuters ) - myanmar s vice president told the united nations on wednesday that security forces in his country s rakhine state , from which hundreds of thousands of people have recently fled , have been instructed to take full measures to avoid collateral damage and harming innocent civilians .
violence in rakhine state erupted on aug. 25 , when rohingya militants launched deadly attacks on government outposts , provoking a fierce crackdown by the myanmar military that has been greeted with widespread international condemnation , including at the annual u.n. general assembly this week .
addressing the assembly , vice president henry van thio said it was not only rohingya muslims who had fled , but members of other minority groups too .
he said human rights violations would be dealt with in accordance with strict norms of justice .
at least 420,000 rohingya muslims have since fled into neighboring bangladesh to escape what a senior united nations official has called a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
on wednesday , u.s. vice president mike pence accused the myanmar military of responding to militant attacks with terrible savagery , burning villages , driving the rohingya from their homes .
pence called the crisis a threat to the world and said u.s. president donald trump wanted the u.n. security council to take strong and swift action to the violence .
van thio said his government was deeply concerned about the present situation in rakhine and said : the security forces have been instructed to adhere strictly to the code of conduct in carrying out security operations , to exercise all due restraint , and to take full measures to avoid collateral damage and the harming of innocent civilians .
he said the government s deepest sympathy goes to the families of all innocent civilians and members of the police and security forces who have lost their lives .
van thio said the government was concerned by reports that muslims were continuing to cross into bangladesh even though there had been no armed clashes since sept. 5 and added : we would need to find out the reason for this exodus .
van thio said the government recognized the need to ensure humanitarian assistance was provided to all those in need without discrimination .
he said a committee had been established under the social welfare minister to implement recommendations of an advisory commission chaired by former u.n. secretary-general kofi annan and the government would establish an advisory board comprised of eminent persons from myanmar and abroad .
myanmar was also working hard to enhance relations with bangladesh and would welcome a visit by its home minister to discuss cooperation on border security , van thio said .