istanbul ( reuters ) - the u.s. case against a turkish gold trader accused of evading u.s. sanctions on iran is based on evidence fabricated by the network of the muslim cleric ankara blames for last year s coup attempt , turkey s foreign minister said on friday .
mevlut cavusoglu said the case against the trader , reza zarrab , showed the extent to which followers of the u.s.-based cleric , fethullah gulen , had infiltrated american state institutions , including its judiciary and overseas missions .
the zarrab case has complicated already strained relations between the united states and turkey , both members of the nato military alliance .
u.s. prosecutors have charged the wealthy iranian-born zarrab and his alleged co-conspirators of handling hundreds of millions of dollars for iran s government and iranian entities from 2010 to 2015 , in a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
while nine people have been criminally charged , only zarrab and a banker from turkey s halkbank , mehmet hakan atilla , are in u.s. custody .
both are due to go on trial on nov. 27 , and have pleaded not guilty .
when you look at the indictment of mr zarrab it is exactly the same one that feto actually prepared here in turkey in 2013 , cavusoglu told reporters at a briefing in istanbul , using the government s term for gulen s network .
so this case is very much a feto-motivated one , this is for sure .
all those indictments and files they fabricated here were taken back to the united states .
under a turkish investigation that became public in 2013 , prosecutors accused zarrab and high-ranking turkish officials of involvement in facilitating iranian money transfers via gold smuggling , leaked documents at the time showed .
erdogan , then prime minister , cast the case as a coup attempt orchestrated by his political enemies .
several prosecutors were removed from the case , police investigators were reassigned , and the investigation was later dropped .
turkey blames gulen s followers for the july 2016 failed coup , when a group of rogue soldiers attempted to overthrow the government and killed more than 250 people .
gulen , who has lived in self-imposed exile in the united states since 1999 , has denied any involvement and condemned the coup .
turkey has repeatedly requested gulen s extradition , but u.s. officials have said the courts require sufficient evidence before they can extradite the elderly cleric .
the united states says its judiciary is independent of any political or other interference .
cavusoglu said he had informed u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson of what ankara sees as the gulenists attempts to spread their influence .
i told him very openly that i believe that feto has infiltrated his missions here in turkey through the local staff , and the halkbank case and the zarrab case are very much feto-motivated ones .
i am very open .
he didn t make a comment on this , cavusoglu said .
last month turkey arrested a local employee working at the u.s. consulate in istanbul over alleged links to gulen s network , prompting an angry reaction from washington that led to both countries scaling back visa services they provide for each other s nationals .
on nov. 6 , ankara and washington said they would resume visa services on a limited basis , although ties remain strained .
[ nl8n1nm6xb ]