( reuters ) - transcanada corp , canada ’ s no.2 pipeline operator , will make a final investment decision on its keystone xl project by december , the company said on friday as it reported a better-than-expected profit .
the december timeline is the first time the company has publicly set a deadline about making an investment decision for the project since u.s. president donald trump approved keystone xl in march , reversing a decision by barack obama .
the investment decision will be based on shipper demand and a regulatory outcome from the u.s. state of nebraska , through which the project passes , paul miller , executive vice president and president of liquid pipeline at transcanada , said in a conference call after the release of quarterly results .
“ our assessment of these factors will really drive our investment decision when we get into that november-december time frame , ” he said .
while transcanada has “ good support ” from existing shippers , including those who departed after keystone xl ’ s 2015 rejection , it is seeking new entrants and wants a “ significant ” level of commitment , miller said , without specifying precise figures .
transcanada launched an open season on thursday for additional commitments for keystone xl .
the expansion increases the capacity of the current keystone system from canada ’ s oil-producing alberta province to the gulf of mexico .
transcanada also said on friday it will invest about c $ 160 million ( $ 129 million ) to expand the capacity of the canadian natural gas mainline , a move that could help producers who have been denied an export route after this week ’ s cancellation of the pacific northwest project .
malaysian state-owned petroliam nasional bhd [ petr.ul ] , or petronas , announced scrapping of its pacific northwest liquefied natural gas terminal in canada ’ s british columbia province this week , due to depressed commodity prices .
transcanada , which spent at least c $ 500 million to build the pipeline connecting gas wells to the terminal , said it would be reimbursed this year for costs associated with the project .
the company ’ s profits on friday were helped by strength in its u.s. natural gas pipelines and liquids pipelines units .
revenue from the company ’ s u.s. natural gas pipelines unit more than doubled to c $ 879 million .
its net income attributable to shareholders rose to c $ 881 million , or c $ 1.01 per share , in the second quarter ended june 30 , compared with c $ 365 million , or 52 canadian cents per share , a year earlier .
on an adjusted basis , the company earned 76 canadian cents per share beating analysts ’ estimate of 69 canadian cents per share , according to thomson reuters i/b/e/s .
revenue rose nearly 17 percent to c $ 3.22 billion .