sao paulo ( reuters ) - a battle between brazilian private college operator estacio participacoes sa and the country s professors arrived in the courts on thursday , as unions and students protested against the company s recent move to fire over 1,000 teachers .
on wednesday , newspaper o estado de sao paulo reported that the company was planning to fire 1,200 of its 10,000 professors in december , as many are being paid above-market rates .
in response , the csb , a brazilian umbrella union , filed a motion in a court in capital brasilia on thursday demanding that the layoffs be halted .
that motion was quashed by a judge .
estacio declined to comment on the judicial proceedings , but emphasized that brazilian law requires that it make any staffing cuts within a limited period of the calendar year .
it s important to remember that brazilian legislation requires that potential layoffs of professors occur only within a very restricted window , the company said in a statement .
augusta raeffray , a lawyer for the csb , said by telephone that mass layoffs must be negotiated with union , which she said estacio did not do .
she added that the company had already filed paperwork for 230 layoffs in the city of sao paulo , almost 100 in ribeirao preto and 50 in belo horizonte .
in rio de janeiro , where 33 of 93 estacio units are located , the citywide teachers union is planning a friday protest and students are planning a monday demonstration , union head joao paulo camara chaves said in a telephone conversation .
the body was also considering a teachers strike during the beginning of lessons next year , he added .
the layoffs and subsequent protests at estacio have raised wider questions about the treatment of academic professionals in brazil , where professors say salaries and contracts have become more precarious both in the private and public sector , especially as the state tightens its belt .
some state universities are paying professors salaries in installments .
other private universities are using an intermittent or hourly pay schedule , said jacob paiva , director of brazil s nationwide professors union , by phone .
shares in estacio fell 2 percent on thursday to 30.71 reais ( $ 9.33 ) , their biggest intraday loss in over a week .
( $ 1 = 3.29 reais )