beirut ( reuters ) - an aid convoy arrived at deir al-zor in eastern syria on thursday , bringing supplies to soldiers and civilians days after the syrian army broke a three-year islamic state siege , syrian state media reported .
the syrian army and its allies reached deir al-zor on tuesday in a sudden advance following months of steady progress east across the desert .
the army on thursday advanced against militants in a pocket they still hold further west , pro-damascus media reported .
state tv broadcast footage of scores of residents cheering with relief in deir al-zor as the convoy arrived .
the united nations estimated that 93,000 civilians living under islamic state siege in deir al-zor had been in extremely difficult conditions , being supplied only by air drops .
the 40 trucks that reached the area on thursday carried basic needs such as fuel , food and medical supplies to civilians , and included two mobile clinics , state news agency sana reported .
the army also holds another besieged enclave at the city s airbase , separated from its advancing forces by hundreds of meters of is-held ground .
the syrian observatory for human rights said on thursday that the army had not yet connected with that enclave , and was working on expanding its corridor from the west .
islamic state mortar fire on neighborhoods still surrounded near the air base killed at least seven civilians and wounded dozens more on thursday , the british-based monitoring group said .
on thursday , the army also advanced against islamic state militants in countryside east of the city of hama , a media unit run by damascus ally hezbollah reported .
the advance , which saw forces recapture two villages there , is part of efforts to drive the militants out of an isolated pocket of territory they control east of hama and homs .
separately , the u.s. special envoy to the u.s.-led coalition against islamic state , brett mcgurk , said on wednesday that a convoy of islamic state fighters and families from the syria-lebanon border was still in open desert .
the coalition is using air strikes to block the convoy from reaching is-held territory in eastern syria , to which the syrian army and its ally hezbollah were escorting it as part of a truce following fighting on the syria-lebanon border .
islamic state is fighting separate offensives by both the syrian army and its allies in eastern and central syria , as well as the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces in raqqa .
the group has lost nearly half of its territory across both iraq and syria , but still has 6,000-8,000 fighters left in syria , the united states-led coalition has said .