raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - air raids by u.s. coalition warplanes have intensified in recent days as kurdish and arab militias seek to drive surrounded islamic state militants from their last strongholds in syria s raqqa but the toll on civilians has been severe .
hundreds of civilians fled the city on thursday , many wounded and malnourished after being trapped for months by fighting between islamic state and the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) .
those who fled said the sheer intensity of the bombardment appeared to have made militants shift their positions , retreat or hide underground , giving civilians a window in which to escape .
abdullah ali s burns were still raw from an air strike that brought down his building and killed his entire family a week ago in central raqqa .
my wife , mum , dad , all 14 people in my family were killed .
their bodies are trapped under rubble , the 24-year-old said , sitting outside a mosque on raqqa s outskirts .
ali s neighbor abdo hussein said more than 50 people were in the building when the air strike hit .
just a handful survived and 13 bodies had been pulled out , he said .
the offensive to drive islamic state out of raqqa , its de facto syrian capital which it seized in 2014 , has long outlasted initial predictions by sdf officials who said ahead of a final assault in june that it could take just weeks .
the sdf said last week the city could be declared captured in the coming days .
there are still several hundred militants in the city and thousands of residents , the coalition says , many of them believed to be held hostage by is in a hospital and nearby stadium .
people had tried to escape before but were shot at by daesh ( islamic state ) .
i even saw them kill a two-year-old child , um moussa , 38 , said , sitting inside the mosque .
this morning they didn t seem to be around , or weren t firing .
my son saw hordes of people leaving so we decided to go for it .
i d been sleeping fully dressed we were ready to flee at the first chance , she said , wearing black robes and a face veil required under islamic state s strict laws .
but weakening the militants with air power has come at a high cost in civilian lives , she and others said .
yesterday four entire families were killed in our area .
it s strike after strike .
all those who escaped on thursday came from a district near the stadium .
they said many buildings had been hit as islamic state fighters fired from them .
each building has dozens of civilians in it , so of course many have died , said hussein .
air strikes were precise , often taking out a single building without damaging those next door , but militants often managed to leave before the missiles hit , he said .
the coalition says it takes great pains to avoid causing civilian casualties and investigates all reports that it has done so .
residents described miserable living conditions and lack of food , water and medical aid with the remaining areas islamic state controls completely cut off .
daesh have clinics but it s to treat their fighters , not us , hussein said .
umm mousa said she , her husband and eight children had slept in their cellar by night to hide from the bombardment and the militants , but that islamic state was now deliberately avoiding interaction with residents .
they re suspicious , scared , in case any of the civilian population are informers they re keeping their distance a bit now , she said .
local islamic state fighters have been surrendering in recent weeks , the u.s. coalition and residents say .
outside the mosque , several blindfolded men were brought into an sdf headquarters for questioning .
islamic state foreign fighters are expected to fight to the death , however .
the foreigners , those are the hard core , said one escaped resident , ahmed faraj .
they won t give up .