ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s nationalist opposition will seek support from the ruling ak party to lower a 10 percent threshold to enter parliament , a party official said on thursday , in a sign that a new rival political party could shake up turkish politics .
former interior minister meral aksener broke with the nationalist movement party ( mhp ) and formed her own iyi parti ( good party ) last month , posing a challenge to the mhp and to president tayyip erdogan s ak party .
speaking to reporters in ankara , mhp deputy chairman semih yalcin said his party , which could fall below the threshold if iyi parti s apparent early popularity is sustained , would push to lower the barrier .
the mhp has preparations regarding the ( threshold ) electoral law , and this will be discussed depending on the offers we receive ( from the ak party ) , yalcin said , a day after mhp leader devlet bahceli called the threshold too harsh .
since 1982 , political parties in turkey have needed to win at least 10 percent of votes to be represented in the 550-seat parliament .
the country faces presidential and parliamentary elections in 2019 .
a recent poll suggested that aksener s party could overtake the main opposition secular chp and push the mhp and pro-kurdish opposition hdp out of parliament by forcing their share of the vote below the current threshold .
it would also cut into the ak party share of the vote .
the islamist-rooted ak party , led by erdogan , is a broad organization , counting among its ranks nationalists and religious conservatives .
will they ( iyi ) win 20 percent or one percent ?
we will see ... everyone will see how they hold up after they stand in front of the people in 2019 , yalcin said of the iyi parti .
the mhp won as much as 18 percent of votes in a 1999 parliamentary election but slipped below the threshold at 9.5 percent in 2002 .
it has exceeded 10 percent since then .
under an executive presidential system approved in an april referendum , the president will be given expanded powers .
the number of mps will be increased from 550 to 600 , while the parliament s authority will be reduced .
critics argue that lowering the threshold , and the resulting change in the composition of parliament , would not have any great impact under the new presidential system .
the ak party , founded by erdogan , has dominated turkish politics since 2002 , holding a majority in parliament for 15 years .
after winning almost 50 percent of votes in the latest parliamentary elections in 2015 , erdogan and party officials said they aimed to win more than half the votes in 2019 .