the character of the modern left , and the core of the censorious campus leftism at the moment , has seldom been better described than by this 1978 passage from harry jaffa in how to think about the american revolution .
most importantly he understands that the distinction between liberalism and radicalism had dissolved , which explains bernie sanders : liberalism and radicalism both reject the wisdom of the past , as enshrined in the institutions of the past , or in the morality of the past .
they deny the legitimacy to laws , governments , or ways of life which accept the ancient evils of mankind , such as poverty , inequality , and war , as necessary and therefore as permanent attributes of the human condition .
political excellence can no longer be measured by the degree to which it ameliorates such evils .
the only acceptable goal is their abolition .
liberalism and radicalism look forward to a state of things in which the means of life , and of the good life , are available to all .
they must be available in such a way that the full development of each individual which is how the good life is defined is not merely compatible with , but necessary to , the full development of all .
competition between individuals , classes , races , and nations must come to an end .
competition itself is seen as the root of the evils mankind must escape .
the good society must be characterized only by cooperation and harmony .
the old liberalism saw life as a race , in which justice demanded for everyone only a fair or equal chance in the competition .
but the new liberalism sees the race itself as wrong .
in every race there can be but one winner , and there must be many losers .
thus the old liberalism preserved the inequality of the few over and against the many .
it demanded the removal of artificial or merely conventional inequalities .
but it recognized and demanded the fullest scope for natural inequalities .
but the new liberalism denies natural no less than conventional inequalities .
in the heaven of the new liberalism , as in that of the old theology , all will be rewarded equally .
the achievement of the good society is itself the only victory .
but this victory is not to be one of man over man , but of mankind over the scourges of mankind .
no one in it will taste the bitterness of defeat .
no one need say , i am a loser , but i have no right to complain .
i had a fair chance .
the joys of victory will belong to all .
unlike the treasures of the past , the goods of the future will be possessed by all .
they will not be diminished or divided by being common .
on the contrary , they will for that reason increase and intensify .
no one will be a miser or a conservative.via : powerline