tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - eight years after a coup sparked by a previous president s flirtation with a second term , voters in the poor central american country of honduras look poised on sunday to re-elect their u.s.-friendly leader whose assault on gangs has slowed killings .
juan orlando hernandez of the center-right national party took office in 2014 vowing a militarized crackdown on endemic gang violence in one of the world s most violent countries .
that effort has brought down the murder rate .
the economy has also grown during his tenure .
his victory would be cheered in washington , according to two u.s. state department officials , who noted the united states had few steadfast allies among central america s current crop of leaders with whom it can reliably work to fight poverty , migration and gang violence .
honduras has long had close ties with the united states , which viewed the country as an ideological and military partner during the leftist guerrilla insurgencies that roiled the region throughout the cold war era .
the u.s.-educated hernandez has a close working relationship with u.s. president donald trump s chief of staff , john kelly .
in 2009 , the united states wrestled with how to respond to the removal of president manuel zelaya after he proposed a referendum on re-election .
nonetheless , u.s. officials now say they are not yet concerned that hernandez is consolidating power , but want to see the passage of stalled legislation to impose a cap on presidential terms .
open-ended re-election is not good for democracy , said one u.s. diplomat .
we would very much like to see some sort of law that would regulate election .
hernandez was among lawmakers who supported the ouster of zelaya .
but following a 2015 supreme court decision that overturned a constitutional ban on re-election , hernandez , 49 , looks likely to win a second four-year term .
opinion polls have shown him with a double-digit lead over television host salvador nasralla , who heads a left-right alliance of honduran opposition groups called the opposition alliance against the dictatorship .
the opposition argues hernandez s presidential bid is illegal , and has refused to discuss term-limit legislation while coalescing to try to prevent him from clinching victory .
hernandez has won favor with the united states , working closely on u.s.-bound migration with kelly when that official was head of u.s. southern command and the department of homeland security .
he has also led a purge of the police force and made it easier to extradite drug bosses .
the united states has few ideological allies in the region .
two leftist former guerilla leaders govern el salvador and nicaragua , while guatemalan president jimmy morales has sought to banish a u.s.-backed anti-corruption body probing his family .
there does seem to be more of a kinship in terms of how he sees governance , one of the u.s. officials in central america said of hernandez .
the president says he would keep soldiers on the streets to help the widely mistrusted police .
he has also promised to lure foreign investment in textiles , call centers and auto manufacturing , creating 600,000 jobs and lifting growth to above 6 percent with infrastructure projects .
hondurans applaud how hernandez has lowered the murder rate to a projected 46 per 100,000 by the end of 2017 from 79 per 100,000 in 2013 , while raising growth and lowering the deficit .
but he has not been immune to scandal .
the son of his political mentor , former president porfirio lobo , was recently sentenced to 24 years in prison for conspiring to import cocaine into the united states .
during the trial , there were allegations that drug money was funneled to hernandez s campaign , a charge his office denied .
in 2015 , hernandez admitted his 2013 campaign took money from companies linked to one of the worst corruption scandals in the country s history , but said he and his national party were unaware of where the money came from .
manuel orozco , a senior fellow at the washington-based inter-american dialogue , said that despite the president s flaws , the united states had decided it could still do business with hernandez , its most important ally in central america .
of all the people in that country , they realize they re best off sticking with him , he said .