boston ( reuters ) - donald trump has dismissed fellow white house hopefuls as liars , journalists as disgusting people and mexican immigrants as rapists with a belligerent public speaking style that has helped catapult him to the front of the republican pack .
the verbal tactics , on display in thursday night ’ s debate in detroit , have given the billionaire real estate developer front-runner status in early primary contests and opinion polls of u.s. republican voters .
but they would not last long on an academic debate stage , according to high school and college competitors and their coaches .
“ he would last one tournament and then be removed from the team , ” said eric di michele , coach of the speech and debate team at regis high school in new york , one of the country ’ s top-ranked teams .
“ this kind of ‘ ad hominem ’ attack followed by insults , i ’ ve never seen it. ” “ ad hominem ” attacks , a latin phrase meaning directed at a person rather than an idea , have long been a staple of the u.s. campaign trail where candidates are selling themselves as much as their ideas to voters .
referring to his closest rivals to be the republican presidential nominee in november ’ s election , trump has repeatedly called u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas a “ liar ” and dismissed senator marco rubio of florida as “ little marco. ” his wins in the early nominating contests have prompted some of his rivals to take a similar approach .
cruz has labeled trump “ profane ” and “ vulgar. ” rubio has poked fun at trump ’ s tan , suggested he urinated in his pants and rolled out a sexual double entendre about the size of his hands .
with a flourish , trump kicked back at that on thursday night , flashing his hands at the audience and asking , “ look at those hands .
are they small hands ? ” before dismissing any suggestion he might be small elsewhere .
“ i guarantee you there is no problem. ” di michele called it “ a surreal moment. ” “ in 34 years of coaching debate , i ’ ve never seen any debater reference the size of any part of his anatomy , ” he said .
asked in thursday ’ s debate about his own use of personal attacks , rubio argued , “ for the last year , donald trump has basically mocked everybody ...
if there ’ s anyone who ’ s ever deserved to be attacked that way it ’ s donald trump. ” of the remaining republican candidates , ohio governor john kasich has steered away from the personal , sticking doggedly to policy amid thursday night ’ s sometimes chaotic exchanges .
trump ’ s language , admired by his supporters as frank , has drawn wide criticism for its crude insults .
republican 2012 presidential nominee mitt romney attacked trump ’ s style as well as his policies in a speech on thursday , citing “ the bullying , the greed , the showing off , the misogyny , the absurd third-grade theatrics. ” in schools , the campaign antics have inspired academic debaters to become more civilized .
“ that sort of coarse language has made people more critical of the political parties , ” said charlie barton , a 17-year-old regis senior debater .
“ what we ’ ve seen is a greater shift away from that sort of rhetoric. ” no lincoln-douglas here academic debating , also known as forensics , has a long history in the united states and takes much of its form and inspiration from politics .
indeed , one style of debating is named after the storied 1858 debates between abraham lincoln and u.s .
senator stephen douglas of illinois , which put the future president on the national stage .
but the judging in academic debating is relentlessly focused on facts ; students study examples and background before making their cases .
the discipline can bear as much resemblance to current televised presidential debates as greco-roman wrestling does to chair-throwing wwe spectacles .
“ they are less like politicians and more like lawyers , because they are not necessarily going for a vote on personality , they are arguing that their case is correct , ” said derek yuill , the speech and debate coach at gabrielino high school in san gabriel , california , a top-ranked u.s. forensics team .
some young debaters have watched the republican matchups more as an example of what not to do .
“ i really wish i could take on donald trump in some kind of debate round , because he especially among the candidates would not fare well in academic debate , ” said jacqueline dang , a 17-year-old senior at gabrielino .
“ he doesn ’ t seem to have any kind of evidence or numbers to substantiate his claims , other than his poll numbers. ” college debaters have also been watching trump ’ s performance with bemusement , said connie lee , 18 , the president of dartmouth college ’ s parliamentary debate team .
“ the name-calling and the ad hominem attacks get made fun of ” at debate-watching parties , lee said .
she said that while many collegiate debaters are politically liberal , they still respect skilled oratory from conservatives when they see it .
cruz , who holds a spot on princeton university ’ s debate hall of fame , is admired for his abilities .
“ there are jokes about ambitious debaters being the next ted cruz , ” lee said .
a trump spokeswoman said the campaign had no doubts about his debating ability .
“ according to all the online polls , mr. trump has performed exceptionally well and won all the debates , ” spokeswoman hope hicks said by e-mail .
despite giving poor marks for trump ’ s debate performances , gabrielino ’ s yuill said he does tell his students to note how well trump gets into the spotlight to convey his message : “ that ’ s what i tell them , how important it is to get their attention. ” ( reporting by scott malone ; editing by frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .