while the enormous sense of loss the world experienced upon learning of legendary pop icon david bowie s passing from cancer at 69 has been understandably hard to accept , the impact that the legendary pop icon had on society can not be overstated .
during his ever-changing , boundary-pushing career , bowie continuously used his celebrity and visibility to shed light on social issues that were being ignored.as we mourn the loss of bowie , it s worth taking a moment to recall just one time that the singer called out injustice in the most rock n roll way imaginable.in 1983 , bowie was shocked to learn that many of his african-american musical peers were being purposely ignored by mtv because black music was making white americans uncomfortable .
never one to let people s discomfort dictate how he behaved , bowie blasted the music network for its cowardice.using an interview with mtv as an ironic platform for critiquing the network , bowie grilled mtv vj mark goodman about the network s shameless whitewashing .
the exchange has become a legendary example of bowie s sheer lack of patience for bullshit.there are many reasons to love david bowie .
here 's one .
1982 : challenging mtv on their refusal to play black music : pic.twitter.com/0ku30wccvg charlene white ( @ charlenewhite ) january 11 , 2016like many television networks , mtv had decided to censor black performers so as to not offend the predominately white audience from middle america .
unlike the other networks , however , mtv was marketed on the premise of being edgy and revolutionary .
bowie revealed what a sham that image was .
is there anything less rock n roll than being cowered by white , middle class mom s from iowa who were afraid to see prince or rick james on television ? bowie ( along with james , who explicitly called the network racist in an interview with rolling stone magazine ) had brought up an issue that could no longer be ignored .
it also may have saved mtv from itself .
just months after the public backlash , mtv exploded with the release of michael jackson s billie jean , followed by thriller .
the music videos would become among the most iconic ever released and , to many , would later come to define what a music video is.bowie passed away on january 10 , 2016 , but it s clear that his music , and his legacy , will live on for much , much longer .
to honor him , we should not just listen to the incredible wealth of music he left us , but also never be afraid to stand up to inequality and injustice , wherever we find it.feature image via wikipedia