washington ( reuters ) - a formal u.s. recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel would be the kiss of death to the two-state solution to the israeli-palestinian conflict , the palestine liberation organization s chief representative in washington said on monday .
should such a step be taken , it would have catastrophic consequences , husam zomlot told reuters in an interview .
that would be actually the kiss of death to the two-state solution because jerusalem is at the very heart of the two-state solution , zomlot said .
a senior administration official told reuters last week that u.s. president donald trump would likely make the announcement on wednesday , although his adviser and son-in-law , jared kushner , said the president had not yet made a final decision .
such a declaration would break with decades of u.s. policy and could fuel violence in the middle east .
past u.s. presidents have insisted that the status of jerusalem - home to sites holy to the jewish , muslim and christian religions - must be decided in negotiations between the two sides .
should the two-state solution receive that final lethal blow , then the main reaction from us will be strategic and political because we are not going to be engaged in an empty process , zomlot said .
israeli officials have made clear they would welcome u.s. endorsement of their claim of sovereignty over all of jerusalem .
there was no immediate comment from the israeli government to zomlot s comments .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war .
it later annexed it , declaring the whole of the city as its capital - a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of their future state .
kushner is leading trump s efforts to restart long-stalled israeli-palestinian peace talks , efforts that so far have shown little progress .
zomlot warned the role of the united states as a mediator in the conflict would be effectively torpedoed if trump declared jerusalem the capital of israel .
it will be a self-inflicted disqualification of the u.s. from the role of the mediator ... ( which ) will be irreversible because by then the u.s. would be part of the problem , not part of the solution , he said .
trump suggested earlier this year he was open to new ways to achieve middle east peace that did not necessarily entail the creation of a palestinian state , a hallmark of u.s. policy for decades .
trump is again expected to delay moving the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv , u.s. officials said on friday , speaking on condition of anonymity .
saudi arabia s ambassador to washington , prince khalid bin salman , said on monday that any u.s. announcement on the status of jerusalem before a final settlement of the israeli-palestinian conflict would harm the peace process and increase regional tensions .
jordan , the arab league and turkey have also warned against the dangers of such a move .