kudos to catholics4trump for providing evidence that the story hillary and her comrades in the media have been telling american voters for months about trump mocking a disabled man was nothing more than an opportunity for them to fabricate a story about trump , in hopes of making him look like an awful human being .
meanwhile , it accomplished what they had hoped for .
it took the focus off hillary and her corrupt and dangerous behavior as our secretary of state and helped to diminish trump in the eyes of many americans .
but here s the proof they were lying : at the democratic national convention speakers repeated the claim , amplified ad nauseam by the left and establishment gop opponents over the past year , that donald trump mocked the disability of new york times reporter , serge kovaleski .
this accusation has served as a very convenient tool to both smear trump s character and to avoid having to confront him on substantive political issues .
but is it true ?
here is the story the media is not telling you.it all started on november 21 , 2015 when , at a rally , trump said he remembered seeing reports of arab americans celebrating the 9/11 terror attacks on rooftops in new jersey shortly after the twin towers fell .
as he told george stephanopolous in an interview the next day on abc s this week : stephanopolous and all of the major news outlets immediately denied the existence of any such news reports following 9/11 .
one paper , the washington post , even went so far as to write a detailed article claiming to fact check mr. trump .
after an exhaustive review , the post lectured that there was absolutely no evidence of trump s claim and deemed it false.imagine the washington post s surprise when trump uncovered one of the washington post s own reporters , serge kovaleski , supporting the claim in an article kovaleski wrote for them on september 18 , 2001 .
kovaleski wrote : very embarrassing for the media , especially the washington post which had done such a great job scouring news reports after 9/11 that they missed their very own story on the subject .
it was in this state of embarrassment that the media was desperate to distract from the matter .
the washington post ended up finding kovaleski , now writing for the new york times , so he could do damage control .
kovaleski predictably tried to backtrack from his 2001 account saying he didn t remember the details : enter donald trump s rally in south carolina soon thereafter .
during the rally trump pointed all of this out and paraphrased kovaleski s backtracking as he impersonated a groveling reporter changing his story under pressure .
while he did this , trump moved his hands around quickly , acting flustered.soon thereafter , the media revealed still photos of kovaleski with his right hand in a permanently flexed position downward announcing that he was disabled .
the media then shifted from trying to defend their oversight of the 9/11 post article and instead , with disapproving shocked outrage , accused trump of mocking a reporter s disability .
some liberals went even further and freeze-framed a millisecond of the trump video at the exact moment when his hand went into a flexed posture .
then they dishonestly put this screen capture side by side with a picture of kovaleski s flexed hand .
thus , you saw the following photo spread like wildfire over social media with commentary condescendingly and horrifyingly excoriating trump as a monster : the media s clear implication was that trump was mocking the way kovaleski moved his arms .
people watching the clip of trump s impersonation only knew that kovaleski was disabled .
thus , they naturally assumed kovaleski s disability must be similar to cerebral palsy where he has limited control of his movements and is prone to have muscle spasms or move his arms in jerky motions as trump was doing at the rally .
this is precisely the image the media wanted in people s minds .
they wanted this to be the story : that donald trump knowingly and intentionally mocked the flailing arm motions of someone who can t control his muscles .
they knew this would naturally trigger a visceral reaction of disgust from viewers and outrage amongst the disabled and all decent americans , many of whom , to this day , think this is exactly what happened .
is it ? what the media did not choose to show you was video of serge kovaleski .
notice how the media only showed and still shows photos of him .
this was done for a reason .
as it turns out , kovaleski s disability is a congenital condition called arthrogryposis .
arthrogryposis causes restricted movement in the joints but does not cause spasms or uncontrolled moving of the limbs like cerebral palsy does.to show the depths of the deceit , one cnn reporter explained , while displaying a still photo of him , that kovaleski , suffers from a chronic condition that impairs movement of his arms .
again , the implication is that kovaleski can t control his arms from moving.to the contrary , kovaleski appears perfectly calm when giving interviews .
thus , if trump truly wanted to mock kovaleski s disability , he would have had to stand perfectly still with a flexed right hand and not flail his arms .
don t believe me ?
watch the video : here is trump explaining that he never mocked the leftist nyt s reporter who was using trump s misconstrued comments and body language to do a hatchet job on his character : here s hillary using a bogus story about trump created by the leftist media in an attempt to distract from her criminal and reckless behavior as secretary of state : and finally , watch trump use almost the exact hand movements when referring to the not disabled ted cruz or the general he spoke of while using similar hand movements : https : //youtu.be/ydgopzw227eby the way here s the video proving trump was also correct about muslim s celebrating in jersey city after 9-11 terror attack : via : catholics4trump