i vote for silly since anyone with half a brain can figure this one out it s not scary !
remember composts and how they were supposed to be great for the planet these energy department goofballs need to understand what happens naturally is not a bad thing .
how scary are your jack-o -lanterns ?
scarier than you think , according to the energy department , which claims the holiday squash is responsible for unleashing greenhouse gases into the atmosphere .
most of the 1.3 billion pounds of pumpkins produced in the u.s. end up in the trash , says the energy department s website , becoming part of the more than 254 million tons of municipal solid waste produced in the united states every year .
municipal solid waste decomposes into methane , a harmful greenhouse gas that plays a part in climate change , with more than 20 times the warming effect of carbon dioxide , energy says .
ok , apparently the whizkids at the dept .
of energy need a refresher course in something called the carbon cycle .
it s settled science .
you see , as every living thing grows it incorporates carbon into it s structure .
that s why it s called carbon based life .
then when it dies , it releases that carbon back into the environment so some other living thing can use it to grow .
now it doesn t matter what you do with the dead thing .
whether it rots away slowly or you burn it or you convert it into some thing else that gets burned , it still releases the carbon .
either as carbon dioxide or methane ( which is 85 % hydrogen and 15 % carbon ) .
it s like a giant carbon recycling program that makes life possible and it s been going on like that for hundreds of millions of years .
truth is , there s no more carbon on earth today than there has ever been .
you can t make new carbon that has never existed before , it s elemental .
and carbon isn t a pollutant , it s essential to life .
that s the simple reality .
deal with it .
seriously , absurd news stories like this are crafted to appeal to someone without even a sixth grade understanding of basic science .
i can envision some 8-year-old running home mommy , mommy , teacher said jack-o -lanterns are destroying the planet !
via : wt