beijing ( reuters ) - western countries are trying to push their culture and political values onto others , seducing them into abandoning their own , china s propaganda chief warned on friday , saying the country must follow its own path .
chinese president xi jinping has overseen a sweeping crackdown against civil society since assuming office five years ago , tightening control over society , media and the internet .
xi has pledged to promote what the ruling communist party refers to as core socialist values , which stress patriotism , chinese traditional culture , rule of law , harmony and prosperity among others .
huang kunming , who was appointed to the post following last month s key party congress at which xi further cemented his grip on power , wrote in the official people s daily that there was an intensifying surge and collision in the world between different values .
there are especially some western countries who use their technological advantages and dominance of discourse that they have accumulated over a long period to peddle so-called universal values , he wrote .
such countries , which huang did not name , are trying to seduce people into beautifying the west and being compliant with the west , weakening or even abandoning their identification with their own spiritual culture , he added .
china s special cultural traditions , unique historical destiny and national situation mean it has to protect its own values rooted in its culture , huang said .
only by promoting core socialist values can the chinese people stand tall in the forest of the world s people , he added .
china has long railed against those it says try to impose western concepts on the country , such as competitive multi-party democracy or the separation of powers , and the communist party brooks no challenge to its power .
on the eve of the party congress , state news agency xinhua attacked western democracy as divisive and confrontational .
china s constitution enshrines the party s long-term leading role in government , though it allows the existence of various other political parties under what is called a multi-party cooperation system .
but all are subservient to the communist party .
activists who call for pluralism are regularly jailed and criticism of china s authoritarian system silenced .