former conservative darling tomi lahren made a big deal about her upcoming appearance on the view .
i know , because i set the alarm on my phone to remind me when she would be on their show so i wouldn t miss it .
i figured there would certainly be fireworks , and at the very least , a few memorable moments with the marxist loudmouth hosts of the view .
i thought if nothing else , it would be entertaining to see her put joy behar in her place .
people have come to know and love the blaze s conservative firebrand tomi lahren for her outspoken commentary on current political and social issues .
until now , most of us have believed that she actually meant what she was telling us .
when she finally appeared on the view last friday , she was mostly dealt softball questions and her answers were clearly more about getting along with the angry hosts than the defense of conservatism .
that s okay i could live with that .
as disappointed as i was in her wimpy responses to their ridiculous questions , nothing could have prepared me for the moment she decided to step out of her conservative persona and cross-over to the dark side , when host sonny hostin asked her about her position on abortion.lahren : no , i m pro-choice , and here s why .
i am a constitutional , you know , someone that loves the constitution .
i am someone who is for limited government .
so i can t sit here , and be a hypocrite and say i m for limited government , but i think that the government should i think that the government should decide what a woman can do with their bodies .
i can t sit here and say that as a republican .
and i can say , ya know what , i m for limited government , so stay out of my guns and you can stay out of my body as well .
joy behar jumped in ( panting with excitement ) : you need to go out and speak to women about that .
lahren responded : i do .
i do every day .
and i get a lot of attacks from conservative women as well .
i think it s equal hate from all sides for me .
really tomi ?
you argue with women every day about your position on abortion ?
maybe you can explain how only 3 months ago , you called people like lena dunham who were pro choice straight up baby killers !
( watch 2nd video below ) here is a short clip showing the abortion exchange : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=got3eikcl-w & feature=youtu.behere s lahren calling anyone who is pro-choice a straight up baby killer .
note the christmas tree in the background .
that s because this video is only 3 months old .
wow apparently a lot happens in 3 months !
does she realize how damaging she is to her own narrative ?
think about it : the pro-choicers are supposed to be about rare and safe abortions .
that s how they avoid sounding like straight-up baby killers.then we have lena freakin dunham out there wishing she could have murdered a fetus .
wishing for the option to kill your child doesn t exactly say much about the cause , her character , or the pro-choice movement.and here i thought the loving left were all about peace , and love , and light , except when it comes to the unborn , i suppose .
then it s a different story , a story they write and rewrite to fit their narrative .