vienna ( reuters ) - austria s new conservative-far right ruling coalition is likely to be sworn in on dec. 20 , an informed source said on friday , marking a victory for nationalists so far shut out of government elsewhere in western europe .
foreign minister sebastian kurz , whose mainstream conservative people s party ( ovp ) won a parliamentary election on oct. 15 but not a majority , has been in coalition talks with heinz-christian strache s freedom party ( fpo ) .
both sides have described the discussions as friendly and constructive but so far failed to disclose the kind of sweeping tax , immigration and administrative reforms they had called for in their campaigns .
kurz , 31 , who has taken a tough stance on immigration and muslim parallel societies , tilting towards the fpo line as the far right surged in popularity , is tipped to become chancellor and the youngest head of government in the european union .
there has been no confirmation on who might get which portfolio in the new cabinet , but the anti-immigration fpo has said it would aim for about half of the ministries .
the ovp gained 31.5 percent and the fpo 26 percent of votes in the alpine republic s october election .
( dec. 20 ) is certainly a possible date ( for the swearing-in ) , ovp chairwoman elisabeth koestinger said on oe1 radio , adding they would put quality before speed even if that meant a deal only after christmas .
fpo deputy leader norbert hofer told oe1 that no deal had been sealed yet , repeating previous statements that both parties aimed to finish before christmas .
the austrian national news agency apa also cited dec. 20 as the most likely date for the swearing-in of the new government by president alexander van der bellen , but listed jan. 8 as an alternative date .
the fpo , which came within a whisker of winning the 2015 presidential election , is allied with france s national front and germany s afd , which in a september election became the third strongest party in germany s parliament .
the populist far right last entered an austrian federal government in 2000 and currently rules in coalition with centrists in two of the country s provinces .