washington ( reuters ) - when donald trump faced criticism from advocacy groups for not including more women and minorities in his cabinet last january , the incoming administration promised that the lower rungs of the bureaucracy would ultimately look more diverse .
now , recently available government data on the ethnic and gender make-up of the broader trump administration shows that with over 1,000 mid-level political jobs filled by mid-year the appointees look much like the top leadership : mostly white and male .
office of personnel management numbers analyzed by reuters show that 88 percent of such appointees were non-hispanic white and 62 percent were men .
by comparison , in the final year of barack obama 's democratic administration , non-hispanic whites made up 67 percent of that group and men accounted for 47 percent - closer to what the u.s. population looks like .
non-hispanic whites account for 61 percent and men make up 49 percent , according to 2016 census data .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/2xof1ip ) “ this administration so far has not in any direct sense prioritized diversity , ” said max stier , president of the partnership for public service , a non-partisan group that tracks federal hiring , when presented with reuters ’ findings .
out of the trump administration ’ s 24 top cabinet-level positions , 17 are filled by white men .
asked to comment on the mid-level personnel data , white house spokeswoman lindsay walters said trump had a long history of promoting women and pointed to last week ’ s nomination of kirstjen nielsen to lead the department of homeland security .
“ he will continue to elevate and empower women to top posts in his administration , ” walters said .
she declined to discuss trump ’ s views on the ethnicity of political appointees .
one day before trump took office on jan. 20 , his then-spokesman sean spicer responded to criticism of the cabinet ’ s lineup by saying that members were picked on their merits and appointments across the broader federal bureaucracy would satisfy demands for more diversity .
“ people ( will ) look at and respect the level of diversity throughout his entire administration , ” he told reporters .
the mid-level political positions , known as “ schedule c ” and “ non-career ses ” posts , numbered 1,051 in june , according to most recent data published in late september .
how many more of those jobs have been filled since and whether their demographics has changed will be known at the end of the year , when third quarter numbers are expected .
the positions include office managers , aides , policy experts and schedulers who are hired by top appointees , such as cabinet secretaries and their deputies .
the mid-level bureaucrats act as a link between political leadership and over two million career civil servants who tend to work for multiple administrations .
in recent decades , such jobs would account for about half of some 4,000 positions that get filled anew with every change of administration .
the opm does not publish data on the more senior positions .
the personnel office has published data sorted by gender that goes back to 1998 and by ethnicity since 2006 , allowing comparisons with only two past administrations .
some political analysts say the profile of the new group of mid-level officials largely reflects a lower share of minorities among republican voters and the fact that the republican party has weaker ties to organizations that promote diversity and gender equality .
“ it ’ s just a smaller set of folks who organize around those things and are connected to the republican party , ” said david lewis , a political scientist at vanderbilt university who studies presidential appointments .
in fact , this administration ’ s numbers are similar to those under the previous republican administration of george w. bush .
between 2006-2008 , the only bush years covered by opm gender , race and ethnicity data , men made up 60 percent of mid-level staff and 88 percent described themselves as non-hispanic white .
however , the united states has become more diverse over the past decade , making the numbers for this administration less representative of america ’ s demographic makeup than was the case under bush .
in 2008 , the last full year of the bush administration , non-hispanic whites made up 65 percent of the general population .
now that share is 4 percentage points lower , u.s. census figures show .
among republican registered voters , the share of those identifying themselves as non-hispanic white has edged down from 88 percent in 2008 to 86 percent just before the 2016 presidential election , according to the pew research center .
women also have a larger share of overall u.s. jobs than during the bush years .
their 38 percent share of mid-level political jobs in the current administration is a notch below the 40 percent average they had in 2001-2008 .
in 1998-2000 , the final years of bill clinton ’ s presidency captured in the opm data , that share averaged 51 percent .