london ( reuters ) - gavin williamson was appointed as britain s new defense minister on thursday after michael fallon resigned over his past conduct as britain s parliament was engulfed by a allegations of sexual harassment .
here are some facts about the 41-year old .
williamson was previously chief whip , appointed by prime minister theresa may when she became leader in 2016 .
chief whip is a crucial role which involves enforcing party discipline to make sure lawmakers vote in support of the government in parliament .
the term whip has its origins in hunting , where a whipper-in kept hounds from straying away from the pack .
it has been used in parliament since the 18th century .
williamson owns a pet tarantula call cronus , which he told the telegraph newspaper he raised from a spiderling and keeps in parliament .
i have a very paternal sort of approach .
it s very much the same sort of love and care that i give to my spider as i give to all mps ( members of parliament ) , he said in november 2016 .
he was first elected in 2010 , representing a constituency in central england .
from 2013 he served as former prime minister david cameron s aide in parliament .
a bbc profile said williamson is a fan of the british version of the television series house of cards , a fictional story about a conservative chief whip plotting to become prime minister .
at the conservative party conference last month williamson said of his methods in the whip s office : we take a carrot and stick approach .
personally i don t much like the stick , but it is amazing what can be achieved with a sharpened carrot .
giles kenningham , cameron s former head of political press , told the new statesman magazine in july : he understands the heartbeat of the party , he has a forensic knowledge of what s going on , he puts in the work in the tea rooms and the bars .
he knows everyone .
williamson has a bachelor of science from the university of bradford and before entering politics he worked as a managing director of an architectural design firm cameron appointed him a commander of the order of the british empire for political and public service .