buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentina s lower house of congress will try on monday to debate the government s pension bill , lawmakers said on friday , after the first attempt at discussing it this week ended with violent protests that forced the legislature to suspend session .
the bill , key to president mauricio macri s effort to lower business costs and reduce argentina s fiscal deficit , has already passed the senate , leaving the lower house to give final legislative approval .
but thursday s debate was suspended after it sparked riots in the capital that were put down by police firing rubber bullets and tear gas .
opposition protesters , politicians and unions say the legislation will hurt pensioners .
for monday s debate , the bill will be amended to provide a bonus to the country s most needy retirees , the government said .
the move may increase its chances of passage .
the amendment will make a strong effort to compensate those most in need , macri-allied house member mario negri told reporters .
the agreement to include the bonus came after a long meeting on friday among lawmakers , provincial governors and macri administration officials .
macri is aiming to cut the fiscal deficit to 3.2 percent of gross domestic product next year from 4.2 percent this year , and to reduce inflation to between 8 and 12 percent from above 20 percent this year .
the pension bill would change the formula used to calculate benefits .
payments would adjust every quarter based on inflation , rather than the current system of twice-yearly adjustments linked to wage rises and tax revenue .
economists say the current formula means benefits go up in line with past inflation .
left unchanged , that could harm macri s efforts to cut the fiscal deficit .
under the new formula , benefits would increase by 5 percentage points above inflation , according to cabinet chief marcos pena .
the plan would take effect at a time of lower inflation expectations , hence slowing the pace of pension benefit increases .