beijing ( reuters ) - cooperation between china and the united states will lead to a win-win outcome for both sides , but confrontation will bring mutual losses , china said on tuesday , after the united states branded it a competitor seeking to challenge u.s. power .
china hopes the united states can abandon its mentality of zero-sum games and seek common ground while respecting differences , china s u.s. embassy said on its website .
on the basis of mutual respect , china is willing to exist peacefully with other countries including the united states , it said .
but the u.s. ought to adapt to , and accept , china s development .
china has always been a contributor to global development and a protector of the international order , foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said later in beijing .
cooperation is the only correct choice for china and the united states , she said , adding that it was not surprising for the two to have disagreements but that they should find constructive ways to handle them .
china s economic and diplomatic activities around the world are broadly welcomed and no country or report will succeed in distorting the facts or deploying malicious slander , she told a daily news briefing .
as the world s two largest economies , china and the united states have a responsibility to protect global peace and stability and promote global prosperity , hua added .
we urge the u.s. side to stop intentionally distorting china s strategic intentions .
in a new national security strategy based on u.s. president donald trump s america first vision on monday , the united states lumped china and russia together as competitors seeking to erode u.s. security and prosperity .
the singling out of china and russia as revisionist powers comes despite trump s own attempts to build strong relations with chinese president xi jinping as the two sides seek to rein in north korea s nuclear and missile programs .
the new u.s. strategy reflects an unwillingness to accept the reality of china s rise , the state-run global times said in an editorial .
but because of the enormous size and strength china has already achieved , they won t be able to suppress china , the widely-read newspaper said .
however , trump was basically reiterating his standard line on china rather than threatening any specific action , said shi yinhong , head of the centre for american studies at beijing s renmin university .
since he took office the chinese government s line on trump has always been : don t really look at what he says , but look at what he does , said shi , who has advised the government on diplomacy .
so the strong words against china in the report the chinese government won t really care about .
a senior u.s. administration official said china was attempting to revise the global status quo through its aggression in the south china sea .
china says its expansion of islets in the south china sea is for peaceful purposes only and it can , in any case , do what it wants , as it has irrefutable sovereignty there .
the u.s. administration also warned that intellectual property theft by china was a national security problem .