21st century wire says in a press release from the office of the press secretary , it was revealed today that acting attorney general , sally yates , was relieved of duty after instructing department of justice lawyers not to defend trump s executive order on travel bans .
the press secretary release noted that yates betrayed the department of justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the united states .
trump took to twitter and launched a pointed tweet saying that the democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons .
they have nothing going but to obstruct yates will be replaced by dana boente , the us attorney for the eastern district of virginia , to hold the position of acting attorney general .
in the press release boente is quoted as saying , i am honored to serve president trump in this role until senator sessions is confirmed .
i will defend and enforce the laws of our country to ensure that our people and our nation are protected .
rt reports on this breaking story below : rtyates was relieved of her post monday , just hours after news broke that she was instructing department of justice lawyers not to defend the executive order .. @ potus has named dana boente , us attorney for the eastern district of va as acting attorney general .
sally yates has been relieved .
sean spicer ( @ presssec ) january 31 , 2017yates betrayed the department of justice by refusing to enforce a legal order designed to protect the citizens of the united states , a press release from the office of the press secretary read.boente , an obama appointee , was confirmed by the senate to his previous us attorney post .
the trump administration told reporters monday evening that was good enough to allow him to sign foreign intelligence surveillance act ( fisa ) warrants authorizing surveillance of perceived foreign threats in the us.this is unprecedented , as boente s senate confirmation did not grant him fisa approval power .
that authority is reserved to the us attorney general and deputy attorney general , who until now have been directly confirmed by the senate to those posts .
it remains to be seen if this move will face a legal challenge .
i am honored to serve president trump in this role until senator sessions is confirmed .
i will defend and enforce the laws of our country to ensure that our people and our nation are protected , boente said as acting attorney general in the press release.urgent : acting ag tells doj lawyers not to defend # trump travel ban order https : //t.co/awprdffvem pic.twitter.com/8crm4vbngm rt america ( @ rt_america ) january 30 , 2017 i am responsible for ensuring that the positions we take in court remain consistent with this institution s solemn obligation to always seek justice and stand for what is right , yates wrote in a letter , according to the new york times .
at present , i am not convinced that the defense of the executive order is consistent with these responsibilities nor am i convinced that the executive order is lawful .
trump responded to yates move on twitter , calling it an example of democrats obstruction for purely political reasons .
the democrats are delaying my cabinet picks for purely political reasons .
they have nothing going but to obstruct .
now have an obama a.g. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 31 , 2017former attorney general eric holder , who served under president obama , tweeted support for yates after her termination sally yates : person of integrity/attorney with great legal skill .
has served this nation with distinction .
her judgment should be trusted .
eric holder ( @ ericholder ) january 31 , 2017continue this report at rtread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv