brilliant just brilliant remember when disney s espn punished trump for his remarks about illegal aliens and moved their annual golf outing from trump s golf course as a punishment for his views ? do you remember when espn cut hank williams theme song from monday night football after making an analogy to adolf hitler when talking about barack obama ? remember when their own little espn barbie made international news after berating a woman in a parking garage for simply doing her job ? https : //youtu.be/pz1xy18_d3gremember when espn decided to give the arthur ashe courage award to bruce ( refers to himself as caitlyn ) jenner only months after killing an innocent woman in a car crash over a young girl who stole the hearts of america when she played college basketball with terminal cancer to inspire others to keep fighting ? remember when bob costas was hailed by espn s pardon the interruption , co-host michael wilbon , who gave nbc sports bob costas a standing and loud ovation for using his sunday night football halftime show to espouse his pro-gun control views ? well now it s red sox great , curt schilling s turn to feel the wrath of espn , as he s been fired for a tweet about muslims by the sports propagandist arm of the disney corporation.because my enemies are legion ( and not terribly bright ) , let s get this out of the way : it is wrong to compare muslims to nazis .
baseball great curt schilling did not do that .
in a tweet that resulted in a pandering suspension from the left-wing sports network espn , schilling compared muslim extremists to nazis.comparing muslim extremists to nazis is not wrong , it is science.espn knows this but espn ( which is owned by disney ) has grown into an increasingly ugly , left-wing propaganda machine .
what should be america s pleasure island away from political division sports has been destroyed by espn .
all that disney money is now being used to buy all that sports programming that makes tens of millions of sports fans captive to the realpolitik.have you had enough ? how much of this abuse are you going to take ? how much of this abuse are you going to take before you do something ? oh , you didn t know you had the power to do something ? well , you do because your cable company and espn have been playing you for a sucker for decades.before i get to the three easy steps , here s how the cable television/espn racket works : if espn is part of your cable package and it most likely is whether you watch or not , this leftwing propaganda outlet soaks you for $ 6.61 a month.no , for real.by working out a pay tv system ( cable and satellite ) that forces you to pay for dozens of networks you do not watch , espn ( and other left-wing networks like cnn , mtv , and msnbc ) gets a piece of your obscenely-overpriced cable bill.moreover , no other cable network makes more money this way than espn .
and with somewhere around 90 million subscribers , that adds up to close to $ 7 billion annually.and $ 80 a year comes from you.in other words , you can t hurt espn by not watching espn .
ad revenue based on the number of viewers is only a part of espn s revenue stream.espn s got you in a box .
watch or no , they make buku off you.there s only one way to send a message to espn , and you have the power to do it in just three easy steps.call your cable company .
cancel your cable .
sit back and watch espn implode.listen , i m not a sports guy , so i can t answer the question of whether or not watching the games are worth funding the apparatchik .
what i can tell you is that with the purchase of a $ 49 roku ( which is essentially a cable box ) an extraordinary streaming world awaits a world that is a whole lot cheaper than cable.for $ 20 you can subscribe to netflix and amazon .
not only is there more tv than you could watch in a lifetime , unlike cable , there is not 20 minutes of catheter ads every hour.you have the power to send espn a message.make the call.via : breitbart news