it s good to know there are a few hollywood celebrities who haven t bought into obama s false messiah b.s during an appearance before the u.k. s house of lords on tuesday , hollywood actress and human rights advocate angelina jolie spoke out about how islamic state group militants use sexual violence as a means to perpetuate terrorism and about how we need strong leadership ( unlike that of president barack obama ) to overcome this threat.jolie s excoriating speech laid bare just how anemic and pitiful obama s response to isis has been , and how isis is being allowed to build a society based on rape , violence , and of course shariah law .
they are dictating it as policy beyond what we have seen before , jolie said .
they are saying , we should do this , this is the right way to build a society , so we tell you to rape .
islamic militants are basically building a civilization not focused on growing food or educating children , but rather on kidnapping , enslaving and raping women , to perpetuate the endless cycle of terrorism , and obama has allowed these barbaric radical muslims to thrive .
the most aggressive terrorist group in the world today knows what we know , knows that it is a very effective weapon and they are using it as a centrepoint of their terror and their way of destroying communities and families , and attacking and dehumanising , jolie explained .
for over 10 years , i had been visiting the field and meeting families and survivors of sexual violence who felt for so long that their voices simply didn t mater , they weren t heard , and they carried a great shame , jolie continued.she added that we need a very , very strong response at this time to stop this horrific behavior .
of course , we have been calling on obama to make that strong response for years , but he s far more interested in race baiting back home than dealing a death blow to radical islam.jolie does have some measure of expertise in the matters she s speaking of .
as she told the houses of parliament , she has been campaigning for middle eastern victims of sexual abuse for over a decade ( h/t the gateway pundit ) .below is an excerpt of jolie s address , this part dealing with some of her encounters with young rape victims.https : //youtu.be/kbmhnzjgwskit seems like jolie is someone whose words president obama should heed .
will our president actually take the time though to listen , learn and adjust his failed strategy against what he once referred to as the jv team ?
only time will tell but we wouldn t want to put any money on it .
via : conservative tribune