with homeless or needy people on just about every corner , how do we know who truly needs help , or who is just looking to game the system ?
this undercover expose on the explosion of homeless people on just about every corner in suburban detroit shines a light on the business of panhandling .
should panhandling be protected by the first amendment ? panhandlers standing on the corners has become an increasing issue .
men , women , old and young , all begging for your money.the problem has moved from the city to the suburbs , but why ?
and , should you give ? it seems to have happened in recent months .
panhandlers , everywhere , including american s first highway , woodward avenue.they hold signs and pull at your heart strings .
some claim to be homeless , to have cancer , or be a veteran who is hungry .
but , are we being conned ? we spotted a young guy at the corner of woodward avenue and maple on a recent friday afternoon panhandling .
moments later , we watched as he folded up his sign and walked to a nearby parking lot where he got into a dark colored suv.we spotted the same suv on different occasions at a house in a nice neighborhood in west bloomfield .
when confronted , the young guy first closed the door without answering if he considered what he was doing fraud.moments later , after being exposed , he came out , profanities flying upset he was going to be on tv.to some , panhandling has become a job .
honest abe and his crew work the corner at 8 mile and woodward daily .
he even accepts credit cards , but says he is truly homeless and panhandling frauds are becoming more frequent.the problem is growing .
corners that were once off limits are now prime real estate and a recent court ruling involving the michigan chapter of the aclu allows it to happen .
court said conduct of asking for money in public is a form of free speech , it must be protected by the first amendment .
attorney ryan berman told 7 action news.we discovered many panhandlers work in teams , sharing signs and corners .
some use your money to buy food , others trade the cash for drugs , booze or cigarettes.elizabeth kelly with hope shelter in pontiac says if you want to really help , there are other ways to give .
if you really want your donation to do the most good , the very best thing is to give it to an agency that is going to move them forward .
via : wxyz