geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations appealed on friday to the saudi-led military coalition to fully lift its blockade of yemen , saying up to eight million people were right on the brink of famine .
earlier this week the coalition partially eased its blockade to let aid into the ports of hodeidah and salif and u.n. flights into sanaa .
but aid shipments cover only a fraction of yemen s needs , since almost all food , fuel and medicine are imported .
the coalition , which is backed by the united states and other countries , began the blockade on nov. 6 after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired from yemen toward its capital riyadh .
a second missile was shot down on thursday .
that blockade has been partially wound down but not fully wound down .
it needs to be fully wound down if we are to avoid an atrocious humanitarian tragedy involving the loss of millions of lives , the like of which the world has not seen for many decades , u.n. humanitarian chief mark lowcock said .
yemen has a population of 25 million people .
twenty million of them need assistance and something like seven or eight million of them are , right now , right on the brink of famine , he said as he launched the u.n. s 2018 humanitarian appeal .
lowcock sidestepped reporters questions on whether the saudi-led blockade amounted to a violation of international law , though he said the united nations had consistently urged all parties in the conflict to respect their obligations .
i m not a lawyer but clearly international humanitarian law includes a requirement to facilitate unhindered access for aid agencies , and that s what i ve been trying to secure both in what i ve said publicly and also in my private dialogue , he said .
u.n. officials are often shy of criticizing parties to a conflict for fear of losing access or funding .
saudi arabia has been a major donor to aid appeals for yemen .
others have been less reticent .
jan egeland , a former u.n. aid chief , has called the blockade illegal collective punishment , while alfredo zamudio , director of the nansen center for peace and dialogue in norway , told reuters he thought the international criminal court should investigate whether it was a war crime .
speaking at friday s event in geneva , helle thorning-schmidt , head of save the children international , said : what we ve seen in yemen has been actually a very clear breach of the rules and also it s been very clear that denial of aid coming in has also become a weapon of war .
the coalition joined the yemen war in 2015 after the iran-allied houthi group and its allies forced president abd-rabbu mansour hadi to flee into exile in saudi arabia .
riyadh sees the houthis as a proxy for iran , its arch-foe in the region .
the conflict has killed more than 10,000 people and displaced over 2 million and triggered a cholera epidemic as well as pushed the country to the verge of famine .