huma abedin announced she is dumping her sexting hubby anthony weiner , hours after the post revealed his latest online dalliances .
after long painful consideration and work on my marriage , i have made the decision to separate from my husband , abedin , a top aide to hillary clinton , said in statement.anthony weiner deleted his twitter account after the photos and tweets were published in an exclusive by the new york post : is this guy bill clinton s twin separated at birth or what ?
both of these men are just total pervs !
weiner resigned from congress over his last escapade with sexting women .
this time weiner is even more disgusting in his messages to a beautiful brunette .
he brags about his manhood and even says : i d put someone s eye out with this thing .
this is baby-sitting anthony weiner-style.while his wife , huma abedin , travels the country campaigning for hillary clinton , the disgraced ex-congressman has been sexting with a busty brunette out west and even sent her a lurid crotch shot with his toddler son in the picture.the stay-at-home cad shot the revealing photo while discussing massage parlors near my old apartment shortly after 3 a.m. on july 31 , 2015 , a screenshot of the exchange shows.weiner was clearly aroused by his conversation with the 40-something divorcee when he abruptly changed the subject .
someone just climbed into my bed , weiner wrote .
really ?
she responded.weiner then hit send on the cringe-inducing image , which shows a bulge in his white , jockey-brand boxer briefs and his son cuddled up to his left , wrapped in a light-green blanket .
you do realize you can see you [ r ] weiner in that pic ? ?
the woman wrote.moments after forwarding the photo , weiner freaked out over the possibility he had accidentally posted it publicly just as he did during the infamous episode that forced him to resign from congress in 2011 .
ooooooh .
.
.
i was scared .
for half a second i thought i posted something .
stop looking at my crotch , weiner wrote back .
whatever .
you did it on purpose , she replied.read more : nyp