criminals who try to recruit immigrant students , drug dealing and massive brawls between different ethnic groups .
this is the situation in malm , sweden where they have opened their doors to a flood of unvetted refugees * * * disclaimer * * * this article has been translated from swedish to english language .
we have tried not to alter the original content , so the grammar is a bit rough in a few places.in 2015 , v rnhem school received the peace prize for having received the highest number of newly arrived pupils ( refugees or immigrants ) in malm .
today , they find themselves in a very different situation , as security guards and barbed wire had to be installed in order to deal with the crime and violence brought into the school by unvetted refugees who are unwilling to assimilate.so what went wrong ? according to students , on november 18 2016 , a guy pissed in v rnhem school drinking fountain .
he was angry because some guys of other nationalities looked at his girl .
he confronted them and full chaos and fights erupted between newly arrived students from the middle east and afghanistan , whose relationship with the school long been tense.more rushing up the stairs to the dining room to take part in the fight .
the fight spread outside the school where a student gets attacked by several people and is so badly beaten that he had to be taken away by ambulance to the hospital.a total of three fights break out at different times of the afternoon .
in the end , the school administration in consultation with the police decided that the school should be closed.about 2,000 students were forced to go home .
the decision was made for the school to remain closed on monday as well .
teachers need to regain control to ensure students safety.guards are present in the school , but the unrest still continues .
there is barbed wire and security guards.on 11 january this year , press two security guards on the attack alarm then a sixteen year old and an age of eighteen shoved and threatened them with violence inside the school .
when the police make the students resisted .
the youngest of them punched one of the policemen.in a short time grows v rnhem school from eight to 35 classes for students who recently arrived in sweden.it has become increasingly clear that schools can not keep up .
several teachers warn that they are concerned about increased polarization .
in addition , criminals are getting into the school to recruit students .
both staff and pupils testify that criminals on several occasions have gone up to the new migrants and tried to entice them to commit crimes , from store theft to peddling dope.for entire story : expressenwatch this unbelievable video showing riots breaking out in the minneapolis south high school cafeteria .
would you like your child attending this school ?
my lunch was third lunch , glasker said .
there was fight after fight after fight .
people couldn t breathe it was very scary .
she said the fights were over pride .
i know it s a pride thing between muslims and black people , she said .
they want their pride back for something .
i don t know .
she also said boys were hitting girls and that some people were lying on the floor , with their hands over their heads , in surrender .
they didn t know if someone was going to bring out a knife , or if someone was going to bring out a gun , glasker said .