geneva ( reuters ) - the european union s support for the libyan coast guard is leading to the arbitrary and indefinite imprisonment of migrants in inhuman conditions , the u.n. human rights chief said on tuesday .
the eu anti-trafficking mission sophia has helped train tripoli s coast guard , while italy has supplied it with four patrol boats .
italy also has sent millions of euros and a navy repair ship to fix libya s marine fleet .
so far in 2017 , the libyans have intercepted almost 20,000 migrants at sea , according to the international organization for migration .
after being taken from the boats , they are brought to land and put in detention centers that were visited by united nations personnel .
monitors were shocked by what they witnessed , high commissioner on human rights zeid ra ad al hussein said in a statement .
they saw thousands of emaciated and traumatized men , women and children piled on top of each other , locked up in hangars with no access to the most basic necessities , and stripped of their human dignity , he said .
some 20,000 people are now being held in facilities controlled by tripoli s migration department , up from 7,000 in september , the u.n. said in a statement .
while u.n. agencies and other humanitarian groups have access to them and seek to provide health care and some food , zeid said it was not enough because the eu and its member states have done nothing so far to reduce the level of abuses suffered by migrants .
just a day ago , european and african ministers repeated a pledge to try to improve conditions for migrants in libya , and on saturday italian prime minister paolo gentiloni hailed italian immigration policy .
italy is the only country in europe with a decent migration policy , gentiloni said .
we re proud because we don t build walls or close ports .
but it was italy that struck a deal with the u.n.-backed tripoli in february , which was endorsed by the whole of the eu , aimed at blocking migrants in libya , much as the eu deal with turkey did last year .
that agreement , combined with the support for the libyan coast guard , has brought migrant sea arrivals down dramatically in recent months .
this year there have been 115,000 sea arrivals in italy , down 31 percent from last year , official data from italy s interior ministry show .
in october alone arrivals dropped by 76 percent from a year earlier .