paris ( reuters ) - two french prison inmates who were soon to be freed have been placed under investigation on suspicion of planning a terrorist attack and communicating by smartphone with syria , stronghold of islamic state militants .
the news highlighted the risk , regularly flagged by rights groups and jail authorities , that crowded prisons offer fertile ground for religious radicalization and conversion to the cause of islamist fighters , not only in france .
it also prompted calls for a crackdown on use of smartphones inside prisons .
the two , who were nearing the end of jail time for hold-ups and other criminal activity but not terrorist offences , were taken from their cells late last week and interrogated for four days before being placed formally under investigation for suspected terrorist activity , a judiciary official said .
one element that prompted the authorities to act was the interception of encrypted message traffic with syria , a fresnes prison staff representative , cedric boyer , said .
the precise nature of what was being planned was not clear , he added .
conveying the seriousness of the perceived threat that the two constituted , justice minister nicole belloubet told europe 1 radio : what happened yesterday exposed the urgency of the situation .
french tv station lci said the two were plotting attacks against jail wardens and police forces , while a source close to the investigation said they also had other targets planned .
more than 240 people have been killed in france in attacks since the start of 2015 by assailants who pledged allegiance to , or were inspired by , islamic state .
france has a long record of radicalization in its prisons .
prison guards said the ease with which smartphones can be used to communicate secretively with the world outside was an increasing problem .
the government is going to have to put its hand in its pocket , said boyer , a representative of the force ouvriere labor union and guards at the fresnes prison .
extra staffing is needed but it s also a matter of keeping up with technology , being able to scramble 4g communications rather than staying stuck in the age of the nokia 33-10 , boyer told bfm tv , referring to latest technology and the days when mobile phones were a rudimentary novelty .