a message from a 100 % fed up mom to her facebook friends : dear friends , i donated to two presidential campaigns this year , dr. ben carson and ted cruz .
i voted for rand paul in the straw poll at the republican convention on mackinac island , mi in september .
i am proud to say that today , i am 100 % behind donald trump .
i am actually looking forward to watching him crush hillary in the general election.after watching barack hussein obama serve as our cowardly , racist , incompetent , divider in chief for eight long years , i m ready for a president with courage and the ability to make this country truly great again .
i want someone who tells the free loaders , drug dealers and gang members from mexico and central america they re not welcome here anymore .
i want a border that can not be penetrated , and if it is , i want our border patrol agents to be able to do the jobs they were trained to do .
i want a president who isn t afraid to say we need to address the issue of unchecked immigration into our country from muslim majority nations who want to destroy our way of life .
i want a president who won t run to the golf course after an innocent american is beheaded or lie to americans about a video after four brave americans are killed all because his secretary of state wouldn t give them what they needed to survive in benghazi .
i want a president who will heal the racial divide our current president instigated with his former doj and his inner circle of race baiters for hire .
i want a president who will unleash our natural resources so we won t have to be dependent on isis , saudi arabia and iran for oil .
i want a president who won t visit communist countries and spend the afternoon watching baseball with brutal dictators , behaving as though he was spending the day with the pope .
i want a president who respects the hard work of every man and woman in america , and understands that in order to achieve the american dream , we need to work hard and make a few sacrifices .
i want a president who refuses to allow the media to control the narrative .
i want a president who has raised a family he can be proud of and for that matter , that america can be proud of .
for all those reasons and many , many more , i am excited that donald j. trump will be the republican candidate for president.as a side note , i m also looking to clean up my friends list .
if any of my facebook friends feel it is more important to thump their chests and demand that they will never vote for trump ( or in other words , that they will support hillary ) kindly hit the un-friend button at the top of my page .
i m on the side of america , and i m choosing to support a man who loves his country so much that he s wiling to walk away from everything he s worked so hard to build in order to save us .
trump didn t ask to walk through barricades to get away from hateful liberals in ca who would like harm him .
he didn t ask for soros funded freaks to follow him wherever he goes , threatening violence against him and his supporters .
he could be sitting in trump towers working on multimillion dollar deals , but god chose a different path for him and he accepted the challenge .
i am grateful to him for the sacrifices he and his family will make , and i will pray that god keeps him safe , healthy and strong .
most of all , i will pray that he brings jobs back to the millions of unemployed americans who have given up hope on ever finding a job .
i will pray that he follows through on his promise to help our veterans to get the best health care america has to offer .
and finally , i will pray that he rebuilds our military and gives our soldiers the ability to fight to win , and to keep the greatest nation in the world safe and prosperous for generations to come.there is no time to waste with petty bickering .
while i understand there will be a lot of hard feelings amongst ted , carly and marco supporters , it s time to come together now for the good of our country.bill clinton is walking around in a state of mostly confusion , while hillary is traveling with a full-time physician .
in addition to being the most crooked candidate to ever run for president , she is not well .
she will likely chose the old socialist bernie sanders as her running mate to shore up the young voters she can not persuade to support her campaign .
sadly , hillary knows she can t win without the i just want free-shit vote .
together , they will destroy more businesses , as they increase epa regulations to fight a phony climate change war .
they ll decrease spending for our military in order to reallocate funds to more social programs and programs designed to tighten the screws on our law enforcement , making it nearly impossible for them to do their jobs .
the conditions at our va hospitals will worsen , as our tax dollars will be used to pay for free college for young people who have no clue what it means to selflessly serve their country .
there will be a push for gun control like we ve never seen before in america , and we will witness some of the most radical supreme court picks who will wholly support their progressive agenda .
meanwhile , people who have the ability to stop another four years of obama will be proudly tweeting # nevertrump , as though we should admire them for their courage to stand up for their principles !
i have three young daughters .
i won t give up this fight until i know we have a president who takes the threat of sharia law in america seriously .
for anyone who thinks that can t happen , london is on the verge of electing a radical muslim as their next mayor , as i write this rant.when november rolls around , i ll be supporting a candidate who isn t worried about hurting the feelings of a radical muslim with a suicide vest in his suitcase , as he travels ( at the expense of the american taxpayer ) to his new taxpayer funded home in my neighborhood .
it s time to wise up and start coming together like the democrats do after each and every primary .
it s time to try something new it s called winning .
# neverhillary !
patty100 % fed up !
momandrew breitbart gave this speech only weeks before he died .
his words have never been more relevant than they are today : there are two paths one is america and the other one is occupy ( black lives matter ) .
black , white , gay and straight anyone that s willing to stand next to me to fight the progressive left , i will be in that bunker .
and if you re not in that bunker because you re not satisfied with this candidate more than shame on you you re on the other side !
-andrew breitbart