manila ( reuters ) - the philippines top police commander on tuesday said he would not prevent officers involved in the country s bloody war on drugs from seeking church protection and testifying to their alleged abuses , providing they told the truth .
police chief ronald dela rosa was reacting to a statement from a senior catholic prelate expressing willingness to grant accommodation , shelter , and protection to police involved in unlawful killings during the 15-month-old crackdown .
more than 3,800 people have been killed during president rodrigo duterte s ruthless campaign , in what police say are anti-drugs operations during which suspects had violently resisted arrest .
human rights group believe that figure , provided by the philippine national police ( pnp ) , misrepresents the scale of the bloodshed , pointing to large numbers of killings by shadowy gunmen .
the pnp denies allegations that assassins are operating in league with some of its officers to kill drug users .
the pill may be bitter but we can swallow the bitter pill if that pill is true , dela rosa told reporters , adding that he had no information that any pnp members had approached the church and wanted to speak out .
even if we are at the receiving end , we can take it as long as it is the truth , not just fabricated .
the truth is important .
the pnp and duterte have been on the defensive in recent weeks as scrutiny intensifies over the conduct of mostly plain-clothes officers during what the pnp calls buy bust sting operations .
duterte has several times stated that he has never told police to kill , unless in self defense .
his critics , however , accuse him of inciting murder in his frequent , truculent speeches .
the killings by police of two teenagers during august is the subject of an ongoing senate inquiry .
opinion polls released in recent days , which were compiled in june , show doubt among filipinos about police accounts .
[ nl4n1md2u8 ] [ nl4n1m82hn ] archbishop socrates villegas , president of the catholic bishops conference of the philippines ( cbcp ) , on monday said some police sought church help and were struggling to come to terms with their actions .
he did not identify them , or say how many sought protection .
he said the church would gauge their sincerity and honesty and establish their motives for coming forward .
priests would help within the bounds of church and civil laws , but would not influence them to testify .
their consciences are troubling them , villegas said .
they have expressed their desire to come out in the open about their participating in extrajudicial killings and summary executions .
some senators applauded the bishops move and urged police to testify .
i welcome the willingness of these involved policemen to finally speak about their actual involvement in the extrajudicial killings , grace poe said in a statement .
i laud the church in opening its arms wide to provide sanctuary for them .
priests are among the most influential dissenters to take on duterte , having initially been silent when the drugs killings started .
some churches have given sanctuary to drug users and witnesses of killings , while some priests have denounced the bloodshed during sermons and called for bells to be rang nightly in protest .
[ nl4n1m32iy ]