tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe sent a ritual offering to the yasukuni shrine for war dead , seen in china and the two koreas as a symbol of japan s past militarism , to mark its annual autumn festival , the shrine said on tuesday .
abe was expected to refrain from visiting the shrine during the festival , which will last until friday , the nikkei business daily and kyodo news agency reported .
he is scheduled to visit northern japan , akita prefecture and yamagata prefecture , for an election campaign stump on tuesday , kyodo news said .
his ruling coalition is on track for a big win in sunday s general election - even though almost half the country s voters don t want him to keep his job , a media survey showed on monday .
abe s snap election comes amid heightened global tension following north korea s nuclear tests and missile launches , which prompted the u.n. security council to impose fresh sanctions .
health minister katsunobu kato also sent an ritual offering to the shrine , a spokesperson for the shrine said .
past visits to yasukuni by japanese leaders have outraged beijing and seoul because it honors 14 japanese leaders convicted by an allied tribunal as war criminals , along with japan s war dead .
china s position on the shrine was clear , foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told reporters in beijing .
we urge the japanese side to earnestly , squarely and deeply reflect on their history of aggression , appropriately handle the relevant issue and take actual steps to win the trust of their asian neighbors and the international community , lu said .
abe has only visited the shrine in person once , in december 2013 , since becoming premier the previous year .
rather than attend in person , abe sends a ritual offering on several occasions in an effort to improve ties with china and south korea , which have been strained by territorial and other disputes .
japan , china and south korea are trying to hold a summit meeting this year , the nikkei business said .