mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican leftist andres manuel lopez obrador , who leads the national regeneration movement ( morena ) party , is the front-runner ahead of next year s presidential election , according to a newspaper poll published on monday .
the el universal survey found that 23.3 percent of respondents would vote for morena in the 2018 vote , ahead of the conservative national action party , which had 20 percent support .
president enrique pena nieto s ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) was in third place , with 16.5 percent , the poll found .
the major parties have yet to pick their candidates for the race , but lopez obrador , or amlo as he is known locally , is the de facto candidate of morena , which he founded in 2014 after breaking with his longtime base , the center-left party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) .
a victory for the combative and nationalist-leaning lopez obrador could stoke tensions with the trump administration just as the united states , mexico and canada seek to seal a renegotiation of the north american free trade agreement .
the silver-haired lopez obrador , 63 , is one of the best-known politicians in mexico , having spent years relentlessly attacking other parties for corruption .
but he is also a divisive figure , feared by the country s business elite .
a former mayor of mexico city , lopez obrador finished runner-up in the last two presidential contests .
in various scenarios polled by el universal , in which amlo faced different candidates from the other parties , the leftist came out ahead , garnering between 28.6 and 31 percent support .
political analysts say that may be enough to win the july 2018 contest with the electorate increasingly divided .
only the pan s margarita zavala , who is the wife of former president felipe calderon , came close , with 26.1-26.6 percent of respondents giving her their support .
additionally , amlo was the most positively viewed potential candidate , with 43.3 percent of those polled holding an upbeat view of the veteran politician .
an electoral pact linking the pan , the prd and the citizen s movement party is not well known in mexico , the poll found , but among those with knowledge of the newly formed alliance , 46 percent thought it could beat morena next year .
the survey , which had a margin of error of 1.3 percent , polled 6,400 mexicans in face-to-face interviews between aug. 18 and sept. 3 .