washington ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s prediction that the u.s. economy was on the verge of a “ very massive recession ” hit a wall of skepticism on sunday from economists who questioned the republican presidential front-runner ’ s calculations .
in an interview with the washington post published on saturday , the billionaire businessman said a combination of high unemployment and an overvalued stock market had set the stage for another economic slump .
he put real unemployment above 20 percent .
“ we ’ re not heading for a recession , massive or minor , and the unemployment rate is not 20 percent , ” said harm bandholz , chief u.s. economist at unicredit research in new york .
the official unemployment rate has declined to 5 percent from a peak of 10 percent in october 2009 , according to government statistics .
but a different , broader measure of unemployment that includes people who want to work but have given up searching and those working part-time because they can not find full-time employment is at 9.8 percent .
coming off a difficult week of campaigning , in which he acknowledged he struggled to articulate his position on abortion among other missteps , trump ’ s comments to the post might be some of his most bearish on the economy and financial markets .
“ i think we ’ re sitting on an economic bubble .
a financial bubble , ” he said .
some economists agree the stock market is in a period of overvaluation but do not see that as foretelling a cataclysmic economic downturn originating in the united states .
“ nobody can predict what the stock market is going to do , ” said rajeev dhawan , director of the economic forecasting center at georgia state university .
“ i can not predict a stock market crash , so i can not predict a recession .
i don ’ t see any of the reasons for a recession going forward unless there is a huge problem with the market or there is some catastrophic world event which is beyond the scope of economics. ” sung won sohn , an economics professor at california state university channel islands in camarillo , put the probability of an imminent recession at less than 10 percent .
“ if it happens , it would be because of what is happening overseas , especially in china and europe , ” he said .
joel naroff , chief economist at naroff economic advisors in pennsylvania , said it would take a “ total financial meltdown ” to trigger a recession .
“ we can get by with europe growing minimally , ” he said .
“ we can get by with china growing modestly because the rest of the u.s. is still solid enough that we can handle weakness in the rest of the world. ” the democratic national committee criticized trump for his remarks , saying they “ undermine our economy. ” trump ’ s success with voters , despite his sometimes saying things only to contradict them later , has also alarmed many leading figures within his own party .
some of them are openly plotting to try to prevent him from becoming the nominee at the party ’ s national convention in july .
reince priebus , the republican national committee chairman , said on sunday that voters were “ afraid ” of their economic situation , when asked about trump ’ s remarks on cnn ’ s “ state of the union ” show .
“ when people are afraid and when they ’ re angry , sometimes people say things that they regret , ” he said , apparently referring to trump ’ s remarks .
he also played down speculation that party leaders would seek to dislodge trump by helping someone who is not even a declared candidate prevail at the convention , which becomes governed by complicated voting rules if no candidate arrives with a clear majority .
“ i think that our candidate is someone who ’ s running , ” priebus said , referring to trump , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and ohio governor john kasich .
the candidates will next face voters on tuesday in wisconsin , where recent polls show cruz holding a small lead over trump .