poor hillary she s clearly a victim of some right wing conspiracy .
everyone knows she s just a concerned granny on a selfless mission to help the everyday american she s on a mission to be a softer , warmer , funnier candidate but according to a new book , the real hillary clinton is so volatile and prone to violent outbursts that she terrorizes staff , secret service agents and even her own husband.in the clintons war on women ( skyhorse ) , out oct. 13 , political strategist roger stone details hillary s abusive behavior dating back to the clintons days in arkansas , where bill served as governor .
hillary clinton has a long history of being domestically violent with bill , stone writes .
hillary has beaten bill , hit him with hard objects , scratched and clawed him , and made him bleed .
stone , a controversial figure who recently decamped from donald trump s campaign , also delves into the more fantastical rumors that have dogged the clintons for years.accounts of marital discord , however , have been well-reported for decades .
even bill clinton s former press officer dee dee myers later admitted that she covered for the first lady.in march 1993 , when hillary flew to her father s deathbed in little rock , ark. , bill entertained barbra streisand at the white house .
when hillary heard that the singer an unabashed admirer of the president had spent the night at the white house , she flew back home in a rage.the president was later seen with such a bad scratch on his neck that reporters were asking about it .
i m the idiot who said he d cut himself shaving before i d seen him , myers told author gail sheehy in 1999 .
then i saw him it was a big scratch , clearly not a shaving cut .
barbra streisand was clearly around at the time .
arkansas state troopers assigned to then-gov .
bill clinton s detail had seen worse .
once , when hillary awoke in the middle of the night to find bill gone , she called the trooper assigned to bill and demanded he bring the governor home immediately.she was waiting in the kitchen , and as chris andersen wrote in american evita : hillary clinton s path to power , the ensuing fight got violent , with shattering glass and slamming doors reverberating throughout the mansion .
when it was over , staff members .
.
.
[ found ] broken glass , smashed dishes and a cupboard door ripped off its hinges .
andersen also wrote that hillary would assault bill in their limo en route to official functions .
whatever was available , she d throw at bill : yellow legal pads , files , briefing books , car keys .
.
.
they d be screaming at each other , real blue-in-the-face stuff , one of their drivers said , but when the car pulled up to their destination , it was all smiles and waving for the crowd .
the secret service , stone writes , got a glimpse of the domestic discord as early as inauguration day 1993 , when bill told her she couldn t take the vice president s office as her own .
hillary began inauguration day 1993 cursing and shrieking profanities at bill , stone writes .
this account was also documented in gary aldrich s book unlimited access : an fbi agent inside the clinton white house as was her verbal abuse towards her secret service detail .
just stay the f k back stay the f k away from me !
she d tell them .
don t come within 10 yards of me , or else !
just f king do as i say , okay ?
hillary , aldrich writes , was incensed that a secret service agent refused to carry her luggage not part of the job description .
such disdain was inculcated in first daughter chelsea .
as former bloomberg news reporter kate andersen bower wrote in her book , the residence : inside the private world of the white house , chelsea could be as vicious and imperious as her mother .
chelsea was on the phone , bower writes , when a secret service agent walked in .
oh , i ve got to go , she told her friend .
the pigs are here .
white house florist ronn payne recalled that agent turning crimson .
ms. clinton , i want to tell you something , he said .
my job is to stand between you , your family , and a bullet .
do you understand ?
she replied , well , that s what my mother and father call you .
in 1999 , at the height of the lewinsky scandal , hillary again assaulted the president.stone cites christopher andersen s account : much of what transpired .
.
.
was plainly audible to secret service and household staff members down the hall .
in the past , hillary had thrown books and an ashtray at the president both hitting their mark .
.
.
hillary slapped him across the face hard enough to leave a red mark that would be clearly visible to secret service agents when he left the room .
you stupid , stupid , stupid bastard , hillary shouted .
as editor and author r. emmett tyrell has reported , the verbal and physical abuse has not relented since the clintons left the white house : sources close to the secret service .
.
.
report that dreadful altercations have erupted several times , and usually involve yelling , screaming , throwing of soft and hard objects , breakage of vases and glasses and just plain nastiness .
the newer , fuzzier hillary will be a hard sell with voters , stone tells the post .
there s only one hillary clinton : she s the ice queen , he says .
that s the real hillary .
the one you see in her campaign that s the fake .
via : nyp