beijing ( reuters ) - china aims to pass a national supervision law and set up a new commission next year to oversee an expansion of president xi jinping s campaign to fight corruption in the ruling communist party and government , the party said on sunday .
the moves will be made during china s annual meeting of parliament early next year , the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) , the party s anti-graft watchdog , said in its report to a five-yearly party congress last week .
the report , issued by the official xinhua news agency , had not been previously released and gave few other details on the new commission .
all provinces , regions and cities must closely connect regional practices , integrate reform pilot scheme experience , implement the overall plan according to the decision of the party s central committee , and promote organizational integration , the report said .
the report also said former chongqing party boss sun zhengcai and a group of other top officials ousted for graft , including former security tsar zhou yongkang , were schemers and plotters out to further their own careers .
the official line on sun and zhou had been that graft , not politics , was the primary reason for their downfall .
zhao leji , the newly appointed head of the ccdi , told the commission that they must secure a sweeping victory in the fight against corruption , and set up an institutionalized legal framework to make it impossible for officials to be corrupt , xinhua reported .
zhao took over from wang qishan as part of a leadership reshuffle announced at the close of the 19th national party congress of the communist party , which ended last tuesday .
wang had been widely credited with the success and vigor of the graft fight .
analysts say zhao is likely to take a more institutional approach .
the new national supervision commission will work alongside the ccdi , sharing much of its power and resources , and will merge multiple additional anti-graft units , according to an announcement last year .
it will also expand the purview of xi s anti-graft campaign to include employees at state-backed institutions who are not necessarily party members .
since coming to power in 2012 , xi s signature anti-corruption drive has jailed or otherwise punished nearly 1.4 million party members and he has emphasized the importance of improving china s rule of law architecture .
in his congress address , xi said china would keep up with the irreversible momentum of the anti-corruption campaign , and announced a central leading group responsible for overseeing china s law-based governance .
xi also said the party would scrap the practice of secretive interrogations known as shuanggui , in which cadres accused of graft and other disciplinary violations are routinely subjected to extrajudicial detention , isolation and interrogation by the ccdi .
the ccdi only hands cases over to police and the judiciary for prosecution .
international rights groups have raised concerns about torture , including sleep deprivation , being used to obtain confessions .