unhinged leftists are calling for a boycott of ivanka trump s fashion line but nordstrom is sticking with her .
now customers are calling for a boycott of nordstrom because they refused to ditch ivanka trump s brand.please let nordstrom know how much you appreciate them not caving in to the left : nordstrom feedback nordstrom s social media pages have been flooded with shoppers threatening to boycott the retailer if it does not stop selling the president-elect s daughter s shoe , clothing , and handbag lines.the comment below shows how misinformed the gay community is and how much the press has pushed their false narrative that trump is anti-gay : when i worked for this company , you were not afraid to take a stand on supporting the rights of the lbgt community .
it made me proud to be called one of your team , one comment on nordstrom s facebook page reads .
i went home and bragged about it to all my family .
now i will no longer shop at your stores .
by continuing to sell ivanka trump s brand you are making a stand .
you are saying yes to sexism , racism and bigotry .
i will no longer be a customer with your company because you do business with the trump family .
a family that supports toxic , sexist , homophobic , racist rhetoric , another post reads .
i thought your company had better standards , it is sad to see i was wrong .
the so-called grab your wallet movement has called for a boycott of donald trump s business empire and other companies that sell trump products .
in the days following trump s presidential election , supporters of the movement circulated a spreadsheet listing companies that sell trump products , including amazon , bloomingdales , and macy s.calls to boycott nordstrom have grown loud enough that nordstrom s co-president , pete nordstrom , sent an email to the company tuesday night clarifying that the retailer planned to continue to sell ivanka trump s fashion lines , fortune reported .
we strive to be agnostic about politics and to treat all our customers with respect , nordstrom wrote in the email .
every single brand we offer is evaluated on their results if people don t buy it , we won t sell it .
nordstrom , the company , declined to comment beyond saying that its president s email really speaks for itself .
read more : business insider