budapest ( reuters ) - about a thousand hungarians protested on friday against a crackdown on the main opposition party jobbik which has been threatened by a record political campaign fine that the party leader describes as a death sentence for democracy .
despite the gloomy rhetoric and jobbik saying it was fighting for survival , support for the demonstration was well down on other similar rallies over the past year .
hungarians will vote for a new parliament in april and prime minister viktor orban s conservative , anti-migrant fidesz party is far ahead in the polls , with jobbik its nearest rival .
jobbik , once on the far right , has turned toward the center in a bid to attract more support and is now campaigning nationwide against orban , depicting him as the leader of a criminal gang .
orban , rejecting the charges , says his financial standing is an open book .
last week the state audit office ( asz ) ruled jobbik had bought political posters far below market prices , breaching rules on political funding , then it slapped a 663 million forint ( $ 2.5 million ) penalty on the party .
the protesters , waving jobbik flags and posters deriding the ruling elite , gathered outside the headquarters of orban s fidesz party .
what we see unfolding is not an audit office investigation .
it is not an official penalty .
this is a death sentence with jobbik s name on it .
but in reality , it is a death sentence for hungarian democracy , jobbiik leader gabor vona told the crowd .
a government spokesman could not comment immediately on his remarks .
asz chairman laszlo domokos is a former fidesz lawmaker , whom jobbik and other critics accuse of making decisions in favor of orban .
the audit office denies that .
on friday , asz again called on jobbik to submit information that would challenge its findings , saying it acted fully within its rights throughout the probe .
the ruling fidesz party and the government have denied any involvement in the asz probe .
this case has nothing to do with the election campaign , orban aide janos lazar said on thursday .
for over a year fidesz has targeted jobbik , whose move to the center could upend the longstanding status quo of a dominant fidesz with weaker opponents to its left and its right , said analyst zoltan novak at the centre for fair political analysis .
gyorgy illes , a 67-year-old pensioner attending the rally , said he used to be a socialist supporter but got disillusioned as the party struggled to overcome its internal divisions .
this asz probe is a clear sign that orban is way past any remedy .
it is a ruthless attack on everything we hold dear .
democracy , the rule of law , equality , you name it , he said .