this is a stake to the heart of senator ted cruz !
sarah palin is shocking everyone with a big endorsement today live streaming below ( 6:00 p.m. eastern ) : sarah palin , the former alaska governor and 2008 vice-presidential nominee who became a tea party sensation and a favorite of grass-roots conservatives , will endorse donald j. trump in iowa on tuesday , officials with his campaign confirmed .
the endorsement provides mr. trump with a potentially significant boost just 13 days before the state s caucuses .
i m proud to endorse donald j. trump for president , ms. palin said in a statement provided by his campaign.her support is the highest-profile backing for a republican contender so far .
i am greatly honored to receive sarah s endorsement , mr. trump said in a statement trumpeting mrs. palin s decision .
she is a friend , and a high-quality person whom i have great respect for .
i am proud to have her support .
in iowa , where ms. palin spent years developing support , the endorsement could be especially helpful .
over the years palin has actually cultivated a number of relationships in iowa , said craig robinson , the former executive director of the republican party of iowa and publisher of the website the iowa republican .
there are the tea party activists who still think she s great and a breath of fresh air , but she also did a good job of courting republican donors in the state , he added.other conservatives said that ms. palin serves as a particularly effective shield against senator ted cruz , who is battling mr. trump for the lead in iowa polls by courting the state s evangelical voters.live stream : winterset , iowa republican presidential candidate donald trump is kicking off a swing through iowa at the john wayne birthplace museum , where he received an endorsement from the western film actor s daughter , aissa wayne .
the endorsement was announced tuesday in front of a life-size , rifle-toting model of the actor in full cowboy gear.aissa wayne said the country needs a strong and courageous leader like her father .
she said john wayne would be offering his endorsement if he were still alive.trump said he was a big fan of wayne and that the actor represented strength and power which the american people are looking for.he said , we have exactly the opposite from john wayne right now in this country .
the museum includes an extensive collection of memorabilia from wayne s movies.via : nyptrump s facebook post on the endorsement : a true honor to receive the endorsement of john wayne s daughter , aissa wayne .
so proud that if john were here today , he would have endorsed trump strength !