hanoi/manila ( reuters ) - authorities in vietnam prepared to move a million people from low-lying areas along the south coast on monday as a typhoon approached after it battered the philippines with floods and landslides that killed more than 230 people .
typhoon tembin is expected to slam into vietnam late on monday after bringing misery to the predominantly christian philippines just before christmas .
vietnam s disaster prevention committee said 74,000 people had been moved to safety from vulnerable areas , while authorities in 15 provinces and cities were prepared to move more than 1 million .
the government ordered that oil rigs and vessels be protected and it warned that about 62,000 fishing boats should not venture out to sea .
vietnam must ensure the safety of its oil rigs and vessels .
if necessary , close the oil rigs and evacuate workers , prime minister nguyen xuan phuc was quoted as saying on a government website .
schools were ordered to close in the southern commercial hub of ho chi minh city on monday , a working day in vietnam .
on sunday , tembin hit the spratly islands in the south china sea , parts of which are contested by several countries , including vietnam and china .
no casualties were reported in outposts there .
vietnam , like the philippines , is regularly battered by typhoons that form over the warm waters of the pacific and barrel westwards into land .
tembin will be the 16th major storm to hit vietnam this year .
the storms and other disasters have left 390 people dead or missing , according to official figures .
in the philippines , rescue workers were still struggling to reach some remote areas hit by floods and landslides that tembin s downpours brought , as the death toll climbed to more than 230 .
scores of people are missing .
the full extent of the devastation was only becoming clear as the most remote areas were being reached .
health worker arturo simbajon said nearly the entire coastal village of anungan on the zamboanga peninsula of mindanao island had been wiped out by a barrage of broken logs , boulders and mud that swept down a river and out to sea .
only the mosque was left standing , simbajon said .
people were watching the rising sea but did not expect the water to come from behind them .
manuel luis ochotorena , head of regional disaster agency , said he expected the death toll to rise .
many areas in zamboanga peninsula are still without power and communications , some towns are cut off due to collapsed bridges , floods and landslides , he said .
tens of thousands of people on mindanao have been displaced by the storm , which struck late on friday .
the philippines is battered by about 20 typhoons a year and warnings are routinely issued .
but disaster officials said many villagers had ignored warnings this time to get out coastal areas and move away from riverbanks .
in 2013 , super typhoon haiyan killed nearly 8,000 people and left 200,000 families homeless in the central philippines .
( this version of the story was refiled to fix spelling in paragraph two )