cairo ( reuters ) - egypt s security forces suffered one of their heaviest attacks after militants firing rockets and detonating explosives hit a police operation on friday in the western desert , authorities and security sources said on saturday .
three security sources said at least 52 police officers and conscripts had been killed in gun battles that erupted in the remote desert , but egyptian authorities said only 16 men had died when their patrol came under attack .
egyptian authorities on saturday said two police operations were moving in on a suspected militant hideout on friday when one of the patrols came under fire from heavy weapons in a remote area around 135 km southwest of cairo .
the interior ministry said 16 police were killed in that part of the operation , and 13 more were wounded .
at least 15 militants were also killed in the gun fight .
the statement did not give details on any casualties in the other police patrol .
as soon as the first mission approached the location of the terrorist elements , they sensed the arrival of the forces and targeted them using heavy weapons from all directions , the interior ministry said in a statement .
one security source said the convoy was attacked from higher ground by militants firing rocket-propelled grenades and detonating explosive devices on the ground .
security has been a key point for president abdel fattah al-sisi , a former military commander who presents himself as a bulwark against terrorism after leading the ouster of president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in 2013 .
sisi was elected on a landslide a year later .
though he has yet to declare his intentions , sisi is widely expected to run for re-election in april next year with little opposition .
but critics say his popularity has been dimmed because of security and economic austerity policies .
no group made any claim or statement about friday s operation not far from the capital .
but most of the fighting so far between militants and security forces has been in northern sinai , where an islamic state affiliate operates .
security sources earlier said the police had been hunting hideout of the hasm movement , an islamist militant group blamed for attacks on judges and police around the capital .
that group has in the past only carried out mostly small operations since it emerged last year .
egyptian authorities say it is the armed militant wing of the muslim brotherhood , an islamist group it outlawed in 2013 .
most of its leadership has been jailed in a crackdown under sisi .
since sisi came to power , hundreds of troops and police have been killed in often sophisticated attacks by militants in the northern sinai region , where ansar bayt al-maqdis group pledged allegiance to islamic state in 2014 .
last sunday , at least 24 militants and six soldiers were killed in attacks on military outposts in north sinai , when more than 100 militants repeatedly attacked security outposts south of the border town of sheikh zuweid .
attacks have mostly hit police and armed forces , but militants have also extended their campaign outside the sinai , targeting egypt s christians with bomb attacks on churches in cairo and other cities .