ultimate gun control is the end game of barack obama and his regime period.on june 1 breitbart news reported on obama s spring 2015 unified agenda .
the gun control measures contained therein which were to be passed by executive fiat.since that time representatives like rep. thomas massie ( r-ky ) 91 % ( r-ky-4th ) have placed riders on a doj appropriations bill to stop portions of the executive gun control push in its tracks .
now the nra-ila is revealing that the obama administration is working behind the scenes to stifle reporting on firearms.from the nra-ila : even as news reports have been highlighting the gun control provisions of the administration s unified agenda of regulatory objectives , the obama state department has been quietly moving ahead with a proposal that could censor online speech related to firearms.how can this happen ? like this : the administration is reworking the international traffic in arms regulations ( itar ) .
one of the many things regulated by itar are technical data tied to defense articles .
this includes , but is not limited to , detailed design , development , production or manufacturing information about ammunition and firearms.more specifically , this kind of technical data would be blueprints , drawings , photographs , plans , instructions or documentation related to ammunition and firearms.while itar and its regulations have not been a concern in the past , as far as constraining or limiting material posted on publicly available websites , there are some within the current state department arguing that anything published online in a generally-accessible location has essentially been exported , simply by virtue of being posted , and is therefore under the purview of itar.moreover , last week the state department put forth a proposal clarifying how to handle releases containing technical data which are posted online or otherwise distributed into the public domain .
ultimately , the proposal would require those releasing technical data on ammunition or firearms to first seek government approval.here s how the nra-ila summed it up : the proposal would institute a massive new prior restraint on free speech .
this is because all such releases would require the authorization of the government before they occurred .
the cumbersome and time-consuming process of obtaining such authorizations , moreover , would make online communication about certain technical aspects of firearms and ammunition essentially impossible.public comments on the proposed changes to itar will be accepted until august 3 , 2015 .
you can submit those comments at regulations.gov or e-mail them to ddtcpubliccomments @ state.gov with the subject line indicating the comments concern the itar amendment revisions to definitions ; data transmission and storage .
via : breitbart news