fox news host megyn kelly shut down a liberal guest in a blistering thursday night exchange about president barack obama s silence on the senseless killing of kate steinle at a san francisco tourist area.kelly observed that the president was only too willing to speak out on the trayvon martin , michael brown and freddie gray killings , but was noticeably silent on steinle , who was killed by an illegal immigrant who d been deported five times and had seven felony convictions .
when asked repeatedly this week to speak to this case , white house spokesman josh earnest declined to weigh in , other than to refer folks to the department of homeland security , kelly said .
a stark contrast to what we saw after michael brown was killed in ferguson [ missouri ] , a man we now know was attacking a police officer at the time of his death .
liberal talk show host richard fowler made the ridiculous claim that the woman would be alive today if congress had passed immigration reform legislation .
stop that !
stop that !
stop that !
answer my question please , kelly said .
give an answer !
you can t !
there s no excuse for it !
he picks and chooses the victims he wants to highlight .
and apparently , this victim wasn t deemed worthy .
when political consultant marc thiessen asked fowler to explain his statement that obama doesn t support sanctuary cities for illegal immigrants , fowler veered off into left field and again brought up lack of immigration reform , placing the blame on republican lawmakers for not acting on immigration reform .
that s a dodge !
support what you just said , richard !
kelly shot back .
stop it you keep making these assertions and then you dance off to the sidelines .
you said the president doesn t support sanctuary city policies .
what do you base that on ?
i base it on the fact that if we had comprehensive immigration reform there would be no need for sanctuary cities , fowler repeated .
and i m pretty sure the white house would tell you the same thing tonight .
via : breitbart news