nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan president uhuru kenyatta opened parliament on tuesday by warning against divisive and destructive politics , while opposition lawmakers boycotted the legislature and rallied to demand the resignation of election officials .
kenya held parliamentary , presidential and local elections on aug. 8 , but the supreme court nullified the presidential results three weeks later , citing irregularities in the tallying process .
new elections are scheduled for oct. 17 .
while calling for unity and respect for the constitution , kenyatta delivered a thinly veiled warning to the opposition lawmakers who had chosen to stay away from parliament .
my government will not tolerate anyone intent on disrupting our hard-won peace and stability .
under no circumstances must kenyans ever allow our free competitive processes to become a threat to the peace and security of our nation , he said , to foot-stamping and cheering from ruling party legislators .
we shall continue to encourage vibrant democratic competition , we shall not allow destructive division .
as he spoke , opposition leaders held a rally in kibera , the capital s largest slum , rejecting the oct. 17 date unless officials on the election board , whom they blame for mishandling the polls , resign .
now we are putting it squarely to you that the supreme court of this country has found you incompetent , said kalonzo musyoka , running mate of kenyatta s presidential rival raila odinga .
the surprise election annulment initially raised fears of short-term political turmoil in kenya , the region s richest nation and a staunch western ally in a region roiled by conflict .
but it also raised hopes among frustrated opposition supporters , who believe the last three elections have been stolen from them , that the east african nation s tarnished courts could deliver them justice .
that hope helped tamp down protests that threatened to spark the kind of violence that followed disputed 2007 elections , when around 1,200 people were killed in ethnic bloodletting .
in a separate development , a ruling party lawmaker and a former opposition senator appeared in a nairobi court , charged with incitement to violence over speeches they had made in the past week .
both were freed on a 300,000 kenya shilling ( $ 3,000 ) bond .
a government body monitoring hate speech says that it has seen a spike since the supreme court ruling .
more than three times as many incidents were reported in the week following the ruling than during the whole 10-week election campaign , it said .