united nations ( reuters ) - u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres and the u.n. security council on wednesday urged myanmar authorities to end violence against the majority-buddhist country s rohingya muslims that has forced some 400,000 people to flee to bangladesh .
guterres said the situation in myanmar s western state of rakhine was best described as ethnic cleansing .
when one-third of the rohingya population had to flee the country , could you find a better word to describe it ?
he told a news conference .
i call on the myanmar authorities to suspend military action , end the violence , uphold the rule of law , and recognize the right of return of all those who had to leave the country , said guterres , adding that he had spoken several times with myanmar s national leader , aung san suu kyi .
the exodus of refugees , sparked by the security forces fierce response to a series of rohingya militant attacks on aug. 25 , is the most pressing problem suu kyi has faced since becoming leader last year .
the government says it is targeting terrorists , while refugees say the offensive aims to push rohingya out of myanmar .
the 15-member security council met behind closed doors on wednesday , at the request of sweden and britain , to discuss the crisis for the second time since it began and agreed to publicly condemn the situation .
the council expressed concern about reports of excessive violence during the security operations and called for immediate steps to end the violence in rakhine , de-escalate the situation , re-establish law and order , ensure the protection of civilians ... and resolve the refugee problem .
british u.n .
ambassador matthew rycroft said it was the first statement from the security council on myanmar in nine years .
such statements have to be agreed by consensus and russia and china have traditionally protected myanmar from any action .
myanmar said last week it was negotiating with russia and china to ensure they blocked any censure by the security council over the violence in rakhine state .
the united nations top human rights official earlier this week denounced myanmar for conducting a cruel military operation against the rohingya , branding it a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
suu kyi has canceled a trip to the u.n. general assembly in new york next week to deal with the crisis .
rycroft said two high-level meetings on myanmar were due to be held during the gathering of world leaders at the united nations .
the humanitarian situation is catastrophic , guterres said .
this is a dramatic tragedy .
people are dying and suffering in horrible numbers and we need to stop it .