lima ( reuters ) - peru s former president alberto fujimori was rushed from prison to a local hospital by ambulance late on saturday after suffering a severe drop in blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythm that put him at risk of dying , fujimori s doctor said .
cardiologists recommended that he be removed from prison immediately , alejandro aguinaga said .
it looks complicated , he told journalists gathered outside the hospital .
fujimori , 79 , is serving a 25-year sentence for graft and human rights crimes .
he is a deeply divisive figure in peru .
while many consider him a corrupt dictator , others credit him with ending an economic crisis and bloody leftist insurgency during his 1990-2000 term .
the medical emergency will likely heap pressure on center-right president pedro pablo kuczynski to free the former leader , a move that could rewrite political alliances and spark protests in one of latin america s most stable economies .
three days earlier , a faction of fujimori s supporters in congress unexpectedly saved kuczynski from a motion that would have forced him from office less than two years into his five-year-term .
the opposition said kuczynski only survived the vote by promising 10 lawmakers that he would free fujimori if they backed him .
kuczynski s government denies the allegations .
fujimori fled peru for his parent s native japan as his government imploded in a graft scandal at the turn of the century .
he was eventually extradited to peru and was convicted for leading death squads that massacred civilians .
despite fujimori s downfall , the rightwing populist movement fujimori started in the 1990s remains one of the country s most potent political forces .
his two adult children , keiko and kenji , lead rival factions of the rightwing party , popular force , that controls a majority of seats in congress and pushed to oust kuczynski this week .
over the past year , kenji has challenged his sister keiko s leadership and he has led calls for his release , which could give him a boost if he is freed .
tv images showed kenji , who led the faction that backed kuczynski , riding in the ambulance that drove fujimori to the peruvian-japanese centenario clinic for treatment .
if a ( presidential ) pardon happens now , it s because there was a pact , congresswoman marisa glave said on twitter .
a pardon can t be decided in an under-the-table deal .
glave is one of about 10 leftist lawmakers who - despite criticizing kuczynski as a lobbyist - opted not to support the bid to oust him out of fear it would empower popular force .
fujimori s well-organized foes were key to kuczynski s razor-thin victory over keiko in last year s presidential election , and to keeping keiko s followers from ousting him this week .
fujimori s supporters dismissed suggestions that his health troubles were a ruse to pave the way for a pardon .
there s no circus , luisa maria cuculiza , a former ruling party lawmaker during his government , said on local broadcaster rpp .