baltimore city state s attorney marilyn mosby tells fox news reporter during hostile exchange ( at the 1 minute mark ) that she comes from five generations of police officers in response to his statement that baltimore police officers are concerned she doesn t have their backs : https : //youtu.be/nbderqcxjbsthe mother of baltimore city state s attorney marilyn mosby faced numerous disciplinary actions during her 20-year career as a boston police officer , though the public wouldn t know it based on the freddie gray case prosecutor s public statements touting her family s strong policing history.the 35-year-old mosby has used her family s police ties to rebut critics who say she rushed to judgement and overcharged the six cops involved in gray s april 12 arrest .
the 25-year-old gray died a week later , touching off rioting in baltimore and nationwide protests .
law enforcement is pretty much instilled within my being , mosby told msnbc s chris hayes on may 1 , the day she publicly announced charges against the officers .
i come from five generations of police officers , she added , pointing out that her mother , father , grandfather and uncles have all served as cops.but there s more to the story than mosby has let on.personnel records obtained by the daily caller show that mosby s mother , linda thompson , first violated the boston police department s substance abuse policy in 2006 .
after serving a 45-day rehab stint , thompson violated the drug code again and voluntarily resigned on feb. 1 , 2008 , rather than be fired.the early retirement allowed thompson , now 52 , to draw a $ 1,810.69 monthly pension.thompson is not the only member of mosby s family to have had a rocky policing career .
mosby s father was fired from the boston police department in 1991 following accusations that he and his partner robbed drug dealers at gun point .
mosby s uncle was fired from boston pd in 2001 after testing positive for cocaine .
her grandfather was a well-respected boston cop , but he ultimately and unsuccessfully sued the department for racial discrimination in the 1980s.personnel records obtained by the daily caller show that mosby s mother , linda thompson , first violated the boston police department s substance abuse policy in 2006 .
after serving a 45-day rehab stint , thompson violated the drug code again and voluntarily resigned on feb. 1 , 2008 , rather than be fired.the early retirement allowed thompson , now 52 , to draw a $ 1,810.69 monthly pension.thompson is not the only member of mosby s family to have had a rocky policing career .
mosby s father was fired from the boston police department in 1991 following accusations that he and his partner robbed drug dealers at gun point .
mosby s uncle was fired from boston pd in 2001 after testing positive for cocaine .
her grandfather was a well-respected boston cop , but he ultimately and unsuccessfully sued the department for racial discrimination in the 1980s.mosby has not publicly mentioned any of that during her speeches when running for baltimore state s attorney or since taking on the gray case .
a majority of police officers are risking their lives day-in and day-out , mosby told hayes during her interview .
recognizing that , because that s what my family did , i also recognize that there are those individuals that usurp their authority who will go past the public trust .
when they do that , you have to hold those individuals accountable , mosby added.mosby s claims are disingenuous , say three retired boston police officers interviewed by thedc .
linda thompson s daughter is lecturing police officers about the right thing to do ?
you ve got to be kidding me , said one former cop who reached the highest levels of the boston police department and has known thompson since the beginning of her career.the retired officer , who asked not to be named , said that mosby s message has been , you can trust me , i come from a family of cops .
mosby has proved a polarizing figure so far in the gray case .
elected to office last year , she became a national star to many after her public announcement of charges against the cops .
but her many critics say her case is flimsy and that she charged the officers for political reasons.the prosecution s theory seems to be that the officers did not do enough to restrain gray in the back of a police van after his april 12 arrest .
some of the six officers also failed to provide proper medical attention , mosby has claimed.gray s april 19 death was ruled a homicide due to an act of omission .
mosby charged the driver of gray s police van with second-degree depraved heart murder and manslaughter .
three other cops face manslaughter charges.mosby has also been heavily criticized for using activist rhetoric when publicly discussing the case .
during her may 1 speech she said that she heard protesters battle-cry of no justice , no peace .
days before that speech and before the medical examiner s office had even determined gray s cause of death she told a group of local clergy members that she was going to seek justice for gray by any and all means necessary .
via : daily caller