geneva ( reuters ) - myanmar authorities have agreed to allow the united nations to resume distribution of food in northern rakhine state which was suspended for two months , the world food programme ( wfp ) said on friday .
the agreement , whose details are still being worked out , came as unicef reported that rohingya refugee children fleeing into bangladesh were arriving close to death from malnutrition .
the wfp was previously distributing food rations to 110,000 people in northern rakhine state - to both buddhist and the minority muslim rohingya communities .
rohingya insurgent attacks on police stations triggered an army crackdown , that the united nations has called ethnic cleansing , and u.n. humanitarian agencies have not been able to access northern rakhine to deliver aid since then .
wfp deliveries have continued to 140,000 people in central rakhine .
wfp has been given the green light to resume food assistance operations in northern part of rakhine .
we are working with the government to coordinate the details , wfp spokeswoman bettina luescher told journalists in geneva .
she had no timeline or details on the proposed distribution of rations to northern rakhine , and said it was still being discussed with the authorities in myanmar .
we just have to see what the situation on the ground is .
it s very hard to say these things if you can t get in , luescher said .
some 604,000 rohingya refugees have fled to bangladesh in the past two months , bringing the total to 817,000 , the international organization for migration ( iom ) said .
malnutrition rates in maungdaw and buthidaung townships in rakhine , where the vast majority of the rohingya refugees originate , were already above emergency threshold rates before the crisis , the u.n. children s fund ( unicef ) said .
since august 25 , we have had to stop treating 4,000 children with severe acute malnutrition in northern rakhine because we have had no access , unicef spokeswoman marixie mercado told the briefing .
unicef has screened nearly 60,000 rohingya refugee children arriving in bangladesh , nearly 2,000 of whom have been identified as having severe acute malnutrition , with another 7,000 moderately acutely malnourished , she said .
the agency screened 340 children among recent arrivals , a rough and rapid exercise that found 10 percent to be severely acutely malnourished , she said .
this is an extremely small number of children so these numbers are not representative , mercado said .
but what they do tell us is that some of the children are close to death by the time they make it across the border .