riyadh/amman ( reuters ) - syria s main opposition stuck by its demand on thursday that president bashar al-assad play no role in an interim period under any u.n.-sponsored peace deal , despite speculation it could soften its stance because of assad s battlefield strength .
a gathering in saudi arabia of more than 140 participants from a broad spectrum of syria s mainstream opposition also blasted iran s military presence in syria and called on shi ite militias backed by tehran to leave the country .
the participants stressed that this ( the transition ) can not happen without the departure of bashar al assad and his clique at the start of the interim period , opposition groups said in a communique at the end of the meeting .
iran-backed militias sowed terrorism and sectarian strife between sunni and shi ite muslims , the communique said .
the opposition groups met to seek a unified position ahead of u.n.-backed peace talks after two years of russian military intervention that has helped assad s government recapture all of syria s main cities .
the syrian opposition has sent a message that it is ready to enter serious direct talks over a political transition in syria and has a unified position and a vision for the future of syria , ahmad ramadan , opposition spokesman , told reuters .
the participants elected 50 members to a high negotiations committee and will finalize on friday the delegation for the next round of u.n.-sponsored talks .
we agreed with the group of components present here in riyadh and the cairo and moscow platforms on the formation of one delegation to participate in direct negotiations in geneva in a few days , spokeswoman basma qadmani said .
u.n. peace talks mediator staffan de mistura , preparing for a new round of geneva talks , will visit moscow on friday , where he is expected to discuss the situation in syria .
there had been speculation that the opposition , at the meeting , could soften its demands that kremlin ally assad leave power before any transition .
riyad hijab , an opposition hardliner who led the high negotiations committee that represented the opposition at previous rounds of negotiations , abruptly quit this week .
for many years , western and arab countries backed the opposition demand that assad leave office .
however , since russia joined the war on behalf of assad s government it has become increasingly clear that assad s opponents have no path to victory on the battlefield .
russian president vladimir putin has called for a congress of the syrian government and opposition to draw up a framework for the future structure of the syrian state , adopt a new constitution and hold elections under un supervision .
but he has also said that any political settlement in syria would be finalised within the geneva peace talks process overseen by the united nations .
the opposition has long been suspicious of the parallel diplomatic track pushed by russia , which before the proposed sochi congress included talks in kazakhstan , and has insisted that political dialogue should only take place in geneva .
the opposition communique said the participants supported a u.n. based process that would allow syria to undergo a radical political transition from an authoritarian system to a democracy where free elections would be upheld .
negotiations should be direct and without preconditions based on past u.n. security council resolutions , it said .
the opposition backed the restructuring of the army and security organs and preservation of state institutions , but called for the trial of those responsible for war crimes .
the meeting , which included independents and free syrian army military factions , also blamed the syrian government for the lack of progress in geneva-based talks held in the past .
the political process has not achieved its goal because of the regime s violations , the communique said , citing the bombing of civilian areas , the siege of rebel held areas and the detention of tens of thousands of dissidents .
syria s civil war , now in its seventh year , has killed hundreds of thousands of people and created the world s worst refugee crisis , driving more than 11 million people from their homes .