tabatinga , brazil ( reuters ) - u.s. military personnel are taking part this week in the largest international army operation ever held deep in the amazon jungle of northern brazil , in a sign of closer u.s.-brazil defense ties .
troops from brazil , colombia and peru will set up a temporary military base in their tri-border region for a week-long logistics exercise in humanitarian assistance and disaster relief , brazilian army officials said .
about 50 u.s. personnel will be present for the exercise , including 19 observers and 31 members of the montana air national guard who will be based out of manaus providing air transportation , a u.s. embassy statement said .
the united states will provide a hercules c-130 transport plane to move personnel and equipment , the brazilian army said .
the presence of u.s military personnel in brazil s amazon region underscored improving defense relations between the two most populous countries in the western hemisphere after more than a decade of distancing under leftist brazilian governments .
in march , then-commander of the u.s. army south , major general clarence k. k. chinn visited military installations in the amazon and was decorated in brasilia .
bilateral agreements on defense cooperation and information security have taken effect recently after years of stalling in brazil s congress .
the brazilian general in charge of the operation said he was astounded by criticism of the u.s. involvement in the exercise in a globalized world where brazil maintains good relations with china , russia and the united states .
it s a senseless conspiracy theory raised by leftist parties , general guilherme theophilo gaspar de oliveira , the brazilian army s logistics commander , told reporters , as he praised deep u.s. experience and know how in disaster relief .
the brazilian army said it was the first time such a large military exercise has been held in the amazon and would help prepare the armed forces of the three neighboring countries for a humanitarian crisis such as mass migration .
brazil has kept a close eye on economic and political upheaval in neighboring venezuela that could trigger such an exodus .
more than 30,000 venezuelans have already fled over the border into the northern brazilian state of roraima , according to federal police .
the brazilian army said venezuela is one of the 19 countries sending observers for the so-called united america operation .
brazilian defense minister raul jungmann will attend the jungle exercises on the weekend and then fly to washington for three days of talks with pentagon officials , his press representative said .