havana ( reuters ) - cuba on tuesday slammed u.s. president donald trump s latest comments about the island as disrespectful , unacceptable and meddling , while reiterating it was not involved in the alleged incidents that had harmed u.s. diplomats in havana .
the sharply worded foreign ministry statement came after u.s. and cuban delegations met in washington to discuss bilateral relations , the first such high-level meeting between the cold war foes since trump took office in january .
their meeting took place on the same day trump addressed the united nations general assembly in new york , calling cuba corrupt and destabilizing .
he also said he would not lift the u.s. trade embargo on cuba until it made fundamental reforms .
cuba said it had voiced strong protest against his comments , as well against his new policy toward the communist-run nation .
the republican president announced in june a partial rollback of the u.s.-cuban detente forged by his democratic predecessor , barack obama .
in the wake of the disrespectful , unacceptable and meddling statements made by president donald trump in his address to the u.n. general assembly at a time when the u.s.-cuba bilateral commission was sitting in session , the cuban delegation voiced a strong protest , the foreign ministry statement said .
u.s.-cuban relations have become especially strained since the state department said last month its personnel in havana had experienced physical symptoms from what it could only describe as incidents .
the symptoms ranged from hearing loss to mild brain injury , a state department official said last week , adding that the toll of victims had risen to 21 people linked to the u.s. embassy .
several canadians were also affected .
cuba has denied any involvement and the united states has not blamed it , although secretary of state rex tillerson said on sunday it could close its embassy in response .
cuba has never perpetrated or will ever perpetrate actions of this nature , and has never permitted or will ever permit any third-party use of its territory for this purpose , cuba s foreign ministry said .
the cuban authorities have shown keen interest in both clarifying this matter .