( reuters ) - some 128 countries defied u.s. president donald trump on thursday and voted in favor of a u.n. general assembly resolution calling for washington to drop its recent recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
trump had threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that voted in favor of the resolution .
after the vote , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations , nikki haley , tweeted that the united states will be taking names .
washington found itself isolated as many of its western and arab allies voted for the measure .
some of those allies , like egypt , jordan and iraq , are major recipients of u.s. military or economic aid , although the u.s. threat to cut aid did not single out any country .
among countries that abstained were argentina , australia , canada , colombia , czech republic , hungary , mexico , philippines , poland , rwanda , south sudan and uganda .
guatemala , honduras , marshall islands , micronesia , nauru , palau and togo joined the united states and israel in voting no .
following are reactions to the vote : turkish president tayyip erdogan : mr. trump , you can not buy turkey s democratic will with your dollars .
the dollars will come back , but your will won t once it s sold .
iranian foreign minister javad zarif : a resounding global no to trump regime s thuggish intimidation at # un .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu : jerusalem is our capital , always was , always will be .
but i do appreciate the fact that a growing number of countries refuse to participate in this theater of the absurd .
spokesman for palestinian president mahmoud abbas , nabil abu rdainah : the vote is a victory for palestine .
we will continue our efforts in the united nations and at all international forums to put an end to this occupation and to establish our palestinian state with east jerusalem .
french u.n .
ambassador francois delattre : the resolution adopted today only confirms relevant international law provisions on jerusalem .
botswana s ministry of international affairs : botswana will not be intimidated by such threats and will exercise her sovereign right and vote based on her foreign policy principles , which affirm that jerusalem is a fundamental final status issue , which must be resolved through negotiations in line with relevant united nations resolutions .
canadian ambassador to the un , marc-andre blanchard , on canada decision to abstain from voting : we are disappointed that this resolution is one-sided and does not advance prospects for peace to which we aspire which is why we have abstained on today s vote