berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel s chief of staff will become acting and temporary finance minister when wolfgang schaeuble leaves office , sources in her conservative party said on friday .
the decision comes as negotiations to form a new government look likely to drag into 2018 .
the sources said merkel had decided that peter altmaier would take over from schaeuble , who agreed on wednesday to become president of the lower house of parliament to let someone from another coalition party take the role .
.
government spokeswoman ulrike demmer would not deny the news , first reported by sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper , but noted the bundestag would not elect a new president until its first session , which must take place by oct. 24 .
we will inform you about everything promptly after that , demmer told a regular news conference .
altmaier , a conservative and close confidant of merkel s , would take over after the 75-year-old schaeuble is nominated by the conservative alliance at a meeting on oct. 17 .
he would then hand over to whoever is named by a new coalition partner , probably the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , which urged merkel to accelerate the process of forming a new government .
fifty-nine percent of germans support merkel s aim to create a three-way coalition with the fdp and the environmentalist greens , a survey for broadcaster zdf found .
but a so-called jamaica coalition - after the parties colors of black , yellow and green that match the jamaican flag - has never been tested at the national level and there are serious differences on migration , energy , taxes and europe .
complicating coalition talks is a debate between merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian sister party , the csu , which lost 10 percentage points in sunday s vote .
eager to claw back support ahead of state elections in 2018 , the csu has redoubled its calls for limiting migration , something merkel has opposed .
only 23 percent of germans would favor the continuation of the grand coalition of merkel s conservatives and the social democrats ( spd ) , which governed for the last four years .
almost two-thirds of those polled supported the spd s decision to go into opposition at the national level after its worst election result in the post-war era on sunday .
andrea nahles , the spd s newly elected parliamentary leader , said the conservatives , the fdp and greens need to and will get ( a coalition agreement ) done .
if chancellor merkel thinks the spd is a tactical reserve option for an emergency , then she is wrong , nahles told bild .
altmaier himself suggested negotiations may take longer than four years ago , when a deal was done by christmas .
that s what i m hoping for , but what s decisive is the substance , not the date , altmaier said in an interview published by focus magazine on friday .
exploratory talks are expected after the oct. 15 election in the state of lower saxony , now ruled by a coalition of the spd and greens .
but wolfgang kubicki , deputy leader of the fdp , urged merkel to get the process started sooner .
everyone knows what needs to be done .
there s no reason to wait any longer , he told the handelsblatt newspaper .
he said the conflict within conservatives should not result in germany remaining without a new government for a long time .
underscoring the problems still ahead in forming a government , key officials with the greens and fdp on friday questioned a push by merkel s conservatives to implement facial recognition technology in video surveillance .
kubicki told der spiegel : widespread facial recognition would be a significant step toward a surveillance state .
konstantin von notz , deputy of the greens in parliament , echoed his concerns , adding , then we wouldn t be living in a free country anymore .