riyadh ( reuters ) - a large saudi public university announced it would dismiss employees suspected of ties to the banned muslim brotherhood , adding to concerns that the government is clamping down on its critics in academia and beyond .
activists and rights groups say security forces have rounded up some 30 clerics , intellectuals and others in the past 10 days , in what human rights watch has described as a coordinated crackdown on dissent .
authorities have not explicitly acknowledged the detentions , which come amid widespread speculation - denied by officials - that king salman will abdicate in favor of his son as well as deepening tensions with neighboring qatar , which is accused by riyadh of supporting islamists , including the brotherhood .
the governing council of al-imam mohammed ibn saud islamic university in riyadh advised against renewing contracts for employees it said were influenced by the ideology of the terrorist muslim brotherhood organization .
the statement , posted online on tuesday , did not name the employees or specify their number , but said they included saudis and foreigners .
the employees removal aims to protect the minds of students and university employees from those deviant , partisan ideas and dangerous , destructive trends , it added .
saudi arabia designated the muslim brotherhood a terrorist organization in 2014 .
hardline groups such as al qaeda and islamic state are also blacklisted .
the ruling al saud family has always regarded islamist groups as a major internal threat to its rule over a country in which appeals to religious sentiment resonate deeply and an al qaeda campaign a decade ago killed hundreds .
since the kingdom s founding , the al saud have enjoyed a close alliance with clerics of the ultra-conservative wahhabi school of islam who have espoused a political philosophy that demands obedience to the ruler .
by contrast the brotherhood advances an active political doctrine urging revolutionary action , which flies in the face of wahhabi teaching .
a political islamist organization founded in egypt nearly a century ago , it says it is committed to peaceful activism and reform through elections , and its adherents span the region , holding elected office in arab countries from tunisia to jordan .
brotherhood members fleeing repression in egypt , syria and iraq half a century ago took shelter in saudi arabia , some taking up roles in the kingdom s education system and helping to establish the sahwa or awakening movement which agitated in the 1990s for democracy .
the sahwa mostly fizzled , with some activists arrested and others coaxed into conformity , though admirers and its appeal lingered .