jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian police will deploy as many as 30,000 personnel to guard an anti-communist rally on friday , as the country s military chief and islamist groups stoke fears of a hard left revival in the world s most populous muslim nation .
protesters will gather outside indonesia s parliament on the eve of the 52nd anniversary of the murder of six army generals and a young lieutenant by rebel armed forces personnel , an incident that led to a retaliatory pogrom that killed at least 500,000 alleged communists .
the massacres ushered in more than 30 years of authoritarian rule under suharto , the former general who led the communist purge .
earlier this month , armed forces commander general gatot nurmantyo instructed military officers to screen a suharto-era propaganda film depicting the deaths of the generals and the crushing of an alleged communist coup to prevent what happened in 1965 from recurring .
the three-and-a-half-hour film , criticized by historians for inaccuracies and failing to depict the massacre of leftists , has been widely shown in villages and mosques in the past week .
during suharto s rule , it was broadcast annually on the night of sept 30th , the date of the alleged abortive coup .
it was also compulsory viewing for students .
indonesia s communist party , once one of the world s largest , remains outlawed , and there appears to be little evidence of a marxist ideology taking hold in indonesia .
instead , analysts and government advisers said , the fomenting of a red scare was aimed at indonesia s reformist president joko widodo , widely known as jokowi , and long falsely accused of being the descendant of communists .
indonesia s growing economic ties with china are also frequently cited by those concerned about rising communist influence in indonesia .
i see jokowi being the factor behind the rise of communism in indonesia because of the cooperative relationship with china , said yudi syamhudi suyuti , one of the protest organizers and a failed political candidate for the opposition gerindra party , in comments posted online .
friday s rally has been organized by hardline islamist groups led by the islamic defenders front ( fpi ) .
we reject and fight against the awakening of the indonesian communist party , slamet maarif , the chairman of the rally s organizing committee and spokesman for the fpi , told reuters .
the fpi led huge rallies last year that successfully demanded the jailing for blasphemy of basuki tjahaja purnama , jakarta s then governor and an ethnic chinese christian .
maarif predicted 50,000 protesters would join friday s rally , which will also urge parliament to overturn a presidential regulation allowing the government to ban mass organizations deemed a threat to national unity .
hizbut tahrir , an islamist group that wants indonesia to become a caliphate , was disbanded under the regulation in july .
a jakarta police spokesman , argo yuwono , expected only 15,000 people to turn up .
we will deploy 30,000 police personnel , he said on tuesday , noting the risk that more could arrive .
during an anti-purnama rally in december last year , police arrested eight people for treason in an alleged plot for protesters to occupy the parliament building .
we have anticipated all [ possibilities ] , yuwono said .
on wednesday , a national police spokesman setyo wasisto , said police would adapt their deployment depending on the number of protesters .
we have prepared for defending parliament , he said .
tobias basuki , an indonesian political analyst , said nurmantyo had clear political ambitions .
the armed forces chief , due to retire in march , courted further controversy this month when he falsely claimed 5,000 weapons had been illegally imported on behalf of widodo .
there s not much evidence at all of a communist revival but as we head to the 2019 [ presidential ] election the communist fear-mongering is being used by various groups , said basuki .
we are seeing a coalescing conspiracy theory from military groups and islamist groups for political purposes .
nurmantyo has declined to publicly comment after the chief security minister and defense minister corrected his claim about the imported weapons .
a military spokesman , major general wuryanto , said nurmantyo did not carry out political moves .
widodo was the subject of a smear campaign during the 2014 presidential election claiming he was a descendant of communists and had chinese ancestry .
the campaign , mostly prosecuted on social media , coincided with a fall in widodo s high approval ratings at the time .
in a sign of the potency and persistence of the rumors , both widodo and his mother sujiatmi notomiharjo have this year publicly denied any communist links .
the military has resisted attempts by rights groups and academics to discuss the 1965 slaughter , one of the worst mass murders of the 20th century .
it s not popular with segments of the public , either .
earlier this month , protesters clashed with police as they tried to break up a seminar in jakarta on the 1965 killings .
bonnie triyana , an indonesian historian , said the country has never fully acknowledged or become reconciled over the anti-communist killings even after indonesia became a democracy in 1998 .
most indonesians had little idea of the scale of the pogrom , he said .
politicians today exploit the collective amnesia of the people , he said .