hong kong ( reuters ) - hundreds of protesters in hong kong on thursday demanded full democracy outside government headquarters , speaking out against china s suppression of civil liberties on the third anniversary of a major pro-democracy movement .
unfurling a mass of yellow umbrellas , a symbol of the 2014 movement that blocked major roads in the financial hub for close to three months , the demonstrators gathered at the same spot where police fired tear gas on the crowds three years ago .
the 2014 hong kong protests were considered one of the boldest populist challenges to china s communist party rulers since the 1989 pro-democracy protests in and around beijing s tiananmen square .
we have no fear , the protesters shouted as police looked on .
we want universal suffrage .
the former british colony returned to chinese rule in 1997 with the promise of a high degree of autonomy under a so-called one country , two systems arrangement .
but frustration over china s tightening grip on hong kong s civil liberties was a key factor fuelling the 2014 movement , which was forcibly disbanded by police with no concessions granted by hong kong or chinese authorities .
three years on , many of the youth-led movement s leaders are either behind bars or bracing for jail time on charges such as unlawful assembly .
we need to adjust our mentality , said benny tai , a law professor at the university of hong kong and one of the leaders of the 2014 protests .
we re not scared .
if you want to throw us in prison , do it !
joshua wong , aged 17 when he helped lead the movement , and now in jail for unlawful assembly , said hong kong was becoming increasingly suppressed , with an estimated 100 activists , most of them young , embroiled in legal proceedings .
as hong kong ushers in a heightened authoritarian era , to advocate human rights is to risk becoming a political detainee .
this is the new normal , wong wrote in a column published in the guardian newspaper on thursday .
one simply can not turn a blind eye and kid oneself that hong kong is still the same as it has always been .
an appeals court decision last month to overrule a previous non-jail term and instead imprison wong and two prominent student activists sparked an international outcry .
china s main representative liaison office in hong kong couldn t be reached for comment , but beijing has long stated it respects hong kong s high degree of autonomy and is supportive of lawful and gradual democratic development until universal suffrage is realized .
political tension has also escalated over posters on university campuses advocating independence for hong kong , angering chinese officials who consider the territory an inalienable part of china , and sparking heated standoffs between students and pro-beijing supporters .