nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s ruling jubilee party on thursday presented parliament with proposals intended to prevent the supreme court annulling the results of a coming re-run presidential election , as it did the last vote in august .
the court struck down president uhuru kenyatta s poll victory then , saying there had been illegalities and irregularities in the transmission of results .
kenya used two systems to transmit results from polling stations : paper forms and the electronic transmission of the vote tallies plus scanned copies of the forms .
the court found flaws in both .
jubilee s proposed amendments to election law would stop the court from invalidating results if the electronic transmission again fails to work smoothly .
the manually transmitted results would be final , a copy of the amendments seen by reuters on thursday showed .
the re-run vote is scheduled for oct. 26 and opposition challenger raila odinga s coalition has said it will not take part unless the proposed changes are dropped , calling them sanitisation of the flaws of the aug. 8 vote .
the amendments would also prevent the court from voiding an election on the grounds of non-compliance with the law , provided the poll was held in line with constitutional principles and the non-compliance did not affect the result of the election .
the president , two dissenting supreme court judges , and some legal commentators have faulted the court s majority ruling for failing to explain how the illegalities cited interfered with the result of the election .
kenyatta said last week the ruling by the supreme court threatened to thrust the country into judicial chaos , as lower courts use the precedent to invalidate other elected positions .
the dispute over the election law changes adds to a war of words ahead of the repeat election .
odinga has called for street protests to force out senior officials from the electoral board , while jubilee has said the election will go ahead even if odinga s side refuses to take part .
hundreds of university of nairobi students fought running battles with police around their campus on thursday , as they protested against the detention of an opposition legislator .
paul ongili owino was re-arrested on wednesday , shortly after being released on bail on charges of subversion for calling kenyatta a son of a dog at a campaign rally on sunday .
he was arraigned again in court on thursday on new charges of an assault causing grievous harm to a voter during the campaign for last month s election .