san juan ( reuters ) - bondholders with nearly a third of puerto rico ’ s $ 17 billion outstanding general obligation bonds on tuesday unveiled a proposal for a debt restructuring they claim would help the island avoid outright default .
burdened by an overall $ 70 billion debt load that the government says it can not pay and a 45 percent poverty rate that has led to a steady exodus of its american citizens back to the mainland , puerto rico faces economic collapse without a solution that either changes laws and/or involves an agreement with creditors .
the bondholders , representing $ 5 billion of go debt say they would defer principal repayments on their bonds through june 2020 .
the proposal was issued by an ad hoc group of go bondholders , including mutual funds and others , represented by the law firm paul weiss rifkind wharton & garrison .
in addition , the creditors said they would buy approximately $ 750 million in new debt at a 7 percent annual coupon and no principal repayments until 2020 .
“ this exchange would save the commonwealth $ 1.9 billion in debt service payments over the next five years , ” according to the document .
puerto rico ’ s government said the proposal failed “ to solve the severe and real challenges ” facing puerto rico .
“ incurring additional debt at a higher cost is not the answer to the commonwealth ’ s fiscal issues , ” melba acosta , president of puerto rico ’ s government development bank , said in a statement .
“ indeed it is exactly the type of ‘ wall street ’ solution that led us to the precipice we are now looking over. ” the same bondholders earlier criticized legislation currently being rushed through puerto rico ’ s senate and house on tuesday that would halt bond payments ahead of a $ 422 million debt bill owed by the government development bank due on may 1 .
the senate approved the controversial legislation early on tuesday morning while the house continued its debate .
it is expected to vote before the end of the day .
“ while we would like to negotiate with the puerto rican government in private and in good faith , the debt moratorium it has proposed that is before the puerto rican legislature has prompted this public release , ” andrew rosenberg , a lawyer with paul , weiss said in a statement accompanying the proposal .
go debt is backed by the full faith and credit of the government and is typically the senior debt paid before all others .