islamabad ( reuters ) - a hardline pakistani islamist group called off nationwide protests on monday after the government met its demand that a government minister accused of blasphemy resign , following weekend clashes with police that paralyzed major cities .
the cleric-politician leading the nearly three-week blockade of the capital , islamabad , thanked the army chief for helping resolve the stand-off , raising questions about the military s role .
the new ultra-religious political party tehreek-e-labaik pakistan was protesting against a small change in wording to an electoral law changing a religious oath to a simple declaration , which it said amounted to blasphemy .
the government climbdown will be seen as an embarrassment for the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party ahead of elections likely in mid-2018 , and underlines the power of religious groups in the nuclear-armed nation of 207 million .
seven people were killed and nearly 200 wounded after a police bid to disperse protesters in islamabad failed on saturday , spurring demonstrators wielding sticks and iron rods to block key roads and motorways in other cities .
our main demand has been accepted , ejaz ashrafi , spokesman for tahreek-e-labaik , told reuters , adding that part of the agreement was to free dozens of party workers arrested during the weekend crackdown .
our workers release is in process .
once that is done , we will leave .
at nightfall on monday , the protesters were still in place .
law minister zahid hamid handed in his resignation to prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi to take the country out of a crisis-like situation , state-run news channel ptv said on monday .
government spokesmen did not respond to requests from reuters for comment .
the government called in the military to tackle the protests after a police operation failed , but there was no sign of troops around protest camps on sunday .
the military said the army chief in one telephone call had advised abbasi to resolve the protests peacefully .
tehreek-e-labaik leader khadim hussain rizvi on monday described the army s role in ending the standoff .
the honorable chief of army staff , general qamar javed bajwa , sent his special envoys to us .
we said we do not want to talk to the government ; they are our murderers , rizvi said .
so the general took personal interest and sent his team , saying we will become the guarantors , and have your demands fulfilled .
so we said , all right .
that is what we want .
for more than two weeks , tehreek-e-labaik activists have blocked the main road into the capital , islamabad , in a protest that blamed law minister hamid for changing the wording in an electoral oath .
the party says the words i believe , used to replace the clause i solemnly swear in a proclamation of mohammad as the religion s last prophet , amount to blasphemy .
the government blamed the change on a clerical error and swiftly restored the original format .
insulting islam s prophet is punishable by death under pakistani law , and blasphemy accusations stir such emotions that they are difficult to defend against .
even a rumor of blasphemy can spark mob violence , as in the case of a university student beaten to death in april .
labaik , one of two new ultra-religious political movements to reach prominence in recent months , has made defending the blasphemy laws a campaign centerpiece with some success .
the party won a surprisingly strong 6 percent and 7.6 percent share of votes in two recent by-elections .
islamist parties are unlikely to win a majority in the elections expected next august , but could play a major role .
giving in to the group s demands had hit the government s reputation and credibility , said political analyst hasan askari .
these protests will have emboldened this group , and they are going to assert themselves and put up candidates wherever they can in the next general election , or at least they will oppose the pml-n , he added .
the opposition pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party accused the government of bungling the efforts to remove the protesters and called for early elections .