brussels ( reuters ) - a top european commission official defended malta s record on preventing money laundering in a parliamentary debate on tuesday prompted by the murder of an investigative journalist , but a variety of eu lawmakers expressed scepticism .
commission vice president frans timmermans told european parliament lawmakers that the european commission had carried out an analysis of malta s compliance with anti-money laundering laws and concluded that there were no general concerns .
he added however that improvements could be made on various levels , and said the commission was assessing new information provided by malta on recent alleged cases of wrongdoing .
timmermans assessment was however not shared by most lawmakers .
many called for closer oversight of malta s adherence to the rule of law , a process that could lead to heavy sanctions if wrongdoing was ascertained .
esteban gonz lez pons , vice-chairman of the conservative group , the largest of the eu assembly , denounced in malta the harassment of journalists , the blackmailing of independent media by banks connected with money laundering , the involvement of government officials in tax evasion .
he said that police in malta remain silent in the face of such activities .
other lawmakers echoed pons s comments and raised other questions about malta s respect for the rule of law and money laundering rules .
a smaller number of parliamentarians urged caution on accusations against malta .
a resolution set to be voted on wednesday openly questions the independence of the police on the island and raises serious concerns about the rule of law , democracy and fundamental rights in malta .
the parliament s debate was triggered by the killing on oct. 16 of daphne caruana galizia , a maltese journalist who had denounced high-profile corruption and accused prime minister joseph muscat of wrongdoing .
the parliament named the news room in its strasbourg building after caruana galizia on tuesday .
timmermans did not make any direct comment on the rule of law in malta , but he called again on the maltese authorities to bring to justice the perpetrators of caruana galizia s murder .
he said the investigation should proceed unhampered and stressed that the maltese authorities had committed to do all in their power to pursue the culprits .
he also called on malta to join the eu public prosecution office , a new body to prosecute crimes in the 28-country bloc , from which malta has opted out .