sydney ( reuters ) - the resurgence of australian nationalist politics has been halted at a state election in coal-rich queensland , with pauline hanson s one nation party at risk of being almost completely wiped from the state assembly .
australia s center-left labor party is leading in the tight race after three-quarters of votes were counted following saturday s poll , while hanson s party has yet to confirm victory in a single seat .
the official result may not be known for several days although political analysts believe labor will win the 47 seats it needs to govern in queensland 93-seat assembly , a result that would allow it to form a government without support from independents or minor parties .
i am confident of a labor majority , queensland s labor premier annastacia palaszczuk told reporters on sunday .
hanson , a senator in the federal parliament , had anticipated a surge in support in her electoral heartland , to give momentum to the resurgence her anti-immigration , populist party enjoyed in the national election last year .
but despite attracting support from around 14 percent of voters , one nation has not recorded decisive victories in individual seats .
it is tipped to win just one seat in state parliament , according to analysis by the australian broadcasting corporation ( abc ) .
griffith university political analyst paul williams said despite a lack of seats , hanson s party had likely polled higher than 20 per cent in some regional seats .
all the anger , the disenchantment , the bitterness , the resentment to the major parties and elites , it s still as strong as it was 12 months ago , he told reuters by telephone on sunday .
the election has been held in one of australia s powerhouse mining states with debate over a a $ 16.5 billion ( $ 12.6 billion ) coal mine , rail and port project proposed by indian energy giant adani enterprises dominating much of the campaign .
while both major parties support the queensland resources project , labor has vowed to veto a near billion-dollar concessional loan adani has asked australia to provide for the proposed rail line , should it win government .
the conservative opposition liberal national party , which the abc forecasts will win 41 seats , supports the government loan .
hanson had been hoping her party would hold the balance-of-power in queensland , and with it the ability to decide who the next premier would be .
as the results rolled in late on saturday , she told reporters in buderim , an urban center near queensland s coast , that while disappointed with some of the emerging numbers , the fight would go on .
i think this is a clear indication that one nation is not going anywhere , we are going to be around for a while yet , hanson said .