washington ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president mike pence fired up tens of thousands of anti-abortion activists who gathered on friday for the 44th march for life , celebrating a political shift in their favor with the election of president donald trump .
“ life is winning again in america , ” pence told the demonstrators on the national mall , near where trump was sworn in a week ago before hundreds of thousands .
the march for life took place in the same area where even more massive crowds flooded washington a day after trump ’ s inauguration in favor of women ’ s rights , including abortion rights .
pence , a longtime hero of the anti-abortion movement , is the most senior government official to speak in person at the rally , organizers said .
as governor of indiana , he signed what were seen as some of the nation ’ s strictest abortion laws .
pence praised “ the election of pro-life majorities in the congress of the united states of america , ” trump ’ s upcoming nomination of an anti-abortion supreme court justice , and the president ’ s reinstatement on monday of a policy that cuts off u.s. funding to healthcare providers that promote or provide abortions overseas .
“ it ’ s the best day i ’ ve ever seen for the march of life , ” he said .
trump senior aide kellyanne conway was one of many women to address the demonstrators before they started their march from the mall to the u.s. supreme court , about 1.5 miles ( 2 km ) away .
“ we hear you .
we see you .
we respect you , ” conway said .
“ and we look forward to working with you. ” protesters hoisted signs saying “ choose life , ” “ i am the pro-life generation , ” and “ equal rights for unborn people. ” a christian rock band warmed up the crowd for pence , leading people in hand-clapping at the rally within sight of the white house .
“ we ’ re here to stand up for the unborn because no one else can , and having donald trump in the white house makes everyone more enthusiastic , ” said jim kolar , 59 , of west palm beach , florida .
organizers had no immediate estimate of crowd size , but the march to the supreme court after the rally filled the street for many blocks amid chants of “ we love babies , yes , we do , we love babies , how ‘ bout you ? ” “ this is good , this is a good turnout , ” said the rev .
kevin cusick , a catholic priest from benedict , maryland , who has been coming to the marches off and on for more than 40 years .
the march for life is held each year close to the anniversary of the court ’ s roe v. wade ruling that legalized abortion in 1973 .
trump has said roe v. wade should be overturned and has vowed to appoint an anti-abortion justice to fill the supreme court seat left vacant by the death of justice antonin scalia last year .
he also has pledged to defund planned parenthood , which draws the ire of many republicans because it provides abortions , along with other services .
abortion rights supporters say cutting off funding for abortion providers will prevent poor women from getting other critical heath care and birth control that could prevent unwanted pregnancies .
the rally comes as the number of u.s. abortions has fallen to a record low .
the guttmacher institute , a reproductive health and rights organization , said last week that it dropped below 1 million in 2013 for the first time since 1975 .
a quinnipiac university poll released on friday showed that 64 percent of americans say abortion should be legal in all or most cases , while 31 percent said it should be illegal in all or most cases .
anti-abortion forces are often inspired by a religious conviction that life begins at conception and see abortion as murder .