brighton , england ( reuters ) - opposition leader jeremy corbyn told prime minister theresa may on wednesday to step aside and make way for the labour party to lead britain s brexit talks , saying his leftist ideas were now the political mainstream .
after taking the stage at his party s annual conference to a standing ovation and chants of oh , jeremy corbyn , the leftist leader , once written off by some lawmakers for driving the party into unelectable territory , said labour was ready for power .
corbyn is keen to press home his advantage over may , who is struggling to unite her party over britain s negotiations to leave the european union and to keep her own position .
she faces a threat from some in the conservatives who can not forgive her for the loss of their parliamentary majority in a june election she called .
against all predictions , in june we won the largest increase in the labour vote since 1945 and achieved labour s best vote for a generation .
it s a result which has put the tories ( conservatives ) on notice and labour on the threshold of power , corbyn said in his speech .
yes , we didn t do quite well enough and we remain in opposition for now .
but we have become a government-in-waiting .
and our message to the country could not be clearer : labour is ready .
labour is closing the gap in opinion polls to stand roughly level with the conservatives , putting it within sight of winning an election .
the conservatives have said they have no plans to call a vote anytime before 2022 .
the party is dependent on the support of the small northern irish democratic unionist party ( dup ) for a majority in parliament , however .
so far , there is little appetite in the conservative party to hold an early election , and no clear frontrunner to replace may .
the party s deal with the dup , however , could be hurt by a trade spat involving canadian planemaker bombardier , northern ireland s largest manufacturing employer .
most conservatives do not want to open the way for corbyn , whose promises to end austerity have won over many voters , particularly the young , and who has focused anger over a deadly fire in west london on what he called a government which sees itself not as the servant of the people but of global corporations .
corbyn has tapped into discontent in britain , a wider trend seen across western europe where the dominance of traditional parties and their beliefs have been increasingly challenged .
with his aides working on the belief that may will be forced into an early election before britain leaves the eu in march 2019 , the party has started to develop their policies , ready to introduce them swiftly .
it feels like we ve won , it feels like we re there , it feels like we re in government .
the only frustrating thing is we re not , yet , said chris howes , an 18 year-old party activist from central england .
but we re ready whenever the election comes .
after being discounted for pursuing what his critics said were policies harking back to the 1980s when labour lost power to the conservatives , corbyn said britain was ready for change and his party was ready to move further along its leftist route .
adding to his policies on renationalization , ending university tuition fees and increased public spending , he said he would bring in a housing policy to make sure local councils would have to win a ballot of existing tenants and leaseholders before any redevelopment plans could go ahead .
we need to build a still broader consensus around the priorities we set in the election , making the case for both compassion and collective aspiration , he said .
we are now the political mainstream .
turning the tables on may who before the june election said corbyn would lead a coalition of chaos if voted in , corbyn now said her cabinet of top ministers were the ones who had failed so far to negotiate with the eu as one .
this rag-tag cabinet spends more time negotiating with each other than they do with the eu .
a cliff-edge brexit is at risk of becoming a reality , he said .
that is why labour has made clear that britain should stay within the basic terms of the single market and a customs union for a limited transition period .
labour has also been divided on the issue of brexit , however .
london mayor sadiq khan , a prominent member of the party , said in a newspaper interview on tuesday that he would back holding a second referendum on whether to leave the eu , a position the party itself has not suggested so far .
corbyn told members that if in power , labour would pursue a jobs first brexit , one that guaranteed unimpeded access to the single market .
so i have a simple message to the cabinet for britain s sake pull yourself together , or make way .