lima ( reuters ) - the fujimori clan is at it again .
nearly two decades since alberto fujimori and his family occupied peru s presidential palace and gripped the andean nation s attention during one of its most turbulent chapters , they are once more at the center of political upheaval .
now an ailing and grey-haired 79-year-old , fujimori became a free man on christmas eve thanks to a pardon from president pedro pablo kuczynski , clearing him of graft and rights convictions less than halfway into a 25-year jail sentence .
the decision , stunning peruvians as they sat readied their holiday feasts , triggered clashes between police and protesters and could reshape peruvian politics for years .
fujimori had unsuccessfully sought a pardon from two previous presidents , but secured one from kuczynski after benefiting from a political rivalry between two of his children , keiko and kenji .
the siblings lead separate factions of the rightwing party , popular force , which grew out of the populist movement their father founded in the 1990s and now controls congress .
last week , kuczynski was nearly removed from office by loyalists to keiko in the wake of a graft scandal , kenji and nine of his followers saved the president with abstention votes .
kuczynski denies the pardon was part of a pact , and fujimori s supporters hail it as an overdue humanitarian gesture due to health problems they say put the former president s life at risk .
yet what is undisputed is the central role that the fujimoris , descendants of the japanese diaspora , continue to play in peruvian politics - long after alberto s authoritarian government imploded in a graft scandal in 2000 .
the fujimori dynasty will be with us for a while still , said fernando tuesta , a political scientist at the pontifical catholic university of peru .
the family saga was a reminder of the enduring support authoritarian movements often enjoy long after they fall , especially when subsequent democratic leaders - bound by institutional limits - disappoint , tuesta said .
since first riding onto peru s political scene on a tractor in peru s 1990 election , fujimori has been admired by many in peru s poorer provinces , where he had schools and roads built and wielded an iron fist against leftist maoist rebels .
kenji , 37 , was widely seen as having presidential ambitions after keiko s two failed bids to reach peru s highest office and may launch a bid in the 2021 race .
once best known as the boy fujimori publicly doted on during his decade in power , kenji has since turned his carefree juvenile image into an asset that contrasts with the 42-year-old keiko s more composed persona .
miguel campoblanco , kenji s friend in school , recalled parties with classmates at the presidential palace and the occasional military helicopter ride to the jungle .
he always looked up to his father .
i remember in sixth grade he used to say , i m going to be president like my dad , said campoblanco .
after his father , kenji may emerge as the biggest winner from the pardon .
having long led calls for his father s release , he has seized the spotlight in events surrounding the pardon .
on saturday , kenji rode in the passenger seat of an ambulance chased by news cameras as it rushed fujimori to the hospital , and later shared a video that showed the father-and-son duo celebrating news of the pardon .
he s the good son , said political analyst ivan lanegra .
but his political career thus far had one goal : his father s freedom .
the siblings might reconcile now that their father is free and it becomes politically convenient , added lanegra .
keiko has spent the past decade turning her father s populist following into the country s most powerful political party .
at 19 , keiko became peru s first lady after their parents acrimonious divorce .
the secretary general of keiko s party , jose chlimper - a former minister in her father s government - said she was paying the price for keeping a campaign promise to not seek her father s freedom through politics .
keiko doesn t lie , said chlimper , betting she would eventually come out stronger for it .
i worked with ex-president fujimori .
and i wonder if he s going to be happy leaving his unjust imprisonment in this way .