close your eyes and imagine a white professor telling his students there will be no peace as long as blackness exists .
now picture that teacher in the unemployment line with about 100 cameras and reporters around him demanding he apologize for his blatant racism .
imagine how many hard working parents are scrimping and saving to send their children to college to be part of a captive audience in this racist s classroom .
parents better start speaking up and demanding these colleges and universities hold these radical , racist professors accountable for the things they are teaching our children .
no one else is going to do it for us james harrison , history professor at portland community college , said in a lecture monday for the college s april whiteness history month that peace in the u.s. is impossible so long as whiteness still exists.in a talk entitled imagine a world without whiteness , harrison declared confidently conflict can only cease once the power structure of whiteness is totally eliminated .
imagine everyone living life in peace , harrison said , building off john lennon s famous song imagine .
and how do we get to that good world is the question a world without conflict .
and to me , my interpretation of these words , is it would be a world , or u.s. , without whiteness , in terms of the power structure , harrison said , offering his own interpretation of lennon s song .
can there be a world without whiteness , a world in which white privilege doesn t exist ?
harrison asked his audience .
my answer is yes , we can , because it s happened before , and it all revolves around individuals taking small steps to dismantle and demolish the whole concept .
the effort is working .
harrison said whiteness is on the retreat , noting estimates indicate whites will no longer be a majority in the united states by 2040 or 2050.but do poor whites have white privilege ?
harrison answered in the affirmative .
most whites , even poor whites , he said , don t recognize they have white privilege because it s invisible .
it s like a club you belong to without asking to be part of it , harrison said.via : daily caller