i wonder how many of j.b. pritzker s children or grandchildren will be forced to share locker rooms or bathrooms at the country club with men or women of the opposite sex ?
this election has brought out a never-ending supply of elitist liberals with big mouths , who have all kinds of great ideas for the little people to implement a billionaire democratic megadonor , who is exploring a run for governor , encouraged men to use women s bathrooms on wednesday sparking criticism from transgender advocates and politicians.j.b .
pritzker , the billionaire heir whose father co-founded hyatt hotels , floated the idea of switching bathrooms in the wake of president donald trump s executive order reversing an obama policy that could have stripped federal funds from schools that maintain separate bathroom facilities based on sex .
as a protest against trump s rescinding protections for trans kids , everyone should use the other gender s bathroom today !
he tweeted at 8:36 a.m.as a protest against trump 's rescinding protections for trans kids , everyone should use the other gender 's bathroom today !
# protecttranskids jb pritzker ( @ jbpritzker ) february 23 , 2017not everyone on twitter agreed with pritzker .
some on the right even used ( gasp ! )
facts to bolster their argument .
like the fact that , a tiny .01 % of the population are actually affected by a federal transgender bathroom law : draconian federal regulation is unneeded .
we 're talking about a tiny .01 % of population .
let schools deal with this directly !
nicole4trump ( @ niteowlmom3 ) february 23 , 2017the tweet immediately provoked criticism from liberals .
illinois state rep. will guzzardi ( d. , chicago ) , a supporter of the obama rule , said that pritzker s tweet was insensitive and mischaracterized the transgender bathroom and locker room debate .
no disrespect @ jbpritzker but it s actually about precisely * not * that .
we just want to let kids use their own gender s bathroom , guzzardi tweeted in response .
your idea suggests that we support ppl going into opposite-gender bathrooms , which plays right into transphobic rhetoric .
pritzker has been called the other mayor of chicago for his political influence and massive campaign spending on behalf of democratic candidates such as chicago mayor rahm emmanuel .
he has close ties to the clintons , having served as the national co-chair of hillary clinton s failed 2008 presidential bid , as well as the obama administration .
his sister , penny pritzker , served as secretary of commerce under president obama from 2013 until he left office .
j.b. pritzker and his wife were two of the largest individual spenders in the 2016 election , shelling out more than $ 21 million to elect clinton and other democrats , according to the center for responsive politics.pritzker has now set his sights on the illinois governor s mansion and is exploring the idea of self-funding a campaign .
rauner self-financed a $ 40 million campaign run in 2014 , which helped him overcome steep democratic advantages in the deep blue state.other democrats vying for the nomination were quick to criticize pritzker s protest idea .
tom elliot , communications director for chicago alderman ameya pawar s gubernatorial campaign , accused the billionaire of missing the point entirely telling people to use the other gender s bathroom is missing the point entirely and a terrible idea .
@ jbpritzker # protecttranskids , elliot replied .
wfbtelling people to use the other gender 's bathroom is missing the point entirely and a terrible idea .
@ jbpritzker # protecttranskids tom elliott ( @ trelliott ) february 23 , 2017