kiev ( reuters ) - several thousand people marched through central kiev on sunday to protest against the detention of ukrainian opposition figure mikheil saakashvili and call for the impeachment of president petro poroshenko .
saakashvili , president of his native georgia for nine years until 2013 , moved to ukraine after a popular uprising there and served under poroshenko as a regional governor from 2015-2016 , before falling out with the ukrainian leader .
he was detained in kiev on friday , following a dramatic standoff earlier in the week where he clambered on a roof to avoid law enforcement and was freed from a police van by his supporters .
he accuses the ukrainian authorities of widespread corruption .
prosecutors accuse him of assisting a criminal organization , charges he says were trumped up to undermine his political campaign against poroshenko .
a large number of police in riot gear guarded sunday s rally , which was peaceful in contrast with protests last week that resulted in clashes between saakashvili s supporters and law enforcement .
a lot of people are looking for the changes .
it is more difficult when mikheil is not with us , his wife , sandra roelofs , said in a speech at the rally .
we remember his words : when they catch me , you continue despite anything , because ukraine wants changes , ukraine has to become a better country , she said .
protesters shouted shame and impeachment as they marched to maidan square , the scene of the 2013-14 pro-european protests that ousted a moscow-backed president and installed a new leadership that promised to eliminate entrenched corruption .
a few snowballs were thrown at the windows of a branch of roshen , the confectionary business owned by poroshenko , who was a wealthy chocolatier before he went into politics .
saakashvili has launched a hunger strike to protest against his detention , which will last until a court rules on whether to release him under house arrest .
the saga has attracted international attention to ukraine at a time when the authorities face a chorus of criticism from reformers and foreign donors over perceived backtracking on reforms and attacks on anti-corruption institutions .
while saakashvili has a core base of supporters , he enjoys limited support across ukraine .
only 1.7 percent of voters would support his party , the movement of new forces , in elections , according to an october survey by the kiev-based razumkov centre think-tank .