sydney ( reuters ) - australia will not be allowed to walk away from legal , financial and moral responsibility for nearly 800 men when it closes its asylum seeker detention center in papua new guinea ( png ) on tuesday , png s immigration minister said .
human rights advocates are warning of a looming humanitarian crisis when the manus island center closes if the men are not properly resettled , with hundreds of the detainees refusing to leave the center for fear of being targeted by locals .
png immigration minister petrus thomas said late on sunday that australia will remain responsible for the welfare of the men that have been detained in the australian-funded center for more than four years .
australia refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores , detaining them in camps in png and nauru in the south pacific .
the united nations and rights groups have for years cited human rights abuses among detainees in the centers .
it is png s position that as long as there is one individual from this arrangement that remains in png , australia will continue to provide financial and other support to png to manage the persons transferred under the arrangement until the last person leaves or is independently resettled in png , thomas said in an emailed statement .
australia has already said it would spend up to a $ 250 million ( $ 195 million ) housing the nearly 800 refugees and asylum seekers in papua new guinea for the next 12 months after its controversial detention center closes .
the manus center is scheduled to close on tuesday , after being declared illegal by a png court , with 600 men set to be moved to three new transit camps .
just under 200 men have already relocated .
despite threats that basic services like electricity and water will be cut off , the remaining detainees are refusing to move , citing fears for their safety .
fears of violence have been stoked further after png sent extra security forces to the camp .
the relocation of the men is designed as a temporary measure , allowing the united states time to complete vetting of refugees as part of a refugee swap deal .
the united states has agreed to take up to possibly 1,250 refugees from australia s two pacific detention centers , but so far only 25 men from manus have been resettled .
in exchange , australia said it will resettle central american refugees .
australia has said those detainees not resettled in the united states will be allowed to stay in png or the tiny pacific island of nauru .
but nearly all have refused invitations to settle permanently in both locations .
thomas said png will not force anyone to remain .
it is the responsibility of australia to pursue third country options , he said .
australia s acting prime minister julie bishop said on monday that canberra was exploring possible deals for resettlement , but added those who have found not to be refugees should go home .
they ve been found by the ( united nations ) not to be owed protection so they should return to their homes , she said .
the bulk of the detainees come from war-torn countries such as syria and afghanistan , and pakistan , iran , sri lanka and myanmar .