united nations ( reuters ) - u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley on thursday slammed a bid by russia to shield iran from inspections by the united nations nuclear watchdog relating to a specific section of a landmark 2015 deal restricting tehran s nuclear activities .
iran agreed to the nuclear deal with six major powers in exchange for the lifting of sanctions .
compliance with the nuclear restrictions is being verified by the vienna-based international atomic energy agency .
haley has infuriated iran by saying the iaea should widen inspections to include military sites , but diplomats say russia has been trying to restrict the agency s role by arguing it has no authority to police a broadly worded section of the deal .
if the iran nuclear deal is to have any meaning , the parties must have a common understanding of its terms , haley said in a statement .
it appears that some countries are attempting to shield iran from even more inspections .
without inspections , the iran deal is an empty promise .
haley issued the statement in response to iaea director general yukiya amano telling reuters that major powers needed to clarify the disputed section of the deal , which relates to technology that could be used to develop an atom bomb .
[ nl8n1m74ej ] that section bans activities which could contribute to the development of a nuclear explosive device .
it lists examples such as using computer models that simulate a nuclear bomb , or designing multi-point , explosive detonation systems .
unlike many other parts of the deal , the provision , known as section t , makes no mention of the iaea or specifics of how it will be verified .
russia says that means the iaea has no authority over it .
western powers and the agency disagree .
u.s. president donald trump has called the iran nuclear deal - reached by predecessor barack obama - an embarrassment to the united states .
trump has hinted that he may not recertify the agreement when it comes up for review by a mid-october deadline , in which case the u.s. congress would have 60 days to decide whether to reimpose sanctions waived under the accord , known officially as the joint comprehensive plan of action ( jcpoa ) .