with president obama s final state of the union address is receding into history , factcheck.org has released its presidential report card for january , and the news is mostly positive for the administration .
homicides have dropped 13 percent , but gun sales have surged .
the economy has added more than 9 million jobs , and the jobless rate has dropped to below the historical median .
the number of long-term unemployed americans has dropped by 614,000 under obama , but it is still 761,000 higher than at the start of the great recession .
corporate profits are up 166 percent ; real weekly wages are up 3.4 percent .
there are 15 million fewer people who lack health insurance .
wind and solar power have nearly tripled , and now account for more than 5 percent of u.s. electricity .
the federal debt has more than doubled rising 116 percent and big annual deficits have continued.the chart below illustrates in more detail some of the positives and negatives , but at a glance , the president seems to been doing extraordinarily well on the economy , with the exception of income inequality and the comparatively flatlined weekly wages .
an increased number of food stamp recipients since 2008 is never a good thing , but the good news is that the number has dropped since the previous factcheck report.regarding jobs , the following analysis of the decline in the infamous labor participation rate jumped off the screen : contrary to many of obama s critics , however , that decline is due mostly to factors outside the control of any president factors such as the post-world war ii baby boomers reaching retirement age .
survey data published by the bureau of labor statistics in december show that those outside the labor force in 2014 said their reasons for not working were retirement ( 44 percent ) , illness or disability ( 19 percent ) , school attendance ( 18 percent ) or home responsibilities ( 15 percent ) .
only 3 percent said they couldn t find a job , or gave some other reason.in other words , the republicans often cite the low labor participation rate as a consequence of obama s policies .
only , it s not .
it s retiring baby boomers .
again , only three percent of the rate can be attributed to jobs .
at most.here s the entire factcheck report card.featured image via whitehouse.gov .