san juan ( reuters ) - u.s. treasury secretary jack lew on wednesday said that while the obama administration was ready to do all it could to help debt-ridden puerto rico , only congress could deliver truly effective change .
lew , speaking in san juan where he met with the island ’ s governor , alejandro garcia padilla , as well as business and labor leaders , last week urged congress to urgently pass legislation by the end of march to help the island struggling with $ 70 billion debt .
he has called for legislation to allow puerto rico to restructure its debts paired with independent fiscal oversight .
“ we will leave no stone unturned in looking for things we can do both administratively and using our convening authority to ... help solve these problems , ” lew said at a press briefing on wednesday morning .
“ but using all the tools we have still won ’ t be as effective as congressional action .
that ’ s why the time for congress to act is now. ” puerto rico has begun to default on some of its bond issues and is negotiating with creditors to restructure its borrowings , but is facing a lawsuit from bond insurers who backed its debt .
extending chapter 9 to puerto rico , which currently does not have the ability to put its public agencies into bankruptcy , has been long debated .
democrats have been generally supportive of proposals but a number of republicans have shown skepticism .
lew reiterated there would be no federal bailout , saying puerto rico won ’ t be able to find a “ path out of insolvency and back to growth ” unless creditors make sacrifices in an orderly restructuring .
still , he stressed the treasury was doing all it could .
speaking to reporters later on wednesday , lew said the treasury has bolstered its team dedicated to puerto rico , providing technical assistance on issues such as revenue collection .
“ the treasury team is part of a broader administration-wide effort jointly led by the white house , ” he said .
lew added that a restructuring could also help puerto rican retirees .
the island ’ s main pensions face a roughly $ 45 billion unfunded liability that stands to be depleted by 2019 .
“ coming out of a comprehensive restructuring , i think that pensioners could end up with more security than they have right now , ” lew said .
a legislative solution could also include introducing a control board for the island .
lew said that any oversight would have to be done in a way that is respectful of puerto rico ’ s system of self-government .