here s one of the few true patriots in congress !
justin amash is always doing the right thing with the best interests of the american people in mind .
we can t say that about many of our rino congressman !
thank goodness amash is calling attention to the cybersecurity act of 2015 it s not what you think it is ! congressman justin amash ( r-mich. ) plans to introduce legislation to undo a cybersecurity law that critics say secretly allows the federal government to spy on americans.the cybersecurity act of 2015 was included in congress year-end spending bill , a piece of must-pass legislation known as the omnibus .
many of my colleagues remain unaware that a massive surveillance bill was snuck into the omnibus , amash said in a statement provided to the daily dot .
and if they are aware , they may have been misled into believing this bill is about cybersecurity .
on dec. 18 , the house passed the end-of-year omnibus bill , a $ 1.8 trillion catch-all that included everything from repeals of oil export bans to increased funding for the international monetary fund .
two days before its inevitable passage , lawmakers updated the bill to include language from the cyber information sharing act ( cisa ) , a bill that makes it easier for companies to share details of cyberattacks with the government but is universally loathed by privacy advocates.the cybersecurity act of 2015 allows companies like facebook , google , or visa to share cyber threat data digital evidence of a cyberattack with the department of homeland security .
it also grants american firms immunity from prosecution for sharing data that may include customers personal data .
ultimately this will be fairly embarrassing for congress .
proponents of the bill say it will help protect companies and their customers from data breaches and other cyberattacks .
critics believe the new law would allow government agencies to more easily access americans personal information and share it with the national security agency .
an analysis by the open technology institute found citizens privacy would be more adversely affected by the final language of the omnibus bill than by cisa drafts .
just like the patriot act , [ congress ] re-wrote the final [ omnibus ] bill in secret and snuck it through congress before most people could even read it , nathan white , senior legislative manager at access , an internet freedom-supporting nonprofit , told the daily dot .
and just like the patriot act , the bill will be used for far more than what members of congress think that they are authorizing .
ultimately this will be fairly embarrassing for congress .
amash opposed cisa s language in the bill before it passed , going so far as to circulate a letter citing tech companies opposition and calling it anti-privacy legislation , but to little avail .
amash is part of the house freedom caucus , which , citing the omnibus s large price tag , had already vowed to oppose the bill anyway , forcing house speaker paul ryan ( r-wisc . )
to find votes elsewhere.read more : daily dot