the hague ( reuters ) - the daughter of an iranian arab activist killed in the netherlands last month linked his death to political conflict in the middle east , and warned other exiles in europe to be on their guard .
ahmad mola nissi , 52 , was gunned down by an unidentified assailant in front of his home in the hague on nov. 8 in a suspected political killing .
hawra ahmad nissi said her father s death was reminiscent of a string of murders of iranian dissidents in europe in the 1990s .
europe seems safe , but be careful , she told reuters in an interview .
the conflict between saudi arabia and iran is not confined to the middle east .
it is spreading into europe .
relations between shi ite muslim iran and sunni muslim saudi arabia have soured in recent months , with the struggle for influence between the two long-standing regional rivals played out through increasingly bitter proxy confrontations , notably in syria , yemen and lebanon .
mola nissi established the arab struggle movement for the liberation of ahwaz ( asmla ) , which seeks a separate state in iran s oil-rich southwestern khuzestan province , in 1999 .
since his murder , his family have been under dutch police protection at a safe house .
we came here to be safe but we don t feel safe .
european governments should do more to secure the safety of activists , hawra nissi , 25 , said .
ahvazi arabs are a minority in mainly ethnic persian iran , and some see themselves as victims of occupation and want independence or autonomy .
tehran , which has condemned mola nissi s killing and promised to investigate it , accuses riyadh of funding separatist groups active in iran , a charge the saudis deny .
a source close to mola nissi s family , who asked not to be named due to security concerns , said he had accepted saudi financial support but did not want the ahvazi cause to be used as a pawn in the proxy war .
this attitude could have made him an obstacle to efforts to bring the asmla movement under saudi influence , the source said .
the family is open to all scenarios .
iran is a prime suspect , but not the only suspect , hawra nissi said .
police are exploring a possible link between mola nissi s killing and the unsolved murder of another iranian near amsterdam in december 2015 , a spokeswoman said .
they are looking for two suspects believed to have gunned down ali motamed .
the police declined to comment on the circumstances of motamed s death or a motive , but iranian media have linked him to exiled iranian opposition shi ite group the people s mujahideen organisation of iran ( pmoi ) , which would have made him a potential target .
a man detained in relation to mola nissi s death has since been released , the spokeswoman added .
the most prominent among a string of killings and disappearances of iranian dissidents in the 1980s and 1990s was the shooting of three iranian kurdish opposition leaders in berlin in 1992 , which a german court ruled had been ordered by the government in tehran .