berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel on monday played down suggestions that a regional election defeat for her christian democrats ( cdu ) had made her job of forming a three-way national coalition harder .
the social democrats ( spd ) won sunday s vote in the northern region of lower saxony with 36.9 percent .
merkel s conservatives slumped to 33.6 percent - roughly in line with forecasts but their poorest showing in the rich agricultural province in nearly six decades .
i don t see the lower saxony election result as weakening us in this ( coalition ) task , merkel said , adding that regional issues had played a big role in the campaign there .
lower saxony is home to carmaker volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) , which is enmeshed in a diesel emissions scandal .
three weeks after merkel s conservatives recorded their worst national election result since 1949 , the chancellor is about to begin what look set to be tricky coalition discussions with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens .
merkel said her conservative bloc was heading into the talks knowing it was the strongest of the three groups , while acknowledging negotiations would be challenging .
we ll have sufficient conflicts anyway .
no one is under any illusions about that , merkel said .
policy areas over which the three parties are expected to clash include migration , climate protection and euro zone reform .
carsten nickel , deputy research director at teneo intelligence , said the weak cdu result would particularly worry its bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , which faces a regional election next year .
the csu will fear that lower saxony demonstrates that the popular backlash against merkel s choices in the 2015 migration crisis is not yet over , nickel said , referring to her decision to operate an open-boarders policy that allowed more than a million refugees in germany .
after the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) took almost a million voters from the conservative bloc in september s national election , the sister conservative parties put a long-running internal dispute to bed by agreeing to limit numbers of migrants coming to germany .