prague ( reuters ) - the czech republic must seek partners beyond the central european visegrad group to find common ground on issues including migration and food quality , czech parliamentary election winner andrej babis told reuters .
he said the country needs to seek an active role in the european union and look for allies for a common goal of halting illegal migration .
the billionaire businessman , who won 29.6 percent of the vote in this weekend s election , is against deeper eu integration and adoption of the euro , and has raised concerns he may join poland or hungary on a collision course with the eu .
but he insisted on saturday that the ano party which he leads was pro-european and ready to take on an active role in the eu .
we have to prepare topics , propose to the european council ( of eu leaders ) what we want to change .
double food quality , solution to migration , the fight against migration and other issues , babis told reuters in a brief interview at ano headquarters after the election results were counted .
we certainly have an ally in austria , mr kurz , who has the same view as we do on migration , he said , referring to austrian conservative election victor sebastian kurz .
the visegrad group must find other allies , we need austria and other countries , in the balkans , or slovenia , croatia and perhaps others , babis added .
ano won 78 seats in the 200-seat lower house and will need partners to form a majority .
several parties have however rejected joining an ano-led government because they say babis poses a threat to democracy due to his accumulation of business and political power .
some said they could not join a cabinet led by babis personally because he faces fraud charges over a 2-million-euro subsidy a decade ago .
he denies wrongdoing .
this has led to the possibility that , failing other options , babis may form a government which would depend on parliamentary support from the communist party or the far-right , anti-eu freedom and direct democracy party .
babis said this was something he did not want to do .
i do not want to cooperate with them , he told reuters .
we have invited everyone for talks .
we want to hear all arguments at a table ; the arguments they have ( mainstream parties against joining a coalition ) ... they don t need to worry when they come with us .