rome ( reuters ) - the united nations is preparing to deploy 150-250 mostly nepalese guards to libya to protect its base in the capital as part of a plan to return its operations to the country , u.n. officials said on friday .
backed by western governments , the u.n. is trying to heal a rift between libya s rival factions in order to stabilize the country and to tackle militant violence and people-smuggling from libya s northern coast .
the mission has been based in tunis since 2014 , when fighting among rival libyan brigades forced out most foreign embassy staff , but it has gradually increased its presence in libya and has been planning for months for a fuller return .
the military unit would probably consist of around 150 guards , jean-pierre lacroix , u.n. under-secretary-general for peacekeeping operations , told a news briefing in geneva .
most will be nepalese .
to make sure that we protect our colleagues as they deploy in tripoli there will be a guard unit which will be basically u.n. military personnel coming from nepal , lacroix said .
u.n. libya envoy ghassan salame told italian newspaper la stampa that a little under 250 could be deployed in the coming weeks .
deploying the guards to the base in tripoli will mean that around the beginning of october we can carry out a significant part of our work in libya , said salame , who has headed the mission since june .
a spokesperson for the mission said there were no plans to send u.n. peacekeepers to libya .
security in tripoli and other parts of western libya is fragile , and armed groups that are largely unaccountable hold power on the ground .
most foreign embassies closed and pulled out their staff in 2014 when heavy fighting between rival factions destroyed the capital s airport .
it was the worst fighting since the fall of long-time leader muammar gaddafi in 2011 .
libya slipped into turmoil after the nato-backed uprising that toppled gaddafi .
a u.n.-backed government set up in tripoli last year has struggled to assert its authority and is opposed by factions that control eastern libya .
in july , rival leaders pledged in paris to work toward elections in 2018 and a conditional ceasefire .
salame said constitutional and electoral laws would have to be written to ensure any vote brought lasting change .
we need to be sure everyone accepts the final result , he said .
let s not forget that presidential elections would be the first ever .
salame also expressed frustration at competing international initiatives in libya , where regional and european powers have vied for influence .
i think the proliferation of initiatives , of mediations , does not help , he said .
french foreign minister jean-yves le drian said he hoped that after his country s efforts a revision of the 2015 u.n.-mediated deal that created the tripoli government could be reached under salame s auspices .
discussion has centered on reforming the government s leadership and power over military appointments .
it seems that efforts are converging , le drian told reporters during a visit to moscow .