perhaps democrat mayor michael nutter is taking a cue from the reckless da in baltimore in presuming guilt of the engineer without the benefit of an investigation .
the mayor basically accused the engineer of criminal negligence without even knowing all of the details of the crash .
from democrat mayor michael nutter : clearly it was reckless in terms of the driving by the engineer .
there s no way in the world that he should have been going that fast into the curve .
clearly he was reckless and irresponsible in his actions .
there s really no excuse that can be offered .
listen to the mayor s unjustified , irresponsible inflammatory remarks here : https : //youtu.be/cbzxmmdp2kg the amtrak train that derailed tuesday , killing eight people and injuring more than 200 , may have been struck by an object before it careened off the tracks , an assistant conductor on the train told investigators from the national transportation safety board.at a news conference on friday , robert l. sumwalt , the safety board official who is leading the investigation , said an assistant conductor had reported that she believed she heard a radio transmission in which an engineer on a regional line said his train had been struck by a projectile and the engineer on the amtrak train replied that his had been struck , too.mr .
sumwalt said that investigators had found a fist-size circular area of impact on the left side of the amtrak train s windshield and that they had asked the federal bureau of investigation to analyze it .
he said that the f.b.i .
had been called in because it has the forensics expertise needed for the investigation , but that it had not yet begun its analysis.he said that investigators had also interviewed the engineer and found him extremely cooperative , and that the engineer had said he was not fatigued or ill at the time of the accident .
but he could not remember anything about the derailment.investigators asked the engineer , brandon bostian , whether he recalled any projectiles , and he said he did not .
he was specifically asked that question , and he did not recall anything of that sort , mr. sumwalt said .
but then again , he reported that he does not have any recollection of anything past north philadelphia .
the assistant conductor , however , who was working in the cafe car , heard mr. bostian talking to an engineer on the septa regional rail line who said his train had been hit by a rock or shot at , according to mr. sumwalt .
she said she thought she heard mr. bostian reply that his train had also been struck .
right after she recalled hearing this conversation between her engineer and the septa engineer , she said she felt a rumbling , and her train leaned over and her car went over on its side , mr. sumwalt said.jerri williams , a spokeswoman at septa , confirmed that the windshield of one of its trains had been shattered by a projectile near the north philadelphia station about 9:10 p.m. on tuesday , about 12 minutes before the amtrak train derailed .
we have reports of trains being struck by objects in this area about two to three times a month , ms. williams said .
mostly , she said , the objects are thrown by children and do no damage.the safety board has asked to interview the engineer of the septa train that was hit by the projectile , and septa is cooperating , ms. williams said.for days , speculation about the cause of the accident has centered on mr. bostian .
investigators reported earlier this week that the train accelerated suddenly a minute before the derailment and that mr. bostian applied the emergency brake seconds before the cars careened off the tracks , striking nearby utility poles.on friday , mr. sumwalt said that the engineer , accompanied by his lawyer , had been open with investigators and had demonstrated a very good working knowledge of the proper procedures and speeds for the rail line , but that he did not remember the accident .
he recalls ringing the train bell as he went through north philadelphia station , as required , mr. sumwalt said .
he has no recollection of anything past that .
investigators said that mr. bostian had been extremely cooperative during his interview and that he had reported no problems with his train handling .
two other conductors were on the train that night .
a senior conductor is hospitalized , according to the safety board , and has not been interviewed.a junior conductor was in the back of the train and reported that his radio was not working , so he was unable to hear the engineer , mr. sumwalt said .
he told investigators he felt shaking , then two large impacts that dislodged seats.both conductors said they had confidence in the engineer , calling him very professional .
via : nyt