( reuters ) - mark strang spends his days delivering farm equipment , listening to politics on the radio during cross-country drives .
but in july , the 63-year-old could have an outsized voice in choosing the republican nominee for president of the united states .
for the first time in 40 years , republicans could arrive at their national convention in cleveland without a nominee .
if front-runner donald trump fails to lock up the nomination before then , as some pollsters are predicting , strang will have a chance to make history .
strang , from illinois , is one of 2,472 delegates to the convention who will ultimately determine the party ’ s choice for the white house this november .
in recent elections , the delegates have simply rubberstamped the presumptive nominee .
but this year the convention could become a brutal fight in which every delegate vote will count .
trump currently has 673 delegates after winning a string of nominating contests , but if he wants to avoid a floor fight at the convention he needs the magic number of 1,237 .
there is some doubt among election number crunchers that he can hit it .
and that ’ s when strang will step into the spotlight .
after filling roles in local republican politics , strang was selected by illinois voters to serve as a delegate for republican candidate u.s .
senator ted cruz , of texas .
he likes cruz for his position on guns and immigration .
but if the convention becomes a fight because no candidate has the needed 1,237 delegates on the first round of voting , most of the delegates would eventually be released .
states are still sorting through some rules governing how long delegates are bound to candidates .
strang said if he found himself a free agent , he would be open to switching his vote .
( graphic on how a contested convention works : tmsnrt.rs/1rotohw ) “ i am going to be loyal to ted cruz , and i will stick with him until i see if there ’ s no hope .
and if there ’ s no hope for ted getting in , as i understand it i can pledge my votes to somebody else , and i would hope ted would understand , ” he said .
interviews with republican state party officials and some delegates who have already been selected reveal widespread soul-searching in anticipation of a potential fight .
officials and delegates described weighing their personal preference with the need to rally around a candidate going into the general election .
party faithful are steeling themselves for a battle , not just for the nomination , but also for the party ’ s core values .
establishment republicans deeply opposed to trump ’ s candidacy say he does not represent social and economic conservative values on healthcare , trade and the role of government in daily life .
trump has built his campaign on anti-establishment rhetoric and promises to build a wall along the mexican border to keep out illegal immigrants , impose a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and restore the country ’ s manufacturing base .
a contested convention would pose a major test for trump ’ s campaign , which thus far has eschewed a traditional grassroots organization .
his rivals , cruz and ohio governor john kasich , are already trying to lobby delegates who might be open to changing sides once they are allowed to become free agents in the convention .
in every state , the party chair and two national committee members , a man and a woman , are automatically selected to be delegates .
but from there , state parties use a wide variety of procedures to pick delegates , most of whom won ’ t be named until late spring or summer .
“ these are the base of the party , ” said michigan republican party chairwoman ronna romney mcdaniel .
“ the delegates are not the establishment .
they are the base .
and i think that ’ s a great misunderstanding. ” often sporting outfits with homemade decorated hats or jackets weighed down with dozens of buttons , delegates who show up every four years include everyone from lawmakers to homemakers , and from those who write million dollar checks to retirees who make phone calls .
many states use small conventions to pick delegates , many of whom are long-time party activists and elected office holders .
not all of them personally back the candidate they are pledged to support in the first round of convention voting , said virginia republican party chairman john whitbeck .
“ we have two former governors , a former attorney general , state senators , state house of delegates members , party leaders , big and small and donors , ” said whitbeck .
in other states , such as illinois , some delegates are elected by primary voters .
in ohio , which gives all its delegates to the statewide primary winner , candidates pick their own slate of convention representatives .
jim carns , a state representative from alabama , where delegates are selected in the primaries , signed up to represent trump last fall — when many still viewed the rise of the new york real estate mogul as a temporary phenomenon .
he sees no circumstance in which he would switch candidates .
but he knows there will be efforts to win over delegates by both the trump camp and their opponents .
once delegates are allowed to change their votes , some establishment figures have floated the potential to nominate someone who didn ’ t even run for president — such as house of representatives speaker paul ryan .
but most of the 14 delegates interviewed by reuters dismissed that as an option .
“ i almost think that i would walk away from the republican party if they did that , ” said strang , the illinois delegate .
“ if we ’ d wanted paul ryan , we would have drafted him .
and i don ’ t dislike paul ryan , but he didn ’ t run. ” ryan has said he is not interested in the presidency .