islamkot , pakistan ( reuters ) - as pakistan bets on cheap coal in the thar desert to resolve its energy crisis , a select group of women is eyeing a road out of poverty by snapping up truck-driving jobs that once only went to men .
such work is seen as life-changing in this dusty southern region bordering india , where sand dunes cover estimated coal reserves of 175 billion tonnes and yellow dumper trucks swarm like bees around pakistan s largest open-pit mine .
the imposing 60-tonne trucks initially daunted gulaban , 25 , a housewife and mother of three from thar s hindu community inside the staunchly conservative and mainly-muslim nation of 208 million people .
at the beginning i was a bit nervous but now it s normal to drive this dumper , said gulaban , clad in a pink saree , a traditional cloth worn by hindu women across south asia .
gulaban - who hopes such jobs can help empower other women facing grim employment prospects - is among 30 women being trained to be truck drivers by sindh engro coal mining company ( secmc ) , a pakistani firm digging up low-grade coal under the rolling thar sand dunes .
gulaban has stolen the march on her fellow trainees because she was the only woman who knew how to drive a car before training to be a truck driver .
she is an inspiration to her fellow students .
if gulaban can drive a dump truck then why not we ?
all we need to do is learn and drive quickly like her , said ramu , 29 , a mother of six , standing beside the 40-tonne truck .
until recently , energy experts were uncertain that pakistan s abundant but poor-quality coal could be used to fire up power plants .
that view began to change with new technology and chinese investment as part of the china-pakistan economic corridor ( cpec ) , a key branch of beijing s belt and road initiative to connect asia with europe and africa .
now coal , along with hydro and liquefied natural gas , is at the heart of pakistan s energy plans .
secmc , which has about 125 dump trucks ferrying earth out of the pit mine , estimates it will need 300-400 trucks once they burrow deep enough to reach the coal .
drivers can earn up to 40,000 rupees ( $ 380 ) a month .
women aspiring to these jobs are overcoming cultural barriers in a society where women are restricted to mainly working the fields and cooking and cleaning for the family .
only this week in saudi arabia , a close ally of pakistan , women were granted permission to drive for the first time ever , ending a ban that was supported by conservative clerics but seen by rights activists as an emblem of suppression .
gulaban s husband , harjilal , recalled how people in thar would taunt him when his illiterate wife drove their small car .
when i sit in the passenger seat with my wife driving , people used to laugh at me , said harjilal , who like most of the people in the community only has one name .
but gulaban , seeking to throw stereotypes out of the window , is only focused on the opportunities ahead .
as i can see our other female trainees getting paid and their life is changing , gulaban added .
i hope ... for a better future .