( reuters ) - the new york times ’ s editorial board endorsed democrat hillary clinton and republican john kasich as they seek to become their parties ’ nominees in the u.s. presidential election , calling clinton one of the most “ deeply qualified presidential candidates in modern history. ” clinton , a front-runner facing a strong challenge from senator bernie sanders , and kasich , who has only dimly registered in the polls , received the endorsements from one of the nation ’ s largest newspapers two days before voters in iowa hold the first nominating contest for the nov. 8 election .
“ mr sanders does not have the breadth of experience or policy ideas that mrs clinton offers , ” the board wrote , after praising him for making important points about economic inequality and foreign policy .
the board praised clinton ’ s term as secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 , and said she had shown a lifelong commitment to american workers , particularly women .
the board criticized her as too quick to propose using military force abroad , but said she still would be a better military leader than her republican rivals .
the times editorial board previously endorsed clinton in 2008 , when she ran against barack obama .
in that endorsement , it also argued that clinton had more experience and had presented more detailed policy ideas than her rival .
kasich , the governor of ohio , was the only candidate in the crowded republican field the board said it was able to stomach .
“ gov .
john kasich of ohio , though a distinct underdog , is the only plausible choice for republicans tired of the extremism and inexperience on display in this race , ” the board wrote .
it said kasich had “ been capable of compromise and believes in the ability of government to improve lives. ” the board said that front-runner donald trump did not have experience of international issues or interest in learning about them .
it said ted cruz would “ say anything to win. ” ( reporting by mary milliken ; editing by kevin liffey ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .