wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand will get its youngest prime minister in more than 150 years after the small , nationalist new zealand first party agreed to form a new government with labour party leader jacinda ardern , ending the national party s decade in power .
the outcome caps a remarkable rise for ardern , 37 , who only took over the party s top job in august , and marks another victory for a youthful global leader promising change , with big implications for the world s 11th most traded currency , the central bank , immigration and foreign investment .
labour had an even chance as national to form a government after inconclusive elections on sept. 23 gave neither party enough seats to form a majority in parliament .
their tighter immigration proposals and more restrictive housing policy all suggest economic growth could be a little bit weaker than the nationals policy , paul dales , chief australia and new zealand economist at capital economics , said of labour .
the chances of a sharper slowdown are higher under labour .
the announcement of the new government drove the new zealand dollar down around 1.7 percent to its lowest levels in four and half months , as markets worried about more protectionist policies to come .
labour has always believed that government should be a partner in ensuring an economy that works and delivers for all new zealanders , ardern told reporters .
labour said it would stick to its campaign promise to change the central bank s mandate , seek to renegotiate the trans-pacific partnership trade deal and prioritize an effort to ban foreign ownership of certain types of housing .
it has said it wants to add employment to the central bank s mandate , which would mark a big change for the reserve bank of new zealand which was the pioneer of the inflation-targeting regime adopted across the world .
record net migration of more than 70,000 annually has fuelled demand for housing in new zealand , far outstripping supply and pushing house prices prohibitively higher , pricing ordinary new zealanders out of the housing market .
far too many new zealanders have come to view today s capitalism not as their friend , but as their foe , new zealand first leader winston peters , who has been offered the role of deputy prime minister , told reporters .
we ve had to make a choice for a modified status quo , or for change .
peters said new policy announcements would be up to ardern , but gave a foretaste of what may come by saying he expected fewer immigrants to be allowed into new zealand .
he had agreed with labour to build tens of thousands of affordable homes , he added .
labour made tackling what it calls a housing crisis a priority during its election campaign .
this shows that winston peters wants to make some radical changes in new zealand , said bryce edwards , political analyst at critical politics in wellington .
he has always been an anti-establishment mp and he , in what will be his last time in government , wants to be in sync with that global rebellion against the status quo .
labour made a last minute-gamble when it appointed ardern as a leader not long before the vote , hoping to ride the global sea of change that drove britain to vote to leave the european union and donald trump to become u.s. president .
her popularity and message of hope have drawn comparisons with the similarly youthful leaders such as france s emmanuel macron and canada s justin trudeau .
markets are concerned about uncertainty .
they worry that curbs to migration and trade could hurt two key sources of new zealand s robust growth in recent years .
more restrictive trade and foreign ownership could also hurt new zealand s reputation as an open economy and antagonize the likes of china , a key trading partner .
trade between the two countries has grown to more than nz $ 20 billion ( $ 14.4 billion ) a year and chinese president xi jinping called the relationship unprecedented in its depth .