denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesian and regional authorities heightened flight warnings around bali s mount agung on sunday as the volcano s eruptions sent a plume of volcanic ash and steam more than 6,000 metres into the skies above the popular holiday island .
ash covered roads , cars and buildings near the volcano in the northeast of the island , while scores of flights were cancelled and overnight a red glow of what appeared to be magma could be seen in photographs by antara , the state news agency .
the activity of mount agung has entered the magmatic eruption phase .
it is still spewing ash at the moment but we need to monitor and be cautious over the possibility of a strong , explosive eruption , said gede suantika , an official at the volcanology and geological disaster mitigation agency .
bali , famous for its surf , beaches and temples , attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year but business has slumped in areas around the volcano since september when agung s volcanic tremors began to increase .
agung rises majestically over eastern bali at a height of just over 3,000 metres .
when it last erupted in 1963 it killed more than 1,000 people and razed several villages .
australia s bureau of meteorology s volcanic ash advisory centre ( vacc ) in darwin issued maps showing an ash cloud heading southeast over the neighbouring island of lombok , away from bali s capital , denpasar , where the main international airport is located .
indonesia also upgraded its volcano observatory notice for aviation ( vona ) to red , its highest warning , and said the ash-cloud top could reach 19,654 feet ( 6,142 metres ) or higher .
however , officials said the airport would remain open for now as the ash could be avoided .
the volcanic ash has only been detected in a certain area , the airport and other officials said in a joint statement .
all domestic flights and the airport itself were operating as normal and tests for ash had been negative , it said .
yunus suprayogi , general manager of bali airport operator angkasa pura i , said food and entertainment would be provided as well as extra bus services if conditions changed and passenger numbers increased .
the airport would also make it easier for passengers to seek refunds and make other arrangements , he said , while noting that airlines had their own rules .
after resuming flights on sunday morning , virgin australia again cancelled flights on sunday afternoon following a change in the aviation colour code from orange to red .
due to the significant volcanic ash and current weather conditions , we have made the decision to cancel the rest of today s flights to and from bali as a precautionary measure , virgin said in a statement on its website .
airasia also cancelled its remaining flights to bali and lombok .
qantas and jetstar flights were continuing as of sunday afternoon but jetstar warned on its website that flights could be subject to change at short notice for safety reasons .
indonesia s flag carrier garuda said it was cancelling all flights to and from lombok .
lombok airport was closed late on sunday afternoon and authorities would assess the situation in the morning , a transport ministry spokesman said .
indonesia s disaster agency has said bali is still safe for tourists except for a 7.5-kilometre ( 4.7-mile ) zone around mount agung .
despite the string of eruptions , there has not been an increase in volcanic activity , it said in a statement , noting that the emergency status for agung remains at level 3 , one below the highest .
china s consulate in denpasar warned citizens on sunday to be prepared for the possibility of being stranded in bali .