new york ( reuters ) - after deep cuts in spending for florida schools and other public programs following the great recession , outgoing republican governor rick scott this month proposed an $ 87.4 billion budget he says boosts spending on some depleted services to record levels .
despite scott ’ s meaty 2018-2019 budget recommendation , which is about $ 2.4 billion above current spending , advocates for florida public education , environment and affordable housing remained skeptical the new plan would go far enough .
“ it doesn ’ t move florida ( schools ) out from the bottom when compared to other states , ” said mark pudlow , spokesman for the florida education association , the state ’ s teachers union .
florida ’ s public school per-pupil spending sank from a peak of $ 7,126 in the 2007-2008 budget to a post-recession low of $ 6,217 for the 2011-2012 year .
in his latest proposal , scott recommended increasing funding to $ 7,176 per student , a $ 50 rise above record-high per-student funding .
florida has more than 2.7 million students enrolled in its public k-12 schools .
pudlow said he welcomed the governor ’ s increases , but support for florida education was still lagging far behind most of the united states .
the nationwide per-student spending average was $ 11,392 in 2015 , according to the most recent u.s. census bureau data available .
adjusted for inflation , pudlow pointed out , scott ’ s budget puts florida ’ s per-student spending at about $ 1,200 less than it was at its peak .
scott proposed increasing public elementary and secondary school spending to about $ 14.71 billion from some $ 14.45 billion in the current fiscal year .
andrea messina , executive director of the florida school boards association , said she was hopeful scott ’ s proposal signaled a an attitude shift in the state capital toward public education financing , but the bill was far from final .
the florida house of representatives and senate will hear the governor ’ s budget recommendations at the next legislative session starting on jan. 9 .
they then make their own budget proposals and negotiate until a single plan is agreed on .
that budget will go back to the governor , who has the authority to veto line items before signing off on the bill .
scott has also proposed $ 180 million in cuts to taxes and fees and asked for sharp increases in spending on departments , including corrections , which would see more than 500 added jobs under the plan .
the budget for environmental protection would surge to more than $ 1.7 billion from $ 1.48 billion in the current year , making it among the budget ’ s biggest gainers .
florida everglades restoration would be among the environmental projects to receive an infusion of funds .
“ that ’ s one place where we ’ re happy , although the devil is in the details , ” said frank jackalone , director of sierra club florida .
jackalone said he was concerned the state would continue to cut environmental rules enforcement and to take from earmarked funds intended for the environment to spend on other government programs .
state representative carlos smith , a democrat who represents a central florida district seeing an influx of residents fleeing from hurricane-battered areas , including puerto rico , said he opposed scott ’ s budget proposal on affordable housing .
under the plan , overall spending on affordable housing would rise , smith said , but it would also include a raid of nearly $ 92 million on trust funds earmarked for affordable homes .
“ we don ’ t know what to do , people are sleeping in cars , ” smith said of storm evacuees , namely puerto ricans fleeing the bankrupt and hurricane-battered u.s. commonwealth .