will history repeat itself , or is skipping the debate a bad idea ?
on tuesday night donald trump and the trump campaign announced that gop frontrunner trump will skip the fox news gop primary debate this week in iowa .
via : gateway pundithttps : //youtu.be/wjkvlvlgs3mtrump is not the first republican candidate to skip a debate .
ronald reagan skipped the republican debate ahead of the 1980 iowa caucus and went on to win in a landslide.watch stunned , leftist media , as they are stunned by reports that ronald reagan is winning in a landslide : here is what the map looked like after reagan s shocking landslide win : bloomberg reported : trump isn t the first top-tier presidential candidate to skip a debate .
ronald reagan did not attend a republican debate ahead of the 1980 iowa caucuses , which he lost to george h.w .
bush .
reagan went on to the win the nomination and the presidency.on her fox news program tuesday night , kelly said she will still co-moderate the debate .
the truth is he doesn t get to control the media , kelly said .
i ll be there .
the debate will go on with or without trump .
the network said in an e-mailed statement that capitulating to politicians ultimatums about a debate moderator violates all journalistic standards , as do threats .
fox said it had warned lewandowski not to level any more threats against kelly , as when he allegedly told the network that megyn had a rough couple of days after that last debate and he would hate to have her go through that again .
we can t give in to terrorizations toward any of our employees , the network said.trump told reporters the campaign will raise some money for the wounded warriors .
we ll raise money for the vets , trump said .
i was all set to do the debate .
i came here to do the debate .
when they sent out the wise-guy press releases a little while ago , done by some pr person , along with roger ailes , i said : bye , bye .
trump s campaign also released a statement saying that mr. trump knows a bad deal when he sees one .