manila reuters ) - in a teeming prison for undertrials in the philippines capital manila , rody lacanilao , an inmate for 18 months , says he prays for clear weather at night .
a downpour , he says , will prevent him and hundreds of fellow prisoners in the quezon city jail from sleeping on plywood mats in an outdoor hallway .
the cells themselves are overflowing with an influx of detainees from president rodrigo duterte s year-long war on drugs .
thousands of people have been killed in duterte s campaign , mainly drug users and small-time peddlers .
tens of thousands of others have been thrown into jail , and both prisons and courts in the southeast asian nation are creaking under the pressure .
since the war on drugs started , it became harder to sleep , lacanilao told a reuters team allowed access to the quezon city jail .
we have no place to go to when it rains .
the 37-year-old is facing trial on a drugs charge .
the prison was initially built for 262 inmates , but now has 2,975 , three-quarters of them jailed for drug-related offences .
at night , its basketball court , chapel , classrooms and walkways become sleeping areas for detainees .
inmates who spoke to reuters said living conditions were unbearable , made worse by the prospect that it could be years before their trials are decided .
many of them are not eligible for bail or can not afford to pay the bond .
prisoners came in one after the other .
if you have money , you can buy a spot in the sleeping quarters , said junjun vallecer , who says he has been in the jail for four years for possession of drugs but is still being tried .
he says he has to wait four to six months between court appearances .
the bureau of jail management and penology ( bjmp ) put the prison population in the country , including undertrials and convicts , at 137,417 as of the end of june , up 22 percent since duterte took office at the end of june last year .
police and the philippine drug enforcement agency arrested 96,703 suspected pushers , users and chemists from july last year until earlier this month , according to police data .
a staggering 94 percent of people jailed for drug offences are still undertrials , according to bjmp .
police in manila arrest nearly 100 drug suspects each day , says oscar albayalde , the capital s police chief .
whether they are minor charges or not , we have to arrest these people , albayalde told reuters .
we make these arrests that contribute to the over-congestion of the detention cells ... but what can we do ?
including a backlog , the bjmp says 303,534 narcotics cases were at trial or being processed as of june .
most of the cases are defended by the public attorney s office ( pao ) , a legal aid agency attached to the department of justice .
at the end of 2016 , the agency had a backlog of 303,000 drugs cases , compared to about 82,000 at the end of june 2016 , just before duterte unleashed his fierce anti-drugs campaign .
the agency says it has 1,665 lawyers to handle a total of 709,128 criminal cases currently pending , meaning an average of 426 cases for each of them .
we have tons of work , said public defender karen jay sabugo , eating a meal of instant noodles at her desk .
there are times when i return to the office so exhausted that i can t speak with colleagues anymore .
the 30-year-old , in her first year as a trial lawyer , told reuters she attends more than a dozen court hearings a day .
in the morning , we attend court hearings and in the afternoon , we prepare pleadings and meet clients .
i go to jails to prepare our defense .
boxloads of documents are piled up inside the pao s office in quezon city .
most are related to cases , but some are applications for about 750 new positions the government has agreed to create in the agency in the next two years to handle the overflow of cases .
typically , trials in the philippines begin some years after arrest , said maria socorro diokno , executive director of the free legal assistance group ( flag ) , an organization of human rights lawyers .
trial last two to three years on average in regional courts , and another two or three years are taken up by appeals .
even before duterte s anti-drugs crackdown , the philippines had the third-most-congested prison system in the world after haiti and el salvador , according to the london-based institute for criminal policy research .
an average of six inmates occupy a space of 4.7 square meters , the space intended for one prisoner , data from the bjmp showed .
one philippine prison officer watches over 63 prisoners on average , far from the stipulated one-to-seven ratio , and there are insufficient numbers of guards to escort suspects to court hearings , the data showed .
the ratios are really wild , said martin perfecto , deputy director of the philippines bureau of corrections .
flag lawyer alex padilla says judicial reform is not a priority in the philippines because there is scant sympathy for those accused of crimes .
duterte is extremely popular because people are fed up with crime and many support the killings in his campaign , he said .
judicial reform is the last reform because it s dirty , padilla said .
these are criminals ... they are the garbage of the society .
( graphic : lawyers , jails inundated by duterte 's war on drugs - tmsnrt.rs/2vncfw4 )