havana ( reuters ) - president barack obama arrived to small but cheering crowds on sunday at the start of a historic visit to cuba that opened a new chapter in u.s. engagement with the island ’ s communist government after decades of hostility between the former cold war foes .
the three-day trip , the first by a u.s. president to cuba in 88 years , is the culmination of a diplomatic opening announced by obama and cuban president raul castro in december 2014 , ending an estrangement that began when the cuban revolution ousted a pro-american government in 1959 .
“ it ’ s a historic opportunity to engage directly with the cuban people , ” obama told staff at the newly reopened u.s. embassy who were gathered at a hotel , his first stop after arriving in the afternoon .
groups of cubans watched the motorcade from balconies and backyards as obama was driven downtown , where a small crowd of cubans braved a tropical downpour and tight security .
they chanted : “ viva obama , viva fidel , ” as the president and his family left after eating dinner in a rundown neighborhood .
obama , who abandoned a longtime u.s. policy of trying to isolate cuba , wants to make his policy shift irreversible even if a republican wins the white house in the nov. 8 election .
but major obstacles remain to full normalization of ties , and the democratic president ’ s critics say the visit is premature .
u.s. officials concede the trip may not yield immediate concessions from cuba on rights and economic freedom .
on sunday , one bystander shouted : “ down with the blockade , ” in reference to the u.s. embargo in place for 54 years that remains the top irritant for cubans .
obama , who responded to the shout by raising his right hand , has asked congress to rescind the embargo but has been blocked by the republican leadership .
underscoring the ideological divide that persists between washington and havana , cuban police , backed by hundreds of pro-government demonstrators , broke up the regular march of a leading dissident group , the ladies in white , detaining about 50 people just hours before obama arrived .
obama arrived at havana ’ s jose marti international airport in air force one , the presidential jet with “ united states of america ” emblazoned across its fuselage , a sight almost unimaginable not long ago on the island , just 90 miles ( 145 km ) off the coast of florida .
he was met by cuban foreign minister bruno rodriguez , the top cuban official present .
the formal welcoming ceremony will be on monday when obama meets the cuban president at the presidential palace .
u.s. officials appeared unfazed by castro ’ s absence from the airport welcome , even though he personally met and greeted pope francis in september .
republican presidential front-runner donald trump tweeted that obama ’ s visit was a “ big deal ” but that he got “ no respect. ” obama will hold talks with castro – but not his brother fidel , the revolutionary leader - and speak to entrepreneurs on monday .
he meets privately with dissidents , addresses cubans live on state-run media and attends an exhibition baseball game on tuesday .
the trip carries both symbolism and substance after decades of hostility between washington and havana .
traveling with first lady michelle obama , her mother and their daughters , sasha and malia , obama took in the sights of the colonial-era neighborhood and was given a tour of havana ’ s 18th century cathedral by cardinal jaime ortega , who played a role in secret talks that led to the rapprochement 15 months ago .
the obamas dined at the san cristobal restaurant , run by an afro-cuban as part of a cautious opening to private enterprise since fidel castro handed power to his brother in 2008 .
the trip makes obama the first sitting american president to visit cuba since calvin coolidge arrived on a battleship in 1928 and may help chip away at barriers to u.s.-cuba trade and travel .
since rapprochement , the two sides have restored diplomatic ties and signed commercial deals on telecommunications and scheduled airline service .
obama has used executive authority to loosen trade and travel restrictions to advance his outreach to cuba , one of his top foreign policy priorities along with the iran nuclear deal .
cuba still complains about u.s. control of the naval base at guantanamo bay under a 1934 lease agreement that havana says is no longer valid and that obama has said is not up for discussion .
havana is unhappy with u.s. support for dissidents and anti-communist radio and tv programs beamed into cuba .
speaking to reporters , foreign trade and foreign investment minister rodrigo malmierca díaz said before the u.s. president ’ s arrival that obama ’ s regulatory moves “ go in the right direction. ” but he added : “ we can ’ t reach a normalization of relations with the blockade still in effect. ” the americans in turn criticize one-party rule and repression of political opponents , an issue that aides said obama would address publicly and privately .
obama ’ s critics at home accuse him of making too many concessions for too little in return from the cuban government and of using his trip to take an unearned “ victory lap. ” obama ’ s first words to the cuban people came in a message on twitter , a social media service that few cubans can use regularly because of government restrictions on internet access .
“ ¿qué bolá cuba ? ” he said , using cuban slang for “ what ’ s up ? ” “ just touched down here , looking forward to meeting and hearing directly from the cuban people. ” little progress on the main issues is expected when obama and castro meet on monday or at a state dinner that evening .
instead , the highlights are likely to be obama ’ s speech on live cuban television on tuesday , when he will also meet dissidents and attend an exhibition baseball game between major league baseball ’ s tampa bay rays and cuba ’ s national team .