edmonton , alberta ( reuters ) - the somali immigrant charged with attempted murder in connection with a weekend vehicle and knife attack in edmonton , alberta , was detained in the united states pending deportation before claiming refugee status in canada , u.s. officials said on tuesday .
abdulahi hasan sharif , 30 , is accused of running down a police officer with his car on saturday night and then stabbing him repeatedly .
police said he fled before driving a u-haul truck into four pedestrians during an attempt to evade capture .
sharif was in custody in the united states for about four months in the summer and autumn of 2011 , u.s. immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) spokeswoman lauren mack said in a statement .
he was ordered deported to somalia but released on an order of supervision on nov. 23 , 2011 .
sharif did not appear for a scheduled meeting in january 2012 , and efforts to locate him were not successful , the statement said .
sharif had no known criminal history at the time of his encounters with ice , the ice statement added .
canadian public safety minister ralph goodale said sharif made a refugee claim at a canadian border crossing in 2012 and obtained refugee status later that year .
in 2015 , a complaint led police to probe sharif s alleged extremist ideology , but officers found no grounds for criminal charges after what the royal canadian mounted police described as an exhaustive investigation .
goodale said on monday it would be wrong to blame the attack on any shortcomings in canada s immigration and refugee vetting system .
sharif , who faces 11 charges including five counts of attempted murder , appeared via video in an edmonton court on tuesday wearing an orange jail uniform .
he had a somali interpreter , although he did not speak .
he occasionally looked down or clasped his hands in front of him and still bore facial bruises that police say he sustained while evading capture .
a community leader , mahamad accord , who did not speak to sharif but learned about him from the local somali community , said sharif was from a somali ethnic minority and little known in the community .
edmonton police did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
sharif s lawyer , chady moustarah , said he had stepped in on short notice to help someone without representation but that the accused would have to find another lawyer going forward .
sharif remains in custody until his next court appearance , scheduled for nov. 14 .