rome ( reuters ) - pope francis implicitly criticized the united states on monday for pulling out of the paris agreement on climate change , praising it as a means to control the devastating effects of global warming .
the united states is the only country out of 195 signatories to have withdrawn from the accord , which aims to cut emissions blamed for the rise in temperatures .
u.s. president donald trump announced the decision in june shortly after visiting the pope , a strong supporter of the deal .
at the time a vatican official said the move was a slap in the face for the pope and the vatican .
we see consequences of climate change every day , the pope said in an address to the united nations food and agriculture organisation ( fao ) at its headquarters in rome .
thanks to scientific knowledge , we know how we have to confront the problem and the international community has also worked out the legal methods , such as the paris accord , which sadly , some have abandoned , he said .
under the deal , united states had committed to reducing its own emissions by 26 to 28 percent , compared with 2005 levels , by 2025 .
many world leaders have criticized trump for deciding to pull out .
in his spanish-language address to the u.n. agency , francis denounced negligence toward the delicate equilibriums of the ecosystems , the presumption of manipulating and controlling the limited resources of the planet , and the greed for profit .
agriculture ministers and diplomats from the group of seven ( g7 ) world power nations attended the gathering , which marked fao s world food day .
we can t be satisfied by saying someone else will do it , the pope said .
ending local conflicts and curbing the effects of climate change were two of the prerequisites for dealing with world food security , francis also said .
the yoke of poverty caused by the often tragic movement of migrants can be removed by prevention , consisting of development projects that create jobs and offer the capacity to respond to climactic and environmental changes , he said .