istanbul/ankara ( reuters ) - turkey cast the testimony of a wealthy gold trader in a u.s. court as an attempt to undermine ankara and its economy on friday , highlighting how president tayyip erdogan may use the politically charged case to rally nationalist support .
the trader , reza zarrab , told a new york court on wednesday that erdogan had authorized a transaction in a scheme to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
a dual national of iran and turkey , zarrab is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors in the trial of a turkish bank executive accused of helping iran launder money .
the executive has pleaded not guilty .
this court case has stopped being judicial and become completely political , with the sole aim to corner turkey and its economy , prime minister binali yildirim said .
the case has aggravated tension between ankara and washington , nato allies already at odds over syria policy and the united states failure to extradite the muslim cleric turkey accuses of engineering a failed military coup last year .
although the economic fall-out from the case could be substantial - especially if u.s. authorities fine turkish banks - analysts said that erdogan is unlikely to be damaged politically at home and could potentially emerge stronger by attracting more nationalist support .
this will bolster his claim that he is fighting an independence battle against foreign enemies , said halil karaveli , editor of the turkey analyst , a policy journal .
if there is going to be any political impact , i suspect it will actually help in the electoral sense .
media coverage of the case has been limited in turkey and one pro-government outlet branded the trial as a conspiracy by enemies of the country .
erdogan , who has governed turkey for almost 15 years , has not yet responded to the courtroom claims ; but had already dismissed the case as a politically inspired attempt to bring down the turkish government .
his government says the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , blamed by ankara for the failed military coup , was also behind the court case .
zarrab s deposition before the u.s. court will not impact the outlook of the ak party constituency .
in return , mitigating the possible economic impact will be more of a challenge especially if turkish banks are eventually fined , said sinan ulgen , an analyst and former turkish diplomat .
international investors have grown nervous about turkey as ties with the united states have worsened - helping drive the lira currency down some 10 percent against the dollar in the past three months , to a series of record lows .
but the u.s. legal action over the alleged iran sanctions busting , and the risk that some of the country s banks might be sucked into the case , lies at the heart of the latest investor concerns .
u.s. prosecutors charge that the executive of turkey s state-owned halkbank , mehmet hakan atilla , helped iran launder the money .
halkbank , like atilla , has said it is not guilty of the charges .
in his testimony , zarrab also said that turkish officials had authorized two turkish banks , ziraat bank and vakifbank , to move funds for iran .
both ziraat and vakifbank have denied taking part in any such scheme .
nonetheless , investors are worried about the possibility that turkish banks could be fined .
if there is a fine that s outsize and the turkish government doesn t want to pay or allow the bank to pay , it will turn into a political standoff which is not great for banks or sovereign spreads , said greg saichin , head of emerging debt at allianz global investors in london .
this whole issue is weighing heavily on turkey as a country to allocate ( capital ) to .