while obama hangs out in tahiti , his nsa director susan rice and her deputy director ben rhodes , brother of david rhodes cbs news president , appear to be two of the key figures behind the surveillance of donald trump s campaign .
what was hillary s role in this massive scandal ?
why is the media not questioning her ?
does anyone really believe she had nothing to do with this ?
meanwhile , not surprisingly at cbs news you can find the latest headline : the cbs news headline is followed up by two paragraphs citing the washington post ( one of the news publications who sat on the susan rice spying story ) .
the story is clearly a distraction from the real news , which is that susan rice and the cbs news president s bother were behind the surveillance of trump s campaign .
apparently , cbs news thinks that an alleged secret meeting between a donor of president trump and a russian close to putin with an agenda that remains unclear is somehow supposed to be relevant or important to the american people in the midst of a spying case that makes president nixon look like an amateur : washington the united arab emirates arranged a secret meeting in january between an american businessman supporting then president-elect trump and a russian close to president vladimir putin as part of an apparent effort to establish a back-channel line of communication between moscow and the incoming president , the washington post reports.citing u.s. , european and arab officials , the post said the uae agreed to broker the meeting in part to explore whether russia could be persuaded to curtail its relationship with iran , including in syria , a trump administration objective that would be likely to require major concessions to moscow on u.s. sanctions .
the full agenda remains unclear , the newspaper said.daily caller former president barack obama s national security adviser susan rice ordered u.s. spy agencies to produce detailed spreadsheets of legal phone calls involving donald trump and his aides when he was running for president , according to former u.s. attorney joseph digenova .
what was produced by the intelligence community at the request of ms. rice were detailed spreadsheets of intercepted phone calls with unmasked trump associates in perfectly legal conversations with individuals , digenova told the daily caller news foundation investigative group monday .
the overheard conversations involved no illegal activity by anybody of the trump associates , or anyone they were speaking with , digenova said .
in short , the only apparent illegal activity was the unmasking of the people in the calls .
also on monday , fox news and bloomberg news , citing multiple sources reported that rice had requested the intelligence information that was produced in a highly organized operation .
fox said the unmasked names of trump aides were given to officials at the national security council ( nsc ) , the department of defense , james clapper , president obama s director of national intelligence , and john brennan , obama s cia director.joining rice in the alleged white house operations was her deputy ben rhodes , according to fox.critics of the atmosphere prevailing throughout the obama administration s last year in office point to former obama deputy defense secretary evelyn farkas who admitted in a march 2 television interview on msnbc that she was urging my former colleagues , to get as much information as you can , get as much intelligence as you can , before president obama leaves the administration .
farkas sought to walk back her comments in the weeks following : i didn t give anybody anything except advice .
col .
( ret . )
james waurishuk , an nsc veteran and former deputy director for intelligence at the u.s. central command , told thedcnf that many hands had to be involved throughout the obama administration to launch such a political spying program .
the lawyers and counsel at the nsa surely would be talking to the lawyers and members of counsel at cia , or at the national security council or at the director of national intelligence or at the fbi , he said .
it s unbelievable of the level and degree of the administration to look for information on donald trump and his associates , his campaign team and his transition team .
this is really , really serious stuff .
michael doran , former nsc senior director , told thedcnf monday that somebody blew a hole in the wall between national security secrets and partisan politics .
this was a stream of information that was supposed to be hermetically sealed from politics and the obama administration found a way to blow a hole in that wall .
that s a felony , he told thedcnf .
and you can get 10 years for that .
it is a tremendous abuse of the system .
we re not supposed to be monitoring american citizens .
bigger than the crime , is the breach of public trust .
we re looking at a potential constitutional crisis from the standpoint that we used an extremely strong capability that s supposed to be used to safeguard and protect the country , he said .
and we used it for political purposes by a sitting president .
that takes on a new precedent .
for entire story : daily caller