florida has had its share of food stamp busts but south florida reached a fraud milestone for what the justice department called the largest combined financial fraud loss for a food stamp trafficking takedown in history .
red flags raised over names involved : that dubious new record , federal prosecutors claim , is $ 20 million and resulted in a dozen charged with doing the government dirty via food stamp fraud , wire fraud and conspiracy to commit wire fraud.the 12 charged over four cases are hasan saleh , 59 , mohammed alobaisi , 37 , reynold francois , 38 , ihab hassouna , 44 , mohammad alteen , 33 , maria jerdana , 36 , joe ann baker , 56 , yousef joe homedan zahran , 60 , omar hajje , 43 , jalal hajyousef , 42 , andy javier herrera , 24 , and father javier herrera , 49.mostly muslims the government makes it easier for immigrants to get small business loans with the investor visa program .
is our government setting itself up for fraud when they knowingly give loans to these people ? news report on the bold lawlessness : check out the names below and you ll see that so many times foreigners come to america to scam the food stamp system .
we have reported on numerous scams involving immigrants and food stamps .
believe us they come from all over the world to take your money !
here are just a few examples of foreign-run convenience stores caught in food stamp fraud millions and millions stolen and probably sent overseas : our past reports on food stamp fraud : immigrant ghanaian woman pleads guilty to $ 3.6 million in food stamp fraud media ignores her immigrant status22 latinos arrested in largest food stamp fraud bust in history here s how they did italabama fraud : food stamps to cash sent to yemen3 busted , 4 at large !
immigrant muslim group ran huge food stamp fraud ringis this connected to the investor visa program ?
it makes you wonder if they have training programs abroad in how to buy convenience stores in the us and rip off the dumb ( infidel ) americans ! $ 20 million lost in food stamp scam : in this instance , eight small convenience stores in south florida committed a staggering amount of fraud in a relatively short amount of time , said karen citizen-wilcox , special agent in charge , u.s. department of agriculture-office of the inspector general , in a release .
these retailers created an illegal benefits exchange system that defrauded the american taxpayer and denied healthy foods to needy children and their families .
the store owners who allegedly orchestrated this trafficking scheme pocketed millions in fees which they charged for converting food assistance benefits into cash .
some of the defendants owned , worked at or operated stores authorized to accept supplemental nutritional assistance program payments , known as snap .
others worked at stores not authorized , but allegedly used the point-of-sale terminals for stores that were authorized.the fraud happened like this , according to authorities : a store clerk swipes a person s electronic benefits card at a point-of-sale terminal for a large amount .
the person with the card is paid a lesser amount in cash .
the remainder is ill-gotten profit for the store owner.the bust from operation stampede/cash hungry in florida involved more than $ 13 million in fraudulent food-stamp transactions and could be the largest food stamp bust in the nation s history .
the palm beach county sheriff s office , state and federal law enforcement conducted a joint identity theft investigation involving obtaining snap ebt cards with the stolen identities .
according to the sheriff s office , the fraudulently obtained ebt cards were taken to the opa locka flea market where the snap ( food stamp or ebt ) benefits allocated to them were exchanged for cash .
twenty two people have been charged with crimes.saleh managed four corners convenience store , 821 nw sixth st. in fort lauderdale , which wasn t authorized to take snap payments .
prosecutors say saleh and other four corners employees used the point-of-sale terminals at liberty city s sparkle , 6530 nw 18th ave. , run by alobaisi .
prosecutors say that from april 2015 through this past august , saleh , alobaisi and employees francois , hassouna , alteen , jerdana and baker stole $ 2 million with the scheme.case no .
2 involved zahran , also known as youssef hussein , who worked at pompano beach s community food store , 401 nw 27th ave .
he is being accused of being on the fraud train a relatively short time , nov. 3 , 2016 , through jan. 11.hajje and hajyousef owned steve market 2 and yum-yum s grocery , stores across the street from each other at 6804 nw 15th ave. and 6813 nw 15th ave. in miami s liberty city neighborhood .
they allegedly fraudulently acquired $ 4.2 million.but federal prosecutors give the money title , $ 10 million , to the herreras , who also allegedly ran their game longer than everyone else april 2012 through last month .
andy owned santa ana market ii , 1832 nw 17th ave. in miami .
father javier worked there and santa ana market , 3000 nw 12th ave. javier has convictions for third-degree grand theft and lottery violations on his rap sheet.read more here : miami herald