new york ( reuters ) - facebook inc and alphabet inc ’ s google have little choice but to rein in internet political ads in the face of growing u.s. government pressure , a panel of advertising consultants and executives said on monday .
speaking at a trade conference , the marketers seized on allegations that russian operatives bought u.s. political ads on facebook as evidence that the sector can not go on being unregulated .
“ i think there will be more scrutiny , and there better be more self-regulation .
otherwise , i think regulation will be coming , ” brent mcgoldrick , a political ad consultant and a republican , said at advertising week new york .
last week , facebook chief executive mark zuckerberg vowed to do more to deter governments from using facebook to manipulate elections in other countries , after the company disclosed $ 100,000 in russian ad purchases in the months before and after the 2016 u.s. presidential election .
the 3,000 ads included some that highlighted support for democrat hillary clinton among muslim women , as well as others that showed a deep understanding of u.s. social divides , the washington post reported on monday .
facebook shares ended down 4.5 percent on monday , closing at $ 162.87 , as some investors worried the tech sector had become too expensive .
zuckerberg has also unveiled sweeping changes to how his company handles political ads , saying it would make them visible to all users regardless of whom the ads target .
andrew capone , senior vice president of ncc media , a cable trade group , joked on monday ’ s panel that during the 2016 election campaign , “ facebook took in over 300 million rubles - i ’ m sorry , dollars. ” mcgoldrick said on the panel : “ if i were facebook and google and everyone else , i would be developing a code of conduct and a set of criteria .
they may already exist , but obviously it ’ s not either robust enough or transparent enough. ” google has said it has no evidence on its ad platform of a russian propaganda campaign like the one facebook found .
the two silicon valley firms are set to take a combined 63 percent of the u.s. market this year , according to research firm emarketer .
though facebook and google have for years resisted regulation of political ads , congressional investigators and u.s. special counsel robert mueller have helped to change the situation , said jefrey pollock , president of public relations firm global strategy group .
“ things change with a subpoena , ” pollock , a democrat , said as part of the panel .