berlin ( reuters ) - senior conservatives raised pressure on wolfgang schaeuble on tuesday to give up the finance ministry and instead impose his authority as head of germany s next parliament , which will include a large bloc of far-right members .
schaeuble has held the ministry since 2009 but sunday s election , in which chancellor angela merkel s conservatives bled support to the far right and found themselves needing to build an untried coalition , has raised doubts over whether he can keep the job .
the post is coveted in particular by the pro-business , low-tax fdp , whose support merkel is likely to need , together with the greens , to assemble a working majority .
the tone in the new assembly is also likely to be made more abrasive by the alternative for germany ( afd ) , which stunned the establishment on sunday by becoming the first far-right party to enter parliament in more than half a century .
a member of the executive committee of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) said that , if schaeuble were to become parliamentary speaker , it would be very important - because of the afd and the climate in parliament .
guenther oettinger , the european union s budget commissioner and a conservative from the same region as schaeuble , told the stuttgarter zeitung newspaper that schaeuble would make an ideal candidate for the post .
schaeuble has refused to discuss his future after the election , beyond signaling his desire to stay in politics .
the new lower house , the bundestag , has until oct. 24 to convene , and a new president of parliament must be chosen by then .
the current president , cdu lawmaker norbert lammert , is not up for re-election .
the bundestag president can not simultaneously hold a ministerial post .
after sunday s election , merkel s conservative bloc remains the largest group in the lower house , but looks unable to renew its current alliance with the center-left social democrats , leaving a coalition with fdp and greens as the only practical option .
securing the finance ministry would give the fdp the chance to cut taxes and also oppose the kind of closer euro zone integration proposed by french president emmanuel macron .
speaking at schaeuble s 75th birthday celebration last week , merkel paid tribute to his 45 years as a member of parliament , but gave no clear signal that she wanted to retain him in the post after the election .
confined to a wheelchair since being shot at an election rally in 1990 , schaeuble is widely respected in germany as a steward of the nation s finances , and enjoyed merkel s strong support during the euro zone debt crisis , which almost tore the currency bloc apart .
but he is a hate figure in greece and other parts of southern europe for his insistence on austerity at a time of deep recession in return for euro zone bailout loans .