washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama has a number of likely options as he looks for a nominee to the u.s. supreme court to replace justice antonin scalia , who died on saturday .
within a few hours , obama said he intends to make a nomination , despite republicans stressing they opposed any appointment being made until after november ’ s presidential election .
the republican-controlled u.s. senate would have to approve the nomination .
if obama ’ s nominee is not confirmed by the senate , the white house could use the process to energize democratic voters ahead of the presidential and congressional elections in november .
if a democratic nominee were to replace scalia it would lead to a sizable shift in the ideological balance of the high court , which has had a conservative majority for decades .
here are some of the possibilities , including two prominent asian-american judges : sri srinivasan among those the administration could turn to is sri srinivasan , 48 , who has served on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit since may 2013 .
he would be the first indian-american on the court and has impeccable bipartisan credentials .
the senate confirmed him on a 97-0 vote three years ago .
he was a law clerk to supreme court justice sandra day o ’ connor , now retired , a 1981 appointee of republican president ronald reagan .
at srinivasan ’ s confirmation hearing , texas republican senator ted cruz , now a presidential candidate , described himself as a long-standing friend dating back to their time together as law clerks in the u.s. appeals court based in richmond , virginia .
cruz said srinivasan had done a “ very fine job ” in answering the committee ’ s questions .
during his nomination to the appeals court , prominent republicans such as former u.s .
solicitor general ted olson supported srinivasan .
at his 2013 investiture , leading lights of the legal establishment from both parties praised him .
federal appeals court judge j. harvie wilkinson , a reagan appointee for whom srinivasan was also a law clerk , called him “ lightning smart. ” so far on the appeals court , his rulings have not sparked controversy .
jacqueline nguyen other names the administration could consider include jacqueline nguyen , 50 , a vietnamese-american who has been a judge on the san francisco-based 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals since may 2012 .
the first asian-american woman to sit on a federal appeals court , she was confirmed by the senate in 2012 by a 91-3 vote .
when she was a child , nguyen fled south vietnam with her family toward the close of the vietnam war in 1975 , and then lived in a refugee camp in california .
nguyen was a federal prosecutor and district court judge in los angeles before she was elevated to the appeals court .
paul watford an african-american who is also a judge on the 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , paul watford is another possibility .
he was an appellate litigator at the munger , tolles & olson law firm before obama nominated him to the appeals court in 2011 .
watford , 48 , clerked for 9th circuit judge alex kozinski , a libertarian-leaning republican , and for justice ruth bader ginsburg , one of scalia ’ s colleagues on the supreme court .
he was confirmed by a 61-34 vote , as some republicans raised concerns about watford ’ s work as a lawyer on immigration and death penalty cases .
jane kelly jane kelly , a white woman and former public defender who has served on the st. louis , missouri-based 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals since april 2013 .
she was supported by iowa republican senator chuck grassley , the chairman of the key committee that would review the nominee .
kelly , 51 , clerked for now-retired judge david hansen , a friend of grassley ’ s who served on the 8th u.s .
circuit court of appeals .
she was confirmed by the senate on a 96-0 vote .