manila ( reuters ) - the philippines vigorously defended its human rights record on friday , accusing the west of bias , hypocrisy and interference after 39 mostly european nations expressed concern about thousands of killings during manila s ferocious war on drugs .
more than 3,800 filipinos have been killed by police in anti-drug operations since president rodrigo duterte came to office 15 months ago and launched what he promised would be a brutal and bloody crackdown on drugs and crime .
human rights groups say the figure is significantly higher and accuse police of carrying out executions disguised as sting operations , and of colluding with hit men to assassinate drug users .
the authorities strenuously reject those claims and duterte insists he has never incited police to commit murder , despite his frequent and animated speeches about killing drug dealers .
during the periodic review on thursday at the united nations human rights council ( unhrc ) in geneva , 38 countries backed a statement by iceland urging the philippines to take all necessary measures to bring these killings to an end .
the signatories were mostly european countries as well as australia , the united states and canada .
filipino diplomats in geneva called it a sweeping and politicized statement , adding the country was willing to accept international help , but would not be lectured .
unfortunately , it still appears that some parties refuse to understand certain aspects of our human rights efforts , evan garcia , head of the philippine mission , in a statement issued by the foreign ministry on friday .
there is no culture of impunity in the philippines .
his deputy maria teresa almojuela also weighed in by criticizing western countries that allowed abortion , manufactured and sold arms and , she said , were a source of private militias for wars .
it is ironic that many states joining the statement are the very same states that are the sources of arms , bombs , machines and mercenaries that maim , kill and massacre thousands of people all over the world , not only during their colonial past , but even up to today , she said .
in washington , foreign secretary alan peter cayetano said the iceland-led statement was based on biased and questionable information .
instead of engaging us constructively , some western countries would rather criticize and impose conditions as if they can do a better job than the philippine government in protecting the filipino people , he said .
opinion polls show filipinos are largely supportive of the war on drugs as an antidote to crime the government says is fueled by narcotics .
the latest survey by social weather stations , however , suggests that filipinos are not convinced of the validity of official police accounts of the killings , with about half of 1,200 people polled doubtful that victims were involved in drugs , or had violently resisted arrest as police maintain .
john fisher , human rights watch director in geneva , said the unhrc should do more to stop the philippine killing , now that there was a growing chorus of condemnation of duterte s signature campaign .