patrick henningsen 21st century wireso far as world peace and prosperity goes , most of the names currently being kicked around for america s top diplomatic position do not inspire a great deal of confidence .
it s easy to feel uneasy when you see recycled neoconservative hawks like john bolton and rudy giuliani , or old hands like mitt romney who previously stated that russia is america s greatest threat .
as far as potential picks go for secretary of state , none is more interesting than the potential that democratic congresswoman tulsi gabbard brings to the table .
president-elect donald trump invited hawaii s gabbard to new york city this week for a meeting regarding possible involvement in the new presidential administration .
she s got a lot going for her as an iraq war veteran with deep understanding of the perils of us interventions overseas , she also brings with her some common sense geopolitical context a refreshing change from the off-the-shelf , neoliberal interventionist juggernaut previously driven by the hawkish hillary clinton , or the flippant public tirades and baseless insults leveled at russia by the likes of samantha power.with an apparently more experienced romney ahead of her in the queue , gabbard is certainly a long shot , but considering the mess left behind by eight years of clandestine free for-all and the chronic absent-minded obama era interventionist policy blunders , not to mention ( but we will ) the hysterical public meltdowns by us state dept spokespersons like john kirby , jen psaki and marie harf you can t help but consider the fresh approach that someone like gabbard might offer.gabbard ( photo , left ) also understands the dangers posed by salafist and wahabi extremists like isis , and most certainly would push back against the obama administration and the cia s dubious ( and technically illegal , by way of us and international law ) policy of arming and supporting various and sundry moderate rebel extremists ( terrorists ) in syria like al nusra front , arar al sham , nour al-din al-zenki and many others all favored by western covert subterfuge teams as instruments of regime change in syria.in terms of independence , gabbard has already made it clear that her stint would not involve capitulating to her gop cabinet cohorts , adding that if she was to disagree with president trump , i will not hesitate to express that disagreement .
previously , gabbard was vice chair of the democratic national committee ( dnc ) , but suddenly resigned earlier this year in protest after pointing out her party s unfair favoring of hillary clinton over bernie sanders during their party s primaries .
following the wikileaks disclosures , it turns out that gabbard was on the right side of history , while her detractors in the dnc leadership hierarchy like chairwoman debbie wasserman-schultz ( forced to resign over the sanders affair was exposed ) and donna brazile ( caught cheating with cnn by passing questions to the clinton campaign ) ended up on the wrong side of history .
here we can see a positive pattern emerging for gabbard , and it gets better.see also : trump s foreign policy : russia , syria , iran and cabinet neoconsregarding foreign policy , gabbard s stance on syria is remarkable , and holds great potential for a resolution to the 5 year conflict ( not a civil war ) , as well as a chance to make positive inroads with russia and other countries who have been perennial foes of both the obama and bush administrations .
because of this , gabbard has many enemies from on both the republicans and democratic chambers alike .
washington , with all of its untoward influence from the cartel of military defense contractor giants , and foreign lobbies like israel and saudi arabia , will not go quietly overnight.in a major departure from the abject failure of the obama-clinton-kerry proxy war debacle in syria , gabbard said this about her alignment with trump policy objectives and diffusing a tense situation in syria : however , i believe we can disagree , even strongly , but still come together on issues that matter to the american people and affect their daily lives .
we can not allow continued divisiveness to destroy our country i shared with him my grave concerns that escalating the war in syria by implementing a so-called no fly/safe zone would be disastrous for the syrian people , our country and the world , she said .
it would lead to more death and suffering , exacerbate the refugee crisis , strengthen isis and al-qaeda and bring us into a direct conflict with russia , which could result in a nuclear war .
we discussed my bill to end our country s illegal war to overthrow the syrian government and the need to focus our precious resources on rebuilding our own country and on defeating al-qaeda , isis and other terrorist groups who pose a threat to the american people .
critics have remarked about her young age ( 35 years old ) and lack of political experience .
however , consider how much experience both of the previous secretary of states had in john kerry and hillary clinton and yet , they have presided over one unmitigated foreign policy disaster after another , whether in libya , syria , yemen or the ukraine .
quite possibly , history will look back on these two obama appointees as the worst ever secretary of states to hold that position .
this is no exaggeration when you pause and take a sober look around the middle east today.aside from the novelty of her relative youth in relation to typically older diplomats , gabbard s authenticity and character comes across in her public speaking , and thus she could be very effective , and no doubt very popular internationally .
she s also gone against the party line on syria .
once again , there she is on the right side of history , while her more experienced party leaders are on stuck on the wrong side .
while boldly challenging the party line won t win you any favors in the partisan cesspool of the dc swamp , it shows the sort of character required to lead a team for successful bilateral consensus-building at the international negotiations table .
in terms of the us public relations image internationally , this is an intangible benefit that you simply can not put a price on , because right now , washington s chief priority should be mending some of the serious rifts left behind by a previously derelict state dept .
gabbard has the potential to paint us diplomacy in an entirely new light , and a positive one at that .
the biggest mistake a trump white house could make is to place a neoconservative , or hawkish secretary in place who might help to reboot talking up a war with iran , or use nato to press against russia at its doorstep.so the real question should not be about gabbard s relative experience , but rather can she be what the previous secretaries could not a diplomat.it s a long shot , but she has the potential to mend a fractured middle east and also revamp relations with russia which means a more peaceful and stable world .
not a bad a thought.more from the trump transition team .
shushannah walshe abcdemocratic rep. tulsi gabbard , a high-profile bernie sanders supporter during the democratic primaries , is under serious consideration for various cabinet positions in president-elect donald trump s administration , according to a senior official on the transition team.according to the official , the 35-year-old hawaii congresswoman is being looked as a candidate for secretary of state , secretary of defense or united nations ambassador .
if selected , gabbard will be the first woman as well as the youngest pick for trump s cabinet.she met with him this morning in his new york city offices at trump tower .
the trump transition source said that their sit-down was a terrific meeting and that the trump team sees her as very impressive.gabbard , a progressive democrat , has bucked her party in congress and during the contentious democratic primaries .
in february she left her position as vice chairwoman of the democratic national committee to support sanders .
in the house she has broken with democrats on the syrian civil war ( she supports keeping president bashar al-assad in power ) and syrian refugees ( she voted for a gop bill last year to conduct stricter background checks on refugees ) .this afternoon she released a long statement on her meeting with trump , saying he asked to meet with her about our current policies regarding syria , our fight against terrorist groups like al-qaeda and isis , as well as other foreign policy challenges we face .
she said they had a frank and positive conversation in which we discussed a variety of foreign policy issues in depth .
continue this story at abcread more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv