bogota ( reuters ) - colombia s lower house of congress late on monday backed a bill to regulate transitional justice under the nation s peace deal with marxist farc rebels , including special tribunals that will try guerrilla leaders for war crimes .
the bill , which was approved with some modifications , is considered the cornerstone of the peace agreement signed last year between the government and the farc , known until recently as the revolutionary armed forces of colombia .
the special courts will mete out alternative sentences like landmine removal for ex-guerrilla leaders who are convicted of war crimes committed during the five-decade war .
under the peace deal , those convicted will not serve time in traditional jails .
the lower house made changes to the text agreed this month by the senate , so it must now go for conciliation between the two chambers .
once there is agreement on alterations the bill will go to president juan manuel santos to be signed into law .
with this step , we move towards peace : transitional justice guarantees the rights of the victims and establishes the basis for the reconciliation of colombians , santos said on twitter .
congress had until the end of the month to approve the law using a court-approved fast-track mechanism to reduce the number of required debates in an effort to implement the peace accord as quickly as possible .
the farc , now a political party known as the revolutionary alternative common force , has argued against any changes to the original agreement , including extradition for crimes committed after demobilization .
the law , which would also apply to members of the military who have been accused of atrocities , is part of the agreement that allowed more than 11,000 members of the farc - combatants and others - to lay down their arms and enter politics .
with the modifications , the farc will be able to participate in politics , but face the risk of losing benefits if they committed sexual abuse against minors .
they can be also be extradited for crimes committed after the culmination of the peace process .
we have achieved an agreement with teeth , said rodrigo lara , president of the lower house .
any farc member who commits a another crime will immediately leave the special regime and go to the ordinary jurisdiction .
sexual crimes will not be protected .
the leader of the farc , rodrigo londono , a presidential candidate for next year s election , has said any changes put at risk the implementation of the peace agreement .
under the agreement the farc will have 10 guaranteed seats in congress until 2026 .
the group has announced a slate of candidates for elections next year .