senate majority leader mitch mcconnell shut down massachusetts sen. elizabeth warren during a senate floor speech on tuesday , accusing the democrat of violating senate rules by criticizing their colleague and attorney general nominee , alabama sen. jeff sessions.warren was warned early on in her remarks by montana sen. steve daines , the republican overseeing the floor speeches , after she quoted coretta scott king , the late widow of martin luther king , jr.warren quoted king asserting that sessions had exhibited so much hostility to the enforcement of voting rights laws for blacks.daines struck his gavel and reprimanded warren , who is one of a handful of democrats who plan an all-night senate floor session to oppose the trump nominee .
the senator is reminded that it is a violation of rule 19 of the standing rules of the senate to impute to another senator or senators any conduct or motive unworthy or becoming a senator , daines said.around 20 minutes later , mcconnell interrupted warren s speech to invoke rule 19 .
the senator has impugned the motives and conduct of our colleague from alabama as warned by the chair , said mcconnell .
senator warren , quote , said senator sessions has used the awesome power of his office to chill the free exercise of the vote of black citizens .
i call the senator to order under the provisions of rule 19 .
warren protested .
mr. president , i am surprised that the words of coretta scott king are not suitable for debate in the united states senate .
i ask leave of the senate to continue my remarks .
mcconnell objected to warren s request and daines ordered her to take her seat.warren appealed the ruling and called for a quorum vote to delay the proceedings.despite democrats protest speeches , sessions is expected to be approved as attorney general on wednesday .
daily callerit s a sickening game democrats play with the character of other people who don t agree with them and their radical views .
they have no problem impugning the good name of senator jeff sessions , who has an impeccable record of service to our nation , as long as he has been completely discredited by the time he takes office .