washington ( reuters ) - u.s .
senators unveiled legislation on wednesday providing federal aid to help states fix water infrastructure in the wake of flint , michigan ’ s crisis over lead-tainted drinking water .
senators james inhofe , an oklahoma republican , and debbie stabenow , a michigan democrat , and others introduced the measure providing $ 100 million to a revolving fund states can tap if they have drinking water problems .
the funding in the agreement is paid for by cuts from the advanced technology vehicles manufacturing loans for auto companies , aimed to speed development of electric cars and other technologies .
inhofe called it a “ failed program ” that hasn ’ t been used in more than a year and has only issued five loans since 2008 .
it was unclear whether the measure would be attached to a wide-ranging energy bill that failed to advance early this month or whether the senators would try to pass it as a separate bill .
under the plan , states must first explain how the money would be spent , according to details of the agreement .
if they do not use the aid in 18 months , it would return to the federal government .
“ this is not a blank check , ” according to a document explaining the deal .
thousands of children in flint , a predominantly african-american city of 100,000 , are believed to have consumed dangerous amounts of lead in drinking water after a state-appointed emergency manager directed the city to switch from detroit ’ s drinking water supply to the flint river .
lead is a neurotoxin that can harm brain development in children .
under the deal , flint and the states would also have access to $ 70 million in a credit subsidy under a federal program called the water infrastructure finance and innovation authority , or wifia .
congress conceived the wifia to help lower borrowing costs for municipal water projects .
the federal program acts as a loan guarantee , rather than a grant , and is aimed at bringing borrowing costs in line with u.s. government bond rates .
some critics say local governments need direct federal aid , not borrowing support , to improve infrastructure .
there would also be $ 50 million in aid available for national use for a childhood lead poisoning prevention program , a health registry and other items .
earlier this month , michigan lawmakers had at first opposed getting funding from the advanced vehicles program , saying it would hurt auto workers .