san juan ( reuters ) - puerto rico ’ s house of representatives on tuesday debated a bill to halt debt payments , while a government official fired back at creditors who suggested the u.s. territory was shirking efforts to hold restructuring talks .
burdened by a $ 70 billion debt load it says it can not pay and a 45 percent poverty rate that has led to a steady exodus of its american citizens to the mainland , puerto rico faces economic collapse without a solution that either changes laws and/or involves an agreement with creditors .
the next key date is may 1 when the government development bank , the island ’ s primary fiscal agent , is due to pay creditors $ 422 million .
the island ’ s senate passed an emergency bill early on tuesday that would alter gdb ’ s structure , as well as allow governor alejandro garcia padilla to declare a moratorium on any debt payment he deems necessary .
the house was expected to vote on the bill on tuesday .
a group of puerto rico ’ s general obligation bondholders criticized the bill .
“ it is no coincidence that the governor has abruptly sought overnight adoption of debt moratorium legislation at the very moment large general obligation bondholders were arriving on the island to pursue a consensual restructuring , ” the creditors said in a statement on tuesday .
that group , holding about $ 5 billion debt , then released a proposed restructuring plan that would defer principal repayments and offer new debt , a plan they say would save puerto rico from default .
gdb president melba acosta disputed the notion that officials were blowing off creditors , saying puerto rico held meetings with creditors in march , presenting updated restructuring proposals .
“ we have not received an actionable , binding financing commitment from anyone , and we have received no offers that would lead puerto rico towards a stable and prosperous economy for years to come , ” acosta said in a statement to reuters .
“ we sincerely hope that the ‘ proposals ’ that the advisers to our go holders speak of are not a public relations stunt that attempts to mislead the public and distract leaders in congress from the real work at hand , ” she added .
gdb is also holding consensual restructuring talks with its own creditors .
legislative efforts in the u.s. congress to fix puerto rico ’ s debt problem are not likely to come to fruition before the gdb ’ s may 1 debt payment .
on monday , some gdb creditors sued to try to prevent a run on the bank as negotiations play out , asking a court to bar the gdb from paying certain creditors and preventing depositors from withdrawing money .
a source close to the matter told reuters some government agencies were planning to open new accounts at other banks , but denied those agencies were removing money from the gdb .