communist mayor bill de blasio just can t help himself .
he had to abandon nyc to go to hamburg , germany where his anarchist commie buddies are making a fuss it is what globalist commies do .
the problem is that new york city is a mess but globalists like de blasio don t have time for governing when global policy is in jeopardy the new york post reported : mayor bill de blasio on thursday skipped an nypd swearing-in ceremony made somber by this week s assassination of a cop then hours later revealed he was busy preparing to jet off on a surprise trip to join leftist protesters at the g-20 summit in germany.hizzoner s overseas jaunt was kept under wraps until just 90 minutes before he took off from newark airport .
a last-minute announcement said he will attend several events surrounding the g-20 summit , including saturday s hamburg zeigt haltung [ hamburg shows attitude ] rally .
de blasio will be keynote speaker for the loony anti-capitalists .
no word on whether he will throw the ceremonial first brick through a bank window.meanwhile , the nypd reels from miosotis familia s assassination , the subway system rapidly disintegrates , and nyc in general continues to go to the dogs with trash strewn on streets at least de blasio , who was born warren wilhelm jr. , can get in touch with his german roots.funny irony warren wilhelm , jr or bill de blasio ?
we know that his early political career was marxist , and not just in an academic sense .
he raised money for the sandinistas , visited nicaragua to align himself with the tyrants , and worked to undermine the efforts of the reagan administration .
no wonder he was endorsed by george soros .
curiously , he decided to cover up his radical past : there is no mention of his extremist associations on his website .
quite frankly , bill de blasio has a problem with the truth .
he was born warren wilhelm , jr. in 1961 .
when he graduated from new york university in 1983 ( where he was heavily involved in leftist causes ) , he changed his name to warren de blasio-wilhelm .
in 2002 , he changed his name again , settling on bill de blasio .
the only reason we know this is because the media put the spotlight on him , forcing the issue.de blasio s character was impugned again when it was learned that he accepted over $ 50,000 from a group of slumlords .
what made this so outrageous was de blasio s past denunciations of these same men while serving as public advocate.just recently , when the new york times confronted de blasio about his love for democratic socialism , expressed in 1990 , he said , that s not a quote from me ; that s someone s notes .
but in fact those were his words .
when the times told him it has the proof , he brazenly said , it doesn t matter .
please read more on de blasio s lies here : newsmax