the consequences of throwing out the welcome mat for people who have no intention of obeying your rules or living in a world with morals or values some 30 muslim men thought that the woman was in violation of islamic sharia law , by being in sweden unaccompanied by a man .
they thought that she should therefore be raped and her teenage son killed .
two swedish citizens were convicted by a gothenburg court of joining an islamist terror group in syria and murdering two captives .
video evidence showed one victim being beheaded .
every night when i have gone to bed , i have seen a head hanging in the air .
court chairman ralf g. larsson .
sometime during the night , the victim was awakened by the iraqi as he raped her .
the woman managed to break free and locate a train attendant .
at first , the woman did not want to call the police .
she felt sorry for him [ the rapist ] and was afraid he would be deported back to iraq .
one week after sweden raised its terror alert level to the highest ever , the police raised another alarm saying their weapons are simply not good enough to prevent a potential terror attack.november 4 : the swedish immigration service sent out a press release , saying that it had hired close to a thousand additional employees since june .
the immigration service now has over 7,000 employees , including hourly workers and consultants double the 3,350 employees who worked there in 2012 .
most of the new recruits work with the legal processing of asylum applications , but the units dealing with receiving migrants and filing their initial applications have also expanded considerably .
as if the record influx of migrants this autumn were not crushing enough , the immigration service also had trouble retaining its staff .
employees complain about being badly treated : they are always expected to be on call , and possibly even work christmas eve.november 4 : bobel barqasho , a 31-year-old syrian , was sentenced by sweden s supreme court to 14 years in prison .
before his case reached the supreme court , barqasho had been sentenced by a lower court to 9 years in prison , then acquitted by the court of appeals .
in february 2013 , barqasho threw his wife off a sixth-floor balcony .
against all odds , the woman survived the 13-meter ( about 43 feet ) fall , but was badly injured .
when she woke up after five weeks in a coma , her head was held together by a helmet , her face felt loose , and her teeth were gone .
in the court of appeals , the defense managed to plant reasonable doubt about the man s guilt by claiming the woman was depressed and had jumped of her own free will ] so the court of appeals set him free .
by the time the supreme court pronounced its sentence of 14 years , barqasho had disappeared .
he is now being sought by interpol.november 6 : the gr nkulla school in alvesta closed after reports of a rape at the facility spread on social media .
a somali boy had apparently been sexually harassing a 12-year-old girl for some time .
on october 17 , he allegedly took his attentions a step farther , pulled the girl behind a bush and raped her .
the girl s father had been unsuccessful in trying to get the school to address the problem earlier , but even after the reported rape , the school s management did not act .
the boy was allowed to continue going to the school just on a schedule different from the girl s. her distraught parents told the news website fria tider : we are being spat on because we are swedish .
in protest against the school s management , many parents , viewing the school as having sided with the perpetrator , moved their children to other schools.november 9 : social commentator and whistleblower merit wager revealed on her blog that administrators at the immigration service had all been ordered to accept the claim that an applicant is a child , if he does not look as if he is over 40 .
a staggering 32,180 unaccompanied refugee children had arrived during 2015 by december 1 since then another 1,130 have come and the government finally decided to take action.if its proposition is approved by parliament , everyone who looks adult-aged will be forced to go through a medical age-determination procedure .
one of the reasons sweden stopped doing these in the first place , was that pediatricians refused to take part in them .
they said the procedures were unreliable .
november 10 : a 28-year-old iraqi man was prosecuted for raping a woman on a night train between finland and sweden .
the man had originally planned to seek asylum in finland , but had found the living conditions there too harsh .
he had therefore taken a train back to sweden .
in a couchette ( sleeping car where men and women are together ) , the rapist and two other asylum seekers met one of the many swedish women whose hearts go out to new arrivals .
the woman bought sandwiches for the men ; they drank vodka .
when two of the men started groping the woman , she told them to stop , yet chose to lie down and go to sleep .
sometime during the night , she was awakened by the iraqi as he raped her .
the woman managed to break free and locate a train attendant .
to the attendant s surprise , the woman did not immediately want to press charges .
the court documents state : the train attendant asked if he should call the police .
at first , the woman did not want him to do so , because she did not want to put n.n. , an asylum seeker , in a tough spot .
she felt sorry for him and was afraid he would be deported back to iraq .
the man was given a sentence of one year in prison , payment of 85,000 kronor ( about $ 10,000 ) in damages , and deportation but will be allowed to come back to sweden after five years.november 10 : an algerian and a syrian asylum seeker were indicted for raping a swedish woman in str ngn s. the men , 39-year-old from algeria and 31-year-old from syria , met the woman in a bar one night in august .
when the woman left , one of the men followed her , pulled her to the ground , and assaulted her .
afterwards , the woman kept walking , and ran into two other men the syrian and another unidentified man and was raped again .
the syrian reportedly also spit her in face and said , i m going to f k you , little swedish girl .
the men , who lived at the same asylum house , denied knowing each other when questioned by the police.the verdict was announced on december 1 .
rapist number one was sentenced to 2.5 years in prison , 117,000 kronor ( about $ 14,000 ) in damages , and deportation to algeria .
rapist number two was convicted of aggravated rape and sentenced to four years in prison .
he can not be deported , however , because there are currently hindrances towards enforcing deportations to syria .
he was also ordered to pay the woman 167,000 kronor ( about $ 20,000 ) in damages.november 13 : a trial began against eight eritrean men , between the ages of 19 and 26 , who according to the district court , crudely and ruthlessly gang-raped a 45-year-old woman .
she had been waiting in a stairwell for a friend when the men invited her into an apartment .
inside , she was thrown on the floor , held down , beaten and brutally raped .
when questioned by the police , she said , it felt as if there were hands and fingers everyplace .
fingers penetrated me , vaginally , anally .
it hurt very much .
i could feel the fingernails .
she said she could also hear the eritreans laughing and speaking in their own language while they raped her .
they seemed to be enjoying themselves , she said.when two of the men started fighting over who should rape her next , she tried to flee , but one of the men hit her over the head ; she fell unconscious .
after coming to , she escaped out a window and was able to reach a neighbor.the district court of falun established that several men had taken part in the attack , but the district attorney was unable to prove who had done what .
therefore , only one man was convicted of aggravated rape , and sentenced to five years in prison .
the others were sentenced to only 10 months in prison for helping to conceal a serious criminal offense .
after serving their time , the men will be allowed to stay in sweden.november 14 : the swedish security service , s po , warned again of muslim terrorists hiding among migrants .
the number of individuals listed as potential security threats has tripled this year , and includes several hundred who may be ready to carry out paris-style attacks.as the immigration service has a huge backlog in trying to register all 150,000 asylum seekers who have come to sweden so far in 2015 , there are probably also many migrants that would be considered potential security threats.november 14 : sweden s foreign minister , margot wallstr m , made yet another strange statement with diplomatic consequences .
the day after the paris attacks , in an interview with swedish public television , wallstr m was asked , how worried are you about the radicalization of young people in sweden who choose to fight for isis ?
wallstr m replied : yes , of course we have a reason to be worried not only here in sweden but around the world , because there are so many who are being radicalized .
here again , you come back to situations like that in the middle east , where not least the palestinians see that there isn t any future for us [ the palestinians ] , we either have to accept a desperate situation or resort to violence .
two days later , the swedish ambassador to israel , carl magnus nesser , was called to a meeting at the israeli foreign ministry .
its spokesman , emmanuel nahshon , later told reuters , the swedish foreign minister s statements are appallingly impudent [ she ] demonstrates genuine hostility when she points to a connection of any kind between the terror attacks in paris and the complex situation between israel and the palestinians .
in a formal statement , the swedish foreign ministry denied that margot wallstr m s remark had connected the paris attacks with the israeli-palestinian conflict .
a swedish conservative ( moderaterna ) member of parliament , hanif bali , sarcastically tweeted that it seemed the foreign minister is suffering from an obvious case of israel-tourette s. november 18 : the authority for civil protection and contingency planning ( msb ) warned that the asylum situation was not only very strained , but that things keep getting worse and that in some parts of sweden , the authorities can only function until the end of december .
meanwhile , the immigration service calculated that another 13,000 beds are needed in so-called evacuation accommodations .
the problem can not be fully solved even if the armed forces help provide more housing or if the msb could arrange more tent accommodations , the authority wrote.the massive influx of asylum seekers has also led to native swedes being crowded out of the health care and social services systems , according to the msb .
it [ the msb ] is so busy handling unaccompanied children and asylum seekers , that there simply is not enough time to tend to the everyday functions , such as healthcare and social services , said alexandra nordlander , chief of operative analysis at the msb , to the daily tabloid , aftonbladet.november 19 : a fire broke out at lundsbrunn spa , a few weeks after plans were announced to convert the historic building into the biggest asylum-seekers home in sweden .
according to the police , the fire was not an arson , but started in a wood-pellet stove.many hotels and spas have transforming themselves into asylum-seekers housing , in order to profit from lucrative deals offered by the immigration service .
lundsbrunn spa , near a mineral spring , dates back to 1890 ; in 1817 , a hospital was established on the grounds .
the nearby village is home to fewer than 1,000 people , so when lundsbrunn spa decided to accept an offer from the immigration service , the village faced a doubling of its population .
the owners of lundsbrunn wrote on the spa s website that they see the transformation from spa to asylum-seekers home as a temporary measure.november 20 : norwegian businessman petter stordalen , the billionaire owner of nordic choice hotels , announced that the chain s many properties in scandinavia and the baltic states would no longer serve their guests sausage and bacon for breakfast .
the breakfast buffet of the nordic choice s clarion hotel post in gothenburg was named earlier this year the best hotel breakfast in the world by the british newspaper , the mirror .
but apparently , this award did not matter.the cause for the hotel s decision was cited as health reasons .
the internet , however , was soon abuzz with speculation that the real reason was adaptation to islamic dietary laws ( halal ) .
one week later , stordalen backtracked .
the reaction from hotel guests had been too strong .
many people vented their anger over the withheld bacon on stordalen s facebook page .
stordalen commented : the guests have spoken .
comfort hotels are bringing back bacon .
november 23 : hassan mostafa al-mandlawi , 32 , and al amin sultan , 30 , were indicted in the gothenburg municipal court , suspected of having traveled to syria in 2013 and murdering at least two people there .
the charge was terrorist crimes , ( alternatively crimes against international law ) and murder .
chief prosecutor agnetha hilding qvarnstr m , of the national unit for security cases , said : the act [ was ] committed with the intent to harm the state of syria and intimidate the people , thus the classification : terrorist crimes .
the hard part is to clarify fully whether these men have been part of an armed group , and acted within the frames of the armed conflict , or not .
the accused men came to sweden , one from iraq and one from syria , as children , but grew up in sweden and are swedish citizens .
they traveled to syria in 2013 , and joined one of the many islamist terror groups there .
according to the prosecution , they murdered two captured workers in an industrial area of aleppo by slitting their throats .
the prosecutor wrote that , al-mandlawi and sultan have both expressed delight at the deeds .
during the trial , films of the executions were shown , but both men still denied having committed the crimes .
those present in court agreed that the films were among the most disturbing ever displayed in a swedish court .
first , they show a man having his throat slit , the blood gushing before he dies .
then , the other victim s head is severed from his body , and the killer holds up the severed head to loud cheers from the others .
the court s chairman , ralf g. larsson , told the news agency , tt : every night when i have gone to bed , i have seen a head hanging in the air .
the verdict was announced december 14 : both men were convicted of terrorist crimes and sentenced to life in prison .
the verdict will be appealed , the defense lawyers said.via : gatestone institute