washington/tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the united states on friday backed the re-election of honduran president juan orlando hernandez despite widespread misgivings about the vote count , prompting the opposition candidate to describe his bid for the presidency as a lost cause .
the honduran electoral tribunal declared hernandez winner of the nov. 26 election last weekend amid strident opposition protests over the vote count in the impoverished central american country , which is a major hub for drug trafficking .
the vote tally had initially clearly favored opposition candidate salvador nasralla , a center-leftist , but it swung in favor of the incumbent after a 36-hour delay .
after the united states weighed in , nasralla was pessimistic about his chances of winning support in honduras , claiming in an interview with reuters that the nation s supreme court and electoral tribunal are in hernandez s camp .
but he maintained that he had a path to victory at the international level , noting the organization of american states ( oas ) had called for new elections to resolve the dispute .
nationally , we think it s a lost cause , he told reuters .
but internationally , we are confident that the oas , which understands the great fraud in honduras , will take action so that they repeat the elections .
earlier in the day , nasralla appeared all but ready to bow out of the race , saying in an interview with tv network france tv that his political career was over .
the situation is practically decided , he told the network .
i no longer have anything to do in politics , but the people , which are 80 percent in my favor , will continue the fight .
the united states followed mexico and other latin american countries in supporting hernandez , who has been a reliable u.s. ally .
the u.s. state department congratulated hernandez and said honduras should pursue a long-term effort to heal the political divide in the country and enact much-needed electoral reforms , spokeswoman heather nauert said in a statement .
the honduras election tribunal s declaration in hernandez s favor last week sparked violent protests in honduras , and the oas s call for new elections has been rejected by the honduran government .
nasralla had been backed by former president manuel zelaya , a leftist who was ousted in a 2009 coup after he proposed a referendum on his re-election , which was barred by the constitution at the time .
but zelaya said friday that nasralla was no longer a member of his alliance .
nasralla said that he had no need for party membership anymore .
i am the president elect of all hondurans , he said .
it no longer makes sense to belong to the alliance .
the streets of the honduran capital tegucigalpa and other major cities were largely calm on friday with a few protests cleared by the armed forces .
by mid-week some 27 people had died in clashes , according to local human rights group cofadeh .
the state department called for all sides to refrain from violence , for those who wish to challenge the result to use legal means , and for the government to ensure that security services respect the rights of peaceful protesters .
it also called for the electoral tribunal to transparently and fully review any challenges filed by political parties .
hernandez has led a military crackdown against gangs in the central american country , and honduras notoriously high murder rate has slid since he took power in 2014 .
nasralla , a television host , traveled to washington this week to urge the united states not to recognize the vote , but a senior state department official said on wednesday the government had not seen any evidence that would alter the vote s outcome .
nasralla said the u.s. decision reflected washington s strategic concerns over a leftist government in honduras .
they re afraid of losing honduras , he told local television .