aachen , germany ( reuters ) - social democrat martin schulz on saturday read out a message he received via facebook from a young syrian migrant who called on germans to exercise their right to vote in sunday s national election .
in an open letter to the german people , abdul abbasi , a translator at a migrant legal clinic in goettingen , talked of watching friends killed before his eyes while participating in pro-democracy demonstrations in syria in 2012 , schulz said .
their goals and desires were things that are considered normal in germany in 2017 .
they died because they wanted to live as free people ... they wanted the right to participate in the politics of their country , abbasi wrote .
the ability to vote and live in a democratic country is a dream of many in this world , he said .
go vote and protect your democracy , protect us from people who divide us into categories , fight against our ability to live together and want to divide the society .
abbasi was not immediately available to comment .
his facebook profile said he was from aleppo , syria , and was studying dentistry at the university of goettingen .
schulz said the letter underscored the importance of voting at a time when the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party is poised to become the first far-right party in the bundestag since the end of world war two .
abbasi posted the open letter in response to a facebook posting in which schulz called the afd a danger to our democracy and said it has no business being in parliament .
founded in 2013 to oppose large bailouts of financially strapped euro zone countries , the afd has gained popular support after chancellor angela merkel in 2015 opened the doors to about a million migrants .
it is now polling around 13 percent .
what a wonderful letter , and what a challenge for us , schulz told thousands of supporters gathered for his final campaign appearance .
with support of around 21 percent , the spd is running far behind merkel s conservatives in the polls , which are at 34 percent .
electoral arithmetic might yet force merkel to renew her coalition with the spd , or she might opt for a three-way alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmental greens .