21st century wire says back in january of 2016 , 21wire reported how the oregon standoff protesters convoy was intercepted in a ambush by federal forces , and how lavoy finicum was executed by a rogue agent .
the mainstream media was silent .
running point on the government s propaganda campaign was the oregonian newspaper s supposed award-winning reporter les zaitz who shamefully referred to the planned federal ambush as a traffic stop .
as it turns out the mainstream media was completely wrong while we were right .
this was an elaborate federally managed cover-up from the beginning.21wire reported at the time the obvious contradiction ; without any audio track to synch with the fbi s aerial footage it was impossible to know when shots were fired and if the official story was actually true .
as part of the federal cover-up , fbi special agent in charge , greg bretzing , insisted that their footage provided an honest and unfiltered view of what happened .
it wasn t and new evidence told a completely different story , exposing the official story as a lie from the onset.finicum was shot three times in the back an autopsy revealed with one of the bullets piercing finicum s heart.the obvious problem with how these latest legal proceedings are being framed is this : finicum is execute with three shots to the back after a pre-planned federal ambush , while the hired federal gunman who pulled the trigger is indicted for lying .
will his family and friends get justice this time around ?
executed : robert lavoy finicum ( january 27 , 1961 january 26 , 2016 ) conrad wilson opdthe fbi agent indicted for allegedly lying about a pivotal moment during the 2016 malheur national wildlife refuge occupation has hired a high-profile washington d.c.-based attorney to defend him.indicted fbi hostage rescue team member w. joseph astarita has retained robert cary , who is well known in the nation s capital for his defense of former alaska sen. ted stevens.in 2008 , the department of justice indicted the republican senator on corruption charges .
years later , the case was dismissed and found to be an example of gross prosecutorial misconduct .
if what happened to sen. ted stevens , a powerful senator a few blocks from the supreme court of the united states , a few blocks from the united states capitol if it can happen to him , it can happen to anybody , cary said in a 2015 speech to an american bar association gathering.cary will serve as co-counsel in the astarita case with portland based attorneys david angeli and tyler francis , according to angeli.federal prosecutors have accused astarita of lying to investigators about firing his gun during a traffic stop that left malhuer occupation leader robert lavoy finicum dead.though neither of astarita s shots hit finicum , prosecutors have charged the fbi agent with several felonies for allegedly failing to disclose them .
those charges include making false statements and obstruction of justice continue this story at opdread more bundy ranch news at : 21st century wire bundy filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv