cox s bazar/yangon ( reuters ) - they came in boats , others on flimsy rafts , some even swam .
around 750 rohingya muslims made their escape from myanmar on friday to reach bangladesh , where the greatest danger is malnutrition and disease in teeming refugee camps .
over 613,000 rohingya have already taken refuge in the camps since a myanmar military clearance operation forced them to abandon their villages in northern rakhine state .
rohingya who have reached bangladesh have recounted horror stories of rape and murder .
a top u.n. official described the military s actions as ethnic cleansing , though myanmar denied that , saying its operation was needed for national security after rohingya militants attacked 30 security posts on aug. 25 .
aung san suu kyi , the de facto leader of myanmar s less than two-year-old administration , was in vietnam on friday , attending the asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit .
she was expected to hold talks with several leaders on the sidelines of the gathering , including canadian prime minister justin trudeau .
having won the nobel peace prize for defying the generals who ruled predominantly buddhist myanmar with an iron fist for nearly half a century , suu kyi s reputation as a stateswoman has suffered due to her failure to speak out more strongly over the rohingya crisis .
under a constitution written before the junta gave way , the civilian administration still has to share power with the generals , and has little say over defense and security issues .
still , leaders at apec , and two other regional summits to be hosted by the philippines in the coming days , are expected to exert pressure on suu kyi to do more to stem the crisis .
and on wednesday , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson will meet with suu kyi in naypyitaw , the myanmar capital , with senators back in washington pressing to impose sanctions targeting the military .
international rescue committee , the leading aid agency headquartered in new york and led by former british foreign minister david miliband , reckoned that up to two-thirds of the 300,000 rohingya remaining in myanmar will join the exodus to bangladesh in the coming months .
the irc in a statement highlighted the extremely dangerous health conditions for rohingya living in camps in the port city of cox s bazar .
a nutrition survey led by its partner action contre la faim had found 40,000 rohingya children faced malnutrition and required life-saving assistance .
it said 95 percent of the population was drinking contaminated water - and agencies had reported that two-thirds of cox s bazar s water was contaminated with faeces .
the conditions we are seeing in cox s bazaar create a perfect storm for a public health crisis on an unimaginable scale , said cat mahony , the irc s emergency response director in cox s bazar .
the situation will only deteriorate with more arrivals and a greater strain on already overstretched resources .
trail of destruction : tmsnrt.rs/2y8fgq8 still , rohingya too scared to stay in myanmar were ready to risk their lives crossing the waters around the mouth of the naf river to reach bangladesh .
they were helped on friday by another day of calm seas , though more than 200 have drowned attempting the crossing during the past two months .
bangladesh officials said significant numbers were arriving on rafts they had built from bamboo , lashing plastic jerrycans to the poles for extra buoyancy .
they said more rohingya had swum across on thursday .
a reuters photographer saw up to ten rafts landing on the beaches of teknaf , at the southern tip of cox s bazar , on friday .
people reaching the shore have told reuters that there are thousands living in desperate conditions on the strand of beach by the river s mouth at pa nyaung pin gyi , as they waited for a chance to cross over .
dil muhammad , 30 , from buthidaung , one of the rakhine regions that bore the brunt of the military operation , finally made it across with his wife and three children after weeks of living on the sand because he could not afford to pay a boatman .
i stayed in pa nyaung pin gyi for two months because i didn t have money to come , he told reuters .
dil mohammed said his 18 month old daughter was suffering from diarrhea and a fever .
i couldn t get to a doctor as we were stuck in that place .
and sakhina khatun , a woman of 35 , said that three men who had been with her on the other side had been attacked by buddhists when they went to search for bamboo to make a raft .
border guard bangladesh officials counted 444 refugees coming ashore at sabrang , near teknaf , and 150 more arriving further along the coast .
afruzul haque tutul , additional superintendent of police in cox s bazar said his officers had rescued 125 rohingya from a wooden fishing boat stranded off inani beach and bussed them to the camps .
mass exodus : tmsnrt.rs/2xtid74 a desperate escape : tmsnrt.rs/2xivxqf