this is not the first time putin has warned the us to hurry up with its release of hillary s emails .
biden better get the emergency campaign team ready .
if putin releases the unedited , corrupt version of hillary s highly classified emails , crooked hillary will not likely be able to overcome the damage that will be done to what s left of her reputation .
reliable intelligence sources in the west have indicated that warnings had been received that the russian government could in the near future release the text of email messages intercepted from u.s. presidential candidate hillary clinton s private e-mail server from the time she was u.s. secretary of state .
the release would , the messaging indicated , prove that secretary clinton had , in fact , laid open u.s. secrets to foreign interception by putting highly-classified government reports onto a private server in violation of u.s. law , and that , as suspected , the server had been targeted and hacked by foreign intelligence services.the reports indicated that the decision as to whether to reveal the intercepts would be made by russian federation president vladimir putin , and it was possible that the release would , if made , be through a third party , such as wikileaks .
the apparent message from moscow , through the intelligence community , seemed to indicate frustration with the pace of the official u.s. department of justice investigation into the so-called server scandal , which seemed to offer prima facie evidence that u.s. law had been violated by mrs clinton s decision to use a private server through which to conduct official and often highly-secret communications during her time as secretary of state .
u.s.sources indicated that the extensive deptartment of justice probe was more focused on the possibility that the private server was used to protect messaging in which secretary clinton allegedly discussed quid pro quo transactions with private donors to the clinton foundation in exchange for influence on u.s. policy.the russian possession of the intercepts , however , was designed also to show that , apart from violating u.s. law in the fundamental handling of classified documents ( which sec .
clinton had alleged was no worse than the mishandling of a few documents by cia director david petraeus or clinton s national security advisor sandy berger ) , the traffic included highly-classified materials which had their classification headers stripped .
russian ( and other ) sources had indicated frustration with the pace of the justice dept .
probe , and its avoidance of the national security aspects of intelligence handling .
this meant that the topic would be suppressed by the u.s. barack obama administration so that it would not be a factor in the current u.s. presidential election campaign , in which president obama had endorsed mrs clinton .
via : oilprice.com