bangkok ( reuters ) - ousted thai prime minister yingluck shinawatra has fled the country ahead of a verdict against her in a negligence trial brought by the junta that overthrew her , sources close to the shinawatra family said on friday .
yingluck , 50 , whose family has dominated thai politics for more than 15 years , failed to show up at court for judgment in a case centered on the multi-billion dollar losses incurred by a rice subsidy scheme for farmers .
overthrown in 2014 , yingluck had faced up to 10 years in prison if found guilty .
her former commerce minister was jailed in a related case for 42 years on friday .
she has definitely left thailand , said one source , who is also a member of her puea thai party .
the sources did not say where she had gone .
yingluck s brother , thaksin shinawatra , who heads the political clan , was overthrown in a 2006 coup and fled into exile to escape a corruption conviction that he said was aimed at demolishing the populist movement he founded .
the struggle between that movement and a bangkok-centered royalist and pro-military elite has been at the heart of years of turmoil in thailand .
the verdict against yingluck could have reignited tension , though the army has largely snuffed out open opposition .
after yingluck failed to show up , the supreme court issued an arrest warrant against her and rescheduled the verdict to sept. 27 .
it said it did not believe her excuse that she could not attend the court hearing because of an ear problem .
it is possible that she has fled already , deputy prime minister prawit wongsuwan told reporters .
he later said police were investigating reports that she had left via koh chang , an island close to the cambodian border .
cambodian immigration police said she had not entered their country .
yingluck last commented on social media on thursday , saying on her facebook page that she would not be able to meet supporters at court because of tight security .
she had been banned from traveling abroad at the beginning of the trial in 2015 and has attended previous hearings .
the court confiscated the 30 million baht ( $ 900,000 ) that yingluck had posted as bail .
hundreds of her supporters had gathered outside the court on friday where about 4,000 police had been deployed .
some held roses while others wore white gloves with the word love on them .
although yingluck had already been banned from politics by the junta in 2015 , she could have been a party figurehead for elections that junta leader prime minister prayuth chan-ocha has promised for next year .
if yingluck has fled it would disappoint her supporters and make her opponents feel vindicated , said thitinan pongsudhirak , director of the institute of security and international studies at chulalongkorn university .
it does not help with thailand s division and polarization , he said .
under the rice subsidy program , yingluck s administration paid rice farmers up to 50 percent more than market prices .
it left thailand with huge rice stockpiles and caused $ 8 billion in losses .
yingluck has said she was only in charge of coming up with the policy but not the day-to-day management of it .
if she has fled people would not trust her , but the masses would still support her because they benefited from her policies , 38-year-old delivery man sakunchai muenlamai .
the supreme court sentenced yingluck s former commerce minister , boonsong teriyapirom , to 42 years in jail after finding him guilty of falsifying government-to-government rice deals between thailand and china in 2013 .
he said he would appeal , but was told it was too late in the day to apply for bail so will spend the weekend behind bars .