philadelphia ( reuters ) - the u.s. constitution protects sen. robert menendez from being prosecuted on bribery charges for talks he held with government officials on behalf of a friend who gave him gifts valued at $ 1 million , the new jersey democrat ’ s lawyers argued on monday .
the arguments came before the 3rd u.s .
circuit court of appeals in the corruption case against menendez , who stepped down as the ranking member of the powerful u.s. foreign relations committee when he was indicted in april 2015 .
federal prosecutors charge that he accepted lavish stays at a caribbean villa , a luxurious visit to a paris hotel and flights on private jets from florida ophthalmologist and businessman solomon melgen , a longtime friend .
menendez interceded on melgen ’ s behalf in an $ 8.9 million billing dispute with medicare , and in a dispute with the government of the dominican republic over a port security contract held by one of melgen ’ s companies , prosecutors say .
the hearing on monday involved an appeal of an earlier ruling dismissing a motion by menendez ’ s lawyers to have the case thrown out before it goes to trial .
they argued that the discussions with high-level officials centered on government policies rather than melgen himself .
at the time of his indictment , menendez was the ranking member of the powerful u.s. foreign relations committee , a post that he stepped down from while the charges are pending .
“ you have to look at what happened in the room , ” defense attorney abbe lowell told the three-judge panel hearing the case .
“ if you look at what happened in the room , the record reflects that there were high level policy discussions occurring. ” the case highlights a seldom-discussed provision of the u.s. constitution known as the “ speech or debate ” clause , which gives members of congress broad protections against prosecution for actions they take in their capacity as legislators .
the clause was designed to prevent the executive branch from intimidating members of congress for legislative actions , but it is commonly cited by the legal teams of members of congress when they run afoul of u.s. corruption laws .
but circuit judge thomas b. ambro pointed out that not everything a member of congress does is protected by the clause .
“ it looks like he ’ s doing constituent services , and that doesn ’ t get you the shield of the speech and debate clause , ” ambro said .
prosecutors argued that the justices should look at the circumstances surrounding the talks menendez held with government officials .
peter koski , the deputy chief of the u.s. justice department ’ s public integrity section , pointed to emails between menendez and his chief of staff in which they discuss whether a meeting with then-u.s. health and human services secretary kathleen sebelius would get melgen ’ s hopes up .
“ the only way melgen ’ s expectations would be raised is if that meeting were about him , ” koski said .
melgen and menendez have pleaded not guilty , and have challenged the charges against them .
in september , u.s. district judge benjamin walls dismissed some of the charges against the men related to allegations that melgen passed along $ 40,000 in bribes with contributions through menendez ’ s legal defense fund .