donald trump just posted an outright lie on twitter addressed to the american people and got righteously taken to the woodshed for it.since the first day of his dictatorship , trump has been busy signing executive orders at a pace goes beyond what president obama did throughout his eight years in office .
trump has ordered federal agencies to start dismantling the affordable care act , programs that deal with slowing or stopping climate change , and regulations that provide americans with clean air and clean water.in addition , trump is an ally of the anti-vaccination movement , has placed usda scientists who deal with food safety on lockdown , and wants to defund the civil rights division of the justice department.trump is also preparing to withdraw the united states from the united nations , is escalating confrontation with china , and has suggested he will weaken nato.but trump insisted on wednesday night that he is doing his duty to protect american lives.as your president , i have no higher duty than to protect the lives of the american people .
pic.twitter.com/o7ynunwb8f donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 26 , 2017again , donald trump s actions clearly do not match his words and twitter users swiftly called him for it .
@ realdonaldtrump that depends your denial of climate change might kill us all .
kris sanchez ( @ krissanchez ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump ok , so resign .
johnny mcnulty ( @ johnnymcnulty ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump then quit .
tommy campbell ( @ mrtommycampbell ) january 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump but you re taking away our healthcare julia reiss ( @ thereisspiece ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump tell that to the gay people you ve given the middle finger to .
you re an unlettered con man .
taylor huckaby ( @ iwriterealgood ) january 26 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump and you re increasing the probability of unsafe and at-home abortions that will kill so many women julia reiss ( @ thereisspiece ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump why are you taking away 20 million americans access to healthcare then ?
not adding up .
? ? ?
kind of a symb- ?
( @ justincaffier ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump if that s true then why do you silence the epa and deny the science of climate change ?
mikel jollett ( @ mikel_jollett ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump in that case please stop drafting executive orders that injure american citizens .
k ?
# unfittolead benjamin byron davis ( @ tooda ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i hope this means protecting all americans , sir .
black , gay , muslim , christian , latino and everything in between .
kyle mcmahon ( @ kmacmusic ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you only care about your ego .
if you cared about veterans and the homeless and clean water then you would help instead of a 25 billion wall .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump of which americans ?
just the white ones ?
kristina wong ( @ mskristinawong ) january 26 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump congratulations on failing at your highest duty !
alex goldschmidt ( @ alexandergold ) january 26 , 2017donald trump doesn t care about protecting american lives .
the only thing he has done since the inauguration is destroy .
millions of americans are about to lose their healthcare .
millions across the country are going to have to deal with polluted air and water .
and trump s isolationist foreign policy and bullying tactics are going to put our national security in serious jeopardy .
his refusal to acknowledge climate change is going to put millions of americans , their homes , and their businesses at risk all along the coastline as the sea level rises.in short , trump is saying one thing , but doing something completely different .
and most americans are not fooled.featured image via alex wong/getty images