( reuters ) - the class of 2012 grew up with more than their parents or grandparents could dream of more food , more clothing , more comfort , more opportunities as china s economy surged during their childhood .
they did not have to struggle like previous generations , or eat bitterness , giving them a generally positive outlook .
their lives have also been shaped by the one-child policy , which since the 1970s has aimed to control a swelling population .
here is what they think about the generation gap .
wu qiong , who works in international settlements at a foreign bank : when i was getting to know this world , this world had already changed and become relatively developed .
i have watched it get better and better , not just become ok or be re-built .
i didn t see it being built , i saw it changing .
`` we really have n't eaten bitterness . ''
hu ruixin , a computer technician , speaking of the optimism of his generation : i think this is related to the age of our generation .
our parents lived hard lives , but our generation are all only children so our lives are not bad .
we should stay positive .
fu shiwei , an assistant university teacher , who is confident about her generation s prospects when it takes up leadership roles in companies and across the country : one rather large difference is that i think my generation is braver than the previous one when making choices , and is more open minded .
zhang yulin , a married video game designer : the pressure on our generation is fairly large .
we are all only children , pretty much .
the pressure of taking care of parents and the like is very big .
the two of us need to support four parents .
housing prices are also extremely high now .
as for work , competition is fierce .
if i don t work hard , i will be knocked out .
zheng yue , an interior designer : only children are different in terms of their temperament .
they only think of themselves .
they don t have that caring-for-others state of mind , that sense of responsibility .
this society is too shallow ...
the so-called spiritual root now is money .
with money many people have peace of mind , but it s not a spiritual root .
qi jing , a township leader for the communist party youth league , who grew up in wuhan : when i had great pressure around the time of the college entrance exam , my mom would tell me stories about my dad s business .
when he first came to wuhan he had no one to lean on , five yuan in his pocket , and with no place to live , he slept in a park .