mexico city ( reuters ) - the threat of losing power to a fierce leftwing rival next year is tempting mexico s ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) to enlist outside help for the first time in its nine-decade history .
corruption scandals , sluggish growth , failure to curb gang violence and persistent allegations of electoral fraud have seriously eroded the centrist party s already rocky reputation ahead of the july 2018 presidential election .
that has opened the door to andres manuel lopez obrador , a leftist former mayor of mexico city and twice runner-up for the presidency who has set the early pace with a relentless campaign against government corruption .
the pri s presidential hopefuls can begin registering on dec. 3 and many officials believe jose antonio meade , currently finance minister , will be chosen in a bid to detoxify its brand .
a fixture in the cabinet across two rival administrations , meade has no formal party affiliation and has distinguished himself as a discreet and diplomatic public servant with a grasp of finance and economics matched by few in mexico .
more importantly , he has avoided the damaging scandals that have engulfed the pri under president enrique pena nieto , who can not seek a second six-year term .
heriberto galindo , a senior pri politician , said meade s probity and economic savvy make him an ideal choice at a time of nagging uncertainty for mexico due to u.s. president donald trump s threats to ditch the nafta trade deal .
the mexican public s main social concerns are corruption and impunity , and jose antonio meade has a reputation for being honorable and honest , and he is honorable and honest , galindo said .
that s why i think he should be the candidate .
the pri said on thursday that the party s candidate would be elected by a national convention on feb. 18 .
by then , the candidate may be obvious .
cross-party appeal nearly a dozen pri lawmakers , serving or former government officials consulted by reuters said they believed meade would most likely be chosen , pointing to his cross-party appeal .
none forecast it would be the most prominent pri contender , interior minister miguel angel osorio chong , who has failed to tame gang violence and was pilloried for the 2015 jail break of kingpin joaquin el chapo guzman .
meade has been coy about whether he wants the presidency , and some pri grandees caution the party might spring a surprise .
education minister aurelio nuno , 39 , pena nieto s former chief of staff and one of his closest allies , as well as health minister jose narro , are viewed as the most likely alternatives .
speculation over meade intensified when the pri changed its statutes in august to make it easier for outsiders to run , but pena nieto has sought to dispel talk of the finance minister .
polls show he would have work to do .
meade is not widely recognized by the public , and one survey this week by polling firm buendia & laredo put him 14 percentage points behind lopez obrador in a match-up with a third leading contender .
however , pri officials supportive of meade believe he could persuade enough mexicans opposed to lopez obrador to cast a so-called voto util ( useful vote ) and win .
much of that calculus , they argue , rests on meade s ties to the center-right national action party ( pan ) , which ruled mexico from 2000 to 2012 and has fought bitterly with lopez obrador .
entering government bureaucracy in the 1990s , meade was by 2011 minister for energy , and later that year , finance .
many pan lawmakers speak warmly of him and say that if the 2018 race became a choice between lopez obrador and meade , they could back the latter .
yet the fact the pri is considering somebody from outside its ranks shows the extent of the party s troubles , said ernesto cordero , a pan senator who preceded meade as finance minister .
an october study by pollster mitofsky showed that while the pri slightly lagged the pan and lopez obrador s morena party in terms of active support - backed by about 18 percent of voters - it was easily the most unpopular , rejected by over half .
in strategic terms , the pri needs a candidate that can say his hands are clean , cordero said .
pena nieto made meade foreign minister in 2012 before he eventually returned to the finance ministry last year , making him , at 48 , the most experienced cabinet member in government .
expectations that the pri could soon pass the torch to meade were heightened on wednesday when pena nieto s top aide , foreign minister luis videgaray , described the yale-educated economist in glowing terms at an event .
under the leadership of jose antonio meade , mexico today has a direction , stability and has clarity in its decision-making on economic policy , videgaray said .
however , on thursday pena nieto attempted to knock down the impression videgaray s words had created .
don t be fooled , he told reporters .
the pri doesn t choose its candidate on the basis of praise or applause .