beirut ( reuters ) - iran s military chief warned israel against breaching syrian airspace and territory on a visit to damascus on wednesday , raising tensions with israel as it voices deep concern over tehran s influence in syria .
general mohammad baqeri pledged to increase cooperation with syria s military to fight israel and insurgents , iranian and syrian state media said .
iranian forces and iran-backed shi ite militias , including hezbollah , have provided critical military support to damascus , helping it regain swathes of syria from rebels and militants .
it s not acceptable for the zionist regime to violate the land and airspace of syria anytime it wants , baqeri said at a news conference with his syrian counterpart .
we are in damascus to assert and cooperate to confront our common enemies , the zionists and terrorists , he said , a reference to israel and sunni muslim jihadists including islamic state .
we drew up the broad lines for this cooperation , syrian state media cited the iranian military chief of staff as saying .
iran s expanding clout during syria s more than six-year war has raised alarm in israel , which has said it would act against any threat from its regional arch-enemy tehran .
israel s air force says it has struck arms convoys of the syrian military and hezbollah nearly 100 times during the war .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has said that iran was strengthening its foothold in syria and that israel would do whatever it takes to protect its security .
tensions have risen this year between lebanon s hezbollah and israel , which have avoided a major conflict since 2006 .
this week , the israeli military said it attacked a syrian anti-aircraft battery that had fired at its planes over lebanon .
but the syrian army said it hit an israeli warplane after it breached its airspace at the syria-lebanon border .
[ nl8n1mr2ex our job is to prevent war , and you do that through deterrence .
what we saw in syria ( on monday ) fell within this framework , the israeli defense minister told israel radio on wednesday before the iranian military chief s comments .
we will do whatever is necessary for ( our ) security , avigdor lieberman added .
we will not change our operating procedures because of shooting or a threat of this type or another .