paris ( reuters ) - emmanuel macron , who at the age of 39 has brought youth and vigor to the french presidency , is also developing a reputation for stinging and sometimes off-message language .
during a visit to a struggling company in the south-west of france on wednesday , macron was caught on video discussing clashes outside between the police and workers protesting his economic policies .
instead of kicking up a bloody mess , some of them would be better off going to see if they can get a job over there , he said , referring to a nearby aluminum factory battling to find workers .
some of them have got the qualifications to do it , he said , adding : it s not that far for them to go .
the comments lit up tv channels and twitter , where they were relished by the far-left and far-right , who are keen to cast macron , a former investment banker , as out of touch with the common man and a president for the rich .
florian philippot , until recently the number two in the far-right national front party , described macron as having contempt for france s lower-income workers .
a similar accusation was leveled by clementine autain , a lawmaker from the far-left france unbowed party .
it shows a great class contempt , she said .
he can t stop coming out with unfair comments targeting the masses .
macron s new spokesman , former journalist bruno roger-petit , was quick to post the full video of macron s exchange on twitter , saying some outlets and opponents were circulating extracts that made the president sound worse than was the case .
truncated and taken out of context , he said of snippets on social media .
emmanuel macron was underlining that the search for solutions on jobs is everyone s responsibility .
it is not the first time macron has sparked controversy with his language and then shown little sign of contrition .
while his often erudite speeches are laced with literary references that show off his elite education , he has a tendency to use dismissive words in off-the-cuff comments that critics say make him sound arrogant .
last month , as he was finalizing changes to france s labor rules to make hiring and firing easier , he said he would not bow to slackers who resist reform .
in july , visiting a high-tech start-up center in paris , he talked about those who succeed and those who are nothing .
and in 2016 , when confronted by angry unionists while he was economy minister , macron was recorded saying : you don t scare me with your t-shirt .
the best way of paying for a suit is to work .
spikey language has dogged french presidents in the past .
nicolas sarkozy caused uproar while interior minister in 2005 when he branded youths behind the worst urban violence in france in decades as scum , a comment that haunted him as president .
and francois hollande was accused by his former partner of referring to the poor as toothless , undermining his efforts to portray himself as a friend of the needy .