vatican city ( reuters ) - pope francis , speaking hours before u.s. president donald trump s announcement on jerusalem , called on wednesday for the city s status quo to be respected , saying new tension in the middle east would further inflame world conflicts .
trump is due on wednesday to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital and set in motion the relocation of the u.s. embassy to the ancient city , senior u.s. officials said , a decision that upends decades of u.s. policy and risks fuelling further violence in the middle east .
in an appeal at the end of his weekly general audience , francis called for all to honor united nations resolutions on the city , which is sacred to jews , christians and muslims .
i make a heartfelt appeal so that all commit themselves to respecting the status quo of the city , in conformity with the pertinent resolutions of the united nations , he said .
the vatican backs a two-state solution to the palestinian-israeli conflict , with both sides agreeing on the status of jerusalem as part of the peace process .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of their future independent state , whereas israel has declared the whole city to be its united and eternal capital .
the pope told thousands of people at his general audience : i can not keep quiet about my deep worry about the situation that has been created in the last few days .
he said he hoped wisdom and prudence prevail , in order to avoid adding new elements of tension to a global panorama that is already convulsed and marked by so many and cruel conflicts .
in 2012 , the vatican called for an internationally guaranteed special statute for jerusalem , aimed at safeguarding the freedom of religion and of conscience , the identity and sacred character of jerusalem as a holy city , ( and ) respect for , and freedom of , access to its holy places .
before making his public comments , francis met privately with a group of palestinians involved in inter-religious dialogue with the vatican .
the holy land is for us christians the land par excellence of dialogue between god and mankind , he said .
he spoke of dialogue between religions and also in civil society .
the primary condition of that dialogue is reciprocal respect and a commitment to strengthening that respect , for the sake of recognizing the rights of all people , wherever they happen to be , he said to the group .
the pope spoke by telephone to palestinian president mahmoud abbas about the crisis on tuesday .
the vatican and israel established full diplomatic relations in 1994 .
francis , former pope benedict and pope john paul ii all visited israel and palestinian territories .
when francis visited the holy land in 2014 , he flew directly by helicopter from jordan to what the vatican program called the state of palestine and visited israel last .
this irked israel because his predecessor had always gone first to israel and entered the territories from israel .
the vatican signed its first treaty with the state of palestine the following year .