berlin ( reuters ) - most germans are wary of anything that smacks of nationalism given their nazi history but the concept of heimat ( homeland ) is enjoying a renaissance driven by rising anxiety about migration and globalization .
president frank-walter steinmeier used the resonant word 18 times in marking the 27th anniversary of german reunification on tuesday , saying the nation needed honest dialogue about immigration after taking in over a million migrants since 2015 .
cem ozdemir , head of the environmental greens party , applauded steinmeier for reclaiming the word from the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) , which emphasized nationalist and anti-immigrant themes to capture around 13 percent of the vote in the sept. 24 national election .
germany s post-war history included migration from italy , turkey , greece and eastern europe , but it has resisted thinking of itself as a country of immigrants .
that is changing now amid calls for a proper immigration law to differentiate between political refugees and economic migrants .
along with that has come new soul-searching about what it means to be german , as well as resurgent demand for dirndls ( traditional alpine dresses ) , cuckoo clocks , local foods and mystery novels set in regions like the northern island of sylt .
raed saleh , a berlin politician whose palestinian parents moved to germany from the israeli-occupied west bank when he was five , said he was reminded of his own identity struggles when he spoke at a high school in berlin s wedding district - where 90 percent of the students come from immigrant families .
i saw really talented , engaged people and i want them - and all children in germany - to feel that they belong here , said saleh .
i didn t have that feeling myself for a long time .
in his book , german me : the new guiding culture published earlier this year , saleh called for a more inclusive common vision for germany and its 82 million people .
his book is one of over a dozen published over the past year that explore german identity and the concept of homeland .
susanne weingarten , who oversaw production of a special issue of der spiegel magazine dedicated to heimat , said interest by both rightists and liberal young hipsters pointed to a certain rootlessness in germany that had been exacerbated by digitalization , globalization and the migration crisis .
in germany , it s a scorched concept because of national socialism , she said , referring to nazism .
the attempt to define heimat for oneself is difficult .
that s something that only the young generation born 50 to 60 years after the holocaust can do unselfconsciously .
christian schuele , whose book heimat : a phantom pain was published this spring , says the trend and support for far-right parties is driven by a sense of loss of national identity as immigration has surged , especially for those whose towns have shriveled and where local traditions have died out .
the current debate is long overdue , he says , noting the election revealed deep cracks in society caused by the lack of integration of many from the country s formerly communist east , and others , such as those with backgrounds in russia and turkey .
it s definitely a topic that moves people , said bianca kroemer , spokeswoman for berlin s dussmann bookstore , which has a whole section focused on the issue .
heimat is in vogue , agreed juergen kron , managing director of the duesseldorf-based droste verlag , whose focus on regional titles had kept sales up despite the overall drop in the publishing market .
national pride became acceptable for the first time since the nazi era during the summer of 2006 , when germans reveled in their hosting of the soccer world cup by waving flags long associated only with the far-right .
in recent years , the buy local movement has fueled interest in regional books of all kinds , kron said .
next week s frankfurt book fair will feature nearly a dozen events related to the subject of homeland .
dorothea suh , a 33-year-old music teacher in hamburg whose parents came from south korea two years before her birth , worries that the discussion about german identity comes too late and that other parties will ultimately co-opt the afd s agenda .
stung by recent experiences - including a neighbor yelling foreigners out , suh is actively planning to emigrate .
germany is my home .
i don t want to leave , but i m starting to feel like a stranger in my own country , suh said .
i don t want to wait too long and then find myself facing closed doors .