monica crowley offers some of the most brilliant political analysis in conservative media .
she is brilliant , witty , and has incredible insight .
when monica crowley gives trump a plan on how to knock out hillary in the first debate , he would do well to listen to her it promises to be the greatest show on earth : the first presidential debate to be held monday night at hofstra university in new york .
rarely has a political event attracted this kind of super bowl-level excitement , curiosity and anticipation .
then again , rarely have we had two presidential candidates who light up the political sky like donald trump and hillary clinton.mrs .
clinton has been on the national scene for nearly 30 years and carries all of the baggage of those tumultuous decades : endless scandals , ethical tightrope-walking , legal dodge ball , compulsive lying , slimy blame-shifting , bunker paranoia , the systematic selling of her offices for personal enrichment and the deliberate jeopardizing of the nation s most sensitive secrets for her family s gain .
we know what mrs. clinton will do , which is what she s always done : lie , fabricate , deflect and distract .
boring and predictable .
donald trump , on the other hand , is neither and he has the advantage of being shiny and new .
what he does with that opportunity is anyone s guess .
i suspect he s been rope-a-doping everybody with the we re not doing debate prep , we re just hanging out eating cheeseburgers line and will , in fact , knock out mrs. clinton with his command of policy , her long record of failure and the positive agenda he embraces.for a full tko , mr. trump should do four main things.first , he should emphasize his pragmatic vision for turning america around : moving to pro-growth economics , restoring law and order , rebuilding the military and a strong national defense , reigniting america s influence and prestige internationally , and defeating the corrupt , rigged system ( as embodied by mrs. clinton ) .as a successful presidential candidate , he must offer voters a positive , compelling reason to vote for him , rather than just against his opponent .
that s why it s critical for mr. trump to focus on his restorative agenda for the country.second , as a compliment to his optimistic vision , he must smash mrs. clinton , both as a failed leader pushing failed policies and a destructive leftist ideology and as a deeply corrupt individual who can not must not be trusted with the presidency.she will try to swarm him with policy details to try to demonstrate that he s unprepared for the highest office in the land .
she ll try to sit above the fray , winking that she s been there , done that .
well , yes .
but the question is not whether she was in the game .
it s how she played it and what results she produced .
for her , the result was evermore power and a net worth of over $ 125 million .
for the country , the result is that we are less wealthy , less prosperous , less safe , less secure , less powerful.mr .
trump doesn t have to show an encyclopedic knowledge of every policy nuance .
he simply has to point to the wreckage of the obama economy and foreign policy and say : we tried it your way .
mic drop.third , he should gaslight her ( hat tip to alfred hitchcock ) by remaining totally cool and unflappable while calmly pushing on her vulnerabilities , from her disgraceful lack of integrity to her hypocrisy concerning women to standing by silently if she s seized by one of her interminable coughing attacks.this must be done with the greatest care , taking the reagan approach of regarding her more in sorrow than in anger : there you go again .
and he should call her mrs. clinton in order to link her to the deeply flawed boy who brought her to the dance .
for all of the talk about mr. trump s alleged thin skin , she is extraordinarily prickly .
she has never faced a tough election fight or been questioned aggressively or criticized to her face .
if mr. trump can get under her thin skin , he could provoke a caustic response that will reveal the cosseted elitist behind the frozen smile .
witness candidate barack obama s calmly delivered 2008 crack , you re likeable enough , hillary .
the steam came out of her ears for days.finally , mr. trump must be a happy warrior .
most voters want to believe that he s the guy not just to fix the country but to restore their optimism with it .
they want to know that he will fight the war for america s future not as a burden but as a joyful privilege .
if he can exuberantly convey that america can be saved and that she is worth saving he will not just win the debate but perhaps the election.for entire article : monica crowley , washington times