new delhi ( reuters ) - the trump administration is pushing security ties between the united states , india , japan and australia , but the revival of the asian quad must overcome lingering mistrust in new delhi towards its allies that hampers genuine military cooperation .
joint naval drills have been at the heart of a relationship that analysts widely see as a move to counterbalance china s rising power by binding the region s leading democracies more closely together .
but while the navies of the united states , japan and australia can easily operate together - based on common u.s.-designed combat systems and data links - india is the outlier .
not only are most of its ships and warplanes russian-made , its government and military remain deeply reluctant to share data and open up sensitive military communications systems .
the united states has carried out more naval exercises with india than any other nation .
but naval sources and experts say these are more about cultural familiarization than drills for joint combat .
because india will not sign an agreement on sharing data , naval exercises are conducted through voice and text commands with rudimentary sms-style data exchange , indian and japanese military sources said .
think of it as directing your friend to your house in the 1980s .
your left may be his right , neither of you have situational awareness , said abhijit iyer-mitra , a senior fellow at new delhi s institute of peace and conflict studies who has tracked the military exercises .
what the americans want is 2017 - drop a pin on google maps and hit share .
you know where your friend is and he knows where your house is and how to get to it .
the indian defense ministry did not respond to a request for a comment .
the so-called quad to discuss and cooperate on security emerged briefly as an initiative a decade ago - much to the annoyance of china - and was revived recently , with an officials-level meeting this month on the sidelines of a regional gathering in manila .
the trump administration has talked up cooperation with india as part of efforts for a free , open and thriving indo-pacific .
describing the indian and pacific oceans as a single strategic arena , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson described india and the united states as regional bookends .
in concrete terms , it will lead to great co-ordination between the indian , japanese and american militaries including maritime domain awareness , anti-submarine warfare , amphibious warfare , and humanitarian assistance , disaster relief , and search and rescue , he said .
to be sure , india and the united states have steadily been bringing more powerful ships into their annual malabar drills that have been expanded to include japan in recent years .
this year the uss nimitz carrier group was deployed for the maneuvers off india s eastern coast , along with an aircraft carrier from india and a helicopter carrier from japan .
but a japanese maritime self defence forces official said when japan conducts drills with the indian navy , communication is done mostly through voice transmission .
there is no satellite link that would allow the two navies to access information and share monitor displays in on-board command centers .
communication is usually the most difficult aspect of any joint drill , he said .
the exercises are meant to lay the ground for joint patrols that the u.s. eventually wants to conduct with india and its allies across the indian ocean and the pacific .
u.s. marine corps lieutenant colonel christopher logan , a pentagon spokesman , said better interoperability was a goal of the exercises and noted that india s enhanced role as a major u.s. defense partner would help boost the relationship .
the designation of india as a major defense partner is significant and is intended to elevate defense trade and technology sharing with india to a level commensurate with that of our closest allies and partners , he said .
as this relationship matures so will the level of interoperability .
last year , india signed a military logistics pact with the united states after a decade of wrangling , but two other agreements are stuck .
the united states says the communication and information security memorandum of agreement ( cismoa ) would allow it to supply india with encrypted communications equipment and systems .
the basic exchange and cooperation agreement is the other pact that would set a framework through which the united states could share sensitive data to aid targeting and navigation with india .
india is concerned that agreeing to the cismoa would open up its military communications to the united states , and even allow it to listen in on operations where indian and u.s. interests may not coincide - such as against arch-rival pakistan , military officials in new delhi say .
captain gurpreet khurana , executive director at the government-funded national maritime foundation , said india s underlying concern was having its autonomy constrained by binding its military into u.s. codes and operating procedures .
once , the americans proposed a portable suitcase communications system called the centrixs which could transmit full situational awareness data to indian ships while the two navies practised together .
india refused to allow it to be plugged in for the duration of the exercise , citing operational security , according to an indian source briefed on the planning of the exercises .
even the joint air exercises that the two countries are conducting as a follow-on to malabar are severely restricted , the source said .
india sends its russian-acquired sukhoi jets to the drills , but their radars and jammers are turned off .
david shear , who served as assistant secretary of defense for asia under president barack obama , said u.s. forces , particularly the navy , were well aware of the interoperability constraints to interacting with india .
they understand what the obstacles are and that this is going to be a long-term project , he said .