bishkek ( reuters ) - kyrgyzstan votes in a presidential election on sunday that is being closely fought between a protege of the outgoing president and an opposition leader , testing stability in a country where two previous leaders were ousted in violent riots .
the mainly muslim ex-soviet state of six million people stands out from its neighbors , mostly run by autocrats , in having a boisterous democracy that produces sometimes chaotic changes of leadership .
serving president almazbek atambayev has to step down because of term limits , and is backing sooronbai jeenbekov , a 58-year-old member of atambayev s social democratic party , to succeed him .
he is facing strong opposition from omurbek babanov , 47 , who heads the biggest opposition party , respublika-ata zhurt ( fatherland ) .
the most likely outcome is that neither babanov nor jeenbekov will win outright on sunday , setting up a second round run-off , according to the u.s.-based international republican institute , which has conducted its own polling .
both leading candidates differ little on the main points of policy : a secular state , hewing close to russia in a region where moscow vies for influence with the united states and china .
however , they represent rival interest groups and clans inside kyrgyzstan that are fighting for access to power and state resources .
in a september poll by coalition for democracy and civil society , a western-backed ngo , 38.7 percent of respondents said they expected babanov to win and 41.2 percent picked jeenbekov .
eleven more candidates are running in the vote .
a candidate needs more than 50 percent for an outright win .
opposition candidate babanov is a wealthy businessman with a charismatic style , while jeenbekov is a former livestock technician turned bureaucrat .
both say they will maintain strong ties to moscow .
kyrgyzstan hosts a russian military airbase .
remittances from hundreds of thousands of migrant laborers working in russia are a vital source of kyrgyzstan s foreign currency revenue .
the campaign has featured allegations of coup plots and corrupt practices , hinting at the fragile political stability that has dogged kyrgyzstan since a revolution in 2005 that ousted long-standing leader askar akayev .
i am going to start my fight against corruption with you , jeenbekov told opposition candidate babanov in a televised debate , in which he also called his younger opponent a chick .
the kyrgyz government detained one of babanov s supporters on sept. 30 , charging him with plotting a violent coup during the vote .
it has also accused several babanov campaign workers of planning to bribe voters .
babanov has denied any wrongdoing and dismissed the charges against his supporters as dirty election tactics .
atambayev s government last month accused kazakhstan , a bigger and wealthier neighbor which is also close to russia , of interfering in the election after kazakh president nursultan nazarbayev met babanov and appeared to endorse him .
kazakhstan has denied backing any candidates , and , citing security concerns , introduced tighter checks on the kyrgyz border this week .