hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong will try to enact a law penalizing people who boo the chinese national anthem as soon as possible , an official said on wednesday , in a move that critics say undermines the chinese-ruled city s autonomy and freedoms .
in the past few years , some hong kong football fans have booed the national anthem during world cup qualifiers and other games , mirroring a more recent protest in the united states with football players kneeling during the national anthem , a practice denounced by u.s. president donald trump .
the asian football confederation warned the hong kong football association on tuesday over the conduct of fans who booed the chinese national anthem in a match in october .
china has passed a law stating that disrespecting the anthem could result in imprisonment .
the law has come into force in china but has yet to be extended to hong kong .
hong kong secretary for constitutional and mainland affairs , patrick nip said the city had a constitutional obligation to follow up the move by china s largely rubber-stamp parliament .
the law will now be added to the annex of hong kong s mini-constitution , the basic law , and put to the city s 70-strong legislature .
we will do it as soon as possible , nip told lawmakers , while saying there would be a consultation process .
hong kong is a former british colony that returned to chinese rule in 1997 under a so-called one country , two systems formula that promises the city a high degree of autonomy , including an independent judiciary .
china s growing reach into hong kong s affairs has , however , stoked tensions and mass protests including the 2014 occupy civil disobedience movement that blocked major roads in the city for 79 days to pressure china to allow full democracy .
nip said no decision had been made on jail terms , but the government would make reference to existing laws concerning the desecration of china s national flag that carry a maximum sentence of three years .
some critics said this move would further erode hong kong s autonomy and was another instance of china s tightening iron grip .
if a country ( china ) wasn t using totalitarian and autocratic ways to make people feel under pressure , i believe many more hong kong people would respect the national anthem , said dennis kwok , a lawmaker with the civic party .
over the past few years , hong kong fans have booed the national anthem at several football matches involving the hong kong team , with an upcoming asian cup qualifier between hong kong and lebanon another potential flashpoint .
some inappropriate behavior ... must be addressed , nip said , without giving specifics .
chinese authorities have strived to instill greater patriotism into hong kong , while condemning a push from democracy activists to distance hong kong from beijing by embracing the city s culture and core values , with some even advocating independence from china .
in recent years , incidents of disrespecting the national anthem have occurred in hong kong , challenging the bottom line ... and triggering rage , said zhang rongshun , who leads a legislative affairs commission of china s parliament , the national people s congress , according to the official xinhua news agency .
it is urgent and important to apply the national anthem law in hong kong in a bid to prevent and handle such offences .