tripoli ( reuters ) - across libya s capital residents have started drilling through pavements to access wells in a desperate search for water after the taps ran dry in a new low for living conditions .
after years of neglect , workers turned off the water to do urgent maintenance earlier this month , cutting supplies to many tripoli households .
then an armed group sabotaged the system , prolonging the misery .
the water crisis is a powerful symbol of state failure in a country that was once one of the wealthiest in the middle east but has been gripped by turmoil since a 2011 uprising unseated muammar gaddafi .
for libyans the chaos has meant power cuts and crippling cash shortages .
these are often made worse by battles between armed groups vying for control of the fractured oil-rich state and its poorly-maintained infrastructure .
we haven t had water for ten days .
the state does nothing , said nasser said , a landlord in tripoli s upmarket ben ashour district .
already equipped with a generator to keep the power running during outages that sometimes last more than a day , he hired drillers to dig some 31 meters to extract groundwater for the six apartments in the residential block he owns .
no water , no electricity .
you become a state in a state , he said , standing next to his building on a leafy sidestreet .
we last had to do this maybe 20 years ago .
like many libyans , said is skeptical about the chances of u.n.-led peace talks unifying rival factions that have been fighting for control .
the talks were adjourned last week with little sign of progress in creating a government that could stabilize libya and stand up to armed groups that have repeatedly seized oil facilities and other state assets to make demands .
the u.n.-supported government of national accord ( gna ) has struggled to impose its authority since its leaders arrived in tripoli in march last year .
early last week an armed faction in the south said it had turned off water supplies from gaddafi s great man made river , a pipeline system that pumps water from underneath libya s vast southern desert to coastal areas such as tripoli .
the group is seeking the release of a leader imprisoned by a rival faction in the capital , said tawfiq shwehaidi , a manager at the great man made river based in the eastern city of benghazi .
we had started maintenance work on the 16th ( of october ) and cut supplies to tripoli , he said .
afterwards an armed group ... set one power plant on fire which closed three other plants and shut down 24 wells .
that has deprived residents of water while boosting the business of drillers who for 4,000-6,000 libyan dinars ( $ 2,940- $ 4,410 at the official exchange rate ) access groundwater unused in some neighborhoods since the great man made river started pumping water to tripoli in 1996 .
we drill about three wells in two weeks it takes about three to four days to drill a well , said abdulsalam forganea , a 23-year-old worker helping to operate an ageing drilling rig .
parts of tripoli offer a semblance of normality and power cuts have eased since the summer .
the city has seen fewer big clashes since a handful of armed groups aligned with the gna earlier this year .
but security is still fragile .
a former prime minister was abducted in august for nine days by one of the two most powerful armed groups , while the other engaged in a battle this month that shut down the airport .
a reuters reporter recently saw a traffic clogged commercial street suddenly empty as a man was fatally shot by militiamen .
kidnapping for ransom is rife .
a conflict that escalated in 2014 has put extra pressure on a tripoli population that swelled to an estimated three million with the arrival of displaced families from other libyan cities .
public health services are failing , inflation has spiraled , and the start of the school year has been delayed by several weeks because teachers are striking over salaries .
shutdowns crippled oil revenues so little has been spent on repairs and maintenance , and the water network and other infrastructure have been corroded .
most government spending goes on public salaries , including for former rebel groups that forced their way onto the state payroll after gaddafi s overthrow .
no budget has been transferred ... since 2011 except the emergency budget , which is the result of the financial difficulties experienced by the libyan state , said naji assaed , head of the libyan water authority .
production at desalination plants has fallen sharply , with output at a plant in the western town of zuwara dropping from 80,000 cubic liters to 16,000 cl annually .
assaed said officials were working hard to resolve the crisis , but it was not clear when supplies would be restored .
as he spoke a tanker arrived up to deliver water for his tattered ministry building .
in the absence of adequate spare parts , lack of budgets , lack of stability in the security situation , security chaos , people do not comply with the law and all this has affected the performance of the system , he said .
( $ 1 = 1.3607 libyan dinars )