tom perez decided to go there yesterday when he said during his may day speech that no human being is illegal .so now the democrats are coming out with the truth they are openly advocating for open borders .
pretty unbelievable , huh ?
they used to at least attempt to hide the fact that they are for open borders , but now it s out in the open .
could it be that the dem chariman tom perez is connected to the pro-open borders radical group la raza ? https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=rfoluxm3gqotom perez has been going around spouting profanity against the republicans in a new effort to try and win votes we think this is great for the republicans .
who wants to hear profanity laden speeches ? one of the latest speeches with profanity showed a young kid right next to perez during the speech !
who does that ? perez refused to say president trump s name : our most important power is not the mister in the white house , i can t even mention his name , the power is with all of you he then claimed that no one is illegal : no human being is illegal , we must treat everyone with dignity dnc chair tom perez was on msnbc ( video below ) to answer to critics who didn t like his nasty speech : he appeared at an event held by new jersey working families alliance , a re-branded acorn agency and gave a hateful and divisive speech .
he claimed that , republicans don t give a sh * t about people .
why the democrats picked this far left radical is puzzling unless the democrats plan on going full commie perez is connected to the radical open borders group la raza .
something tells us that obama made this pick for the democrats.check out a defiant perez doubling down on is nastiness : our previous report below : newly elected democrat chair tom perez went a little bonkers with a rant on how he wants the dems to think trump didn t win the election .
the democrats are trying to discredit trump at every turn but they re losing .
the american people want good policy and not political turmoil .
that s exactly why trump won !
people are sick to death of this type of outright lying to sway people to your side.perez has a long radical history connected to la raza and other open borders organizations .
his track record is full on radical .
e s in cahoots with obama to continue the fundamental transformation of america .
anyone who s a democrat should be shocked that he s taking the party in such a far left direction .
do your research and you ll know why he was the choice for dem chair.he just fired all democrat party staffers and is bringing in all new people .
the party is clearly taking a new direction and it s not a good one for any american .