brussels ( reuters ) - europe s first ever rules on drones , which were tentatively agreed three weeks ago , risk being scuppered as eu governments hesitate over endorsing the deal because of their opposition to a drone registration requirement , among other issues .
european union lawmakers and member states finally struck a tentative deal on a long-awaited reform of the european aviation safety agency ( easa ) on nov. 30 , which also includes rules requiring owners of drones to register their devices if dangerous .
such deals then need to be definitively endorsed by member states in the council of the eu and lawmakers in the european parliament before becoming law , something which is usually a formality .
member states were supposed to endorse the easa reform on wednesday , but the vote was put off when several countries , including france and germany , expressed major concerns about elements of the deal , such as the registration requirement for drones with a kinetic energy of more than 80 joules based on their mass and maximum speed .
a spokeswoman for estonia , which holds the rotating eu presidency , said member states had until friday to analyze the final text and say whether they could endorse it .
if the easa reform is not endorsed it risks derailing the project for months to come as negotiations between the parliament and member states will have to start almost from scratch , over two years after the initial proposal was made .
the risk of the deal falling apart has unleashed a wave of lobbying from both the aerospace industry and pilots .
the emerging market of civil drones , including small as well as larger certified category of drones , has many potentials for the eu aeronautical industry .
it is therefore crucial that easa has received the mandate to put in place the safety regulatory framework for the deployment of this new technology , the aerospace and defence industries association of europe said in a statement ahead of wednesday s meeting .
members include plane manufacturer airbus , safran , bae systems and rolls-royce .
member states had opposed a registration requirement for drones throughout the negotiations , and the european parliament had initially pushed for a registration threshold of 250 grams .
many countries fear the 80 joules threshold is too complicated and are not happy with the compromise .
i don t think there is one happy member state around the table , said one person involved in the discussions .
the german pilots union wrote to the german transport minister on tuesday urging him to endorse the easa deal .
any delay through further negotiations - as some countries are apparently envisaging - would clearly not be in the interest of aviation safety , wrote ilja schulz , president of the vereinigung cockpit union .