washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. senate voted unanimously on wednesday to toughen sanctions on north korea over its nuclear program , human rights record and cyber activities , as u.s. lawmakers sought to crack down on pyongyang for its nuclear tests .
the house of representatives passed a similar bill last month .
differences between the two are expected to be resolved quickly and senate democrats said they expected president barack obama would sign the measure into law .
the white house has not threatened a veto , but a spokesman told reporters he did not have a response to the bill .
lawmakers said they wanted to make washington ’ s resolve clear not just to pyongyang , but to the united nations and other governments , especially china , north korea ’ s lone major ally and main business partner .
the senate vote for the “ north korea sanctions and policy enhancement act ” was 96-0 .
backing for the bill was so strong that two republicans vying to be their party ’ s 2016 presidential nominee , senators ted cruz and marco rubio , both left the campaign trail to vote .
senator bernie sanders , a democratic contender , missed the vote .
“ china , the very entity that could do something about this , is blocking the u.n. security council ’ s action toward this being done on a multilateral basis , ” said republican senator bob corker , the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee .
“ it will be much more effective if we can get the international community to support us , ” said senator ben cardin , the panel ’ s top democrat .
he drew parallels to u.s. sanctions that became multilateral regimes against iran and south africa .
congress has been clamoring for a clampdown since pyongyang tested a nuclear device in january .
its weekend satellite launch fueled the calls .
director of national intelligence james clapper told the senate on tuesday that north korea has followed through on plans to re-start a plutonium production reactor and could begin to assemble a plutonium stockpile within months .
the senate bill would sanction anyone who engages in , facilitates or contributes to north korea ’ s proliferation of weapons of mass destruction , arms-related materials , luxury goods , human rights abuses , activities undermining cyber security and the provision of materials for such activities .
penalties include the seizure of assets , visa bans and denial of government contracts .
unusually , the measure makes most of the sanctions mandatory , rather than giving the president the option to impose them .
he can temporarily waive them by making the case that doing so would threaten national security .