beijing ( reuters ) - a trip to beijing last week by zimbabwe s military chief was a normal military exchange , china s foreign ministry said on wednesday , after the military in the southern african nation seized power .
zimbabwe s military took control targeting criminals around president robert mugabe but gave assurances on national television that the 93-year-old leader and his family were safe and sound .
general constantino chiwenga met chinese defence minister chang wanquan in beijing on friday , where chang expressed a willingness to promote relations with zimbabwe , china s defence ministry said in a short statement last week .
the ministry showed a picture of the two men , both wearing military uniform , shaking hands , and another one of officers from both countries sitting opposite each other holding a meeting at the people s liberation army headquarters in beijing .
asked whether chiwenga had briefed china on plans to seize power , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said the defence ministry had already released information about his trip and that he didn t have an understanding about the specifics of his reception in china .
i can only tell you that his visit to china this time was a normal military exchange mutually agreed upon by china and zimbabwe , geng said , referring other questions to the defence ministry , which has yet to respond to a request for comment .
as a country that is friendly with zimbabwe , we are paying close attention to developments of the situation in zimbabwe , geng added .
maintaining peaceful and stable development accords with the fundamental interests of zimbabwe and regional countries , and is the common desire of the international community .
we hope the relevant parties in zimbabwe appropriately handle their internal matters .
in contrast to his elevated status on the continent , mugabe is reviled in the west as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of africa s most promising states .
china and zimbabwe have a close diplomatic and economic relationship and beijing has stood with mugabe s government in the face of western economic sanctions .
in august , zimbabwe s government said a chinese company planned to invest up to $ 2 billion to revive operations at zimbabwe iron and steel company ( zisco ) , which ceased production in 2008 at the height of zimbabwe s economic meltdown .
that same year , china vetoed a proposed western-backed u.n. resolution which would have imposed an arms embargo on zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on mugabe and 13 other officials , saying it would complicate , rather than ease , conflict .