islamabad ( reuters ) - as u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson heads to pakistan on tuesday to pressure islamabad to act over militants targeting afghanistan from its soil , anxious pakistanis may be equally interested in dissuading washington s deepening ties with india .
nuclear-armed pakistan , a staunch u.s .
cold war ally and key player in the u.s.-backed invasion of afghanistan after the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks on the united states , has watched warily as washington has in recent years pivoted towards its arch-foe .
islamabad views its much-bigger neighbor as an existential threat and the two nations have fought three wars since their violent separation at the end of colonial rule in 1947 .
tillerson , due to meet prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi and pakistan s powerful military chiefs in a one-day visit , is expected to urge pakistan to do more to root out afghan taliban and haqqani network militants operating on its soil .
but he is also expected to hear pakistani officials warn him that drawing nuclear-armed india deeper into afghanistan would destabilise the region and do little to end the 16-year war that is now america s longest military conflict .
bringing india into the mix is like adding kerosene to fire , said miftah ismail , a state minister and close ally of prime minister abbasi .
it s a complete red line .
india has no political role to play in afghanistan as far as we are concerned .
many pakistanis feel betrayed that its traditional ally is now cosying up to india over afghanistan .
but the anger runs both ways .
the united states accuses pakistan of playing a double game since 2001 , offering public backing to washington while turning a blind eye , or even at times assisting , the afghan taliban and other militants who carry out deadly attacks against u.s. forces and their allies in afghanistan .
pakistan supported the afghan taliban in the 1990s as a hedge to indian influence in afghanistan , and analysts say its military and security services maintained ties long after the taliban regime was toppled in 2001 .
pakistan denies providing a safe haven for afghan taliban and other militant fighters .
tillerson , during a visit to afghanistan on monday , said washington has made some very specific requests of pakistan in order for them to take action to undermine the support the taliban receives and other terrorist organizations receive .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis earlier this month said the united states would try one more time to work with pakistan in afghanistan , before opting for more punitive measures .
president donald trump has vowed to be tougher on pakistan than his predecessors .
the united states has threatened further military aid cuts and u.s. officials have mooted targeted sanctions against pakistani military figures , but in the past two weeks there have been hints of a slight thawing in ties .
u.s. vice president mike pence and tillerson last week called abbasi to thank pakistan after its army rescued a u.s.-canadian couple who were held hostage by the taliban-allied haqqani network for nearly five years , along with their three children born in captivity .
relations were further boosted when omar khalid khorasani , leader of the lethal jamaat-ul-ahrar ( jua ) group who islamabad had been trying to catch for years , was killed by a u.s. drone strike last week .
india has increased aid to afghanistan in recent years and last year promised to ship more arms .
such moves have aggravating fears in pakistan that it will find itself wedged between two hostile neighbors .
islamabad bristles at the idea that india holds the key to ending the afghanistan conflict , and fears u.s. meddling could unsettle a delicate balance of power in south asia .
promoting a higher involvement of india in afghanistan will only worsen the historic strategic rivalries playing out in the region , said sherry rehman , pakistan s former ambassador to united states and a senior member of the opposition pakistan people s party .
pakistan points to the 3.5 million afghan refugees it hosts as proof that it has more than anyone else to lose from chaos in afghanistan , and has emphasized the need for greater cooperation and intelligence sharing with united states and afghanistan .
but while pakistan may not like it , india looks set to continue playing a role in afghanistan , according to sushant sareen , a foreign policy analyst at the vivekananda international foundation , a think-tank with ties to the government of indian prime minister narendra modi .
the message is very clear that india is an important player when it comes to coordinating policies between afghanistan and washington , said sareen .