madrid ( reuters ) - spain s government will issue a decree on friday making it easier for firms to transfer their legal base out of catalonia , two sources said , in a move that could deal a serious blow to the region s finances as it considers declaring independence .
the decree is tailor-made for spanish lender caixabank , sources familiar with the matter said , as it would make it possible for the bank to transfer its legal and tax base to another location without having to hold a shareholders meeting as stated in its statutes .
the government is working on changing the law so that it s no longer need to have a shareholders meeting , which would delay a change of the legal base in a case of emergency , one of the sources said .
the government and caixabank declined to comment .
the board of caixabank will meet on friday to study a possible transfer of its legal base away from catalonia due to the political uncertainty in the region , a source familiar with the situation said .
caixabank is catalonia s biggest company by market value and accounts for around 50 percent of the region s banking sector .
another catalonia-based bank , sabadell , spain s fifth-biggest lender , decided on thursday to move its base from catalonia to alicante , on spain s eastern coast .
catalonia s parliament was planning to declare independence on monday , after a banned referendum marred by violence last weekend .
that plan was cast into doubt on thursday when spain s constitutional court ordered that monday s session of the catalan parliament be suspended .
the political crisis was generating uncertainty that is paralyzing all investment projects in catalonia , spanish economy minister luis de guindos told reuters on thursday .
i m convinced that , right now , not one international or national investor will take part in a new investment project until this is cleared up , he said .
shares in sabadell and caixabank have been pummeled this week .
reports they might move caused the stocks to surge on thursday - sabadell rose 6 percent and caixabank 5 percent .
government plans to sell a stake in state-run lender bankia have also been put off because of the uncertainty , de guindos said .
madrid will look at the placement again once the catalan situation had been resolved , he said .
however , catalonia s planned unilateral declaration of independence has not had any impact on spain s overall economic output , de guindos said , reiterating that he expected growth of more than 3 percent this year .
financial markets have been shaken this week by fears that secession would undermine the euro zone s fourth-biggest economy , dealing a heavy blow to spain s finances and sending the catalan economy into a tailspin .
catalonia is a center of industry and tourism that accounts for a fifth of spain s economy , a production base for major multinationals from volkswagen to nestle , and home to europe s fastest-growing sea port .
news earlier this week that two small listed catalan companies , eurona wireless telecom and oryzon genomics , had decided to shift their head offices improved their share price .
both declined to say whether they were responding to sunday s vote .
spain s bond and stock markets both staged a recovery on thursday after the constitutional court s decision and a bloomberg report that catalan separatists were looking at putting off a declaration of independence to create room for a negotiated settlement with spain .
the nation s borrowing costs hit a seven-month high on thursday , though investors showed solid interest in a government bond auction .
many spanish business leaders and foreign companies with operations in catalonia have expressed concern this week .
as a businessman , as a spaniard and as a person , i am very worried and i am scared by what s going on ( in catalonia ) , said juan roig , chairman of spain s biggest food retailer , mercadona .
the influential catalan business lobby cercle d economia said on wednesday it was extremely worried by the prospect of catalonia declaring independence from spain and called for leaders from both sides to start talks .
dutch paint maker akzo nobel , which has several plants in catalonia , said it was monitoring developments .
from a business perspective , we are best served by a stable environment and will adapt when necessary , said akzo nobel spokeswoman diana abrahams .
german carmaker volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) was earlier this week forced to halt production briefly on one of three production lines at the catalonia plant of its spanish unit , seat , when protests disrupted parts supply .
stoppages also affected production at nestle s instant coffee plant in girona .
seat said on thursday it was operating its business as usual .
it is too early to make an assessment on what could happen , a spokesman said .
the company is closely monitoring how the current situation is evolving .