21st century wire says the leftist media machine and the washington post are going after president trump again .
are josh rogin and the the post waging a media war against president trump ? trump said last wednesday that he , will absolutely do safe zones in syria for refugees fleeing violence .
a statement certainly indicating that he supports humanitarian efforts to set up refugee camps for displaced syrians .
amid concerns that this might mean an increased us/nato military presence in the zone the the post and mainstream media has taken the opportunity to take the comment and paint it as a military escalation before any details of said plan have been released .
one must wonder , where was the post s warning of escalation of violence and criticism of the obama administration when the so-called rebel fighters where being funded , armed and trained by the pentagon , cia and us state department ?
lindsay graham and john mccain pushed these policies very openly and were only criticized by independent journalists.in another example of the post going after trump with a broad smattering of deception , josh rogin released an article and report titled : the state department s entire senior administrative team just resigned this week .
that headline went viral among consumers of leftist media outlets and has made its way into the apparent media war against trump talking points of the week.conversely , allegra kirkland of reuters reported , at the same time , that the entire state department management team fired by trump admin .
how do we reconcile these polar opposite narrative reports from the right and left sides of mainstream media ? is that an accurate headline by rogin ?
did the entire senior administrative team resign ?
is kirkland s headline accurate ?
did trump fire the entire state department management team ? the short answer to these questions appears to be , no.at most , eight employees left the state department .
furthermore , it appears to be an outright falsehood to claim that any of them left in protest of a trump presidency or that there is a mass exodus of crucial members of the state department .
it also seems that it is yet another falsehood to claim that they were fired by trump s administration.do these claims show an intentional misleading of the readers by both the right and leftist media giants , a gross misunderstanding of the transition process at the state department or both ? the ron paul institute re-posted an analysis on this situation from wemeantwell.com that is brings more facts to light .
compare what you read below with josh rogin s talking points for an interesting view into how the mainstream leftist media is spinning stories about the trump administration.the ron paul institute & wemeantwell.com bring some perspective to the topic below : ron paul instituteyesterday at the state department five officials resigned or retired .
another one today.the media has gone near-insane , claiming state is crumbling in protest under the trump administration .
this is not true .
what happened at state is very routine.leaving the department are head of the management bureau pat kennedy ( above ) , assistant secretary of state for administration joyce anne barr , assistant secretary of state for consular affairs michele bond , ambassador gentry o. smith , director of the office of foreign missions , arms control official tom countryman , and victoria nuland.here s the story : no one at the state dept resigned in protest .
no one was formally fired .
six people were transferred from or retired from political appointee positions .
technically those who did not retire can be considered to have resigned , but that is a routine hr/personnel term used , not some political statement .
the six are career foreign service career personnel ( fsos ) they previously left their fso job to be appointed into political jobs and now have resigned those ( or retired out of the state department ) to return to career fso jobs .
a circle .
they are required to submit a letter of resignation as a matter of routine when a new president takes office .
as for perspective : only one under secretary of state ( alan larson ) stayed through the transition from bill clinton to george w. bush .
it is routine for senior officials to leave or be reassigned .
several of the six are connected to the clinton emails and/or clinton s handling of benghazi .
one of these people , pat kennedy , played a significant role in both , as well as many other controversial issues during clinton s term .
sources tell me that although officially kennedy retired , he was more or less required to do so by the trump administration .
i have no information on the others , whether they were asked to retire , or just part of a reshuffling of positions and will routinely be reassigned .
most likely the latter , as such reshuffling is very common as administrations change .
as everywhere in the government , the new administration fills its own political appointee slots .
some of the six will hit mandatory retirement age on january 31 anyway .
reports that these people represent senior management at state confuse terms .
because of the odd way state is organized , four of the six work in the management bureau , m in state talk .
kennedy was the head of the bureau .
the four play varying roles and collectively are not the senior management of the state department .
two work in other parts of the department ( countryman and nuland ) and are more directly tied to policies likely to change under the new administration .
all six persons come from offices with a deep bench .
it is highly unlikely that any of the work of the state department will be impeded by any of these changes .
every office has a second , third , fourth , etc. , person in charge who will step up pending formal replacements to be nominated and confirmed .
this is all part of the standard transition process .
as an example , i worked in the bureau of consular affairs for most of my 24 years at state , including working with/for michele bond , one of the resignees .
i personally know the people in the next rank below her , and all have equal experience and tenure as bond .
there will be no gap in experience or knowledge as some press reports have fretted .
there will be no void .
a slightly more dire , but responsible take , here .
there will very likely be more , similar , resignations and reshuffling at state .
new political appointees will bring in their own staff , for example .
but unless and until an employee holds a press conference to announce s/he is resigning out of protest , the media should take care to calm down , verify facts , and report accurately .
the washington post stated these changes were part of an ongoing mass exodus of senior foreign service officers who don t want to stick around for the trump era .
i am not aware of any other noteworthy departures ( two lesser officials left earlier this month in circumstances not clearly connected to trump ) and as stated above , the six did not resign in protest .
regardless , eight people in any context do not constitute a mass exodus .
the post article is , in my opinion , grossly alarming .
it reflects a reporter apparently unfamiliar with transitions continue this report at the ron paul instituteread more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv