mexico city ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president joe biden on thursday said he felt “ almost obliged ” to say sorry for verbal attacks on mexico in the u.s. presidential campaign , in which republican front-runner donald trump has labeled mexican migrants rapists and drug runners .
speaking alongside mexican president enrique pena nieto during a visit to mexico city , biden never mentioned trump , who nonetheless loomed large over the proceedings .
“ there ’ s been a lot of damaging and incredibly inaccurate rhetoric , and i would argue , i feel almost obliged to apologize for some of what my political colleagues have said ... about mexico , about the mexican people , ” said biden , a democrat .
property mogul trump , who has built up a big early lead in the race to become republican nominee , has vowed to make mexico pay for a wall to seal off the united states from its southern neighbor , prompting widespread criticism in both countries .
“ i just want you to know , mr. president , that the most heated rhetoric you ’ ve heard from some of the competitors for the nomination for president , is not who we are as the american people .... it ’ s the exact opposite , ” biden added .
without naming trump , pena nieto also weighed in , saying “ building walls is just isolating oneself. ” the 2016 u.s. presidential election is on nov. 8 .
at an event earlier on thursday , biden had expressed concern about what the election race said about views held in the united states , calling some of the republican campaign language “ dangerous , damaging and incredibly ill-advised. ” “ the message that is coming out of the united states as a consequence of the presidential campaign , about american attitudes toward mexicans and mexico generally , ( and ) the entire hemisphere and our place in the world , is disturbing , ” he said .
trump , 69 , has vowed to deport the 11 million migrants living illegally in the united states , a position shared by his younger republican rival , the texas senator ted cruz .
for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , `` tales from the trail '' ( here ) .
( reporting by joanna zuckerman bernstein ; editing by richard chang ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .