berlin ( reuters ) - germany s angela merkel began the tough task of trying to build a government on monday after securing a fourth term as chancellor , urging the center-left social democrats not the shut the door on a re-run of their grand coalition .
damaged by her decision two years ago to allow more than one million migrants into germany , merkel s conservative bloc secured 33 percent of the vote , losing 8.5 points its lowest level since 1949 .
her coalition partners , the center-left social democrats , also slumped and said they would go into opposition .
voters flocked to the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) , the first far-right party to enter the german parliament in more than half a century .
however , the afd hardly had time to savor its third-place showing before it fell into internal bickering .
many germans see the rise of the afd as a similar rejection of the status quo as votes for brexit and donald trump last year .
but germany s political center held up better than in britain and the united states as more voters have benefited from globalization and most shun the country s extremist past .
merkel s party remained the biggest parliamentary bloc and europe s most powerful leader sought to keep her coalition options open on monday , saying she would start talks with the free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens as well as the spd .
spd leader martin schulz said earlier his party had no choice but to go into opposition to defend democracy against those who question it and attack it , after dropping to a post-war low of 20.5 percent .
i heard the spd s words , nevertheless we should remain in contact , merkel told a news conference .
i think all parties have a responsibility to ensure that there will be a stable government .
merkel made clear she still intended to serve a full four years as chancellor .
but her next coalition could be her toughest yet with her only remaining potential partners , the business-friendly fdp and the pro-regulation greens , at odds on issues from migrants to tax , the environment and europe .
the fdp s leader christian lindner set the stage for tricky talks , saying his party would not agree to a coalition with the conservatives and the greens , dubbed jamaica because the parties colors mirror the country s flag , at any price .
he said changes were needed in germany s energy policy and its stance on euro zone fiscal policy .
but he struck a more conciliatory tone on europe , saying germany had an interest in a strong france .
[ b4n1jx00b ] the greens set out climate change , europe and social justice as their priorities in any coalition talks .
the emergence of the greens as powerbrokers in any coalition weighed on markets .
shares in carmaker bmw ( bmwg.de ) were down 0.2 percent , while those in automotive supplier continental ( cong.de ) dropped 0.4 percent .
rwe ( rweg.de ) which operates 15.25 gigawatts ( gw ) of coal-fired plants in germany , 38 percent of its total european capacity fell 4.6 percent to a six-week low .
the party campaigned to ban the sale of new combustion-engine cars from 2030 and are calling for a quick phase-out of coal power plants .
many germans were alarmed by the rise of afd who the foreign minister likened to nazis .
protesters threw stones and bottles at police outside its campaign party in berlin on sunday .
but just a day after the election , the afd showed signs of fracturing as co-leader frauke petry , one of its most prominent faces , said she would not sit in parliament with afd members .
it was not immediately clear why she was making such a move .
the election also exposed rifts in merkel s conservatives , with her allies the bavarian christian social union ( csu ) , who face a regional election next year , demanding a shift to the right to win back voters lost to the afd .
they will try their best to recover lost ground on the right side of the political spectrum .
going into a coalition in berlin with the greens and the fdp will make this more difficult , said janis emmanouilidis from the european policy centre .
investors were unsettled by the prospect of a weaker merkel at the head of a potentially unstable jamaica coalition and also worried that months of coalition talks could distract from talks with britain over its divorce from the european union .
the euro eur=d4 and european stocks slipped , while concerns about the emergence of a more hardline stance toward the euro zone in the bloc 's largest economy weighed on southern european government bonds .
the weak result could make angela merkel a lame duck much faster than international observers and financial markets think , ing economist carsten brzeski said .
klaus wohlrabe , economist at the munich-based ifo economic institute , said new elections could not be excluded and the result could stoke uncertainty as german business confidence deteriorated unexpectedly in the weeks before the election .
german business also expressed concern .
matthias mueller , chief executive of volkswagen , said he was shocked by the afd s double-digit showing and said the success of europe s largest economy hinged on its tolerance and openness to the world .
for germany s biggest industrial company i say : in the globalized economy , national egoism and protectionism lead to a dead - and in the end a loss of jobs .