jakarta ( reuters ) - implicated in five corruption scandals since the 1990s but never convicted , the speaker of indonesia s parliament setya novanto is a political survivor .
last week novanto was detained by anti-corruption investigators over the biggest graft scandal to hit indonesia s legislature .
the 62-year-old political powerbroker was defiant , denying any wrongdoing and urging parliament and the political party he leads not to unseat him .
his lawyer , fredrich yunadi , expressed confidence that novanto would be cleared .
in every court we always win , yunadi told reuters .
but the latest allegations against novanto have reinforced the perception among indonesians that their parliament , long regarded as riddled with entrenched corruption , is a failing institution .
politicians and analysts say that is unlikely to change , whatever the outcome of the case .
before setya novanto , there were many , many mps who were put in jail and it didn t have an effect , said eva sundari , a member of parliament from the pdi-p party , which sits in the ruling coalition alongside novanto s golkar .
a corruption eradication commission , known by its indonesian initials kpk , was established in 2002 after the demise of authoritarian president suharto .
fiercely independent and able to wiretap suspects without a warrant , it has been a thorn in the side of the country s establishment .
but bob lowry , an indonesia analyst at the australian institute of international affairs , said that - the kpk aside - there has never been a systemic approach to tackling corruption that he says runs through all layers of government and politics .
you are not dealing with individuals , you are dealing with an entire structure and culture .
he said .
novanto is accused of orchestrating a scheme to plunder $ 173 million , or almost 40 percent of the entire budget for the project , from a government contract to introduce a national electronic identity card .
novanto denies any wrongdoing , writing a letter to other parliament leaders after he was detained asking them to give me an opportunity to prove that i wasn t involved .
according to an indictment filed against novanto s alleged bagman , businessman andi agustinus , they stood to be personally enriched to the tune of $ 42 million .
agustinus has not yet commented on the allegations or entered any plea .
he is due to appear in court this week to answer the charges .
the rest of the money was funneled to as many as 60 lawmakers , as well as officials , party chiefs , parliamentary staffers and tenderers , according to the kpk , which alleges some of the cash was brazenly divided up in parliamentary meeting rooms .
in august a witness in the probe , a u.s.-based consultant to a company that won a contract to supply biometric technology for the identity cards - ironically aimed , in part , at curbing graft - shot himself after a stand-off with police in los angeles .
before his death , johannes marliem told kpk officers about meeting novanto at his jakarta home in 2011 , according to a declaration to a court in minnesota by a federal bureau of investigation special agent , at which the parliament speaker negotiated a discount under which he and agustinus would get a 40 percent share of a contract worth more than $ 50 million .
marliem is also alleged to have said he had brought novanto a $ 135,000 richard mille watch and showed the agent a photo of novanto wearing it .
a consummate political operator , novanto is a key link between parliament and the government of president joko widodo , who is expected to seek re-election in 2019 , said hugo brennan , asia analyst at risk consultancy verisk maplecroft .
he gained a measure of international prominence in september 2015 when donald trump , then a u.s. presidential candidate , hailed him as an amazing man at a news conference in trump tower in new york .
two months later he resigned from the speaker s post after a recording of a meeting emerged in which he was alleged to have attempted to extort $ 4 billion of shares from the u.s. mining giant freeport mcmoran .
the case got blanket media coverage and hearings were televised live .
within a year , however , novanto was speaker again after the constitutional court ruled the recording inadmissible .
novanto s detention last week came after months of declining to answer summonses for questioning by the kpk .
the allegations have once more gripped indonesia , with newspaper front pages splashing the story and memes mocking novanto trending on social media .
indonesia was ranked last year at 90 out of 176 countries on transparency international s corruption perception index .
the watchdog has singled out parliament as indonesia s most corrupt institution , and in july called on president widodo to protect the kpk against attempts by the legislature to weaken the commission s powers .
critics inside and outside the parliament say the root problem is money politics , which is underpinned by an open-ticket electoral system and campaign financing laws .
these laws allow only tiny amounts of public funding , and do not require public disclosure of individual donors , which some lawmakers say perpetuates a system of funding from illicit sources and financial patronage for favors .
the open-ticket voting system encourages candidates to spread largesse to voters and community leaders and then recoup the expenditure if they reach parliament , says the pdi-p s sundari .
lawmaker aryo djojohadikusumo told reuters that , with members of parliament holding the power to micromanage and approve the budgets of individual projects , the temptation to engage in pork-barrel politics is extremely high .
however , he believes that parliament s reputation as corrupt has been magnified by the kpk s zeal in going after politicians , who make more headlines than low-level bureaucrats .
critics say many members of parliament are so focused on raising money for future campaigns and personal enrichment that the legislature is not doing its job .
according to watchdog concerned citizens for the indonesian legislature ( formappi ) , lawmakers in southeast asia s biggest economy have ratified just five of 50 priority bills this year .
if you want to see indonesia free of corruption , fahri hamzah , one of parliament s vice speakers , told reuters , you have to start tackling the political financing .