berlin ( reuters ) - the hard-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party , which initially embraced donald trump and the populism that swept him into office last year , had a message for the u.s. president on monday - he should tweet less , and govern more .
alice weidel , one of the afd s top two candidates in the sept. 24 election in germany , said trump s response to a recent white nationalist rally in charlottesville , virginia , had been completely unnecessary and she had only a limited understanding for it .
donald trump should focus more on policies and less on tweeting and twitter , weidel told journalists in berlin .
if i had a wish list , then i would wish that donald trump would focus ... more on cleaning up his own house , and being a little more devoted to his governing responsibilities .
trump was widely criticized for at first failing to condemn white supremacist groups after a man thought to have neo-nazi sympathies drove a car into a crowd of anti-racism protesters in charlottesville , killing a woman and injuring over a dozen other people .
trump had said both sides were to blame for the violence and there were very fine people at the rally .
weidel s comments came amid controversy over remarks made by a senior member of her own party , alexander gauland - the afd s other top candidate - who said integration minister aydan ozoguz , a social democrat ( spd ) politician born in germany to turkish parents , should be dumped in turkey .
members of the spd , and chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , rejected gauland s remarks as racist .
gauland conceded on monday that his choice of words was a little too tough but weidel said she agreed with his general concern about what he said was ozoguz s lack of respect for german culture .
weidel said that although her party opposed merkel s 2015 decision which has allowed more than a million migrants into germany over the past two years , it condemned extremism in any form , whether it came from left-wing , right-wing or islamic groups .
founded in 2013 as an anti-euro party , the afd shifted its focus after the euro zone debt crisis peaked to campaigning against immigration after merkel s move to open the borders .
it is expected to enter the german parliament for the first time after the september election , although its support has dropped to 7 to 10 percent from a height of around 15 percent in 2016 , according to polls .
weidel , who is openly gay , chafed at a question about whether she was racist , noting that her partner of nearly 10 years , a swiss filmmaker , also has a sinhalese background .