las vegas ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president mike pence visited las vegas on saturday stressing unity and offering solace as police appealed to the public for help in uncovering a wealthy retiree s motive for massacring 58 people at an outdoor concert this week .
we are united in our grief , in our support for those who have suffered and united in our resolve to end such evil in our time , pence said , joining las vegas mayor carolyn goodman and other local leaders at a city hall commemoration for victims of the shooting .
participants trod seven miles ( 11 km ) along four separate paths to the event amid tight security .
president donald trump paid a visit to las vegas earlier in the week .
las vegas democratic congresswoman dina titus was the only speaker who touched on the subject of gun violence and politics , saying , let us also pray for those who have power that they will have the wisdom , the courage , and the resolve to find ways to end the gun violence that plagues our nation .
the commemoration came as clark county undersheriff kevin mcmahill said investigators remain largely in the dark about what drove retired real estate investor and high-stakes gambler stephen paddock to carry out the deadliest mass shooting in modern u.s. history .
we have looked at everything , literally , to include the suspect s personal life , any political affiliation , his social behaviors , economic situation , any potential radicalization , mcmahill told reporters late on friday .
we have been down each and every single one of these paths , trying to determine why , to determine who else may have known of these plans .
mcmahill said investigators had uncovered no nexus between islamic state and paddock , even though the militant group had repeatedly claimed responsibility for the attack .
a piece of paper found in paddock s room at the mandalay bay hotel appeared to calculate the distance and height from his window to help target victims below , the cbs news show 60 minutes said in a news release on saturday ahead of a broadcast on sunday of interviews with clark county sheriff s officers , including one who said he saw the paper .
the sheriff s office could not be immediately reached for comment .
investigators have stressed that no suicide note had been found .
in an unusual bid to cast a wider net for tips , the fbi and police have arranged with communications company clear channel to post billboards around las vegas urging citizens to come forward with any information that might help investigators .
the billboards will bear the slogan , if you know something , say something , and carry a toll-free number to an fbi hotline , said aaron rouse , special agent in charge of the las vegas fbi office .
paddock , 64 , unleashed a torrent of gunfire onto an outdoor music festival from the windows of his 32nd-floor hotel suite overlooking the concert on sunday night , then shot himself to death before police stormed his room .
in addition to the 58 people who died , nearly 500 were injured , some by gunfire and some trampled or otherwise hurt while running for cover .
unlike so many other perpetrators of deadly mass shootings before him , paddock left behind no suicide note , no manifesto , no recordings and no messages on social media pointing to his intent , according to police .
mcmahill said investigators remained certain paddock acted alone in the shooting .
but police have said they suspect he had help before the killings , based on the large number of guns , ammunition and explosives found in the hotel suite , his home , his car and a second home searched in reno .
authorities have said that 12 of the weapons recovered from paddock s hotel suite were equipped with so-called bump-stock devices that enable semi-automatic rifles to be operated as if they were fully automatic machine-guns .
paddock s ability to fire hundreds of rounds per minute over the course of his 10-minute shooting spree was a major factor in the high casualty count , police said .
the bloodshed might have lasted longer , with greater loss of life , but for a hotel security officer who was sent to check an open-door alarm on the 32nd floor , and discovered the gunman s whereabouts after the shooting started , mcmahill said .
the security officer , jesus campos , was struck in the leg as the gunman strafed the hallway with gunfire from behind his door , apparently having detected campos via surveillance cameras paddock set up outside his hotel suite .
campos , though wounded , alerted the hotel s dispatch , which was absolutely critical to us knowing the location as well as advising the responding officers as they arrived on that 32nd floor , mcmahill said .
he s an absolute hero .
in a new disclosure , authorities said two bullets paddock fired struck a large jet fuel storage tank at the edge of the city s main airport , about a block from the concert grounds , indicating an apparent attempt by the gunman to create even greater havoc .
there was no explosion or fire from the two rounds , one of which penetrated the tank , as jet fuel in storage is almost impossible to ignite with gunshots , airport officials said on friday .
paddock s girlfriend , marilou danley , 62 , was questioned by the fbi on wednesday and said in a statement she never had any inkling of paddock s plans .
danley , who returned late on tuesday from a family visit to the philippines , is regarded by investigators as a person of interest .
the australian citizen of filipino heritage is cooperating fully with authorities , her lawyer said .