cnn s ratings have been in the toilet ever since they made falsifying news about our president and his nonexistent russian connection a top priority .
earlier this week , cnn sunk to a new low when they threatened to release the identity of a private user on social media site reddit , after he made a video showing president trump body-slamming a cnn logo superimposed over the wwe chairman s body .
perhaps it s a good time for cnn to think about replacing their vengeful , bully president cnn s president , jeff zucker , responded to the fiasco surrounding his network this week with a jab president donald trump s way , asserting it s the white house chief who s the aggressor in this tiff that the news organization is the victim.zucker s like the playground bully , caught mid-punch , mid-push , now standing before the principal , trying to weasel out of blame .
my job is to remind everyone that they need to stay focused doing their job , zuckersaid to the new york times .
[ trump s ] trying to bully us , and we re not going to let him intimidate us .
you can t lose your confidence and let that change the way you conduct yourselves .
decoded meaning : cnn s not going to change their witch-hunting ways.the whole tiff is over a video clip that trump retweeted showing him wrestling cnn to the ground .
the media , as the media is wont to do , went overboard with the criticism of trump s retweet , pretending like he was calling for arms against members of the media.cnn then went on a hunt to identify the creator of this video , watchdogging like it s not watchdogged in years .
and once identified , the guy was then issued this rather cold , calculating message from cnn : behave , or we ll name you publicly.watch infowars hilarious fake news video that replaces the hitler character with cnn president jeff zucker : hitler reacts to cnn pic.twitter.com/zyjdjtknan trump in 2020 ( @ gopin2020 ) july 8 , 2017the hashtag # cnnblackmail quickly gathered steam on twitter .
and rightly so .
a media giant going after a private citizen for making a satire video seems a bit , well , gestapo tactic .
but instead of backtracking and apologizing , cnn seems to have dug in for battle.hmm .
interesting strategy .
washington times