21st century wire says everyone has the right to air their perceived grievances about anything , including president trump , that is one of the benefits of living in america .
but there is a point where expressing grievances or protesting against policies or politicians can shift from legal protest , assembly and expression of free speech to inciting or promoting violence .
we ve seen some interesting cases of public figures coming close to and maybe crossing that line during the last week.some hollywood celebrities , entertainers and politicians may have taken the concept of free speech a little too far when trying to express their disdain for president trump .
celebrities madonna and ashley judd lashed out with bizarre tirades during the women s march in the wake of the trump inaugural festivities.the antics of the celebs at the dc women s march was a hot topic of discussion on sunday wire ep # 170 with patrick henningsen and hesher in the final segment of the show.madonna went as far as to say she d thought about blowing up the white house which she now claims was said in metaphor only , but still got her a lot of negative attention from the media , from trump supporters and even caught the attention of the secret service.what madonna and those cheering her on actually want and what they are planning to do to achieve it is as clear as mud after this protest .
if the revolution she speaks of is metaphorical only , then what are the goals of her and the rest of the protesters when she speaks of revolution ?
chants of , we chose love !
after statements , hypothetical or metaphorical , about revolution and blowing up the white house send a very confused message.madonna claims that her comments about the white house were taken out of context , listen to the full recording and you be the judge.warning madonna s speech may not be appropriate for the work place or around young children due to profanity.the singer later claimed , on her instagram page , that she is a nonviolent person and that she was not promoting violence when she said a revolution was starting after good did not win this election .
yesterday s rally .
was an amazing and beautiful experience .
i came and performed express yourself and thats exactly what i did .
however i want to clarify some very important things .
i am not a violent person , i do not promote violence and it s important people hear and understand my speech in it s entirety rather than one phrase taken wildly out of context .
my speech began with i want to start a revolution of love .
i then go on to take this opportunity to encourage women and all marginalized people to not fall into despair but rather to come together and use it as a starting point for unity and to create positive change in the world .
i spoke in metaphor and i shared two ways of looking at things one was to be hopeful , and one was to feel anger and outrage , which i have personally felt .
however , i know that acting out of anger doesn t solve anything .
and the only way to change things for the better is to do it with love .
it was truly an honor to be part of an audience chanting we choose love .
# revoltutionoflove # revolutionoflove * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * a photo posted by madonna ( @ madonna ) on jan 22 , 2017 at 10:49am pstkatie rich of saturday night live was suspended for what even she herself now concedes was an insensitive tweet about barron trump , 10 year old son of donald trump .
jumping on the bandwagon of ridiculing all things trump , rich tweeted out that , barron will be this contry s first homeschool shooter .
rich was suspended indefinitely by snl after the tweet and her twitter account was later deactivated after she tweeted an apology .
her name did not appear in the credits for the next broadcast of snl on saturday.could it be that people are actually being held responsible for their over-reach on social media and on their self perceived hollywood soap boxes ?
certainly not in all cases , but the katie rich case is a great example of how one can ruin a career with a single mean spirited , politically fueled tweet aimed at a ten year old.as we turn to a political example , we find a swedish politician who s stepped down from his position after a facebook post where he asked if someone could shoot him when talking about donald trump.municipal council member , roland peterson , went too far on his criticism of donald trump and provoked an angry response from his fellow party and council members.more on this phenomenon from rt rta municipal council member of a swedish town called kalmar has resigned due to a facebook post he made asking if someone could shoot america s new president , donald trump .
i believed that donald trump would calm down after he became the president [ of the us ] .
but how wrong i was !
he exceeded my worst fears !
could anyone shoot him ?
swedish social democratic party member roland peterson , a municipal official in kalmar s soedermoere district , wrote on his facebook page on sunday , though he removed it an hour later.nonetheless , peterson decided to step down as member of both his party and the soedermoere municipal council and planning board after making the post , announcing his resignation on monday morning .
after my blunder on facebook , there is a risk that i will become a burden for the social democrats in kalmar .
i do not want it , so i chose to leave all my posts , peterson wrote in a letter to his party members , as cited by the local oestra smaland newspaper.person s post provoked an angry reaction from his party members and fellow councilors .
it is good that he [ peterson ] removed it [ the post ] , councilor johan persson told oestra smalan , adding that people should never call for violence regardless of their opinion of donald trump or other issues.the social democrats leader in kalmar , roger holmberg , denounced the post as inappropriate and idiotic , while stressing that even thinking about the idea of violence is completely wrong .
he told swedish broadcaster stv that he had had a conversation with peterson and said that new party members would receive training in working with social media.holmber said that peterson is deeply remorseful , explaining that he did not understand the impact of the post in the social media .
peterson told stv that he would have never written the post if he had considered the consequences , while promising he will never do it again .
he also explained to oestra smalan that it was trump s environmental policy that had deeply upset him .
he [ trump ] risks the future of the entire earth , he said , adding that now , when the world has started going in the right direction , trump plans to increase oil and coal production.trump s ideas about the environmental are a source of controversy in the us .
social media went into meltdown after trump s inauguration when certain hot topic issues disappeared from the white house website , including climate change.many mainstream media outlets initially reported on the conspicuous disappearances , but are adopting a more cautious wait-and-see approach for the time being.anti-trump angst was running high both in the us and abroad after his inauguration .
on saturday , donald trump s first full day in the white house , thousands of women marched through us cities to protest trump and call for the protection of civil liberties and diverse cultures continue this report at rtread more election news at : 21st century wire election coveragesupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv