paul ryan is just like all the other establishment politicians from both sides of the aisle who have sold the american worker down the river for cheap labor .
foreign workers have been coming in to america by the droves to take over jobs that americans had .
in some cases , the american worker is required to train the foreign worker who s taking their job .
disney has been called out on doing this to its workers who fought back against it .
the chamber of commerce is in the pocket of the establishment and they are all for more and more immigration that will ultimately hurt the american worker .
in a tuesday morning interview with radio host bill bennett , paul ryan defended his omnibus bill s controversial expansion in the h-2b visa program , which would allow foreign workers to fill blue-collar american jobs , by arguing that if the provision were not included , american companies would be forced to shut their doors.bennett pressed ryan on the details of the h-2b visa expansion , slipped 700-pages into ryan s 2,009-page omnibus spending bill asking ryan directly , do you believe there are not enough americans to fill these jobs ?
in response , ryan described the h-2b visa expansion as a very small , discrete provision .
despite the nation s high levels of unemployment and stagnating wages , ryan continued on to assert , without offering evidence in support of his claim , that corporations are facing a shortage of labor , which rendered the provision necessary .
ryan said : the reason that this was passed is because there was some seasonal surge jobs that they can t find local workers to fill , like the seafood packaging industry in chesapeake bay .
you have seafood season , you need people to package those things , to can them .
in the north , we have the summer tourism industry .
what it is is there s seasonal industries where they can t find local people to do the jobs : kids are already in college or things like that where you have a surge in workers.ryan explained that the provision was passed specifically to help small business who can not find labor when there s a surge in demand for their labor like seafood processing , or tourism .
ryan warned , the point is these businesses would have shut down without this and that s what we didn t want to see happen .
we didn t want to see businesses , who are seasonal , shut down because they couldn t get the labor .
that s why this provision was passed in july .
the data , however , demonstrates ryan s claim to be unsubstantiated .
as sen. jeff sessions ( r-al ) 80 % has highlighted , the economic policy institute has documented how , wages were stagnant or declining for workers in all of the top 15 h-2b occupations between 2004 and 2014 .
unemployment rates increased in all but one of the top 15 h-2b occupations between 2004 and 2014 , and all 15 occupations averaged very high unemployment rates flat and declining wages coupled with such high unemployment rates over such a long period of time suggest a loose labor market an over-supply of workers rather than an under-supply.cries of so-called labor shortages are frequently invoked by corporations and immigration expansionist who want to see large increases in low-wage labor .
as immigration attorney ian smith has explained , ryan s resurrection and expansion of the controversial provision in sen. marco rubio s gang of eight bill to increase guest-worker programs will disproportionately hurt america s most vulnerable workers such as black workers , single women , the elderly , and first-generation immigrants.while ryan argues that more low-wage immigrant labor is needed to fill labor shortages , national review s rich lowry has previously declared , the next time i hear a republican strategist or a republican politician say that there are jobs that americans won t do , that person should be shot , he should be hanged , he should be wrapped in a carpet and thrown in the potomac river .
ryan s push to expand immigration comes on top of the nation s existing federal policy of autopilot visa dispensations .
under current policy , every day the u.s. brings in enough new immigrants to fill an overcrowded , metropolitan high school .
every week , the united states brings in enough new immigrants to fill the staples center , where the los angeles lakers play .
every year , we add an immigrant population the size of dallas .
and every three years , the u.s. adds another entire city of los angeles , made up of foreign-born immigrants.ryan , however , seems to believe these numbers should be even bigger , even as the u.s. foreign-born population is already at an all-time high of 42.4 million.perhaps the most unusual aspect of ryan s using conservative talk radio platforms to make arguments for expanded immigration is that the republican party is now in the position of having an electorate that is almost universally opposed ( 92 percent according to pew ) to immigration increases , but it is led by a house speaker who has a two-decade long history of pushing for higher rates of immigration .
this means that one segment of the electorate , perhaps most in favor of immigration reductions , now has as its leader one of the politicians most associated with pushing for expanded immigration.read more : breitbart