beijing ( reuters ) - china s former ambassador to the united nations has taken up a new role as a deputy head of the country s taiwan policy-making body , the taiwan affairs office , part of a leadership reshuffle connected to a key communist party congress opening next week .
taiwan is one of china s most important and sensitive issues .
china considers proudly democratic taiwan to be a wayward province and has never renounced the possibility of using force to bring the island under its control .
veteran diplomat liu jieyi served as china s ambassador to the united nations from august 2013 until last month when he was recalled to beijing to await a new role .
liu has now taken up the position as the top ranked of four deputy heads of the taiwan affairs office , according to an updated list of the office s leadership positions posted on its website .
chinese media reported on the change on wednesday .
while china considers taiwan to be an internal affair it is not unusual for chinese diplomats to serve in the taiwan affairs office .
zhang zhijun remains head of the taiwan affairs office , a position he took in 2013 replacing wang yi , who currently serves as china s foreign minister .
zhang also previously worked for the foreign ministry .
as the top ranked deputy at the office , liu stands in line to take over from zhang if he also assumes another position in the next few months .
the once-every-five-years party congress will see many people take up new posts between now and the annual meeting of parliament in march .
taipei s relations with beijing have deteriorated sharply since president tsai ing-wen , leader of the pro-independence democratic progressive party , took office last year .
china suspects she wants to push for the island s formal independence , a red line for beijing .
china has cut off a regular dialogue mechanism with taiwan , ramped up military drills around the island and stepped up international pressure to limit taiwan s diplomatic footprint .
tsai , who has pledged to maintain peace with china , said this week her government was still seeking breakthroughs in ties with beijing and promised consistent and stable policies .
[ nl4n1ml1l8 ]