luxembourg ( reuters ) - the european union on monday reaffirmed its support for a 2015 nuclear deal between iran and world powers despite sharp criticism of the accord by president donald trump , and it urged u.s. lawmakers not to reimpose sanctions on tehran .
trump defied both u.s. allies and adversaries on friday by refusing to formally certify that tehran is complying with the accord , even though international inspectors say it is , and said he might ultimately terminate the agreement .
eu foreign ministers meeting in luxembourg said a failure to uphold an international agreement backed by the u.n. security council could have serious consequences for regional peace , and also undermine efforts to check north korea s nuclear ambitions .
as europeans together , we are very worried that the decision of the u.s. president could lead us back into military confrontation with iran , german foreign minister sigmar gabriel told reporters .
after a closed-door meeting chaired by eu foreign policy chief federica mogherini on iran , the ministers issued a joint statement saying the 2015 deal was key to preventing the global spread of nuclear weapons .
the eu is committed to the continued full and effective implementation of all parts of the jcpoa , it said , referring to the joint comprehensive plan of action , the formal name of the accord with iran agreed in july 2015 in vienna .
trump meanwhile renewed his criticism of the accord , and raised the possibility he might try to end it completely .
we ll see what phase two is .
phase two might be positive , and it might be very negative .
it might be a total termination .
that s a very real possibility .
some would say that s a great possibility , the u.s. president said in washington .
he repeated his contention that the jcpoa was a horrible deal for the united states .
eu foreign ministers said the accord was crucial to opening up iran s $ 400-billion economy and finding a new market for european investors .
unlike the united states , the eu saw relations with iran flourish in the late 1990s until revelations about tehran s nuclear plans in 2002 .
non-proliferation is a major element of world security and rupturing that would be extremely damaging , french foreign minister jean-yves le drian told reporters .
we hope that congress does not put this accord in jeopardy .
mogherini said she would travel to washington early next month to try to muster support for the accord .
the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) says iran is complying with its commitments under the accord , which trump has branded the worst deal ever negotiated .
the eu still has sanctions in place against members of iran s islamic revolutionary guard corps , a major target of trump s criticism .
the eu ministers also discussed on monday iran s ballistic missile program , which they want to see dismantled .
tehran says that program is purely defensive .
negotiated after 12 years of talks , the accord with iran is the most significant diplomatic success for the bloc in several decades .
many worry that the eu s reputation as an honest broker in a host of future conflicts may not recover if the u.s. congress reimposes sanctions on iran and causes the deal - which had the strong backing of trump s predecessor barack obama - to unravel .
most u.n. and western sanctions were lifted more than 18 months ago under the deal , though tehran is still subject to a u.n. arms embargo , which is not part of the deal .
eu foreign ministers also approved a new batch of economic sanctions on north korea after its atomic test last month that included an oil embargo and investment ban .
but some still hold out hope of repeating the iran nuclear deal with pyongyang at some future date .
sweden is one of only seven eu countries with an embassy in pyongyang and its foreign minister , margot wallstrom , reiterated that stockholm could be counted on to help negotiate if asked .
but germany s gabriel warned that trump s decision not to certify the iran accord could scupper such hopes , a position echoed by mogherini , although she stressed that no such eu mediation was underway .
my concern is that , if we want to talk to north korea now , the possible end for the nuclear deal with iran would jeopardize the credibility of such treaties , gabriel said .