varadero , cuba ( reuters ) - in the wake of hurricane irma , foreign tourists partied in the coastal resort of varadero and some cubans swam in the flooded streets of central havana , both glad that the deadly storm s damage to the island of 11 million people had not been worse .
british visitor josephine breslin , 49 , spent the night on an inflatable bed in a hotel bathroom when irma s 120 mph ( 195 km ) winds walloped cuba s top beach destination , but after helping sweep up on sunday morning , she felt ready to start relaxing .
i think the atmosphere now is relief , knowing it is past and the building is still there and everyone is ok , said the british woman , wearing a colorful pareo over her swimsuit .
you can feel people are settling down , the winds are going , the sun is coming out , its business as usual , cuban rum yes please !
she said .
irma was packing 160 mph ( 260 kph ) winds when it made landfall in cuba , the first storm of that power to reach the island since 1932 , and it caused major damage to tourist infrastructure including an international airport on the sandy keys popular with europeans and canadians .
it tore off roofs and downed electricity poles throughout the country before turning northwards and plowing through florida on sunday .
but even with the power out across most of the country of 11.2 million people , the damage to inland cuba appeared less than devastation wrought on smaller caribbean islands .
winds had slowed a little by the time irma reached varadero .
the storm , which killed at least 28 people in the caribbean and at least one man in florida , did not lead to reported fatalities in cuba , which carried out a major evacuation effort prior to the storm .
havana was spared a direct hit but locals in the poor central district of the colonial city close to the seafront were dealing with waterlogged homes and possessions after 36 foot ( 11 meter ) waves breached the city s curving sea wall , turning roads into canals .
some let off steam on sunday by diving into deeply flooded streets , paddling on wooden boards , or wading to stores for rum through the waist-deep water .
in the barcelo hotel , breslin was full of praise for the cubans who evacuated them on buses along with thousands of others from the keys before irma , and for the hotel staff who brought sandwiches to her room during the hurricane .
earlier in the day , the mainly british guests on inclusive package tours with operator thomas cook had cleaned up the pool , put sunbeds back in their place and helped workers clear away the fallen trees and branches , everyone mucking in .
in the afternoon , guests milled around the lobby area , drinking from plastic cups , where the reggaeton summer hit despacito blasted out of loudspeakers and hotel staff geared up to provide an evening of entertainment including salsa dancing .
we put the music on to bring stress levels down and so the clients feel better , said juan carlos varcas , 30 , a cuban salsa teacher at the hotel .
another british tourist , dave kelsey , said he was winding down after spending part of the night huddled in a bathtub as winds howled through the hotel , flinging sunbeds far away , tearing up palm trees and flooding rooms .
after a few drinks , kelsey was horsing around with a friend , both wearing random items of women s clothing and about to jump into the swimming pool .
other guests egged them on .
while it will take much of cuba s tourism industry weeks , if not months to recover from the hurricane , guests at the barcelo said they would not be deterred from returning to the caribbean s largest island .
don t get me wrong , my children don t want me to come back - they have been worried sick , said breslin , who has visited cuba each of the past four years .
but i will come back to cuba ... because the cuban people are lovely .