new york ( reuters ) - with republican efforts to dismantle obamacare in disarray , hundreds of u.s. counties are at risk of losing access to private health coverage in 2018 as insurers consider pulling out of those markets in the coming months .
republican senators failed this week to repeal and replace obamacare , former president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare reform law , creating new uncertainty over how the program providing health benefits to 20 million americans will be funded and managed in 2018 .
in response , republican president donald trump on friday again suggested that his administration would let the obamacare program “ implode. ” he has weakened enforcement of the law ’ s requirement for individuals to buy insurance , threatened to cut off funding and sought to change plan benefits through regulations .
anthem inc , cigna corp , health care service corp and molina healthcare , four of the biggest health insurers selling obamacare plans , said they are weighing whether to pull out of more markets for 2018 rather than face financial losses .
they have until sept. 27 to finalize their plans .
so far , 40 u.s. counties are expected to have no insurer offering individual coverage next year , but that number could rise by the hundreds , according to u.s. government data , kaiser family foundation analysis and insurer disclosures .
more than 1,300 counties , primarily in 15 states , currently have only one insurer participating in 2018 .
anthem and hcsc are the last man standing in one-third of those counties and states - putting those areas in particular at risk .
“ right now the number of counties at immediate risk of having no insurers in 2018 is small , but it could easily grow significantly if a couple major insurers decide to exit , ” larry levitt , health economist at the kaiser family foundation , said .
many insurers have been waiting for an answer from trump or lawmakers on whether they will continue to fund $ 8 billion in annual government subsidies .
without assurances , many insurers plan to raise rates an additional 20 percent by an aug. 16 deadline for premium prices .
others say that the many unknowns will make the business too risky .
the last-minute drama has left millions of americans questioning whether they will have medical coverage next year .
julie grady , a 59-year-old small business owner in carson city , nevada , is currently covered by blue cross blue shield of nevada , part of anthem , which has already decided to leave the exchanges in her county and most of the state .
carson city will have no insurer on the exchanges next year .
grady ’ s pays a reduced premium of $ 70 per month and a deductible under $ 1,000 for her plan , which is part of the affordable care act , commonly called obamacare .
grady is looking at being uninsured , as she was before the law .
“ i would have to go without health insurance , ” she said .
“ i would just stay healthy , hike , eat well .
i ’ d be in trouble if something catastrophic happened .
i would lose everything. ” anthem , the second-largest u.s. health insurer , sells blue cross blue shield plans in 14 states .
it has already decided to pull out of most individual markets in nevada , ohio , indiana and wisconsin in 2018 .
earlier this week , chief executive officer joe swedish said he was still weighing 2018 participation in its other states .
in states like colorado , georgia , kentucky , missouri , and virginia , anthem sells plans in more than 250 counties where it is the only insurer , and they could be left “ bare ” next year , according to government data .
health care services corp is a blue cross blue shield licensee in five states and is the only obamacare individual insurer in more than 90 texas counties , more than 75 oklahoma counties , and half a dozen illinois counties .
it confirmed on friday that it has submitted products for its five states but is still weighing next year .
“ we ’ re working through the regulatory filing process and hope to fully participate ... in 2018 , however no final decisions have been made , ” hcsc spokeswoman kristen cunningham said .
molina , which has more than 1 million members in obamacare plans , and cigna , with more than 250,000 participants , have said they need more certainty from the government to decide on 2018 participation and would weigh their decisions up until the late september deadline .
state insurance regulators have worked hard in recent months to replace insurers who have left .
in nevada , for instance , centene corp and aetna inc entered in some counties that anthem left after the insurance commissioner said he would favor these insurers for its medicaid contract bids .
but they are unlikely to find replacements for new dropouts in these final weeks , particularly if the trump administration signals it won ’ t fund $ 8 billion in subsidies for out-of-pocket medical costs .
“ there is almost no chance they would step in to participate , ” said kurt wrobel , a fellow at the society of actuaries and chief financial officer of the geisinger health plan in pennsylvania .
some insurers say they will likely just raise rates and hope it works .
blue cross blue shield of michigan filed two sets of rates with the state department of insurance , one up to 32 percent higher if the fate of subsidies remains unclear .
“ we don ’ t have any plans to pull out , ” said rick notter , director of the individual business at bcbs michigan .
“ but it would certainly help to have more certainty around what the market holds . ”