paris ( reuters ) - the united nations cultural agency selected former french culture minister audrey azoulay as its new chief on friday , handing her the keys to revive unesco s fortunes after the united states pulled out .
azoulay edged qatar s hamad bin abdulaziz al-kawari after the fifth round of voting and the decision will now be put forward for approval to unesco s 195 members on nov. 10 .
a sudden announcement on thursday that the united states was quitting over perceived anti-israel bias meant that whoever wins the top job would inherit a body in turmoil , with huge questions over its future funding and mission .
in this time of crisis we need more than ever to support , strengthen and reform unesco and not leave it , azoulay told reporters , saying she would modernize the organization .
if i m confirmed ... the first thing i will do is to restore its credibility , restore the faith of its members and its efficiency so it can act .
azoulay , who will replace irina bokova , a bulgarian who has led the body since 2009 , will have to try to restore the relevance of an agency born from the ashes of world war two , but increasingly hobbled by regional rivalries and a lack of money .
congratulations france will continue to fight for science , education and culture in the world , president emmanuel macron tweeted .
the 45-year-old , a former minister under president francois hollande , has the political background , and knows the cultural and communications sectors well having dedicated much of her career to them .
she also has the ardent backing of macron , who had lobbied for her actively overseas during the last few months , and has made education one of his top priorities .
he has also pushed for more multlilateralism at a time when the united states has pushed back .
officially known as the united nations educational , scientific and cultural organization , paris-based unesco is best known for designating and protecting archaeological and heritage sites , from the galapagos islands to the tombs of timbuktu .
most of its activities are uncontroversial , but when it comes to , say , resolutions about how religious sites should be run in jerusalem , every word is studied for accusations of bias .
the united states is meant to provide a fifth of unesco s funding , but had already been withholding that since 2011 when the body admitted palestine as a full member .
it announced its departure on thursday accusing unesco of anti-israeli bias .
israel itself followed .
unfortunately , this venue has become politicized , undermining the work of unesco across its mandate .
it s become a venue for anti-israel bias , and unfortunately we are taking the decision to withdraw from unesco at this time , u.s. charge d affaires at unesco , chris hegadorn told reuters .