( reuters ) - five democratic u.s. senators , including presidential candidate bernie sanders , told the justice department and federal communications commission on thursday that they had “ significant concerns ” about charter communications inc ’ s ( chtr.o ) planned acquisition of time warner cable inc twc.n and bright house networks .
the senators , who also included elizabeth warren , ed markey , ron wyden and al franken , said in a letter to the agencies that are reviewing the proposal that the deal would create “ a nationwide broadband duopoly , ” with charter and comcast corp ( cmcsa.o ) in nearly two-thirds of u.s. high-speed broadband homes .
the senators urged the government to thoroughly address all potential harm to consumers .
they also raised concerns that charter will take on significant debt that could harm its ability to honor commitments to build out its network , including in rural areas .
the fcc has said u.s. broadband prices are among the world ’ s most expensive , according to the senators , who urged more competition .
the merger could lead to higher prices and fewer innovative services , they added .
charter said in may that it would buy time warner cable in a $ 56 billion cash-and-stock deal that would make it the no .
2 u.s. internet and cable company after comcast .
shareholders of both companies and most u.s. states have approved the deal , which still awaits clearance from the federal government .
on wednesday , charter said it had won approval from new jersey and was only awaiting clearance from two states where it will operate as new charter .
the company agreed to return time warner cable call centers to the united states and add jobs .
“ having demonstrated that the pending transactions with time warner cable and bright house networks are squarely in the public interest , charter remains confident they will close in a timely fashion , ” the company said on wednesday .
new charter would be the third-largest cable provider in the country , serving roughly 17.3 million customers , and the second-largest broadband provider , with 19.4 million subscribers .
it would be in nearly 40 states .
charter and time warner cable did not immediately respond to requests for comment on thursday .
fcc spokeswoman kim hart said the commission had received the letter and was reviewing it .
the fcc hopes to complete its review by the end of march .
in april , comcast withdrew its $ 45 billion offer for time warner cable after u.s. regulators raised concerns that the deal would give it an unfair advantage in the cable tv and internet-based services market .