( reuters ) - british billionaire and adventurer sir richard branson will stay on his private caribbean island , necker , for the potentially devastating arrival of hurricane irma , the founder of the virgin group of companies said on tuesday .
packing 185 mph ( 295 kph ) winds , hurricane irma is due to reach the british virgin islands on wednesday before grinding west across haiti and cuba then heading for the southern united states .
the storm is classified as a category 5 hurricane , the highest level on the scale used by the national hurricane center to measure strength .
we had some lovely guests staying on necker island who have cut their trip short for safety reasons , and another group of guests have also postponed , branson said in a statement on the virgin group website .
i will be on necker alongside our team , as i have been on the three times we have had hurricanes over the past 30 years .
necker , which has a large main house and several small balinese-style houses that can accommodate about 34 people in total , is rented to private groups for $ 80,000 a night , according to its website .
the island has more than 100 staff and two infinity pools .
branson said necker boasts really strong buildings with hurricane blinds that should be able to handle extreme weather pretty well .
he said their main concern was for british virgin islanders , who should make themselves as prepared as possible .
whatever happens , keep inside , away from the ocean and away from flying debris , branson wrote .
recalling seeing two powerful hurricanes , earl and otto , strike the british virgin islands in 2010 , branson said he had beheld nature at its most ferocious .
and he noted the damage done in texas and louisiana by hurricane harvey , which came ashore as the second-strongest category 4 storm and destroyed thousands of homes and businesses , killed an estimated 60 people and displaced more than 1 million more .
harvey was a tragic and costly reminder that society is not doing enough to tackle climate change , branson wrote .
if irma is any indication , we must brace ourselves for more of these catastrophic weather events .