will the democrats ultimately choose a marxist who s never accomplished a thing in his life or a serial criminal socialist ?
choices choices manchester , n.h. hillary clinton spoke of being knocked down and having problems with young voters in a bitter concession speech after losing to sen. bernie sanders tuesday night in the new hampshire democratic primary .
i don t know what we d have done tonight if we d actually won .
this is pretty exciting , clinton said to her crowd of supporters shortly after 9 pm eastern time , flanked onstage by husband bill and daughter chelsea , who did not speak .
i just want to say , i still love new hampshire and i always will .
people are angry .
but there s also hungry .
they re hungry for solutions .
what are we going to do ? , clinton said .
i know i have some work to do , especially with young people , clinton said .
even if they are not supporting me right now , i am supporting them it s not whether you get knocked down that matters , it s whether you get back up .
clinton devolved into an angry , ranting style by speech s end , calling for human rights for gays , women , workers , and others .
she also pivoted to focus on south carolina , which will be decided by the black vote , talking about how african-american parents should not have to worry about their kids being harassed or shot , and immigrant families should not have to lie awake at night waiting for a knock on the door signaling deportation.she also spoke of the contaminated water crisis in flint , michigan and of a hypothetical grandmother forced to choose between rent or food because some drug company raised medicine prices by 4,000 percent an apparent reference to scandal-ridden former drug ceo martin shkreli.clinton lost resoundingly to sanders in the granite state .
by the time she finished her speech , sanders was beating her 58.5 percent to 39.7 percent with 37 percent of the precincts reporting .
cnn called the race for sanders at approximately 8 pm.sanders win was fueled by a massive turnout by independent voters and non-democrats.forty-one percent of democrat voters were independents and only 55 percent were registered democrats , according to cnn exit polling .
via : breitbart news