addis ababa ( reuters ) - an ethiopian opposition leader was due to be released on bail almost two years after he was detained during mass protests over land rights , a member of his party said on monday .
bekele gerba , secretary general of the oromo federalist congress , was arrested in december 2015 as activists stepped up demonstrations accusing the government of seizing their land and passing it on to firms and developers .
violence went on to spread across the oromiya province that surrounds the capital addis ababa and is home to many foreign-owned businesses , drawn in by the government s industrialisation push .
bekele would walk free late monday or early tuesday after the high court granted him 30,000 birr ( $ 1,110 ) bail , the party s current deputy leader , mulatu teshome , told reuters .
bekele , who denies all wrongdoing , was initially charged with involvement in terrorism and collusion with the secessionist oromo liberation front , which the government has branded a terrorist group .
a court reduced those charges to inciting violence in august , but denied him bail then , as prosecutors said he would flee .
nearly 700 people died in one bout of unrest during months protests in 2015 and 2016 , according to a parliament-mandated investigation .
rallies over land rights then broadened into demonstrations over political restrictions and perceived rights abuses , including the incarceration of bekele and his colleagues .
the party s chairman merera gudina remains behind bars since his arrest in december last year on charges of colluding with an outlawed group .
the violence has fueled fears about security in ethiopia , the region s biggest economy and a staunch western ally .
last week , at least five people were killed in a town of ambo after police opened fire during a protest over sugar shortages .
a week before that , ethnic clashes killed at least 11 people in the same region , while another bout of violence along oromiya s border with the country s somali region last month displaced hundreds of thousands of people .