santiago ( reuters ) - chile s presidential hopefuls ended their campaigns in downtown santiago on thursday ahead of an uncertain runoff election whose outcome will determine whether the world s top copper producer turns to the right or maintains its center-left track .
voters on sunday will choose between billionaire conservative sebastian pinera and center-left senator and journalist alejandro guillier .
during the november first-round election , a surprise surge by harder leftists confounded pollsters , sent markets plummeting and set the stage for a tighter-than-expected runoff .
everything points to a narrow margin of victory , said guillermo holzmann , a professor at the university of valparaiso .
it s an unusual race in that it s been difficult to gauge the electorate .
both pinera and guillier would keep in place the longstanding free-market economic model in latin america s most developed country .
but candidates with more extreme views on both the right and left performed better than expected in november , leading both men to make concessions to try to win over voters whose first-round choice dropped out .
uruguay former president jose pepe mujica , a leftist icon in a latin america that has largely turned to the political right , turned out to support guillier .
the conservative right has no future in chile , guillier told his fans .
pinera , 68 , a former president and the market favorite , placed first with 36.6 percent of the vote in the first round .
he has vowed to boost growth by cutting the corporate tax rate and scaling back outgoing president michelle bachelet s tax , labor and education reforms that guillier has vowed to deepen .
at santiago s caupolic n theater , he promised a new and better treatment of the middle class , older adults and children .
the bearded guillier , 64 , from northern chile , garnered 22.7 percent of the vote in november from backers hoping to preserve gains made in bachelet s government for students , women and workers , measures such as lower university fees and laws empowering unions .
guillier has courted leftists by proposing to overhaul the country s privatized pension system and rewrite the constitution .
pinera has sought to appeal to centrist voters by calling for free technical education for the poor and a public pension option .
guillier narrowly edged out third place finisher beatriz sanchez of the leftist frente amplio .
she received support from 20 percent of voters with promises to tax the super-rich to boost social spending and fight inequality .
sanchez s 1.3 million voters are seen as pivotal in the upcoming election .
voting is voluntary in chile , and abstention has run high in recent years .
it comes down to how many people stay home , and particularly , how many people stay home on guillier s side , said university of chile professor robert funk .