geneva ( reuters ) - humanitarian crises around the world will worsen next year with no let-up in african civil wars , near-famines in conflict-ridden regions and the threat of islamist violence , a geneva-based think-tank predicted in a report published on thursday .
the report by acaps , a non-profit venture that supports humanitarian aid workers with daily monitoring and analysis of 150 countries , examined the anticipated needs of 18 countries in 2018 and found little to cheer .
if 2017 did not look good , predictions for 2018 are no better : violence and insecurity are likely to deteriorate in afghanistan , democratic republic of congo , libya , ethiopia , mali , somalia , and syria next year , acaps director lars peter nissen wrote in the report .
next year ethiopia will join northeastern nigeria , somalia , south sudan and yemen as places at risk of famine , said the report , entitled `` humanitarian overview : an analysis of key crises into 2018 '' .
here in a separate report , the u.s.-funded famine early warning systems network said an estimated 76 million people across 45 countries were likely to need food aid in 2018 , driven by conflict , an 18-month-old drought in the horn of africa and forecasts for below average rains in africa s spring next year .
rather than bringing stability , the prospect of elections in afghanistan , iraq , libya , south sudan and venezuela is expected to exacerbate tensions and fuel violence , the acaps report said .
islamic extremism will also continue to cause death and conflict , the report said .
despite the defeat of islamic state in its main strongholds in iraq , the group is expected to continue improvised attacks throughout the country to destabilise the government , as well as gaining strength and resources in southern libya .
islamic state is also likely to increase its toehold in the puntland region of somalia , impacting the civilian population and clashing with its bigger regional rival al shabaab , which will increase the lethality of its own attacks .
acaps said islamist armed groups are also expected to take advantage of the withdrawal of government troops from central mali , gaining local recruits and further influence , while in afghanistan the taliban will consolidate rural strongholds and increased opium production will boost funding for armed groups .
the fragmentation of armed groups in central african republic is expected to worsen the violence there , sending more refugees into cameroon and democratic republic of congo , where president joseph kabila is unlikely to leave power until 2019 , fuelling frustration and violent protest , the report said .
militia groups previously focused on local grievances will likely become increasingly frustrated by the national , political , and socioeconomic situation and are likely to increase violence , particularly against government forces and institutions , the report said .