there is chatter within the white house that kellyanne conway is being looked at as the next communications director , a source within the white house told the daily caller.anthony scaramucci was ousted monday as communications director following a week of publicly feuding with former chief of staff reince priebus .
scaramucci called priebus a paranoid schizophrenic in an interview president trump viewed as inappropriate , according to white house press secretary sarah huckabee sanders.kellyanne conway would be a perfect choice for president trump s new communications director .
conway is no stranger to dealing with the press .
she is also no pushover .
conway has taken on almost every liberal hack at every leftist network in america , and each time she s walked away holding her head high , as she make her points in an eloquent but no holds barred way.chris cuomo of fake news network cnn interviewed kellyanne conway on sunday .
you would have thought by now , these hacks at cnn would have figured out they are no match for the brilliant kellyanne conway .
at the opening of his interview with conway , cuomo attempted to convince the few viewers who still watch cnn that president trump was very squishy on his meeting with vladimir putin .
kellyanne conway snapped back in her usual calm but witty way , chris , let s back up .
so you re saying you used the word squishy which , itself , is unusual to describe the president s state of mind .
so somehow that makes people on cnn insist that the president is never going to raise this with putin ?
why are they still in there ?
cuomo responded , it s not about cnn .
it s about what the president said , kellyanne .
kellyanne immediately landed a right hook to fake news host chris cuomo when she asked him , aren t you the least bit reluctant , if not embarrassed that you now talk about russia more than you talk about america ?
watch the brilliant exchange here : conway , currently a counselor to the president , served as trump s campaign manager and was previously a republican pollster .
she currently is a visible face of the trump administration through her frequent appearances on cable news and is often relied on by the white house to deliver its message to the press .
daily caller