watching this video will help anyone who is curious about why the city of detroit continues to be bailed out of trouble like an irresponsible child with a trust fund .
this video of detroit city council member monica conyers ( d ) , wife of us representative john conyers helps to explain the type of character detroit voters have been placing their trust in for decades .
this is an older video , but definitely worth sharing.shortly after this debate with an 8th grader , city councilwoman monica conyers was found guilty of bribery and sent to prison for 3 years.former detroit city councilwoman , monica conyers was sentenced to more than three years in prison for bribery after a federal judge refused to set aside her guilty plea during a stormy court hearing dominated by a dispute over evidence of other payoffs.as guards cleared the packed courtroom , monica conyers yelled that she planned to appeal .
the wife of u.s. rep. john conyers , d-mich. , wanted to withdraw her guilty plea , suggesting she was the victim of badgering last year when she admitted taking cash to support a houston company s sludge contract with the city.but u.s. district judge avern cohn , reviewing a transcript of the june hearing , said conyers had denied any coercion and voluntarily pleaded guilty to conspiracy.conyers , 45 , is the biggest catch so far in the fbi s wide-ranging investigation of corruption in detroit city government .
nine people have pleaded guilty , including two former directors of the downtown convention center , and prosecutors have promised more charges are coming .
bribery is a betrayal of trust , cohn told conyers after announcing a 37-month prison term for her egregious crime .
she quit the council after pleading guilty in june.conyers plea deal was limited to taking bribes to support a contract with synagro worth $ 47 million a year .
but the recent trial of her former aide , sam riddle , exposed a series of alleged schemes involving others making payoffs to do business at city hall.prosecutors said riddle and conyers collected $ 69,500 by shaking people down and urged cohn to consider the alleged crimes when sentencing her .
defense lawyer steve fishman firmly objected and demanded a separate hearing.conyers declared , i m not going to jail for something i didn t do .
before the hearing , conyers moved around the courtroom like a playful host , blowing kisses to supporters while wearing dark sunglasses .
her husband , who has an office in the federal courthouse , was not in the courtroom .
spokesman jonathan godfrey said he didn t know his whereabouts .
via : huff postdespite her going to prison , losing her political job and often embarrassing the family with her behavior in city hall , u.s. rep. john conyers does not want a divorce from his feisty wife , monica conyers , his lawyer told the free press on monday.the former detroit city councilwoman filed for divorce last month , claiming the marriage has fallen apart beyond repair .
but her 86-year-old husband wants to work things out .
detroit free press