united nations ( reuters ) - the united states has quit negotiations on a voluntary pact to deal with migration because the global approach to the issue was simply not compatible with u.s. sovereignty , said u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley .
in a statement released late on saturday , the u.s. mission to the u.n. noted that president donald trump made the decision .
no country has done more than the united states , and our generosity will continue , said haley , whose parents are immigrants from india .
but our decisions on immigration policies must always be made by americans and americans alone .
we will decide how best to control our borders and who will be allowed to enter our country , she said .
trump campaigned last year on a promise to deport large numbers of immigrants and build a wall on the u.s. border with mexico to help tackle illegal immigration and crime in the united states .
since he took office in january , he has also moved to ban u.s. entry by people from select muslim countries .
with a record 21.3 million refugees globally , the 193-member u.n. general assembly adopted a political declaration in september last year in which they also agreed to spend two years negotiating the pact on safe , orderly and regular migration .
former u.s. president barack obama s administration backed the resolution , known as the new york declaration , which also asked u.n. high commissioner for refugees filippo grandi to propose a global compact on refugees for adoption in 2018 .
the global approach in the new york declaration is simply not compatible with u.s. sovereignty , haley said .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres regretted the u.s. decision , his spokesman said on sunday , but expressed hope the united states might re-engage in the talks .
the positive story of migration is clear : it needs to be better told .
equally , the challenges it throws up need to be tackled with more determination and greater international coordination , u.n. spokesman farhan haq said .
three days of preparatory talks begin in mexico on monday ahead of the start of formal negotiations in february over the non-binding pact .
haley s predecessor samantha power mocked the u.s. move .
how to further insult your mexican neighbor , turn your back on humanity s most desperate , and make america irrelevant on a hugely destabilizing global crisis in one easy step , she posted on twitter .
while former u.n. deputy secretary-general jan eliasson said on twitter : on migration , national solutions logically do not exist ...
going it alone is a lose-lose proposition .
( the story was refiled to correct the name of the u.n. high commissioner for refugees to filippo grandi from zeid ra ad al-hussein in paragraph 7 )