ankara ( reuters ) - turkey is pulling 40 soldiers out of a nato exercise in norway , president tayyip erdogan said on friday , after his name appeared in a list of enemies on a poster at the drill , an incident that drew an apology from both the military alliance and oslo .
turkey has the second largest army in the alliance after the united states , and it borders syria , iraq and iran , lending it great strategic importance for nato .
but the relationship has become increasingly fractious as ankara drifts away from the alliance and the european union , alarming the west .
erdogan said an enemy poster , featuring his name on one side and a picture of modern turkey s founder , mustafa kemal ataturk , on the other , was unfurled at the training exercise in norway , prompting a decision by turkey s military chief and european union minister to pull the troops out .
they said they had decided to pull our troops out and will do so , so we told them to not stop and go ahead ... take our 40 soldiers out of there , erdogan told members of his ruling ak party in ankara .
commenting on the incident at the alliance s joint warfare centre in stavanger , norway , nato secretary-general jens stoltenberg said : i apologize for the offense that has been caused .
the incidents were the result of an individual s actions and do not reflect the views of nato , said stoltenberg , who is a former norwegian prime minister , in a written statement .
the individual involved , a civilian contractor seconded by norway and not a nato employee , was immediately removed from the exercise , stoltenberg said .
it would be up for the norwegian authorities to decide on any disciplinary action , he added .
turkey is a valued nato ally , which makes important contributions to allied security , stoltenberg said .
in a separate statement , norwegian defence minister frank bakke-jensen said the offending message had been published on a computer network used during the exercise .
the message does not reflect norway s views or policies and i apologize for the content of the message , he said , adding there would be a thorough investigation followed by appropriate measures .