isn t it unbelievable that these so-called experts get to spout off their hatred towards president trump on a regular basis via msnbc ?
this village idiot connects mosque burnings to trump when anyone with half a brain knows the muslims are vandalizing their own mosques ( see below ) !
they don t even know who burned the minnesota mosque ! the blame has been put on president trump but could it be that the muslims set fire to these mosques to produce a backlash ?
some of the arson cases have not been solved so why is buzzfeed blaming the attacks on anti-muslim arsonists ? buzzfeed makes false claims : in the past seven weeks , four mosques across the country have caught fire , according to buzzfeed news .
three of those fires have been ruled arson , authorities stated.on jan. 7 , the islamic center of lake travis in austin , which had been under construction , caught on fire .
a week later , on jan. 14 , the islamic center of eastside in bellevue , washington , burned.two weeks after that , on jan. 28 , several hours after president donald trump signed an executive order banning immigrants from seven muslim-majority countries , a fire destroyed the islamic center of victoria in texas.according to buzzfeed news , the daarus salaam mosque near tampa , florida , caught on fire this past friday , marking the fourth mosque in to go up in flames in fewer than two months .
mark potok , a senior fellow at the southern poverty law center , said he s never seen anything like this , calling them part of a series of dramatic attacks against muslims.what they don t report on : muslims torching their own mosque ! police in iowa arrested a 22-year-old woman suspected of starting a small fire at an iowa mosque thursday morning.security cameras in the mosque showed a woman , later identified as aisha ismail , pouring lighter fluid on the carpet and then starting the fire , said des moines police spokesmanthe texas case : houston , texas the muslim charged with arson of his own mosque on christmas day 2015 has pleaded guilty to felony arson in a harris county ( houston ) district court and was sentenced to prison .
the charging instrument stated that gary nathaniel moore started a fire with the intent to destroy and damage a place of worship the savoy masjid mosque in houston .
moore said he attended the mosque every day up to five times a day for five years .
the houston fire department ( hfd ) responded to the fire about 2:47 p.m. on christmas day.the most disturbing case is a fake hate crime case : have you heard about the texas case where the muslim community pushed for a hate crime charge and got it .
the lawyer for the defendant , mr. di carlo , contested the basic premise of the hate crime charge : this was not a mosque , this was an islamic learning center and there was a mosque therein , he said .
read more : nyt