douala ( reuters ) - a celebrated cameroonian writer who wrote a piece critical of the government s handling of a separatist crisis in its anglophone region was detained at douala airport on thursday , his wife and lawyer said .
patrice nganang , a prize-winning poet , professor and author who lives in new york , was due to board a kenya airways flight to nairobi and then onwards to harare to join his wife on thursday but never arrived .
after 24 hours of trying to track him down , nyasha bakare said he had been found by his lawyers at a government detention center in yaounde , the capital .
he s apparently ok. that s the main thing , bakare said , adding that the authorities appeared to be preparing for a legal hearing .
his lawyer emmanuel simh said : he is accused of insulting the president of the republic , and after the hearings we will be able to give further information .
a spokesman at the government s communications department was not immediately available to comment .
last week the government ordered thousands of villagers to leave their homes in the anglophone southwest region as it deployed troops to root out armed separatists .
the move marked an escalation of a year-long crackdown on peaceful protests in the english-speaking western part of the country that has killed dozens of civilians and forced thousands to flee to nigeria .
are we going towards the forced relocation of populations and the creation of ( refugee ) camps ?
nganang wrote in paris-based jeune afrique on dec. 5 , describing this as offensive .
so bilingual cameroonians can be enemies in a country whose president has never said a single speech in english ?
he added .
president paul biya has ruled cameroon since 1982 and plans to stand for another term next year .
the separatist stirrings add to headaches over the economy slowing sharply since 2014 and attacks in the north by islamist militant group boko haram which have strained the military .
the linguistic divide harks back to the end of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors .
biya s 35-year rule has grown increasingly intolerant of dissent , with opposition activists , journalists and intellectuals routinely arrested and sometimes charged .
in april , a cameroonian reporter for radio france international was jailed for 10 years by a military court on terrorism charges , including for failing to report acts of terrorism to authorities .
the verdict attracted international criticism .