moscow ( reuters ) - workers on friday cut out part of a new monument to mikhail kalashnikov , inventor of the soviet union s legendary ak-47 assault rifle , after eagle-eyed russians noticed that it mistakenly depicted a german weapon of world war two .
just three days ago , the monument to the creator of one of russia s best known export brands was unveiled with much fanfare in central moscow .
a metal bas-relief behind a statue of kalashnikov depicts the ak-47 and other weapons all supposedly designed by the engineer , who died in 2013 .
but on friday , embarrassed sculptor salavat shcherbakov had to admit that among them was the sturmgewehr 44 ( stg 44 ) assault rifle used by nazi troops at the end of world war ii .
we will rectify this , shcherbakov said in comments broadcast by state-run rossiya 24 channel .
it looks like this ( mistake ) sneaked in from the internet .
by friday evening a square hole gaped where the german rifle had been depicted in the bas-relief .
kalashnikov s weapon , created in 1947 , does have a striking resemblance to german arms designer hugo schmeissers s stg 44 rifle , created in 1942 , although they have major design differences .
kalashnikov was known to have said he had heard speculation that he had copied the german rifle .
vladislav kononov , executive director of the russian military and historical society , was cited by russian media as saying that the fact that angry russians had spotted the error in the relief disproved that .
many had earlier vented their disapproval on social media .
every cloud has its silver lining - thanks to this mistake ... a myth has been destroyed that kalashnikov borrowed some elements of his invention from his foreign colleagues , he said .
the ak-47 , the small-arms mainstay of russia s armed forces for over 60 years , is called by some experts the most effective weapon ever made .
every fifth firearm in the world is a kalashnikov , with more than 70 million of the assault rifles produced over the past 60 years , the kalashnikov concern manufacturer said on its website .
kalashnikovs are in service in 50 foreign armies , it added .