moscow ( reuters ) - russian opposition leader alexei navalny was barred on monday from running in next year s presidential election after officials ruled he was ineligible to take part due to a suspended prison sentence he says was trumped up .
the decision by the central election commission was widely expected as election officials had repeatedly declared navalny would be ineligible to run .
twelve members of the 13-member commission voted to bar navalny .
one member abstained , citing a possible conflict of interest .
navalny , 41 , who polls show would struggle to beat incumbent vladimir putin in the march election , said he would appeal and called on his supporters to boycott the election and campaign against it being held .
we knew this could happen , and so we have a straight-forward , clear plan , navalny said in a pre-recorded video released immediately after the decision .
we announce a boycott of the election .
the process in which we are called to participate is not a real election .
it will feature only putin and the candidates which he has personally selected .
navalny said he would use his campaign headquarters across russia to support the boycott and monitor turnout on voting day , march 18 .
polls show putin , 65 , who has dominated russia s political landscape for the last 17 years , is on course to be comfortably re-elected , making him eligible to serve another six years until 2024 , when he turns 72 .
allies laud putin as a father-of-the-nation figure who has restored national pride and expanded moscow s global clout with interventions in syria and ukraine .
navalny says putin s support is exaggerated and artificially maintained by a biased state media and an unfair system .
he says he could defeat him in a fair election , an assertion putin s supporters have said is laughable .
before the commission voted , navalny , dressed in a dark suit , had demanded he be allowed to take part in the election delivering a speech that angered election officials .
in one heated exchange , he said russian voters faith in the system hung in the balance .
if you do not allow me to run , you are taking a decision against millions of people who are demanding that navalny take part , he said , referring to himself in the first person .
you are not robots , you are living , breathing human beings you are an independent body ... for once in your lives , do the right thing , he said .
his supporters clapped him , but officials were unmoved .
boris ebzeev , one of the officials , said : we re talking about the law and abiding by the law .
ebzeev said there could not be the slightest doubt that navalny was ineligible to run , a reference to russia s constitution that bars him running because of his suspended sentence relating to an embezzlement case .
navalny has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing , and says the case is politically motivated .
there had been some speculation prior to the decision among the opposition that navalny might be allowed to run in order to inject more interest into what looks like a predictable contest amid kremlin fears that apathetic voters might not bother to vote .
navalny has been jailed three times this year and charged with breaking the law by repeatedly organizing public meetings and rallies .