beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping is likely to retain his right-hand man , the graft-buster wang qishan , in a senior position at a key communist party congress this month even though he has reached retirement age , according to a majority of people with ties to the leadership interviewed by reuters .
the fate of the 69-year-old wang , who keeps a low public profile but is often described as china s second most powerful politician , has been a source of intense speculation ahead of the congress , which opens on oct. 18 .
twelve of the 16 people with ties to china s leadership , including former officials as well as relatives , aides and close friends of current and former senior officials , said wang was likely to retain a leadership role .
they said it was unclear what wang s title would be and whether he would remain on the powerful seven-member politburo standing committee .
the other four said he would probably step down .
under one scenario , wang would become one of two vice chairmen of the national security commission , set up in 2013 to increase coordination among the branches of china s security bureaucracy and headed by xi , three of the sources said .
alternatively , he could become vice chairman of the communist party itself , if xi resurrects the party chairmanship position , they said .
under other scenarios , wang could become premier - replacing li keqiang , a role that traditionally includes management of the economy , or head of parliament .
he will most likely stay on in some form , maintaining a position of power .
he s important to xi , said zhang lifan , a beijing-based political commentator and historian .
xi has shown he is willing to break with precedent before and he ll probably do it again with the seven up , eight down rule for wang , he added , referring to the unwritten rule that officials can not be promoted when they reach the age of 68 .
the party signaled last year that the rule was not binding .
however , deferring retirement would raise questions about whether xi , 64 , would himself use that as precedent to retain his roles as party and military chief beyond completion of the traditional two five-year terms .
regardless of title , wang s next role may include a remit that extends to management of china s economy , whose growth is imperiled by heavy debt and inefficient state enterprises .
wang qishan has a very strong economic policy voice .
i could entirely see a circumstance under which he s given another role that brought that out more , said duncan innes-ker , regional director for asia for the economist intelligence unit .
wang was previously a vice governor of the central bank , and as a vice premier with an economic portfolio helped oversee china s recovery from the 2008 global financial crisis .
another possible scenario is that the retirement age for chinese officials would be extended to 70 , the sources said .
wang could therefore retain his standing committee seat and head the national supervisory commission , a super-ministry that would absorb the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) he now heads .
but the sources said keeping him in that role risked cementing the anti-corruption campaign as wang s legacy , rather than xi s. if wang qishan continued as ccdi secretary , his achievements would be so great it would shock his master , a leadership source said , quoting a chinese idiom .
china s state council information office , which doubles as the party s spokesman s office , did not respond to a request for comment on wang s future .
the party s anti-graft watchdog also did not respond to a request for comment .
after an absence from the spotlight in the summer , wang has been increasingly active in recent weeks , meeting with high-profile foreign visitors .
in september , he met singapore s prime minister and cambodia s deputy prime minister , while the financial times reported that wang had a secret meeting with steve bannon , a key former advisor to u.s. president donald trump .
these meetings show wang is setting himself up to stay on , said a senior asian diplomat who declined to be identified given the sensitivity of the matter .
wang has transformed his commission into one of china s most powerful bodies , with 1.34 million officials punished since 2013 and dozens of top officials jailed , including the powerful former domestic security chief , zhou yongkang .
some analysts and party insiders said it was possible wang would simply retire , as precedent dictates .
having overseen the jailing or punishment of more than one million communist party , government and military officials , wang has accumulated many enemies , the sources said .
keeping wang on the standing committee at the expense of younger candidates for promotion could also put pressure on xi .
wang may also want to retire , some of the sources said .
he will stand down mainly because xi does not need him any longer and changing the retirement age rule carries significant political costs , said steve tsang , director of the china institute at the school of oriental and african studies in london .
wang s retirement could also be perceived as a victory for guo wengui , the fugitive tycoon who has made unsubstantiated corruption allegations against senior party officials , including wang and his family .
more generally , one of the sources with leadership ties said , wang s retirement could see corrupt elements launch a counteroffensive and try to retrieve lost ground .