noah malone was celebrating his fifth birthday with a group of friends close to his age .
his mother , vickie malone , had just brought the kids inside to have birthday cake and ice cream .
we weren t in the house two or three minutes and there was a loud bang , vickie malone told the huffington post .
when she went to the door to see what had happened , she found the family s 3-year-old dog , opie , lying on the ground .
he was kicking and gasping for air , malone said during the interview .
she noted that there was blood coming from his head.a wynnewood police officer told malone s 21-year-old daughter , i had to shoot your dog .
according to malone the officer told her and her 23-year-old son , rio youngblood , that the dog had tried to attack him through the metal fence that surrounds the family s property.in contrast , the officer later stated that he was inside the fence when the dog charged at him from around the house .
he stated that the dog latched onto his leg and that he attempted to get free by kicking it twice.that story just doesn t add up .
as fox 25 reports here , the officer used a high-powered rifle , which he had to retrieve from his police vehicle , to shoot the family pet .
he shot the dog three times , firing two bullets right in front of a group of terrified children.the officer went to the malone residence to serve a warrant on someone who doesn t live there .
malone told the huffington post that the officer knew who lived in the home and was aware that the family had a dog .
he said he was checking to see if a guy name shon mcniel lived here and no one here has heard of the person he was talking about , she said during an interview with fox 25 .
mcneil apparently lived in the home ten years ago .
police say it was his last known address.in a statement to fox 25 , the wynnewood police chief acknowledged that the officer was aware that the malone s had moved into the home .
he defended the officer s visit to the home , stating he had to start somewhere .
here s more on this story from fox 25 .
image credit : video screen capture via fox 25