tokyo ( reuters ) - a japanese cosmetic surgeon criticized for praising nazis and playing down japan s wartime atrocities won an auction for a memoir by emperor hirohito that chronicles the nation s slide into world war two , paying $ 275,000 for the document .
katsuya takasu , who often appears on tv shows in japan , has been blasted by a jewish human rights body , the simon wiesenthal center , for violating all norms of decency by dismissing as fabrications the holocaust and the nanjing massacre in china .
i think both nanjing and auschwitz are fabrications , takasu said in a message on social network twitter in october 2015 .
there was no doubt that the jews were persecuted , he has tweeted , but also praised nazi scientists contributions to science , medicine and other fields .
contacted by reuters on thursday , takasu said he bought the handwritten document , known as the emperor s monologue , because he thought it contained a message to royals and the japanese people , and should be kept in japan .
the document record events dating from the 1920s , such as hirohito s stated resolve not to oppose future cabinet decisions .
it caused a sensation when made public in 1990 , reigniting a debate over the emperor s responsibility for the war .
the account was dictated to one of hirohito s aides in 1946 , when a defeated japan was occupied by allied forces and the emperor faced the possibility of being tried as a war criminal - a step that ultimately was not taken .
in a telephone interview , takasu said his social media posts had been intentionally misunderstood .
it ( the criticism ) is from those who have skillfully picked out some of my tweets and maliciously interpreted them and it is a misunderstanding , he said .
if you look at all my tweets , i am clearly against nazism .
but i do highly evaluate the wonderful medicine of that era .
but takasu added that he thought the number of people killed in the holocaust and the nanjing massacre had been exaggerated - a stance common among japanese ultra-nationalists .
china says japanese troops killed 300,000 people in nanjing between december 1937 and january 1938 , while an allied tribunal put the death toll at about half that .
what i wanted to say was that it is said that six million or seven million were killed ( in the holocaust ) but was that not several tens of thousands ?
takasu asked .
it is said that 300,000 were killed in the nanjing massacre but was that not 6,000 to 7,000 people instead ?
that is what i meant by fabrication .
hirohito s memoir ends with his statement that if he had vetoed the decision to go to war , it would have resulted in a civil conflict that would have been even worse and japan would have been destroyed , auction house bonhams said on its website .
academics say hirohito s responsibility for the war has never been fully pursued in japan , largely due to u.s. occupation authorities decision to retain the emperor as a symbol of a newly democratic nation .
asked about hirohito s responsibility for the war , takasu said that , in his view , the late emperor was absolved when he said he would give his life for the japanese people .
at the point the emperor made that comment , he had no sin , he added .