it s pretty obvious that the fec chairwoman is just another political hack for the left .
ann m. ravel is determined to regulate new media like drudge and says she s frustrated that her last bid was met with threatening misogynist responses .
be aware of this attempt at silencing free speech and political activity as we move towards the most important election of our time in 2016.some irony from her speech : ( around the 36 min .
mark ) we have to talk to people to get them to understand the influence of government or governmental policies on their lives .
people have to realize that campaign finance and policies influenced by only a small number of people has a profound relationship on things that touch them in their daily lives .
you ve got ta love how our fec chairman refers to people who agree with her wanting to regulate political sites on social media as regular people .
after backing down amid concerns she wanted to regulate political speech , the chairwoman of the federal election commission has renewed talk about targeting campaign and political activities on the internet.ann m. ravel , discussing election regulation during a speech in new york , suggested it was time to produce thoughtful policy targeting internet political activity .
she also expressed frustration that her last bid was met with threatening misogynist responses to me .
she was speaking at a day-long conference hosted by the brennan center for justice , the new york city campaign finance board , and the committee for economic development when she was asked about regulating the internet , google and facebook.when the democrats on the fec first raised the possibility of regulations , opponents feared they were going to target conservative groups , activities and news sites .
a proposal to delve into the issue died in a 3-3 vote.republican commissioner lee e. goodman , the previous chairman , warned that regulations would silence voices on the internet and that sites with a political bent , even in the media , could face rules requiring them to disclose donors and finances .
read more : wehere s the video of her speech scary stuff !