washington ( reuters ) - the head of the democratic national committee on saturday vowed to ensure all candidates have an equal chance to win the democratic presidential nomination after a former party chair accused the committee of rigging the process to aid hillary clinton in 2016 .
dnc chairman tom perez said in a statement the 2020 nominating process would be “ unquestionably fair and transparent. ” perez made his comments after former dnc chairwoman donna brazile said in an opinion piece in politico earlier this week that the nomination process had been “ rigged ” in clinton ’ s favor after she signed a fundraising agreement with the dnc in 2015 .
clinton , a former u.s. senator and first lady , beat senator bernie sanders for the nomination but lost the election to republican donald trump in november 2016 .
senator elizabeth warren , a massachusetts democrat , told cnn this week that perez needed to assure democrats , including supporters of sanders , that the process was fair and she agreed that the 2016 nominating process was “ rigged. ” perez said he is “ more committed than ever before to restoring voters ’ faith in our democratic process because even the perception of impartiality or an unfair advantage undermines our ability to win .
that is unacceptable. ” sanders ’ campaign manager jeff weaver told cnn this week he thought the debate schedule was “ rigged. ” perez said the party will “ decide the debate schedule in advance , instead of negotiating it after all our candidates have entered the race ” and “ any and all joint fundraising agreements will be transparent. ” leaked emails in 2016 suggested the party had actively favored clinton over sanders .
former clinton campaign manager robby mook on friday denied the nomination had been rigged in clinton ’ s favor .
“ hillary clinton won this primary with almost 4 million votes , ” mook told cnn .
“ the idea that the dnc could rig a contest frankly is laughable. ” brazile , who replaced former dnc chairwoman debbie wasserman schultz last year after a furor over the contents of the leaked emails , also wrote she contemplated proposing to replace clinton as the party ’ s 2016 presidential nominee , the washington post reported on saturday .
the post said she considered replacing clinton with then-vice president joe biden after clinton fainted in september 2016 .
in a soon-to-be published book , brazile recounts deliberations as interim dnc chair whether to initiate the process of removing clinton and running mate tim kaine , a virginia senator , the post reported , saying she ultimately did not seek to remove them .
dnc rules give the party ’ s chair the ability to call a special meeting to consider replacing a nominee in the event of the death , resignation or disability after a candidate has officially been nominated , but only the full dnc has the power to fill vacancies .
brazile ’ s book “ hacks : the inside story of the break-ins and breakdowns that put donald trump in the white house , ” is to be released on tuesday by hachette books .