washington ( reuters ) - u.s. lawmakers criticized environmental officials at a hearing on wednesday for not acting sooner when they saw a report that drinking water in flint , michigan was polluted with dangerously high levels of lead .
“ i never thought this could happen in america , ” and in a state , “ surrounded by fresh water of the great lakes , ” brenda lawrence , a democrat of michigan , said at a house oversight panel examining the water crisis in flint , a city of 100,000 .
the panel issued subpoenas to officials who did not show up to testify about water found to have lead levels that hamper brain development and cause other health problems .
thousands of children are believed to have ingested the polluted water in flint , a mostly african american and latino suburb near detroit .
lawrence asked keith creagh , head of the michigan department of environmental quality , why his agency did not act on a report by a federal environmental protection agency expert that showed the water was polluted .
she did not get a clear answer .
“ we all share responsibility in the flint water crisis , whether it is the city the state or the federal government , we all let the citizens of flint down , ” said creagh , who took the job last month .
marc edwards , a water engineer who first raised the issue of flint ’ s lead contamination , told the panel the epa broke laws by not notifying the public about a report of tainted water .
“ if it ’ s not criminal , i don ’ t know what is. ” epa water official joel beauvais said he did not know why his agency did not tell the public .
representative elijah cummings of maryland , the top democrat on the committee , complained that the republican-led panel did not invite michigan governor rick snyder , a republican , to testify at the hearing .
representative matt cartwright of pennsylvania criticized snyder and his hand-picked emergency managers for flint who were responsible for switching the source of flint ’ s tap water from detroit ’ s system to the flint river , a dumping area , in april 2014 .
flint is grappling with the health and political fallout over the switch after the more corrosive river water leached lead from old pipes into the system .
“ he got caught red handed poisoning the children of flint , ” cartwright , a democrat , said of snyder .
“ there ’ s no two ways about it .
that ’ s the headline here. ” a snyder spokesman responded in an email : “ it ’ s unfortunate when people who are not working toward a solution inject partisan politics and incendiary rhetoric into an emergency that can best be addressed by people working together. ” snyder will ask state lawmakers in his next budget proposal to approve a $ 30 million water payment relief plan for flint residents to keep their water service on and reimburse them for lead-contaminated water they can not drink , his office said .
a busload of flint residents traveled to washington to attend the hearing .
“ we ’ re serious about making sure that the people responsible for this manmade disaster are held accountable , ” said bernadel jefferson , a bishop .
lawmakers also slammed the epa for not sending administrator gina mccarthy to flint until this week , even though the agency has known about the crisis for months .
an epa spokeswoman said the agency had formed a flint task force last october , and has had a team there for weeks .
the head of the oversight panel , representative jason chaffetz of utah , a republican , said he subpoenaed epa ’ s susan hedman to appear at a deposition in washington later this month .
hedman , who announced last month that she would resign on feb. 1 , had played down the memo by the epa ’ s miguel del toral that said tests had shown high levels of lead , telling flint and michigan administrators it was only a draft report .
the epa has agreed to provide all of hedman ’ s emails by the end of the week , chaffetz said .
chaffetz said his panel had also issued a second subpoena to darnell earley , who was flint ’ s state-appointed emergency manager when the city switched from detroit ’ s system .
a. scott bolden , earley ’ s lawyer , said his client has not been given enough time to respond to the initial subpoena , which was served last night .
bolden said earley is “ not hiding anywhere ” and will honor a subpoena issued with a reasonable response time .
earley only implemented the plan to change the city ’ s water source that others had put in place before he started , bolden said .
“ there was nothing put before him by the environmental folks , the water testers or anyone connected to ensuring the quality of the water to suggest in any way that a water disaster was looming. ” political fallout over the crisis could also hold up a wide-ranging bill on energy .
democrats in the senate threatened to block a bipartisan energy bill if it fails to include immediate aid for flint .
federal authorities including the fbi have started a criminal probe into the contamination .