milwaukee ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidates hillary clinton and bernie sanders clashed sharply in a debate on thursday over their support for president barack obama , with sanders accusing clinton of “ a low blow ” after she compared him to republicans .
as the democratic race moves to states with large minority populations , both candidates openly courted black and hispanic votes during a debate that was far more restrained and cordial than last week ’ s contentious debate in new hampshire .
in the sharpest exchange of the night , clinton attacked sanders for being too critical of obama , who is extremely popular with the black voters who will play a big role in the outcome in south carolina and other upcoming nominating contests .
“ the kind of criticism that we ’ ve heard from senator sanders about our president , i expect from republicans , i do not expect from someone running for the democratic nomination to succeed president obama , ” said clinton , who served as secretary of state during obama ’ s first term .
“ madam secretary , that is a low blow , ” said sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont .
sanders said he had been an obama ally in the senate even if he did not always agree with him .
“ do senators have the right to disagree with the president ? ” sanders said .
clinton , who has eagerly embraced obama ’ s legacy , said sanders had called obama weak and a disappointment , and “ that goes further than saying we have our disagreements. ” with clinton looking to rebound after her crushing 22-point loss to sanders in the new hampshire primary on tuesday , the two also differed over healthcare and wall street .
even so , the restrained exchange on thursday was unlikely to change the trajectory of a race that has intensified dramatically over two weeks .
clinton accused sanders of misleading americans on his healthcare .
she said his proposal for a single-payer , medicare-for-all healthcare plan would mean dismantling the program known as obamacare and triggering another intense political struggle .
“ based on every analysis i can find by people who are sympathetic to the goal , the numbers don ’ t add up , ” clinton told sanders .
“ that ’ s a promise that can not be kept. ” sanders said he was simply moving to provide what most industrialized countries have - healthcare coverage for all .
“ we ’ re not going to dismantle anything , ” sanders said .
“ in my view healthcare is a right of all people , not a privilege , and i will fight for that. ” sanders also repeated his accusation that clinton is too beholden to the wall street interests she once represented as a u.s. senator from new york , noting her super pac received $ 15 million in donations from wall street .
“ let ’ s not insult the intelligence of the american people , ” he said .
“ why in god ’ s name does wall street make huge campaign contributions ?
i guess just for the fun of it , they want to throw money around. ” clinton said the donations did not mean she was in wall street ’ s pocket , and noted that president barack obama had taken donations from wall street during his campaigns .
“ when it mattered , he stood up and took on wall street , ” she said .
with an eye to on the minority vote , both candidates decried the high incarceration rate of african-americans and called for broad reforms of the criminal justice system .
sanders said the disproportionately high rate of incarceration for black men was “ one of the great tragedies ” in the united states .
he called for “ fundamental police reform ” that would “ make it clear that any police officer who breaks the law will in fact be dealt with. ” clinton criticized what she called “ systemic racism ” in education , housing and employment .
“ when we talk about criminal justice reform … we also have to talk about jobs , education , housing and other ways of helping communities of color , ” she said .
they both agreed on the need for immigration reform , an important issue to hispanic voters , though they clashed over the obama administration ’ s actions on handling a wave of undocumented children who entered the country alone .
clinton criticized sanders for voting against a reform measure in 2007 , which sanders defended because of a provision in the bill for guest workers .
clinton entered thursday ’ s debate under acute pressure to calm growing nervousness among her supporters after her drubbing in new hampshire and a razor-thin win the prior week in the iowa caucus .
both states have nearly all-white populations .
for his part , sanders , who calls himself a democratic socialist , hoped to harness the momentum and enthusiasm he gained from the first two contests and prove he can be a viable contender to lead the democratic party to victory in the nov. 8 presidential election .
“ what our campaign is indicating is that the american people are tired of establishment politics , ” sanders said .
“ they want a political revolution. ” clinton dodged an opportunity to distance herself from former secretary of state madeleine albright ’ s recent controversial comments that there was “ a special place in hell ” for women who don ’ t support other women .
“ look , i think that she ’ s been saying that for as long as i ’ ve known her , which is about 25 years .
but it doesn ’ t change my view that we need to empower everyone , women and men , to make the best decisions in their minds that they can make , ” she said .
on the foreign policy front , sanders criticized clinton for her warm relationship for henry kissinger , who served as secretary of state under republican president richard nixon during the vietnam war .
sanders called kissinger “ one of the most destructive secretaries of state. ” asked by clinton about who his foreign policy advisers were , sanders shot back : “ well it ain ’ t henry kissinger. ” the race now moves to what should be more favorable ground for clinton in nevada and south carolina , states with more black and hispanic voters , who , polls show , have been more supportive of clinton so far .
( additional reporting by amanda becker , alana wise and megan cassella in washington ; editing by leslie adler ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .