strasbourg ( reuters ) - the european parliament urged eu leaders on wednesday to allow the next phase of brexit negotiations to start , backing a motion that recognised the talks had advanced sufficiently as a well a line criticising britain s lead negotiator david davis .
european union leaders are almost certain to judge on friday that sufficient progress has been made on the rights of citizens , the brexit divorce bill and the irish border to allow negotiations to move to the next phase .
the eu executive recommended last week that leaders approve the start of trade talks .
the european parliament will have to approve any brexit deal , although its motion on wednesday , backed by 556 votes for to 62 against , was not binding .
the eu s brexit negotiator michel barnier told lawmakers the next phase of talks would focus on a short and defined transition period and initial discussions on a future relationship .
future talks , he said , would be no less difficult .
they are tough , very tough because the issues are extremely complicated and because the consequences of brexit are very serious , he said , adding that british prime minister theresa may was courageous and deserved respect .
nigel farage of the anti-eu ukip party called her theresa the appeaser and said she had yielded on virtually everything .
barnier stressed that britain could not renege on commitments made to ensure the talks moved on .
the agreement presented in a joint report last friday was , in the view of some in brussels , undermined by davis s comment that it was more a statement of intent than legally binding .
davis has subsequently said he wants the accord swiftly translated into a legal text .
we will not accept any going back on this joint report .
this progress has been agreed and will be rapidly translated into a withdrawal accord that is legally binding in all three areas and on some others that remain to be negotiated , barnier said .
a lot more steps were required to secure an orderly withdrawal , he added .
we are not at the end of the road , neither regarding citizens rights nor for the other subjects of the orderly withdrawal .
we remain vigilant , barnier told the parliament .