copenhagen ( reuters ) - denmark intends to invest to boost efforts to prevent cyber attacks in a strategy to be presented early next year , its defense minister said on tuesday .
we are going to spend more money in this area , claus hjort frederiksen told reuters on the sidelines of a conference in copenhagen , though he declined to disclose a figure .
cyber security is very high on the agenda for the right-leaning government , but also for the broad selection of danish political parties negotiating a new defense strategy for the coming six years , he said .
the government would like to expand an early warning system with sensors that detects when danish companies or authorities are under attack from , for example , malware .
to some degree we do have a system today , but we would like to expand it to the strategic infrastructure and to private companies , he told reuters .
the government also wants to increase the preventive capacity at the danish center for cyber security to increase its ability to better catch and inform about imminent cyber threats , he said .
world s no.1 container shipper and one of denmark s largest companies maersk was hit by major cyber attack in june , one of the biggest-ever disruptions to hit global shipping .
the government also works for a deeper cooperation between authorities and private companies in battling cyber attacks , frederiksen said .
he said he believed companies were sometimes reluctant to inform they had been hit by cyber attacks , because they were afraid to scare off customers or investors .
frederiksen said he saw the overall cyber threat as one of the greatest threats of our time .
if you can undermine our democratic nations by hacking the energy systems or the communication systems or the financial systems it will undermine our own people s belief in our societies ability to protect them , he said .
russia hacked the danish defense network and gained access to employees emails in 2015 and 2016 , frederiksen said in april .
danish troops will get training in how to deal with russian misinformation before being sent to join a nato military build-up in estonia in january , frederiksen said in july .