washington ( reuters ) - in a big victory for the obama administration , a u.s. federal court on thursday rejected a bid by 27 states to block its clean power plan , the centerpiece of its strategy to combat climate change by reducing carbon emissions from power plants .
a three-judge panel of the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit issued a brief order denying an application seeking to stay the rule while litigation continues .
the states , led by west virginia , and several major business groups in october launched the legal challenges seeking to block the obama administration ’ s proposal to curb carbon dioxide emissions from power plants .
more than a dozen other states and the national league of cities , which represents more than 19,000 u.s. cities , filed court papers backing the environmental protection agency ’ s rule .
the rule aims to lower carbon emissions from the country ’ s power plants by 2030 to 32 percent below 2005 levels .
it is the main tool for the united states to meet the emissions reduction target it pledged at u.n. climate talks in paris last month .
for president barack obama , executing his climate change strategy would be a legacy-defining accomplishment .
“ we are confident that the plan will reduce carbon pollution and deliver better air quality , improved public health , and jobs across the country , ” the white house said in a statement on thursday .
the court action means the regulation remains in place but it is not the final word in the legal fight .
the appeals court still has to hear oral arguments on june 2 and decide whether the regulation is lawful .
the decision by the court to deny the stay is a “ good sign ” for the epa when it argues the merits of its case this summer , said david doniger of the climate and clean air program at the natural resources defense council .
“ most of the time it ’ s a pretty good hand , but i wouldn ’ t overplay it yet , ” he told reuters .
“ we will have to duke it out on the merits of the case now. ” west virginia ’ s attorney general patrick morrisey , who led the multi-state challenge , said he is confident their challenge will succeed when the court decides the case on its merits .
he said west virginia and other states will consider asking the supreme court to take a “ second look ” at whether to freeze the regulation .
many states , even those that have sued the epa over the clean power plan , have started to work on plans to comply with the regulation .
their plans are due for epa approval in september .
jonathan adler , a professor at case western reserve university school of law , said states are “ more likely to fall into line ” and try to comply with the rule now that the stay has been denied .
it would have been a “ significant setback ” for the government if the challengers ’ request had been granted , he added .