democrats are calling for president trump s scalp after he pardoned america s toughest law enforcement officer on illegal aliens , sheriff joe arpaio .
how quickly the left and their allies in the media forget about the massive release of felons that were returned to the streets after obama released them just before he left office .
the criminals he released included terrorists and even prisoners from america s most wanted list .
one of his most reckless and horrific releases however , was that of wendell callahan , a convicted crack dealer who committed an unimaginable crime against an innocent family.a convicted crack dealer who left prison early as part of the obama administration s mass release of federal inmates was indicted by a grand jury for fatally stabbing his ex-girlfriend and her two kids in columbus , ohio .
the gory crime drew national attention because the children , ages 7 and 10 , were murdered to eliminate them as witnesses in the brutal massacre of their 32-year-old mother.this week a grand jury in franklin county returned a 10-count , death-penalty indictment against the ex-con , 35-year-old wendell callahan , for the triple murders .
callahan broke into his ex-girlfriend s apartment and stabbed the three victims , according to a statement issued by franklin county prosecutor ron o brien announcing the indictment .
the bloody crime scene was discovered by the woman s current boyfriend , who subsequently engaged in a fight with callahan before he fled .
the indictment includes charges of aggravated murder with prior calculation and design and aggravated murder of victims under the age of 13 .
there are multiple charges regarding the three victim deaths because there are different methods to commit the crime of murder and the prosecutor s office typically charges all methods , o brien stated .
callahan is in jail on $ 3 million bail and is scheduled to be arraigned later this week.callahan should have been in jail when the crimes occurred , but he was released four years early because federal sentencing guidelines for crack dealers got reduced .
the change was part of president obama s effort to reform the nation s justice system as a way of ending racial discrimination .
the initiative was technically launched back in 2010 when the president signed a measure that for the first time in decades relaxed drug-crime sentences he claimed discriminated against poor and minority offenders .
this severely weakened a decades-old law enacted during the infamous crack cocaine epidemic that ravaged urban communities nationwide in the 1980s .
as part of the movement the u.s .
sentencing commission lowered maximum sentences for drug offenders and made it retroactive , leading to the early release of thousands of violent thugs like callahan.in november of 2016 , the administration began releasing 6,000 drug convicts coined non-violent offenders whose sentences were too long under the old guidelines .
news reports quickly surfaced contradicting the administration s assessment that the newly released convicts were not violent .
among them was the leader of a multi-million dollar operation that smuggled drugs from canada to maine .
prosecutors refer to the 29-year-old con as a drug kingpin who was one of america s most wanted .
shortly before the administration s mass release of drug convicts , federal prosecutors warned that drug trafficking is inherently violent and therefore the phrase non-violent drug offenders is a misnomer .
the nation s prosecutors also cautioned that reducing prison sentences for drug offenders will weaken their ability to bring dangerous drug traffickers to justice.as if it weren t bad enough that the administration is rewarding thousands of criminals with get-out-of-jail cards , huge amounts of taxpayer dollars are being spent on programs to help them find housing and jobs .
judicial watch