quetta , pakistan ( reuters ) - ( this october 9 story has been refiled to correct paragraphs 1 , 5 after police revise toll to three hazaras killed , not five . )
gunmen killed five men , including three shia muslims from the ethnic hazara minority , in southwest pakistan on monday , a police official said , giving details of the second shooting targeting hazaras in a month .
the attack took place in quetta , where nearly half a million hazaras have settled since fleeing afghanistan to escape the violence in their homeland during the past four decades .
the attackers opened fire from a motorcycle killing the five men who were traveling in the back of a pick-up truck , on their way to sell vegetables at a market , the official said .
it was a sectarian target killing , senior police officer malik nisar told reuters , adding that the attackers escaped after opening fire .
it was unclear initially , but now we know that it was three hazaras among the five people killed , he said .
no group has claimed responsibility for the attack .
hazaras are frequently targeted by taliban and islamic state militants , and other sunni muslim militant groups in both pakistan and afghanistan .
more than 20 hazaras have been killed in similar shootings in baluchistan in the past two years , police say .
in 2013 , three separate bombings killed over 200 people in hazara neighborhoods , raising international awareness of the plight of the community .
the ongoing violence in pakistan s baluchistan province has fueled concern about security for projects in the $ 57-billion china pakistan economic corridor , a transport and energy link planned to run from western china to pakistan s southern deep-water port of gwadar .
a suicide bombing at a sufi shrine in the baluch town of jhal magsi on thursday killed 22 people and wounded more than 30 others .
the bombing was claimed by islamic state and is the latest sectarian attack in the restive province .
taliban and other sunni islamist militants are active in the province , while ethnic baluch separatists have run a low level insurgency for decades , mounting attacks on security forces and other targets linked to the central government .
elsewhere in pakistan on monday , an official said gunmen killed three soldiers and wounded eight in an attack on their vehicle in the semi-autonomous tribal region of north waziristan .
north waziristan was a taliban stronghold until 2014 , when pakistan s military launched a major offensive against the group and pushed many of its fighters across the border into afghanistan .
following monday s attack , security forces closed off roads in razmak district , and surrounding villages .