johannesburg ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s longstanding government and ruling party mouthpiece , the herald newspaper , has abruptly changed its tune on president robert mugabe s wife grace , confirmation of her political downfall .
the herald often takes its marching orders from the information ministry .
and it has always reported from the point of view of the winning faction in the ruling zanu-pf , making it a reliable barometer of someone s political standing .
in august , the paper ran a typically fawning portrait of grace under the headline a loving mother of the nation .
loving mother , compassionate philanthropist , astute businesswoman , perceptive politician , remarkable patriot , these are all adjectives that can be used to describe the first lady dr grace mugabe , the herald gushed .
less than three months later and in the wake of a coup that threatens mugabe s presidency and has seen both he and grace expelled from zanu-pf , her herald portrayal was starkly different .
grace mugabe lacked grooming and true motherhood as shown by her foul language , the paper quoted the zanu-pf s youth wing as saying .
we take exception to the vulgar language which had become part of mrs mugabe s vocabulary , it quoted a youth league cadre as saying .
zimbabweans , many of whom are devoutly religious and culturally conservative , often take offense at profanities .
the piece featured an unflattering picture of an unsmiling grace - a sharp departure from the loving mother portrayal that included photos of her smiling and holding infants .
until the events of the past week , the political fortunes of grace dubbed gucci grace for her reputed fondness shopping sprees were on the rise , if the herald s coverage was anything to go on .
in september 2014 , the university of zimbabwe awarded her a phd raising eyebrows as her academic prowess had previously been unknown .
but in zimbabwe , the path to power is paved with academic letters .
weeks later , one herald headline blared : dr grace mugabe honored in song .
at the time , she was being shoe-horned into the top position in zanu-pf s women s league , and the song was entitled : dr g mugabe for women s league secretary .
just 12 days ago , paper was reporting that the women s league was backing grace in her bid to become vice president .
this was days after mugabe sacked his deputy emmerson mnangagwa , clearing the path for grace to assume the role and succeed her 93-year-old husband .
it was this tilt at power that triggered the army backlash .