with just three days until inauguration day , donald trump is desperately trying to convince everyone that it will be the most attended inauguration in history and that everyone likes him.for months , trump has repeatedly tried and failed to get big-name entertainers to perform at the ceremony , with many even backing out after accepting the invitation .
so far , trump has only managed to get a reality show singer and a has-been band to commit.experts predict that trump s inauguration attendance will be smaller than president obama s but that isn t stopping trump from trying to convince everyone otherwise.people are pouring into washington in record numbers .
bikers for trump are on their way .
it will be a great thursday , friday and saturday !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 17 , 2017except trump is delusional as usual.not only are experts predicting that trump s inauguration crowd will be far less than the record set by president obama in 2008 at 1.8 million , he seems to be forgetting that many of those who are attending are going there to protest against him.in fact , hundreds of thousands of people are expected to participate in the women s march on washington , and it s being predicted that the demonstration will be bigger than the inauguration itself while also making history as the largest demonstration ever organized in the united states .
meanwhile , the bikers for trump that trump bragged about are expected to only draw 5,000 .
and ticket scalpers are struggling to sell tickets to the inauguration .
that s how unpopular trump is right now.so once again , trump s ego apparently took control of his twitter account.and twitter users shattered it .
@ realdonaldtrump they re protestors mike denison ( @ mikd33 ) january 17 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump do you really believe that your pee-wee band of trump grunts will out number the protesters sweetie ?
aww thats cute diva ( @ sammypolsen12 ) january 17 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump hate to break it to you , but more people will be protesting your inauguration than celebrating it .
https : //t.co/koieu3a7iw al x young ( @ alexyoung ) january 17 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump over a million less pouring in than obamas inauguration tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) january 17 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump we have a clip pic.twitter.com/adrpodgima christo grozev ( @ christogrozev ) january 17 , 2017reminder we the people didn t elect his kids 2 run our country.actually we the people by a majority didn t elect @ realdonaldtrump either .
pic.twitter.com/btkzxpoby0 lil kim ms. g.o.a.t ( @ killerbee805 ) january 17 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump does it makes you sad to be this historically unpopular ?
matt mcdermott ( @ mattmfm ) january 17 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump oh .
pic.twitter.com/wcd06gfhij erick fernandez ( @ erickfernandez ) january 17 , 2017featured image : alex wong/getty images