kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - the half-brother of north korean leader kim jong un was carrying $ 100,000 in cash in his backpack at the time of his murder , the police officer investigating the case told a malaysian court on wednesday .
indonesian siti aisyah , 25 , and doan thi huong , 28 , a vietnamese , are charged with murdering kim jong nam by smearing his face with vx , a chemical poison banned by the united nations , at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
the money is now stored in a safe in the office of the police chief of the sepang district , which has jurisdiction over the murder site , police official wan azirul nizam che wan aziz said .
wan azirul said he took posession of the victim s blazer , backpack and watch and handed them to the chemistry department for analysis , but was later told by investigation authorities to hand them over to representatives of the north korean embassy .
i do not know why , i was following orders , he added .
in court , the prosecution played more than 30 videos of closed-circuit television footage of the women s activities , after judge azmi ariffin overruled defense objections to their admissibility , saying it could be challenged later in the case .
the defense lawyers for both huong and siti aisyah said the videos could be considered hearsay , as the investigating officer did not record them himself and was not present to witness the crime .
some of the footage , dated feb. 11 , appeared to show huong approaching an unidentified man from behind and placing her hands around his neck and face , before backing away slowly with her head slightly lowered and her hands put together .
most of the videos , however , appeared to show huong and siti aisyah before , during and after the attack on kim jong nam .
the two women were mostly seen in separate locations , save for during the attack and when they were at a taxi-stand later .
the two women were in the same area at the time of the attack , wan azirul , who is with the sepang criminal investigations department , confirmed .
the hearing resumes on thursday , with wan azirul returning to the witness stand .