houston ( reuters ) - texas on monday edged toward recovery from the devastation of hurricane harvey as shipping channels , oil pipelines and refineries restarted some operations and authorities lifted an evacuation order for the area around a once-burning chemical plant .
port operations across the u.s. gulf coast oil and gas hub were resuming , although many still had restrictions on vessel draft , according to u.s. coast guard updates .
u.s. gasoline prices fell in expectation that the area can get back on its feet after harvey cut a path of destruction across more than 300 miles ( 480 km ) .
the storm ’ s record rains and flooding killed as many as 60 people , according to local officials , and displaced more than 1 million .
benchmark u.s. gasoline futures fell by more than 3 percent on monday .
the coast guard allowed some barge traffic to enter port arthur , texas , home of the country ’ s largest oil refinery , and is considering allowing ships to enter on tuesday , a spokesman said .
flooding from harvey caused fires at the arkema sa chemical plant in crosby , some 25 miles ( 40 km ) northeast of houston .
but on monday , the company said the crosby fire department had lifted a 1.5-mile ( 2.4-km ) evacuation zone around the plant , allowing people to return to their homes .
the lifting of the order may help residents like paul mincey , a 31-year-old tugboat engineer who has been kept out of the ranch home he shares with his girlfriend , return to normal .
“ it could be full of snakes for all we know .
we have no idea what ’ s in there , ” mincey said from aboard a tugboat in the houston ship channel , which he said was polluted by floating railroad ties , trees and trash strewn by the storm .
like others forced from the evacuation zone , mincey said he was eager to assess water damage and begin repairs while hoping for financial aid to deal with property damage .
( to view a graphic on harvey 's energy impact , click tmsnrt.rs/2xzso1s ) as the recovery from harvey picked up speed , puerto rico governor ricardo rossello declared a state of emergency and activated the national guard in preparation irma , a dangerous category 4 hurricane closing in on a string of caribbean islands .
irma could pummel the u.s. territory on wednesday and it also poses a threat later in the week to the dominican republic , cuba and florida , which declared a state of emergency on monday evening .
the u.s. national hurricane center cautioned that it was too early to forecast the storm ’ s exact path or what effect it might have on the u.s. mainland .
but some weather models show irma entering the gulf of mexico , where harvey dealt a major blow to the most important energy hub in the united states , taking up to one-fourth of the country ’ s oil refining capacity offline and driving up fuel prices .
colonial pipeline co on monday said it restarted one of its fuel lines shut because of hurricane harvey , with another line scheduled to restart on tuesday .
colonial is the biggest u.s. fuel system , with pipelines that connect refineries along the u.s. gulf coast to markets in the northeast , transporting more than 3 million barrels a day of gasoline , diesel and jet fuel .
with more pipelines coming on line , concerns about supply should ease .
most ports in texas were open on monday , some with restrictions on traffic and vessel size , said colonel lars zetterstrom , head of the army corps of engineers ’ regional office in galveston .
( to view a graphic on storms in the north atlantic , click tmsnrt.rs/2gcckz5 ) the question of how to pay for hurricane recovery was consuming washington after texas governor greg abbott on sunday increased his damage estimate to between $ 150 billion and $ 180 billion .
abbott on monday requested seven additional texas counties be added to the federal disaster declaration previously granted by the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) .
that would bring the total number of counties receiving assistance to 43 .
some 190,000 homes were damaged and another 13,500 destroyed , the texas department of public safety said .
at least 33,000 people sought refuge in texas shelters overnight , with another 1,300 doing so in louisiana , the american red cross said .
republicans and democrats returning to washington after a month-long break will need to put differences aside in order to approve an aid package .
u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin on sunday challenged congress to raise the government ’ s debt limit in order to free up relief spending .
the u.s. house of representatives will vote wednesday on $ 7.85 billion in emergency relief funds for the fema and the small business administration and plans another vote later this month on a separate $ 6.7 billion sought by president donald trump .
in one indication of funding needs , the texas department of public safety on monday estimated damage to public property at $ 382.3 million .
( to view a graphic on hurricane costs , click tmsnrt.rs/2vgkbhs )