manila ( reuters ) - philippine public officials showed reckless disregard of processes in carrying out a program to immunize hundreds of thousands of children , a senator leading an investigation into the government s use of a new dengue vaccine said on monday .
on dec. 1 , the philippines halted use of dengvaxia after its maker , french drug firm sanofi said the vaccine itself might , in some cases , increase the risk of severe dengue in recipients not previously infected by the virus .
dengue is not as serious as malaria , but it kills about 20,000 people each year and infects hundreds of millions as it spreads rapidly in many parts of the world .
the philippines reports an average of 200,000 cases every year , the doh said .
senator richard gordon , chairman of the investigation panel , said the program s approval and procurement were done with undue haste , given how quickly the department of health ( doh ) got funding for the 3.5-billion-peso ( $ 69.55-million ) campaign .
gordon said rushed approval was given to a vaccine that has not been proven to be totally effective .
but sanofi insisted otherwise .
we at sanofi assure each and everyone of you that dengvaxia is , and continues to be , a safe and efficacious vaccine , said thomas triomphe , asia-pacific head of sanofi pasteur .
to permanently remove the vaccine from the philippine market ... would be a regression in the country s approach to solving a major public health concern and a disservice to the filipino people .
the roll out of the mass vaccination program was premature , some doctors and pharmacologists on a doh advisory body told the senate inquiry .
they were the same group of experts who in january 2016 urged caution over the vaccine , saying its safety and cost-effectiveness had not been established .
after two meetings in january , the formulary executive council ( fec ) of advisers approved the government s purchase of the vaccine on feb 1 , 2016 but recommended stringent conditions , minutes of all three meetings show .
however , these recommendations were not heeded by then health secretary janette garin before the program was rolled out to 830,000 children , documents reviewed by reuters , as well as interviews with local exports , show .
the same recommendations and minutes of the meetings were discussed during the five-hour senate hearing .
garin said the procurement of the vaccine was above board .
i categorically deny any wrongdoing , she told the inquiry .
i am not involved in any corruption and i am willing to be investigated .
many parents are anxious and worried over the safety of the vaccine .
iris alpay , one of the parents who attended the hearing , admonished health officials for using their children as experimental rats .