( this october 18 story has been refiled to fix dateline , amend headline and first paragraph ) angoor adda , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan is betting that a pair of nine-foot chain-link fences topped with barbed wire will stop incursions by islamist militants from afghanistan , which opposes islamabad s plans for a barrier along the disputed frontier .
pakistan plans to fence up most of the 2,500 km ( 1,500 mile ) frontier despite kabul s protests that the barrier would divide families and friends along the pashtun tribal belt straddling the colonial-era durand line drawn up by the british in 1893 .
pakistan s military estimates that it will need about 56 billion rupees ( $ 532 million ) for the project , while there are also plans to build 750 border forts and employ high-tech surveillance systems to prevent militants crossing .
in the rolling hills of the angoor adda village in south waziristan , part of pakistan s restive federally administered tribal areas ( fata ) , three rolls of barbed wire are sandwiched in the six-foot gap between the chain-link fences .
( the fence ) is a paradigm change .
it is an epoch shift in the border control management , said a pakistani army officer in command of south waziristan during a presentation to foreign media on wednesday .
there will not be an inch of international border ( in south waziristan ) which shall not remain under our observation .
pakistan s military has so far fenced off about 43 km of the frontier , starting with the most violence-prone areas in fata , and is expected to recruit tens of thousands of new troops to man the border .
it is not clear how long it will take to fence the entire boundary .
but pakistan s plans have also drawn criticism from across the border .
gulab mangal , governor of the eastern afghan province of nangarhar , told reuters the wall will create more hatred and resentment between two neighbors and will do neither country any good .
the fence will definitely create a lot of trouble for the people along the border on both sides but no wall or fence can separate these tribes , he said .
i urge the tribes to stand against this action .
pakistan has blamed pakistani taliban militants it says are based on afghan soil for a spate of attacks at home over the past year , urging kabul to eradicate sanctuaries for militants .
afghanistan , in turn , accuses islamabad of sheltering the leadership of the afghan taliban militants who are battling the western-backed government in kabul .
both countries deny aiding militants , but relations between the two have soured in recent years .
in may , the tension rose when 10 people were killed in two border villages in baluchistan region .
the clashes occurred in so-called divided villages , where the durand line goes through the heart of the community , and where residents are now bracing for the fence to split their villages in two .
pakistan s previous attempts to build a fence failed about a decade ago and many doubt whether its possible to secure such a lengthy border .
but pakistani army officials are undeterred by the scepticism and insist they will finish the job as the country s security rests on this fence .
by the time we are done , inshallah , we will be very sure of one thing : that nobody can cross this place , said the pakistani officer in charge of south waziristan .