new york ( reuters ) - a majority of americans disagree with president donald trump ’ s assertion that football players should be fired for kneeling during the national anthem , even though most say they would personally stand during the song , according to an exclusive reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the sept. 25-26 poll found that 57 percent of adults do not think the national football league should fire players who kneel .
this included 61 percent of nfl fans who watch at least a few games per season .
the results were split along party lines , however , as 82 percent of democrats and 29 percent of republicans disagreed with the president ’ s comments about firing football players .
for poll results , see : tmsnrt.rs/2y6pxbk trump waded into the issue last week at a political rally when he bemoaned what he saw as a decline in the sport .
among other things , trump criticized players who want to draw attention to what they believe is social and racial injustice by refusing to stand during the anthem .
“ wouldn ’ t you love to see one of these nfl owners , when somebody disrespects our flag , to say ‘ get that son of a bitch off the field right now ’ , ” trump said at the rally .
“ he ’ s fired ! ” trump , who once owned a pro football team in a now-defunct rival league , added that the nfl is “ ruining the game ” with a fixation on player safety .
the president ’ s comments sparked a swift and widespread rebuke from the nfl last weekend as many players , coaches and owners kneeled , locked arms or stayed off the field during pregame ceremonies .
the reuters/ipsos poll explored the complicated feelings that many americans have about how to express their nationality .
eighty-five percent of adults said , for example , that they almost always “ stand in silence ” when the national anthem is played at an event they are attending .
seventy-four percent said they almost always put their hand over their heart .
yet , when it comes to professional athletes , there is less agreement about what is appropriate .
while 58 percent of adults said that “ professional athletes should be required to stand during the national anthem at sporting events , ” there is rising support for those athletes who do not .
in the latest poll , 40 percent of americans said that they support the stance that some pro football players have made to not stand during the anthem .
that is up from 28 percent who answered the same way in a similar reuters/ipsos poll last year .
in addition , 53 percent of americans do not think it is appropriate for the president to comment on “ how the nfl and its players conduct themselves during the national anthem. ” former san francisco 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick and a small number of other nfl players started kneeling during the national anthem last year to protest a series of high-profile police shootings that involved african-americans .
the issue had largely faded at the start of the 2017 season , in part because kaepernick was no longer playing for an nfl team .
trump ’ s comments , which were made in front of a conservative-leaning crowd in alabama , reinvigorated the debate and made pregame nfl ceremonies must-see tv .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english throughout the united states .
it gathered responses from 1,622 people , including 628 democrats , 583 republicans and 919 people who watched a football game at least a few times during the season .
the poll has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 5 percentage points .