sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - a california bill aimed at reducing eating disorders among models cleared its first legislative hurdle on wednesday , following efforts in several countries to fight extreme thinness in an industry that pressures models to lose weight .
the measure would require the state to develop health standards for models and regard them as employees of the brands they represent .
“ the goal of the bill is not only to protect the health of the workers themselves , but also to help young people who emulate models , ” said the bill ’ s author , state assemblyman marc levine , a democrat who represents the marin county suburbs of san francisco .
last year , france banned excessive thinness in models , partly in response to the death in 2010 of isabelle caro , a 28-year-old former french fashion model .
she died from anorexia after posing for a photographic campaign to raise awareness about the illness .
israel enacted a similar measure in 2013 , while italy and spain rely on voluntary codes of conduct to protect models .
the california bill passed the assembly labor and employment committee on wednesday .
it must be approved by additional committees and the full legislature before it can go to democratic governor jerry brown , who has not said if he would sign it .
at wednesday ’ s committee hearing activist sara ziff , a former fashion model , wept as she recounted abuses she endured as a teenage model , including pressure to strip for photographers .
“ i felt like i was being treated more like an escort than a model , ” said ziff , 32 , who founded the group model alliance .
by requiring that models be considered employees , she said , the state would protect them from sexual abuse and exploitation , and the risks of developing an eating disorder .
the association of talent agents has called the bill unworkable .
a licensing requirement for modeling agencies is redundant because california talent agencies are already licensed , association president karen stuart said .
“ this does nothing to reduce the problems that you heard about today , ” stuart said .