kutapalong , bangladesh ( reuters ) - the head of the u.n. refugee agency said on saturday he was shocked by the terrible violence inflicted on rohingya refugees fleeing myanmar , and said their suffering would last far longer than the time it took to satisfy their basic needs .
more than 420,000 rohingya muslims have fled to bangladesh since aug. 25 , when attacks by rohingya militants in rakhine state triggered a myanmar crackdown that the united nations has branded ethnic cleansing .
during a visit to the sprawling kutapalong refugee camp in southeastern bangladesh , close to the myanmar border , the united nations high commissioner for refugees , filippo grandi , said rohingyas had told him their stories .
i was really struck by the fear that these people carry with themselves , what they have gone through and seen back in myanmar , he told reuters in the camp , where refugees live under thousands of tarpaulins covering the hills and rice paddies .
parents killed , families divided , wounds inflicted , rapes perpetrated on women .
there s a lot of terrible violence that has occurred and it will take a long time for people to heal their wounds , longer than satisfying their basic needs , grandi said .
the speed and scale of the exodus from myanmar has left hundreds of thousands living in dire conditions in a poor part of a poor country , and u.n and aid agencies are scrambling to give people shelter , get them fed and prevent an outbreak of disease .
a senior u.n. official said on friday that an estimated $ 200 million would be needed to help the refugees in bangladesh for six months .
aid workers fear a humanitarian crisis is also unfolding in rakhine state , though myanmar has restricted access .
rohingyas , who trace their roots back generations in myanmar , are a stateless minority who have mostly been stripped of their citizenship in the predominantly buddhist country .
tensions between the communities have simmered for decades and exploded into violence several times in recent years .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi has faced a barrage of international criticism over their plight , for not speaking out more forcefully against the violence or doing more to rein in security forces over which she has little power .
myanmar dismisses accusations of ethnic cleansing , saying it has to tackle the insurgents , whom it accuses of starting fires and attacking civilians as well as the security forces .
grandi , who in july called for myanmar to grant rohingyas citizenship , also asked a rohingya refugee in bangladesh what it would take for him to return .
the refugee said myanmar needed to restore citizenship and fundamental rights , and that violence was continuing .
rights group amnesty international said on friday new satellite images and videos showed plumes of smoke were still rising from villages in rakhine state .