berlin ( reuters ) - with just one day left to conclude exploratory talks on forming a new coalition government , german parties were still far apart on wednesday on the hot issue of immigration and the future governance of the euro zone .
merkel , 63 , wants the exploratory talks to end on thursday , when german media expect her to press all sides to strike a compromise before moving to formal negotiations that could lead to her securing a fourth term as chancellor .
merkel is hoping to put together an unlikely alliance of her conservatives , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the ecologist greens - a combination untested at national level but a deal which could head off fresh elections .
the parties are struggling to reach agreement on the touchy issue of immigration , with the greens firmly opposed to a conservative plan to cap at 200,000 per year the number of migrants germany will accept for humanitarian reasons .
the parties are also at odds over the number of foreigners who qualify to join relatives granted asylum in germany .
differences over whether germany should back a french proposal to create a joint euro zone budget also highlight the difficulties merkel faces in trying to forge the awkward alliance .
a document seen by reuters , describing a possible government s stance on european issues , contains bracketed sentences reflecting areas of disagreement that must be settled by party leaders on wednesday .
[ the following compromise proposal could not be reached : there is a need for a capacity to buffer extraordinary , unpredictable economic emergency situations which are beyond the control of individual member states ... ] , one passage reads .
another sentence , described as the fdp position read : we do not support a fiscal capacity in order to buffer the effects of economic shocks .
the paper contains two alternate phrasings on the banking union , one supported by merkel s conservatives and the left-leaning greens , and another with more hardline language backed by the pro-business fdp .
thwarting the far-right merkel needs a deal to head off fresh elections that mainstream politicians fear could see the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) make further gains after it surged into parliament for the first time after a september election .
businesses are eager for the parties to reach a deal .
we believe that all parties involved have understood the urgency to reach an agreement by christmas , said dieter kempf , chief of germany s largest industry association , the bdi , warning that prolonged uncertainty could hit investment .
the mood music coming out of the talks has been mixed .
late on tuesday , merkel and other senior conservatives drank wine with greens co-leader katrin goering-eckardt , conservative party sources said .
but the coalition negotiations are complicated by the dynamics within the conservative bloc , which comprises merkel s christian democratic union ( cdu ) and their bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) .
the csu , worried about losing support in a state election next year , is uncompromising on immigration - a risk for the three-way jamaica coalition , so-called because the parties colours match those of the caribbean country s flag .
csu secretary general andreas scheuer said his party was ready to compromise , but added : it is becoming ever more clear that jamaica is not a pleasure trip .