madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - catalonia s leader carles puigdemont on thursday said he would not hold a new regional election to break the deadlock between madrid and separatists wanting to split from spain , sharpening a political crisis that could turn into direct confrontation .
puigdemont had been expected to announce an election to head off moves by madrid to take direct control of the autonomous region in the next few days .
but , speaking in the courtyard of the regional government headquarters in barcelona , puigdemont said the central government had not provided sufficient guarantees that holding an election would prevent the imposition of direct rule .
i was ready to call an election if guarantees were given .
there is no guarantee that justifies calling an election today , puigdemont said .
he said it was now up to the catalan parliament to move forward with a mandate to break from spain following an independence referendum that took place on oct. 1 - a vote which madrid had declared illegal and tried to stop .
some independence supporters are pushing him to unilaterally declare independence .
late on thursday , the regional government s business head resigned over his opposition to a unilateral declaration , a sign of growing division in the separatist movement .
puigdemont s stand sets the stage for the spanish senate on friday to approve the take-over of catalonia s institutions and police , and give the government in madrid the power to remove the catalan president .
but this could spark confrontation on the streets as some independence supporters have promised to mount a campaign of civil disobedience .
spanish deputy prime minister soraya saenz de santamaria , speaking in a senate committee , said : the independence leaders have shown their true face - they have promised a dream but are performing tricks .
the aim of article 155 the constitutional trigger for direct rule was to permit any election to take place in a normal and neutral situation , she said .
the spanish government has said it would call such a vote within six months of taking over catalonia .
the political crisis , the gravest since spain s return to democracy four decades ago , has divided catalonia itself and caused deep resentment in other parts of the country .
it has also prompted a flight of business from the wealthy region and worried other european leaders who see it as fanning separatist sentiment elsewhere on the continent .
it was not clear whether prime minister mariano rajoy would immediately enforce direct rule or simply seek the senate s authorization to do so without making it effective on the ground .
exactly how the central government would enforce it in practical terms , and how catalan civil service and regional police would react , is also uncertain .
national police used heavy-handed tactics to try to prevent the oct. 1 referendum from taking place , drawing accusations that they were resorting to the repressive behavior of the 1939-1975 franco dictatorship .
however , in a fast-moving battle of wills that has seen both sides stake out hard positions and try to keep each other guessing , it was not impossible that a sudden breakthrough could be made in the next 24 hours .
spain 's ibex .ibex closed up 1.9 percent as hopes of such a breakthrough fueled optimism among investors .
catalonia contributes a fifth of spain 's economy , the fourth-largest in the euro zone .
most spanish blue-chips posted substantial gains , notably banco sabadell ( sabe.mc ) and banco santander ( san.mc ) , both up 3.2 percent .
cracks in pro-independence camp according to spanish media , puigdemont is ready to call an election if the government drops article 155 , releases two senior secessionist leaders who are in jail and removes national police from catalonia .
even if the senate voted for direct rule on friday , puigdemont would not be stripped of his powers until saturday when the law is published in spain s official state gazette .
ander gil garcia , a spokesman for the socialist group in the senate , said : we are in the last hours of the penultimate day in which we can avoid what nobody wants .
he appealed to puigdemont to call a regional election and avoid a disaster from which catalonia and spain would take a long time to recover .
a regional election could either strengthen puigdemont s mandate if pro-independence parties won or allow him a graceful exit if they did not .
cracks though are beginning to appear in an increasingly-frustrated catalan independence movement .
the catalan government s business head , santi vila , who has opposed a unilateral declaration of independence , said on thursday he had resigned and said his attempts at dialogue had failed .
earlier on thursday , when it was thought puigdemont would announce an election , he was denounced by some angry independence supporters as a traitor .
several hundred gathered outside the regional government headquarters in protest .
some pro-secession lawmakers and mayors announced they would step down .
catalonia s pro-independence party erc would leave the regional government if puigdemont called a snap election , a party source said .
and far-left party cup , which supports puigdemont s minority government , said it would oppose a vote .
albert ribas , a 37-year-old hotel director listening to a radio in barcelona s sant jaume square , said it had been a hard day .
we have lost our dignity .
but i suppose we had to show the outside world that we re still making the effort to talk to the spanish government .
but again we see we have hit a wall .