new york ( reuters ) - buckeye partners lp said it aims to resume normal operations its bahamas crude oil and fuel terminal , also known as borco , on tuesday after hurricane irma rampaged through the caribbean as one of the most powerful atlantic hurricanes on record .
the terminal , located in freeport , on grand bahama island , has no reported injuries , incidents or damage and restart activities began on monday afternoon , the company said .
while power is still out at the terminal , buckeye expects terminal and marine operations to return to normal on tuesday depending on weather conditions .
the borco terminal is buckeye s largest and has the capacity to store about 26.2 million barrels of oil , fuel oil , gasoline and other products .
it is also the largest fuel storage terminal in the western hemisphere , the buckeye global marine partners website said .
buckeye was forced to shut the terminal due to irma on sept. 7 , a source familiar with the matter told reuters last week .
irma has killed nearly 40 people in the caribbean and at least six in florida and georgia and hammered energy infrastructure in those regions , even as recovery operations from storm harvey were under way .
it will likely dissipate from tuesday evening , the national hurricane center said .
buckeye s terminals in puerto rico have returned to normal , a spokesman told reuters in an email .
the u.s.-based midstream company had closed the 4.6 million-barrel yabucoa oil terminal in puerto rico last week .
the company also said it aims to return some florida terminals and pipelines to limited service on back-up power in 12-48 hours .
all employees at tampa and in the miami area are all reported safe and accounted for , buckeye said .
nustar energy lp said on monday it had put damage assessments of its terminal on the caribbean island of st. eustatius on hold as it prepared for hurricane jose .
several tanks and other equipment at the 13.03 million-barrel crude and product storage terminal was damaged by irma last week .
the national hurricane center was monitoring hurricane jose , which was spinning in the atlantic about 700 miles ( 1,130 km ) west of florida .