nashville ( reuters ) - educators and other full-time staffers at tennessee ’ s public state universities and colleges will soon be able to carry handguns on campus after governor bill haslam allowed a bill to become law on monday without his signature .
the bill that the republican governor allowed to become law had little opposition in both houses , easily passing 69-24 in the house and 28-5 in the senate last month .
the law will go into effect on july 1 .
the law , which affects 50 state institutions , was opposed by both the state board of regents and the university of tennessee system .
gun control on college campuses is a growing focus in the national debate over access to guns .
including tennessee , 10 states now allow guns on campus , although the tennessee and arkansas laws allow only faculty and staff to carry handguns , according to the national conference of state legislatures , which tracks policies in all 50 states .
in georgia , governor nathan deal , a republican , is expected on tuesday to either sign or veto a measure that would allow licensed gun owners ages 21 and over to carry concealed handguns on the campuses of public colleges and universities in that state .
on aug. 1 , 2016 , a so-called campus carry law takes effect in texas , allowing people 21 and older with a concealed handgun license to carry handguns in classrooms and buildings throughout the university of texas system .
in tennessee , anyone carrying a gun under the new law must have a permit and notify local police or campus security , whichever has responsibility for law enforcement on campus .
students are not allowed to carry handguns on campus .
the law does not allow handguns to be carried into arenas and stadiums during school-sponsored events , and guns are barred in meetings related to disciplinary or tenure matters .
haslam had said he did not believe the state should get involved in such local matters , but chose not to veto the bill .
“ although sb 2376 does not go as far as i would like in retaining campus control , the final version of the bill included input from higher education and was shaped to accommodate some of their concerns , ” he said in a monday statement .
proponents said the bill will lead to greater safety on campuses .
opponents voiced concern about the safety of students , faculty and visitors on campus .