lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - the head of a new pakistani islamist party that lionizes the killer of a provincial governor said it would take its rallying cry of death to blasphemers to next year s general election , after its surprisingly strong showing in a recent vote .
the tehrik-e-labaik pakistan party , which won more than 7,000 votes at a weekend by-election , was born out of a protest movement supporting mumtaz qadri , a bodyguard of the governor of punjab province who gunned down his boss in 2011 over his call to reform strict blasphemy laws .
supporters of tehreek-e-labaik waved photos of qadri , who became an icon for muslim hardliners after his execution last year , at campaign rallies in the eastern city of lahore , where it won 6 percent of the vote in a contest for the seat vacated by ousted former prime minister nawaz sharif .
he is a hero , party leader khadim hussain rizvi said when asked about qadri , adding that after its third-place finish in sunday s by-election it would focus on next year s poll .
our preparation starts from today .
we will contest bravely .
while the party has almost no chance of gaining power next year , it is part of a new crop of political movements that espouse stricter islamic rule as a remedy to corruption accusations and squabbling among pakistan s three main parties .
a stronger showing for islamists could give them more influence after the election , expected to be hard-fought after the supreme court barred sharif from holding office .
in an interview with reuters , rizvi outlined his vision of governance according the barelvi branch of islam , of which he is a prominent cleric .
frequently citing koranic verses and pakistani history , he said his party could solve corruption problems in a day through stricter adherence to sharia , or islamic law .
sharia will have to be enforced .
no one should be worried about it , he said , sitting in the upper room of a lahore mosque surrounded by followers , many who had adopted qadri s signature look of long hair and kohl-lined eyes .
he acknowledged his vision would mean some changes to daily life , giving the example of barring women from working as airline flight attendants .
in its party platform , tehrik-e-labaik pakistan calls for free education , free healthcare and social justice .
but it is best known for its public and passionate support for mumtaz qadri - campaign rallies featured posters with qadri s photo - and its insistence that muslim-majority pakistan s blasphemy laws should remain among the world s harshest .
dozens of people convicted of blasphemy are currently on death row and at least 65 pakistanis have been murdered over blasphemy allegations since 1990 , according to the center for research and security studies .
one of the highest-profile killings was of punjab governor taseer , who had called for the laws to be re-examined after a minority christian woman was sentenced to death for blasphemy .
after his arrest over the killing , bodyguard qadri drew a slew of admirers among islamists who showered him with rose petal at court hearings .
tens of thousands thronged his funeral last year to condemn sharif s government for his hanging .
tehreek-e-labaik spokesman ejaz ashrafi said the party started out as the movement to free mumtaz qadri , but changed its name and entered politics after his execution .
asked about qadri s role as an inspiration to the party , leader rizvi said : he is a hero until doomsday .
he is a hero beyond doomsday .
asked if any muslim has the obligation to kill a blasphemer , rizvi said : no ... there is a law .
hand him over to that .
but qadri , he added , was justified because pakistani police had failed to charge taseer with blasphemy for criticizing the law .
tehreek-e-labaik surprised many by its relatively strong showing in the lahore by-election to fill the parliamentary seat left vacant when the supreme court ousted sharif over unreported income , in a case initiated by opposition figure imran khan .
the seat was won , as expected , by sharif s wife , kulsoom , but the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party s share of the vote in the constituency was cut to 49.3 percent from 61 percent in a 2013 election .
khan , a former cricket star , saw his pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party increase its share to 37.6 percent from 35 percent in the last vote .
but much of the pml-n s margin loss came from votes cast for candidates of new islamist parties .
in addition to tehreek-e-labaik , a newly declared party linked to hafiz saeed , named by the united states and india as the mastermind of the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people , won about 5 percent of the lahore vote .
religious parties have never gained more than a few seats in pakistan s parliament because they tend to appeal to one particular sect or a single issue , such as blasphemy .
still , a surge of support for the ultra-religious parties could drain away votes from mainstream groups and potentially give islamists leverage in policy-making .
tehreek-e-labaik s rizvi said his only goal was to see a stricter vision of islam enshrined in the law of the land .
we want to bring the religion of islam to the throne , he said .