ames , iowa ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton on tuesday expanded her plan to tax the wealthiest americans by saying she would close tax-avoidance “ loopholes ” that allow investments to be routed through low-tax countries and put in tax-deferred retirement accounts .
“ my plan is kind of simple : we go after the wealthy to pay for what the middle-class working people and poor people need , ” clinton said at a campaign stop in ames , iowa on tuesday .
“ i think that ’ s a smart way to help fund some of our priorities , ” clinton added .
clinton said she would end the “ bermuda reinsurance loophole ” that allows hedge fund managers to route investments through an insurance company in a low-tax country such as bermuda to avoid paying a higher tax rate .
clinton also said she would close what she calls the “ romney loophole , ” which allows wealthy individuals to shield large sums of money in individual retirement accounts from taxation .
her proposals come after a plan announced monday to add a 4.0 percent income-tax surcharge on earners of more than $ 5 million per year .
clinton has reiterated her support for the buffett rule , named after billionaire investor and clinton endorser warren buffett , which would institute a minimum tax rate of 30 percent on those earning more than $ 1 million per year .
clinton , long the democratic party ’ s front-runner for the nomination , is unveiling her plan to tax the wealthy amid slipping poll numbers in the key early-voting states of iowa and new hampshire as her chief rival , u.s .
senator bernie sanders from vermont , has wooed supporters with his plan to address income inequality .
on tuesday , a quinnipiac poll saw sanders win a five-point lead over clinton among likely iowa caucus-goers .
in new hampshire , sanders outpaced the former secretary of state by 14 points , securing 53 percent of the party ’ s support , a monmouth university survey said .
the polls had an error margin of 4.4 and 4.8 points , respectively .
iowa voters will kick off the nation ’ s nominating race with caucuses held on feb. 1 , and new hampshire voters will cast ballots in the first-in-the-nation primaries on feb. 9 .