killing each other is okay , it s when a cop kills in the line of duty .
that s where the black lives matter protesters draw the line two men were killed and at least 15 others were wounded in chicago shootings on new year s day.the first shooting of 2016 left one person injured early new year s day in the south chicago neighborhood.the 34-year-old woman was inside a residence at 12:05 a.m. friday in the 8000 block of south paxton when a bullet came through the window and grazed her hand , police said .
she was taken to advocate trinity hospital in good condition police said .
they shot this thing around .
it came through my house , it injured my sister .
and this is ridiculous , says bianca fisher .
it doesn t make any sense .
neighbors say it s frightening .
i understand it was a minor incident , so i m grateful for that , but we don t want any shootings at all .
it s a new year s custom that should be done away with , a neighbor said.a little over two hours after the first shooting came the first murder .
police say the victim is 24-year-old deandre holiday , gang member who had been arguing with another man inside a bar when it spilled out into the street .
the other man pulled a gun and shot him in the chest , then fled , police said.the most recent nonfatal shooting left a man critically wounded at 6:40 a.m. in the south side back of the yards neighborhood.a man , thought to be in his 30s , was shot in the chest in the 1900 block of west garfield , police said .
he traveled to 55th street and artesian before he was taken to stroger hospital in critical condition .
20 minutes earlier , another man was shot in the same neighborhood , according to police.the 29-year-old man was shot in the shoulder at 6:20 a.m. in the 5400 block of south winchester , police said .
he was also taken to stroger , but his condition was not immediately known.about two hours earlier , a man was shot in the west garfield park neighborhood.the 26-year-old man was shot in the leg at 4:30 a.m. in the 600 block of south kostner avenue , police said .
he took himself to rush university medical center , where he was listed in good condition .
about two hours earlier , three men were shot in the greater grand crossing neighborhood on the south side.the men ages 26 , 20 , and 22 , were standing near a gas station just before 3 a.m. in the 7500 block of south state when someone approached them and opened fire , police said.the 26-year-old was shot in the leg ; the 20-year-old was shot in the back , and the 22-year-old was shot in the arm , police said .
they took themselves to st. bernard hospital , where their conditions were stabilized.less than an hour earlier , two men were shot in the washington heights neighborhood on the far south side.the two 24-year-old men were shot about 2 a.m. in the 9800 block of south beverly , police said .
one man was shot in the right hand and the other was shot in the back , police said .
both were taken to advocate christ medical center in oak lawn.at 12:49 a.m. , man was critically wounded in a shooting in the south side burnside neighborhood.a 38-year-old man was having an argument with someone he knew at a party at 12:49 a.m. in the 9200 block of south drexel avenue when that person pulled out a gun and shot him in the chest and back , police said .
he was taken to advocate christ medical center in oak lawn in critical condition.two hours before , a man was wounded in a shooting in the west englewood neighborhood on the south side.at 10:15 p.m. , the 18-year-old man was shot in the right hand while standing on the corner in the 7000 block of south laflin street , police said .
he took himself to holy cross hospital in good condition , police said.a 30-year-old man was shot thursday night in the washington park neighborhood on the south side.he was shot in the left leg in the 6200 block of south martin luther king drive at 8:15 p.m. , police said .
he took himself to university of chicago medical center , but his condition was not immediately available.a man was shot thursday evening in the englewood neighborhood on the south side.at 4:48 p.m. , the 28-year-old man pulled into a drive way in the 7200 block of south aberdeen street when he heard shots and felt pain , police said .
he was taken to advocate christ medical center in oak lawn with a gunshot wound to the leg , where his condition was stabilized.the first shooting of the holiday weekend happened just after 3 p.m. thursday in the austin neighborhood on the west side.a 24-year-old man and a 26-year-old woman were arguing with a third person in the 1000 block of north lorel when the person pulled out a gun and fired shots , police said.the two victims took themselves to west suburban medical center in oak park , police said .
the man was shot in the leg and his condition was stabilized at west suburban .
the woman was shot in the abdomen and transferred to stroger hospital in serious condition.police said the shooting may have happened during an attempted robbery .
the man is a documented gang member.2015 crime stats releasedhours before the city s first reported murder , the chicago police department released new crime numbers for 2015 .
the statistics show there were more than 50 more homicides last year than in 2014 .
via : abc7