johannesburg ( reuters ) - the nearly man of south african politics , deputy president cyril ramaphosa , took a big step towards the top job on monday when he was elected by a whisker as head of the ruling african national congress ( anc ) .
ramaphosa s ability has been apparent for decades .
whenever nelson mandela needed a breakthrough in talks to end apartheid , he turned to the then-trade union leader with a reputation as a tenacious negotiator .
using skills honed in pay disputes with mining bosses , ramaphosa steered those talks to a successful conclusion , allowing mandela to sweep to power in 1994 as head of the victorious anc after south africa s first democratic vote .
mandela wanted ramaphosa to be his heir but was pressured into picking thabo mbeki by a group of anc leaders who had fought apartheid from exile .
it has taken more than two decades for ramaphosa to get another chance to run the country .
monday s party vote , which handed him victory by less than 200 of nearly 5,000 ballots , puts that goal firmly within the 65-year-old s grasp .
the rand surged as much as 4 percent , suggesting approval of the business community .
ramaphosa s ambition for the presidency has been clear through his whole adult life .
he was quite clearly wounded by his materialization in the mbeki period , said anthony butler , a politics professor who has written a biography of ramaphosa .
the choice of ramaphosa over his main rival for the anc s top job , former cabinet minister nkosazana dlamini-zuma , is likely to chart a reformist course for south africa , which has lost its lustre under president jacob zuma .
a lawyer with an easygoing manner , ramaphosa has vowed to fight corruption and revitalize an economy that has slowed to a near-standstill under zuma s scandal-plagued leadership .
his message went down well with foreign investors and anc members who thought zuma s handling of the economy could cost the party dearly in 2019 parliamentary elections .
dlamini-zuma promised a radical brand of wealth redistribution popular with poorer anc voters who are angry at racial inequality .
while ramaphosa has backed calls for radical economic transformation , an anc plan to tackle inequality , he tends to couch his policy pronouncements in more cautious terms .
unlike zuma or dlamini-zuma , ramaphosa was not driven into exile for opposing apartheid , which some of the party s more hardline members hold against him .
he fought the injustices of white minority rule from within south africa , most prominently by defending the rights of black miners as leader of the national union of mineworkers ( num ) .
a member of the relatively small venda ethnic group , ramaphosa was able to overcome divisions that sometimes constrained members of the larger zulu and xhosa groups .
a massive miners strike led by ramaphosa s num in 1987 taught business that cyril was a force to be reckoned with , said michael spicer , a former executive at anglo american .
he has a shrewd understanding of men and power and knows how to get what he wants from a situation , spicer said .
the importance of ramaphosa s contribution to the talks to end apartheid is such that commentators have referred to them in two distinct stages : bc and ac , before cyril and after cyril .
ramaphosa also played an important role in the drafting of south africa s post-apartheid constitution .
after missing out on becoming mandela s deputy , ramaphosa withdrew from active political life , switching focus to business .
his investment vehicle shanduka - venda for change - grew rapidly and acquired stakes in mining firms , mobile operator mtn ( mtnj.j ) and mcdonald s south african franchise .
phuti mahanyele , a former chief executive at shanduka , recalled that ramaphosa was a passionate leader who required staff to contribute to charitable projects aimed at improving access to education for the underprivileged .
by the time ramaphosa sold out of shanduka in 2014 , the firm was worth more than 8 billion rand ( $ 584 million in today s money ) , making ramaphosa one of south africa s 20 richest people .
to his supporters , ramaphosa s business success makes him well-suited to the task of turning around an economy grappling with 28 percent unemployment and credit rating downgrades .
in the johannesburg township of soweto last month , ramaphosa called for a new deal between business and government to spur economic growth .
pravin gordhan , a respected former finance minister , told reuters that if ramaphosa was elected anc leader , the whole narrative about south africa s economy would change for the better within three months .
but ramaphosa has his detractors too .
he was a non-executive director at lonmin ( lmi.l ) ( lonj.j ) when negotiations to halt a violent wildcat strike at its marikana platinum mine in 2012 ended in police shooting 34 strikers dead .
an inquiry subsequently absolved ramaphosa of guilt .
but some families of the victims still blame him for urging the authorities to intervene .
my conscience is that i participated in trying to stop further deaths from happening , ramaphosa said about the deaths .
others are unconvinced that ramaphosa , who has been deputy president since 2014 , will be as tough on corruption as his campaign rhetoric suggests .
bantu holomisa , an opposition politician and former anc member who worked closely with him in the 1990s , said he was by nature cautious .
cyril has been part of the machinery and has not acted on corruption so far , holomisa said .
it is not clear whether he will if he gets elected .
( $ 1 = 13.6947 rand )