monrovia ( reuters ) - george weah has been here before : on the goal line of the liberian presidency , one run-off vote from victory .
unlike in 2005 , however , his support is much wider and many expect him at last to succeed .
the 1995 european soccer player of the year won 39 percent of votes in first round presidential polls last week , with 95 percent of votes counted .
the final result is due on wednesday .
that was 10 percentage points more than closest rival vice president joseph boakai , and a better score than he had in earlier contests , but short of the 50 percent needed to win .
a run-off between weah and boakai will be held in november .
the result shows how support has grown steadily for the former ac milan striker , who lit up television screens in liberia in the 1990s with his mazy runs , briefly distracting fans from a 1989-2003 civil war that killed tens of thousands .
now king george , as his supporters call him , has to persuade the majority that he can run a country as well as he kicks a ball .
his rhetoric has been light on policy so far .
in an interview on oct 8 he spoke vaguely about a need for better roads .
we will seek a government of inclusion where everyone can work together and make our country a better one for all of us , he told reuters .
weah grew up in clara town slum in the capital monrovia , playing football there and in cameroon , where manager arsene wenger spotted him and took him to monaco .
he went on to play for milan and paris st germain , and later in his career for chelsea , manchester city and marseille .
he became the first non-european to win the ballon d or in 1995 , the same year he picked up the african and world player of the year awards .
his rags-to-riches story has inspired supporters from similarly lowly backgrounds .
weah is grass roots , a son of the soil - he is a star , but he has the country at heart , said oliver myers , an unemployed 39-year-old from the rehab neighborhood outside monrovia .
others are wary of his lack of political experience and education , and question his ability to govern a country that remains 12th from bottom of the u.n. human development index .
weah s populism and inability to articulate a coherent platform ... are deeply concerning , said liberian political analyst robtel neajai pailey in a recent opinion piece for liberian website the bush chicken .
success at football does not translate into success in the presidency of a traumatized , poorly managed , post-war nation .
doubts over weah s experience could still sink his ambitions in next month s run-off , as in 2005 , when he won the first round but lost the second to ellen johnson sirleaf , the nobel peace prize winner who went on to rule for 12 years .
weah refused to take part in televised debates attended by most other major candidates , and his choice of running mate jewel howard-taylor - ex-wife of charles taylor , the former president and warlord serving 50 years in britain for war crimes in neighboring sierra leone - has raised eyebrows .
johnson sirleaf was credited with shoring up peace after the civil war , but criticized for failing to tackle elite graft and doing little to lift most liberians out of poverty .
development has been hindered by an ebola outbreak and a drop in the price of iron ore. poor roads still leave most of rural liberia stranded during the rainy season , often without electricity .
in monrovia , where derelict buildings line the main highways , most live on pitted dirt streets with little access to clean water .
boakai , 72 , sirleaf s deputy for 12 years , has struggled to separate himself from her during his campaign , despite promoting his humble beginnings .
as weah gained popularity , he was elected to the liberian senate in 2014 , defeating the president s son robert sirleaf .
he still plays football every sunday in monrovia .
while people have reservations about his lack of education , he is seen as the candidate for change , a diplomat told reuters on monday .
it will take a lot for boakai to turn this one around .
thomas kojo , who played with weah on the liberia national team , thinks his former teammate s passion for his country will take him far .
the heart george has for liberia is unbelievable , kojo said in an interview outside weah s compound in rehab on monday .
he made sure the national team was always trying to bring ( home ) some pride .
weah paid for the national team s kit when the football association couldn t afford it during the war , and gave players up to $ 600 spending money and similar bonuses if the team won , kojo said .
he once chartered a flight for the team when they were stranded in ivory coast without a flight to a game .
the football team was the only good image to come from liberia when all people saw was the killing , kojo said .
he made sure he was there for us .