ankara ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump and turkey s tayyip erdogan spoke on saturday and agreed to continue to work toward stronger ties and regional security , erdogan s office said , a day after he lashed out at u.s. authorities for indicting one of his ex-ministers .
ties between the united states and its nato ally have been strained by washington s support for the ypg kurdish fighters in the battle against islamic state in syria .
turkey considers the ypg a terrorist group .
ankara has also been frustrated by what it sees as washington s reluctance to extradite the muslim cleric fethullah gulen .
turkey blames gulen , who has lived in pennsylvania since 1999 , for last year s failed coup .
noting the strategic partnership between turkey and the united states , the two leaders emphasized the importance of continuing to work together to further strengthen bilateral relations and increase stability in the region , the turkish presidency said in a statement .
the two leaders agreed to meet in new york at the united states general assembly , scheduled for this month .
the call was notable for its timing , coming a day after erdogan described a u.s. prosecutor s indictment against turkey s former economy minister as being politically motivated and tantamount to an attack on ankara .
the former minister , zafer caglayan , and the ex-head of a state-owned turkish bank were charged this week with conspiring to violate iran sanctions by illegally moving hundreds of millions of dollars through the u.s. financial system on tehran s behalf .
the indictment marked the first time an ex-government member with close ties to erdogan had been charged in the on-going u.s. investigation , which has strained ties between the two countries .
for the moment , it is impossible to evaluate this within legal logic , he told reporters on friday .
i see this step against our former economy minister as a step against the turkish republic .
he had also called on washington to re-think the charges .
i hope we ll get a chance to discuss this issue in the united states .
you may be a big nation , but being a just nation is something else .
being a just nation requires the legal system to work fairly .