obama s trip to cuba is despicable , embarrassing and heart-breaking for so many survivors and relatives of survivors who are still living under the evil communist dictatorship of raul castro president barack obama told abc news anchor david muir in an exclusive interview today in havana , cuba , that he had not yet given president ra l castro a list of dissidents , which the cuban leader seemed to request during a news conference earlier today.in the joint news conference , obama and castro clashed on the issue of human rights in cuba , with the cuban leader denying knowledge of any political prisoners in the island nation .
what political prisoners ?
give me a name , or names , or after this meeting is over you can give me a list of political prisoners and if we have those political prisoners they will be released before tonight ends , castro said .
via : weasel zippers and abc newshere s the list obama .
why not give it to him ?
or do you have your sights set on finding a way to bring nj state trooper and iconic black panther figure , assanta shakur back to the us as a free women ? here is the very popular t-shirt worn by black lives matter protesters .
cop killers are apparently all the rage in obama s fight for justice .
from the fbi s most wanted list : caution joanne chesimard is wanted for escaping from prison in clinton , new jersey , while serving a life sentence for murder .
on may 2 , 1973 , chesimard , who was part of a revolutionary extremist organization known as the black liberation army , and two accomplices were stopped for a motor vehicle violation on the new jersey turnpike by two troopers with the new jersey state police .
at the time , chesimard was wanted for her involvement in several felonies , including bank robbery .
chesimard and her accomplices opened fire on the troopers .
one trooper was wounded and the other was shot and killed execution-style at point-blank range .
chesimard fled the scene , but was subsequently apprehended .
one of her accomplices was killed in the shoot-out and the other was also apprehended and remains in jail .