new york/los angeles ( reuters ) - the television audience for the second debate between white house contenders donald trump and hillary clinton fell sharply from their first , record-breaking encounter , despite the drama caused by a 2005 video of trump boasting about groping women .
nielsen data for 11 broadcast , cable and public television channels on monday showed that some 66.5 million americans tuned into the bitter 90-minute debate on sunday , well below the record 84 million that watched the first face-off two weeks ago .
the figures do not include millions more who watched the debate online , through social media or in bars and restaurants .
second presidential debates tend to attract smaller tv audiences , but attention was high going into sunday ’ s matchup after the emergence of the trump video prompted several republican politicians to abandon him .
however , the second debate took place in the same time slot as nbc ’ s popular “ sunday night football , ” which was watched by about 15 million americans , nielsen data showed .
nbc did not carry the debate .
while the national football league game , along with major league baseball play-offs , likely pulled viewers away from the debate , many americans already may have made up their minds on candidates , said tom hollihan , communication professor at the university of southern california ’ s annenberg school .
“ when we get to mid-october , history tells us people have already made their decisions , ” he said .
“ they lock themselves into their viewpoints and are less open to new information. ” the furor over the trump tape and his attacks on hillary clinton ’ s husband , former president bill clinton , for alleged sexual misconduct also may have turned off some viewers .
sunday ’ s debate , the second of three before the nov. 8 election , was remarkable for the brutal nature of the exchanges between trump and clinton , his democratic rival .
“ while in the past families might have made a commitment to watch a presidential debate , i think many in this case were saying , ‘ why should i do that ?
why should i have to answer my kids ’ questions about these topics ? ’ ” hollihan said .
the tv audience ranked below the nation ’ s top 10 most-watched presidential encounters , and below that for president barack obama ’ s first and second 2012 debates with republican challenger mitt romney .
last week ’ s vice presidential debate between republican mike pence and democrat tim kaine drew 37 million americans - the lowest audience for a vp debate since 2000 .