the party s over or is it ?
hillary clinton and her aides will need to decide whether to lie or tell the truth to the fbi about her e-mail and official business .
this puts them in a position of choosing between being honest about those emails , or lying to the fbi , which is a crime , said matthew g. whitaker , u.s. attorney for the southern district of iowa from 2004 to 2009 .
he is presently executive director of the foundation for accountability and civic trust ( fact ) in washington , d.c.federal agents are preparing to schedule interviews with clinton s longtime and closest aides about her use of the private email and server throughout her tenure as the nation s chief diplomat from 2009 to 2013 , the los angeles times reported monday.despite clinton s repeated denial she ever sent or received classified information via her private email , federal investigators said more than 2,000 of the 55,000 pages of emails she turned over to the department of state did include classified material .
more than 20 of those emails contained information so sensitive and classified members of congress were not allowed to read them.whitaker s group made public its list of what it judges to be the top 10 most ethically challenged hillary emails march 10 , 2016 : nepotism : clinton intervened aug. 22 , 2012 , on behalf of her son-in-law , marc mezvinsky , in an effort to secure state department assistance for one of his business associates with ties to a clinton foundation donor .
fact filed a complaint with the u.s. office of government ethics on this issue .
favoring insiders : clinton impressed billionaire donor george soros with his easy access to her , according to a may 12 , 2012 , email to her from neera tanden , veteran clinton adviser and president of the liberal think tank center for american progress .
above the law : clinton told aide jake sullivan in a june 17 , 2011 , email to disregard classification security regulations and send information for a speech via a non-secure email system , which forced the aide to either break the law or disobey an order .
special interests : in a july 26 , 2010 , email exchange with clinton , sullivan forwarded a message from jeffrey farrow , an influential lobbyist for a pacific island government .
the exchange raises red flags about whether farrow had made requests , according to fact .
selling access : a dec. 10 , 2009 , email discussed attempts by clinton campaign and foundation donor brian greenspun to set up a meeting between clinton and a top israeli official who had been trying to meet with [ clinton ] to no avail .
the email suggests certain campaign and foundation donors had a privileged back door to clinton .
conflicts of interest : clinton pushed for the state department to work with the clinton foundation and the red cross on a project in haiti .
the jan. 19 , 2010 , email from clinton to chief of staff cheryl mills indicates a clear conflict of interest , according to fact .
helping political allies : mark penn , clinton s 2008 presidential campaign pollster and long-time political adviser , complained about not having timely access on a corporate event in china .
his complaints were apparently resolved after a feb. 22 , 2010 , email from clinton aide kris balderston that set up a telephone call with clinton .
trading favors : barely a week after the penn complaint , balderston reported in a march 2 email to clinton that major corporations , including boeing , citi and blackstone , agreed to provide financial support for the event .
even the appearance of this sort of favor trading , involving the public , private and political sectors , is a bad ethics practice , according to fact .
abuse of position : a sept. 15 , 2011 , email forwarded to clinton , sullivan and aide huma abedin listed multiple state department officials attending the clinton foundation global initiative conference despite having no official role .
robert hormats , a department official , was also a speaker at a dinner co-hosted by the goldman sachs wall street investment firm that later paid clinton $ 675,000 for three speeches .
the dinner focused on investing in women , clinton s favorite clinton foundation project .
duping obama : in a sept. 20 , 2011 , email to clinton , mills forwarded a draft of president barack obama s planned remarks to the clinton foundation global initiative .
fact contends that clinton doesn t appear to have routinely received copies of the president s draft speeches , and it sends bad ethical signals to treat a speech given to her family s organization differently .
read more : biz pac