washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration plans to admit up to 45,000 refugees to the united states in the fiscal year starting oct. 1 , a former u.s. official said on tuesday , a ceiling that would keep admissions to their lowest level in over a decade .
the white house settled on the figure after a contentious debate between officials who wanted a lower ceiling and those who wanted a higher one , said the former official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
on one side of the debate were officials who tended to look at the issue through a domestic political prism given president donald trump ’ s focus on curbing immigration during the 2016 u.s. presidential campaign .
on the other were foreign policy experts who argued that taking refugees into the united states is vital to ensure other nations keep their borders open .
the plan to set the cap at 45,000 was earlier reported by the wall street journal newspaper .
the former official , who favored a higher number , said the decision will undermine the u.s. ability to persuade nations such as jordan , turkey and lebanon that have accepted huge flows of syrian refugees to keep admitting them as well as to convince donor nations to keep up financial contributions for refugees .
“ we have no standing to play that role when we cut our own humanitarian assistance and when we are halving our refugee admissions , ” said the former official .
in his two travel ban executive orders , trump directed the united states to accept a maximum of 50,000 refugees for permanent resettlement in the fiscal 2017 year ending sept. 30 , less than half the 110,000 president barack obama authorized .
in part because of court challenges to those orders , the united states ultimately accepted more than 50,000 refugees during the current fiscal year .
according to state department data , the united states took in 51,392 refugees through august .
if the united states accepts 45,000 in fiscal 2018 , it would be the lowest level admitted since fiscal 2006 , when it took in 41,223 , according to state department data .
a state department spokesman declined comment on the 45,000 figure , saying only that secretary of state rex tillerson and acting secretary of homeland security elaine duke would consult congress on wednesday .
“ each year , the president makes an annual determination , after appropriate consultation with congress , regarding the refugee admissions ceiling for the following fiscal year .
secretary tillerson and dhs acting secretary duke will consult with congress tomorrow , ” he said .