london ( reuters ) - no fuel shipments have reached yemen s largest port for a month , a reuters analysis of port and ship tracking data shows , as a saudi arabian-led blockade on the war-torn country tightens despite international calls for the siege to end .
tankers laden with oil have turned away from hodeida , the biggest entry point for cargo to the devastated north , without unloading .
the united nations body tasked with inspecting ships seeking to enter the area said on wednesday it could not say when such ships would be allowed through .
the shortage means areas hardest hit by war , malnutrition and cholera lack functioning hospital generators , cooking fuel and water pumps .
it also makes it harder to move food and medical aid around the country .
at least one in four people in the nation of 28 million is starving , according to the united nations , as a three-year civil war , stoked by regional foes saudi arabia and iran , rages on .
the united nations and individual governments including britain have urged saudi arabia over the past few weeks to loosen its blockade on yemen s northern red sea ports .
in a statement to reuters , a spokesperson for the u.n. inspection body , the verification and inspection mechanism for yemen ( unvim ) , said the saudi-led coalition forces have refused tankers permission to enter hodeida despite its approval , and repeated attempts by the vessels to proceed ...
the coalition has repeatedly said their priority is food only .
the coalition has turned away up to 12 tankers in recent weeks , the unvim spokesperson said , adding : unvim is unable to say when the coalition will allow fuel tankers to enter yemen s red sea ports anchorage areas .
saudi arabia and its allies , with the backing of the united states , first positioned warships in yemeni waters in 2015 .
since then , commercial shipments to hodeida and other ports controlled by iran-backed houthi militia have suffered severe restrictions and delays .
in early november , after a houthi ballistic missile was fired into riyadh , saudi arabia blocked all yemen s ports , preventing any shipments - including humanitarian aid - from entering the country .
since then , riyadh has reopened southern ports , including aden , which are under the control of the saudi-backed internationally recognized government , and allowed humanitarian aid into hodeida .
but the squeeze on commercial shipments to hodeida has tightened .
according to hodeida port records , saudi-led military forces last month ordered at least six oil tankers to leave the port before unloading .
captain mohammed ishaq , executive chairman of the yemen red sea ports corporation , which operates hodeida , told reuters on tuesday no fuel shipments had reached the port since nov. 6 .
the international committee of the red cross warned last week that water systems in nine cities including hodeida had run out of fuel stocks .
since then , as a last resort , it said it has supplied fuel to the water authorities of hodeida and taiz to help provide clean water to over one million people , as well as to several hospitals in the embattled capital of sanaa .
a spokesman for the saudi coalition could not be reached for comment .
saudi foreign minister adel al-jubeir told reuters last month that no country in the world had provided more aid to yemen than saudi arabia .
al-jubeir said the aid was only distributed in government-held areas and not houthi areas , because the houthis steal the aid and they sell it for profit .
but aid agencies say aid can only cover a fraction of the nation s needs .
we re facing the worst famine seen in decades , and that won t change unless commercial shipments of food and fuel are allowed in , said shane stevenson , yemen country director with aid group oxfam .
residents of hodeida say the shortage has pushed up the price of existing fuel .
the price of 200 liters of petrol on the black market costs 11,000 yemeni riyals compared with 5,200 riyals before the conflict , residents say .
a 50 kg bag of flour has climbed to 8,500 riyals from 7,000 riyal before the closures on nov. 6 .
iman ahmed , a 43-year-old teacher in hodeida , said in late november the high price of diesel was having a devastating effect in rural areas outside of the port city .
fisherman have stopped working because of warships and coalition air strikes .
farmers have stopped work because of a sharp rise in the price of diesel .
abdo haidar , a 43-year-old father of seven , said separately : life has become so hard .
before the war things were going ok , there were jobs , i was able to feed my family .
now ... gas is barely available and basic necessities cost double .
most of the time our food is now bread and tea .