buenos aires ( reuters ) - the search for an argentine submarine missing in the south atlantic for more than a week has highlighted the dwindling resources and lack of training faced by the armed forces since the end of a military dictatorship in the early 1980s .
as south america s second-largest economy has lurched from one crisis to the next in recent decades , military funding has not been a priority for cash-strapped governments , and an incident like the disappearance of the ara san juan was a problem in the making , military and political analysts said .
human rights violations perpetrated by the dictatorship broke the bond between society and the armed forces , said andrei serbin pont , research director at the cries think tank in buenos aires .
he said a rethinking of the military s role in society was long overdue .
the majority of argentines don t really care about the armed forces , therefore politicians aren t particularly interested in maintaining any sort of military policy or defense policy , he said .
since the loss of the falklands war to britain in 1982 and the fall of the dictatorship the following year , military spending has fallen from 2.16 percent of gross domestic product ( gdp ) to a low of 0.87 percent in 2011 , according to world bank data .
while it inched up to 0.96 percent of gdp last year , spending remains well behind neighboring brazil and chile , which spent 1.3 percent and 1.9 percent of gdp on their militaries , respectively , the data show .
it is too early to determine the cause of the disappearance of the ara san juan , and an intense search and rescue effort continued on wednesday .
but argentina s submarine fleet has been among the areas of the military most plagued by a lack of funds .
in 2014 , the fleet spent a total of just 19 hours submerged , versus the 190 days needed for the fulfillment of operational and training needs , according to a may 2016 report by specialist publication jane s sentinel .
the fact that you had so little use of the submarines was an indication that clearly they were a problem waiting to happen , said evan ellis , a research professor focusing on latin america at the u.s. army war college strategic studies institute .
president mauricio macri pledged to improve the 26,000-strong armed forces capabilities during his campaign in 2015 .
his administration s 2016 state of the state report noted that 70 percent of the defense ministry s budget was spent on wages and pensions , rather than investment .
the conditions in which they work are practically impossible .
i m talking about all the armed forces , elisa carrio , a key member of macri s let s change coalition , said in a recent television interview .
but since taking office in december 2015 , macri has not markedly improved the financing situation .
the 2018 budget calls for a 14 percent increase in funding for the defense ministry , below inflation expected at 15.7 percent .
in march , then-defense minister julio martinez told reuters argentina lacked money to buy aircraft or replace an aging fleet .
the german-built ara san juan was launched in 1983 and underwent a local upgrade beginning in 2008 which included the replacement of its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines , according to jane s sentinel .
shortly before giving its last location on nov. 15 , the submarine reported an electrical outage .
concerns about the state of the vessel surfaced when video was published by newspaper perfil of a tense meeting between macri and relatives of some of the 44 crew members .
does someone have to die for things to change ?
could you not have invested in this before ?
one sailor s wife was recorded telling macri .
macri said the ship s level of maintenance , not its age , was what mattered , and that authorities were convinced the submarine was in good condition .
argentine news media have reported that the search has sparked friction between the navy and the defense ministry , with civilian authorities concerned that the military has not been forthcoming with information .
navy officials have denied this .
a ministry source , who was not authorized to speak publicly , told reuters the ministry has opened an investigation into the incident and has not ruled out criminal charges once the search operation is complete .