moscow/washington ( reuters ) - russia warned the united states on thursday it would target u.s.-backed militias in syria if russian troops again came under fire , as the united states disclosed an unusual face-to-face meeting between u.s. and russian generals meant to avoid such clashes .
the russian warning underscored growing tensions over syria between moscow and washington .
while both oppose islamic state ( is ) , they are engaged , via proxies , in a race for strategic influence and potential resources in the form of oilfields in eastern syria s deir al-zor province .
the russian defence ministry said the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) had taken up positions on the eastern banks of the euphrates with u.s. special forces , and twice had opened fire with mortars and artillery on syrian troops who were working alongside russian special forces .
a representative of the u.s. military command in al udeid ( the u.s. operations center in qatar ) was told in no uncertain terms that any attempts to open fire from areas where sdf fighters are located would be quickly shut down , major-general igor konashenkov said in a statement .
fire points in those areas will be immediately suppressed with all military means .
in a sign of the high stakes as both forces come in increasing proximity , u.s. and russian generals held a face-to-face meeting this week in an effort to avoid accidental clashes , u.s. military officials said on thursday .
they had a face-to-face discussion , laid down maps and graphics , said army colonel ryan dillon , a baghdad-based spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition , adding it appeared to be the first meeting of its kind .
dillon , addressing a pentagon briefing , disclosed few details , including who participated in the meeting or its precise location .
a u.s. military official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said the participants included both u.s. and russian generals .
the russian defence ministry this week accused u.s. spies of initiating a jihadi offensive against government-held parts of northwest syria on tuesday .
the ministry , in a wednesday evening statement , said 29 russian military policemen had been surrounded by jihadis as a result and that russia had been forced to break them out in a special operation backed by air power .
according to our information , u.s. intelligence services initiated the offensive to halt the successful advance of government troops to the east of deir al-zor , said colonel-general sergei rudskoi .
the syrian army , backed by russian war planes , has captured about 100 km ( 62 miles ) of the west bank of the euphrates this month , reaching the raqqa provincial border on wednesday , the syrian observatory for human rights reported .
syrian troops also crossed to the eastern side of the river on monday where the sdf , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting with the u.s.-led coalition , has been advancing .
the convergence of the rival offensives has increased tensions in deir al-zor .
the u.s.-backed militias said on saturday they had come under attack from russian jets and syrian government forces , something moscow denied .
on monday , the sdf warned against any further syrian army advances on the eastern riverbank , and russia s defence ministry said on tuesday that the waters of the euphrates had risen as soon as the syrian army began crossing it , suggesting this could only have happened if upstream dams held by the u.s.-backed opposition had been opened .
( corrects conversion of 100 km to miles in paragraph 13 . )