beijing ( reuters ) - russia and china were considering linking their national payment system , russian prime minister dmitry medvedev said on wednesday , as he called for a more balanced global finance structure .
noting the rise of china s unionpay system and beijing s efforts to internationalize its currency , the yuan , medvedev told a press conference in beijing that russia was developing its own payment system , known as karta mir .
at the present moment it is being discussed whether karta mir should be linked to chinese payment systems , he said , while standing alongside chinese premier li keqiang .
that would have good prospects and avoid those problems that sometimes arise when you use american payment systems , medvedev said , mentioning visa and mastercard without elaborating .
russia started to create the karta mir system after western sanctions were imposed on the country in 2014 , during the ukraine crisis .
the system is now widely accepted in russia .
after new u.s. sanctions were imposed , moscow promised to intensify work to cut dependence on western payment systems further .
among other things , it wants to create more domestic financial services such as its own ratings agency .
i think that the more financial instruments there are in the modern world , the more stable the global financial system will be , medvedev said .
visa and mastercard stopped providing services to clients of one russian bank after washington imposed sanctions over moscow s annexation of crimea from ukraine and support of pro-russian separatists in eastern ukraine .
around 14 million mir cards , which translates as world or peace , have been issued in russia , according to the russian national system of payment cards ( nspk ) , or about 10 percent of the country s population .
nspk was established in 2014 and is 100 percent owned by the central bank .
more than 380 banks working in russia accept the cards , which are issued by 120 banks .
practically all trade and service points , including cafes , shops , restaurants and petrol stations , accept them .
mir cards are also welcome in sanctions-hit crimea where western banks are banned from operating .