istanbul ( reuters ) - a turkish court freed on bail an opposition journalist facing charges of aiding a terrorist organization after he identified the hotel where president tayyip erdogan was staying hours before last year s failed military coup .
gokmen ulu , one of four staff of the opposition newspaper sozcu whose trial began on tuesday , told the court he was accused of a made-up crime and prosecutors had no evidence against him .
he had been in detention for more than five months .
the court has decided to release on bail our friend gokmen ulu , the sozcu newspaper said on its website , saying he was expected to be freed from silivri prison , west of istanbul , later on wednesday .
ulu was charged along with video journalist mediha olgun , who was held for several months before her release on bail in september , and accountant yonca yucekaleli , both of whom deny the accusations against them .
sozcu founder burak akbay , who has left the country and is being tried in absentia , is accused of being a leader of a terrorist organization .
on the night of the july 15 , 2016 coup attempt , erdogan narrowly escaped a team of rogue soldiers who stormed his hotel in a luxury resort in the southwestern turkish province of mugla .
forty-two soldiers were found guilty last month of trying to kill him and given life sentences .
prosecutors say ulu s newspaper article made erdogan a target for the coup plotters by revealing his location .
the allegations are against conscience and thought .
they are unjust .
the crime is made up , ulu told the court , according to a transcript published by his newspaper .
there is no evidence against me .
akbay , in a statement read to the court , denied he was a supporter of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , who is accused by turkish authorities of orchestrating the abortive coup .
gulen has said he was not involved and has condemned the putsch .
more than 50,000 people , including soldiers , teachers and journalists , have been jailed pending trial in a sweeping crackdown following the coup attempt .
european allies fear erdogan is using the investigations to stifle opposition and undermine the judiciary .
he has responded by saying that the purges are necessary to maintain stability in a pivotal nato country bordering iran , iraq and syria .