bogota ( reuters ) - venezuela s roman catholic church leaders said on thursday they would tell pope francis of the truly desperate humanitarian crisis in their country at a meeting they hoped would throw a spotlight on problems caused by political deadlock .
the argentine pontiff is visiting colombia and had asked bishops from neighboring venezuela to meet with him and brief him on the situation .
the short meeting took place after the pope s mass on thursday night .
cardinal jorge urosa savino , the archbishop of caracas , told reporters ahead of the meeting that his country was mired in a truly desperate situation .
there are people who eat garbage and there are people who die because there is no medicine .
we want to remind the pope of this again ... because the government is doing everything possible to establish a state system , totalitarian and marxist , urosa said .
on wednesday , francis told reporters he hoped venezuela could find stability .
venezuela has been convulsed by months of near-daily demonstrations against leftist president nicolas maduro , who critics say has plunged the oil-rich country into the worst economic crisis in its history and is turning it into a dictatorship .
maduro has said that he is the victim of an armed insurrection and an economic war by u.s.-backed opponents seeking to gain control of the opec member s oil reserves .
world bodies and foreign governments have expressed concern about the shortage of food and medicine in venezuela and called for political dialogue between maduro and the opposition .
church leaders in venezuela have made a series of highly critical speeches since late last year .
the vatican mediated in talks between the government and opposition in 2016 that ultimately broke down .
venezuela s crisis has also sparked an increase in border crossings to colombia , which is struggling to supply social services for the migrants .
this meeting is a real gift that the pope is giving to all of the venezuelan people through the bishops who are here , said the archbishop of merida , cardinal baltazar porras cardozo .