if you needed more proof that donald trump is a toxic hateful bully , there s a two-page spread in the new york times you need to read.on monday , the new york times published every single insult trump has made on twitter against every person , place , or thing since he threw his hat in the presidential race in june 2015.and it s such a long list that it take up a full two pages.wow today s @ nytimes features a 2-page spread of all the people , places & things trump has insulted on twitter since declaring his candidacy pic.twitter.com/edzwznijkf kyle griffin ( @ kylegriffin1 ) october 24 , 2016among the people , places , and things the republican nominee has insulted includes the united states , saturday night live , saudi arabia , joe scarborough , mika brzezinski , the tsa , reporter katy tur , sexual assault victims , megyn kelly , cnn , ted cruz , the republican party , hillary clinton , elizabeth warren , china , immigrants , a book about william mckinley , and more .
the list goes on and on.no president in the history of this country has ever been this hateful .
this list could also very well be the first of its kind and it s about a major presidential candidate.trump and the republican party should be embarrassed .
donald trump has disgraced himself over and over again but his supporters still continue to back him.but twitter users pointed out a few things about this list .
@ brandonwojo i think what s more important is how long that list is .
if he can t get along with that list can he get along with others ?
lori ( @ followthatband ) october 24 , 2016 @ kylegriffin1 @ thefix @ nytimes not one white supremacist on that list .
jenn ( @ gibby23roar84 ) october 24 , 2016 @ kylegriffin1 @ thefix @ nytimes still looking for putin on the list but finding him strangely absent marty reeder ( @ martyreeder ) october 24 , 2016of course , conservatives whined that there isn t a similar list about hillary clinton and proceeded to post about things that have been debunked or things hillary has been cleared of .
@ kylegriffin1 @ nytimes wow hitlerys own newspaper # subscriptioncancelled brian dane ( @ mrbriandane ) october 24 , 2016 @ kylegriffin1 @ srussolillo @ nytimes no mention of the dead americans hillary killed in benghazi ?
or the 12 year old girl she smeared ?
wsmco ( @ wsmco ) october 24 , 2016 @ kylegriffin1 @ pbmech @ nytimes ny times , so not surprising .
wonder if they will list all the donors to clinton foundation in pay to play bret jensen ( @ bret_jensen ) october 24 , 2016trump s supporters apparently didn t read the title of the article because if they had they would see that it s all the things trump has said on twitter over the last year and a half .
they even printed it in big letters.if the new york times printed a list of all the other things trump has said and done it would fill the entire paper .
maybe the new york times should consider doing that.featured image : joe raedle/getty images