monrovia ( reuters ) - a presidential election run-off in liberia scheduled for tuesday will be delayed by a supreme court fraud investigation , the national elections commission ( nec ) said on friday .
former soccer star george weah and vice president joseph boakai are competing to succeed president ellen johnson sirleaf , a nobel peace prize laureate whose election in 2005 helped draw a line under 14 years of civil war .
the vote is meant to mark liberia s first democratic transition of power since 1944 , but the supreme court this week halted preparations while it examined charges by third-place finisher charles brumskine s liberty party that the oct. 10 first round was marred by fraud .
following arguments by the liberty party and counter-arguments by the nec , chief justice francis korkpor said that the court would give its decision at 10 a.m. ( 1000 gmt ) on monday , one day before the scheduled poll .
the election will definitely be delayed , but we don t know for how long , nec spokesman henry flomo said .
the fact that the court will not rule until monday is a delay .
boakai s ruling unity party has backed the liberty party s allegations and even accused johnson sirleaf , one of its own members , of interfering in the vote by holding private meetings with election magistrates .
johnson sirleaf denied the meetings were inappropriate .
observers from the european union and the carter center said they saw no major problems with the first round vote .
addressing the court s five justices , brumskine cited gross irregularities .
in its complaint last week , the liberty party alleged various problems , including the late opening of polls , the absence of queue controllers and fraud by nec officials .
this is not about losing or winning , brumskine told the court .
it has do to do with putting a system in place .
lawyers for the nec replied that the petitioners did not have any evidence and asked that the court lift its stay so that the commission could organize the second round .
the streets of the capital monrovia remained calm with riot police deployed to protect the supreme court building and the election commission headquarters .
weah , who became the first non-european to win the european soccer player of the year award in 1995 , won the first round of voting with 38.4 percent to boakai s 28.8 percent .
brumskine won nearly 10 percent .