london ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson has said a transition period from the european union after britain s exit from the bloc in march 2019 must not last more than two years .
in an interview with the sun newspaper on saturday , on the eve of the governing conservative party s annual conference , johnson detailed four red lines for brexit that appear to go beyond the agreed position of prime minister theresa may s cabinet .
in addition to a two-year maximum transition , he said the uk should not accept new eu or european court of justice rulings during transition , must not make payments for single market access when the transition ends , and should not agree to shadow eu regulations to gain access .
johnson also again strayed from his foreign office brief .
he said britain s current national minimum wage of 7.50 pounds an hour , rising to 9 pounds by 2020 , was not enough , and called for public sector employees to get a pay rise , funded by layoffs .
but he told the newspaper speculation about his leadership intentions had been massively overdone .
am i impatient about it ( brexit ) , do i want to get it done as fast as possible ?
yes , absolutely .
do i want the delay to go on longer than two years ?
not a second more , johnson was quoted as saying in the tabloid newspaper .
some of johnson s cabinet colleagues recently accused him of backseat driving on brexit after setting out his vision for the uk s future outside the eu in a 4,300-word newspaper article just days before a key speech by the prime minister .
in her speech in the italian city of florence on sept. 22 may outlined a transition period of around two years of trading on the same terms , but no payments for single market access .
the crucial thing i want to get over to sun readers about brexit is that it is going to be great and we need to believe in ourselves and believe we can do it .
it is unstoppable , johnson said in the article on saturday .
however , in an interview with the times newspaper , scottish conservative leader ruth davidson said that over optimism about britain s future outside the eu sells people short and called for serious people to take charge of brexit .
at the conservative party conference in manchester , may will set out plans to build a road to a better future for britain , hoping to head off a rebellion over her handling of brexit and her poor showing in the june election .