are there any trump donors on the team ?
great question by tom fitton !
judicial watch president tom fitton joined fox news to explain mueller s latest hire of andrew goldstein , a former prosecutor who worked under preet bharara in new york .
remember prett bharara ?
trump fired him !
fitton questioned who is overseeing mueller s day-to-day conduct , pointing to the 12 hires he has made for his legal team all liberal political hacks ! special counsel mueller s investigation is out of control .
@ realdonaldtrump doj should shut it down .
https : //t.co/iyr9hiqkix tom fitton ( @ tomfitton ) july 2 , 2017a very key reason for this witch hunt to end is that : several of the lawyers donated to democrats and it seems that the team is searching for a crime .
fitton said : i don t understand what this investigation is about .. you know my count is 14 , 15 lawyers to have working on this one investigation to investigate to investigate what ?
an employment dispute between comey and the president ?
you have the conflicts caused by comey leaking records to get mueller appointed , you have constitutional concerns about the way the office operates .
fitton then pointed out what s a big concern for most people watching this unfold : are there any trump donors on the team ?
in case you haven t heard here s our recent report on the lopsided group of all democrat donor lawyers helping mueller try and bury trump : former nh governor john sununu let alison camarata have it when she asked about the russia investigation and robert mueller .
sununu said that trump should have been notified if he was under investigation and then he slammed mueller for hiring all dems.camerota : should the white house know if the president is being investigated for obstruction of justice ?
sununu : if the president is being investigated for obstruction of justice , the white house should have been officially notified .
sununu : what bothers me the most and there must be a reason for it , is mueller making four of his first hires so blatantly biased lawyers , pro-democrat lawyers with a bias certainly against the president .
maybe mueller has decided internally that this isn t going anywhere and that the only way he can have credibility on a decision saying that there s nothing there is to have that decision come from a group of lawyers that are so blatantly biased against the president .
cnn reports three members of the legal team known to have been hired so far by special counsel robert mueller to handle the russia investigation have given political donations almost exclusively to democrats , according to a cnn analysis of federal election commission records .