hey michelle guess what ?
for the first time in 8 years , the entire country can be proud of their president again forbes recently released its rankings of the world s most powerful people , and the results don t look good for president barack obama.there are nearly 7.4 billion humans on planet earth , but these 74 men and women make the world turn .
forbes annual ranking of the world s most powerful people identifies one person out of every 100 million whose actions mean the most.to compile the list , we considered hundreds of candidates from various walks of life all around the globe , and measured their power along four dimensions .
first , we asked whether the candidate has power over lots of people.next we assessed the financial resources controlled by each person .
are they relatively large compared to their peers ?
for heads of state we used gdp , while for ceos , we looked at measures like their company s assets and revenues.then we determined if the candidate is powerful in multiple spheres .
there are only 74 slots on our list one for approximately every 100 million people on the planet so being powerful in just one area is often not enough.lastly , we made sure that the candidates actively used their power .
forbesin 2015 , obama came in as the third most powerful person , which wasn t great , considering he is supposed to be the leader of the free world .
but it was nevertheless much better than 2016 s list , which has him placed at an embarrassing number 48.last year , forbes explained why the u.s. president wasn t number one , or even number two .
there s no doubt that the united states remains the world s greatest economic , cultural , diplomatic , technological and military power , the publication wrote in 2015 .
but as obama enters the final year of his presidency , it s clear his influence is shrinking , and it s a bigger struggle than ever to get things done .
his influence and ability to get things done must have hit rock bottom for him to fall a whopping 45 spots in just one year.what s even more embarrassing than the fact that obama didn t make the top 10 , much less the top 25 , or even the top 40 , were some of the people who outranked him.for example , north korean dictator kim jong un was five spots ahead of obama.if a ridiculous , barbaric leader who imprisons , enslaves and executes political and religious dissenters and restricts the most basic of freedoms is ahead of the u.s. president , you know there is a real problem.russian president vladimir putin claimed the number one spot , again , while a new face appeared at number two president-elect donald trump .
donald trump is trading in trump tower for the white house .
the new york native will become the first billionaire president of the united states , after upsetting hillary clinton in a surprising election victory , when he takes over the oval office in 2017 , forbes said about the incoming president.meanwhile , the publication issued a brutal but honest assessment of the outgoing president whose policies and legacy were rejected in november when voters chose trump over what would have been essentially a third-term obama in democrat hillary clinton .
america s outgoing president faces a legacy in jeopardy as his successor has threatened to unravel signature achievements , including health care reform and the iranian nuclear accord , forbes wrote about obama .
president obama is leaving the oval office on anything but a good note , and his legacy will reflect his dismal performance as the nation s leader .
conservative tribune h/t truthfeed