( reuters ) - nearly two-thirds of americans believe torture can be justified to extract information from suspected terrorists , according to a reuters/ipsos poll , a level of support similar to that seen in countries like nigeria where militant attacks are common .
the poll reflects a u.s. public on edge after the massacre of 14 people in san bernardino in december and large-scale attacks in europe in recent months , including a bombing claimed by the militant group islamic state last week that killed at least 32 people in belgium .
donald trump , the front-runner for the 2016 republican presidential nomination , has forcefully injected the issue of whether terrorism suspects should be tortured into the election campaign .
trump has said he would seek to roll back president barack obama ’ s ban on waterboarding - an interrogation technique that simulates drowning that human rights groups contend is illegal under the geneva conventions .
trump has also vowed to “ bring back a hell of a lot worse ” if elected .
trump ’ s stance has drawn broad criticism from human rights organizations , world bodies , and political rivals .
but the poll findings suggest that many americans are aligned with trump on the issue , although the survey did not ask respondents to define what they consider torture .
“ the public right now is coping with a host of negative emotions , ” said elizabeth zechmeister , a vanderbilt university professor who has studied the link between terrorist threats and public opinion .
“ fear , anger , general anxiety : ( trump ) gives a certain credibility to these feelings , ” she said .
the march 22-28 online poll asked respondents if torture can be justified “ against suspected terrorists to obtain information about terrorism. ” about 25 percent said it is “ often ” justified while another 38 percent it is “ sometimes ” justified .
only 15 percent said torture should never be used .
republicans were more accepting of torture to elicit information than democrats : 82 percent of republicans said torture is `` often '' or `` sometimes '' justified , compared with 53 percent of democrats .
( graphic : tmsnrt.rs/1shobx1 ) about two-thirds of respondents also said they expected a terrorist attack on u.s. soil within the next six months .
surveys by other polling agencies in recent years have shown u.s. support for the use of torture at around 50 percent .
a 2014 survey by amnesty international , for example , put american support for torture at about 45 percent , compared with 64 percent in nigeria , 66 percent in kenya and 74 percent in india .
nigeria is battling a seven-year-old insurgency that has displaced 2 million people and killed thousands , while al shabaab militants have launched a series of deadly attacks in kenya .
india is fighting a years-old maoist insurgency that has killed hundreds .
in november , terrorism replaced economy as the top concern for many americans in reuters/ipsos polling , shortly after militants affiliated with the islamic state killed 130 people in paris .
( graphic : polling.reuters.com/ # ! poll/sc8/type/smallest/dates/20151101-20151231/collapsed/true/spotlight/1 ) at the same time , trump surged in popularity among republicans , who viewed him as the strongest candidate to deal with terrorism .
besides his advocacy of waterboarding , trump said that he would “ bomb the hell out of isis , ” using an alternative acronym for islamic state .
“ you ’ re dealing with people who don ’ t play by any rules .
and i can ’ t see why we would tie our hands and take away options like waterboarding , ” said jo ann tieken , 71 , a trump supporter .
tieken said her views had been influenced by the injuries suffered by her two step-grandsons while serving in the military four years ago in afghanistan .
the reuters/ipsos poll included 1,976 people .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 2.5 percentage points for the entire group and about 4 percentage points for both democrats and republicans .
( graphic : reut.rs/1rp3x6c )