csatka , hungary ( reuters ) - thousands of roma from hungary and beyond flock every year to a shrine to the virgin mary in a chapel among undulating hills , to pray for good health , happiness and luck in love .
some actually find love there , like adam vidak and his wife nikoletta who met at the huge party after the holy mass last year and have now returned .
they want their newborn to be christened at the shrine , where the main roma mass this year took place on saturday .
we met each other on facebook and arranged a date here , we came , we liked each other , then we got in the car and off we went , said vidak , 22 , as 20-year old nikoletta cradled the baby boy in her arms .
the next day we called her parents , told them we were together and shortly afterwards we had our wedding .
hungary has an estimated 700,000 roma , one of the largest roma minorities in central europe .
most of them live in poverty .
the roman catholic chapel in csatka , around 120 km ( 75 miles ) west of budapest , is their main place of pilgrimage , but many non-roma hungarians also come to pray .
roma families come carrying big candles and statues of the virgin mary , and draw water from the sacred spring next to the chapel which is believed to have magic healing powers .
some arrive in traditional outfits , like zoltan sztojka , 42 , who wears a yellow silk shirt and a black vest embroidered richly in gold .
he came with more than 40 family members from soltvadkert , eastern hungary .
roma have been coming here for 150-200 years , so we have to be here .
everybody comes to lay down our sins , pray for luck , strength and health , he says , showing an enormous silver ring with a finely engraved horse , the coat of arms of his family .
the chapel was built in 1862 , and at that time a hermit lived at the site .
even under hungary s four decades of communist rule from 1949 , roma came here in horse-drawn carts .
now there is a huge parking lot for cars and caravans , as some people camp out over the weekend .
on the hill , a large family have set up camp , and are cooking tripe stew over a campfire .
as a child , sandor jakab , 60 , used to come here by cart with his parents .
now he brings his family for three days each year from the village of erd .
we have our fridge and freezer here , full of meat and drinks , he says .
is it true that many roma families seek wives and husbands for their children during the pilgrimage ?
jakab replies with his brother-in-law standing next to him .
now let s say , for example , suppose the two of us know each other , then we would have a few drinks , and he has a daughter and i have a son .... then we would chat and i would ask whether i can go to you to see your daughter ( as a potential bride ) .
he says promises made at csatka are carved in stone .
but he does not agree with the huge party , loud music and dance that follows the prayers on the hillside .
my family does not go there ... we pray and spend time together .
this music is not for this place , he says .