kutupalong camp , bangladesh ( reuters ) - aid agencies have to step up operations massively in response to the arrival in bangladesh of about 400,000 refugees fleeing violence in myanmar , and the amount of money needed to help them has risen sharply , a senior u.n. official said on wednesday .
the exodus of muslim rohingya to bangladesh began on aug. 25 after rohingya militants attacked about 30 police posts and an army camp .
the attacks triggered a sweeping military counter-offensive by security forces in buddhist-majority myanmar which the u.n. rights agency said was a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
we will all have to ramp up our response massively , from food to shelter , george william okoth-obbo , assistant high commissioner for operations at the u.n. refugee agency , told reuters during a visit to the kutupalong refugee camp in bangladesh .
the united nations said on tuesday 370,000 people had crossed into bangladesh but okoth-obbo estimated the figure was now 400,000 .
he declined to speculate on how many more might come .
bangladesh was already home to about 400,000 rohingya , who fled earlier conflict in myanmar including a similar security crackdown in western myanmar s rakhine state in response to militant attacks in october .
many of the new arrivals are hungry and sick , without shelter or clean water in the middle of the rainy season .
we have an emergency within an emergency with conditions in existing camps , he said , pointing to a mud-clogged road in the camp .
last week , the united nations appealed for $ 77 million to cope with the crisis but okoth-obbo said that would not now be enough .
the appeal that was issued of $ 77 million on behalf of the aid agencies was based on the situation as it was roughly about two weeks ago , he said .
there were only 100,000 people then .
we are already four times that figure now .
the funds need clearly is going to continue .
he declined to say how much he thought was needed .
he also declined to say if he thought aid agencies were getting proper access to the conflict zone in myanmar , though he said it was important to ensure that people were safe where they were .
of course , also that access is provided to all the responders to provide humanitarian assistance , he added .
myanmar has restricted most aid agency access to the north of rakhine .
some officials have accused aid agencies of supporting the insurgents .
okoth-obbo said he agreed with the bangladeshi position that the most important solution was for the refugees to be able to return home in safety .
bangladeshi prime minister sheikh hasina said on tuesday the refugees would all have to go home and myanmar should set up safe zones to enable them to do so .
under difficult circumstances this country has kept its borders open , okoth-obbo said of bangladesh .
all of us should support that and ensure that the response is strong .
( story corrects paragraph 2 reference to ethnic cleansing , not genocide . )