a congressman decided to come clean about what really goes on in dc and it s not pretty .
for one thing , he never read anything he voted on a new book threatens to blow the lid off of congress as a federal legislator s tell-all book lays out the worst parts of serving in the house of representatives saying that his main job is to raise money for re-election and that leaves little time for reading the bills he votes on.mill city press , a small minnesota-based vanity press publisher describes the confessions of congressman x as a devastating inside look at the dark side of congress as revealed by one of its own .
no wonder congressman x wants to remain anonymous for fear of retribution .
his admissions are deeply disturbing .
the 84-page expos is due in bookstores in two weeks , and washington is abuzz with speculation about who may be behind it .
the book , a copy of which dailymail.com has seen , discloses that the congressman is a democrat but not much else .
the anonymous spleen-venter has had a lot to say about his constituents , however .
robert atkinson , a former chief of staff and press secretary for two congressional democrats , took notes on a series of informal talks with him whoever he is and is now publishing them with his permission .
voters claim they want substance and detailed position papers , but what they really crave are cutesy cat videos , celebrity gossip , top 10 lists , reality tv shows , tabloid tripe , and the next f * * * ing twitter message , the congressman gripes in the book .
i worry about our country s future when critical issues take a backseat to the inane utterings of illiterate athletes and celebrity twits .
much of what s in the book will come as little surprise to americans who are cynical about the political process .
fundraising is so time-consuming i seldom read any bills i vote on , the anonymous legislator admits .
i don t even know how they ll be implemented or what they ll cost .
my staff gives me a last-minute briefing before i go to the floor and tells me whether to vote yea or nay .
how bad is that ?
and on controversial bills , he says , i sometimes vote yes on a motion and no on an amendment so i can claim i m on either side of an issue .
it s the old shell game : if you can t convince em , confuse em .
read more : daily mail