washington ( reuters ) - a senior u.s. senate republican took a swipe on wednesday at an effort to forge a new deal on the movement of electronic data between the united states and europe , such as facebook user information , but it was unclear if he had jeopardized the unfinished pact .
seen as crucial to preserving the free flow of data across the atlantic , an issue for thousands of companies , the safe harbor data-transfer agreement being negotiated in brussels is days away from an important deadline .
amid growing concerns in europe about spying by u.s. authorities on internet data , a previous agreement was invalidated in october 2015 by an eu court .
the new agreement would replace that pact .
the u.s. senate is debating related legislation , the judicial redress act , and senator john cornyn of texas told reuters in an interview he would try to amend that legislation .
“ i ’ m for doing what ’ s in america ’ s best interests , not necessarily the interests of the european union , ” said cornyn , the senate ’ s no .
2 republican .
“ i ’ m going to make sure ... that we don ’ t just try to do something to help them out and we don ’ t protect our interests. ” the act would allow citizens of u.s. allies in europe to sue over data privacy in the united states .
it will be considered on thursday in a senate committee , an aide said .
it not seen as crucial to securing a new safe harbor deal , but its passage would send a signal of good faith to negotiators in brussels as they scramble to meet a deadline , european officials and technology trade groups said .
that message could be upended by amendments from cornyn and republican senator orrin hatch of utah .
one would limit the ability to sue in u.s. courts to citizens of countries already in an international data deal with the united states , such as safe harbor , sources familiar with the language said .
another possible amendment would require the u.s. attorney general to certify that participating countries do not have policies that impede u.s. national security .
thousands of firms , such as google and microsoft , relied on the 15-year-old safe harbor for freely transferring trans-atlantic data .
eu data protection authorities gave negotiators until the end of january to strike a new deal before potentially moving forward with lawsuits .
“ time is not on our side , ” justin antonipillai , a commerce department official , said at a conference in washington this week .