ajaccio , france ( reuters ) - corsican nationalists said on monday it was time for talks with paris on greater autonomy for the french mediterranean island , after they won nearly two thirds of seats in local elections .
support for their cause in sunday s vote was boosted by dissatisfaction with france s mainstream parties , a trend that has fueled secessionist ambitions in other parts of europe .
nationalist leader gilles simeoni hailed the start of a new era after the two-party pe a corsica ( for corsica ) alliance that he heads took over 56 percent of sunday s vote and 41 of 63 seats .
unlike in catalonia , nationalists in corsica have downplayed any ambitions for secession , saying the island - where napoleon was born in 1769 - lacked the spanish region s demographic and economic clout .
but simeoni said he was seeking a greater say for local authorities on fiscal issues , official status for the corsican language , and limiting the right to buy property in some areas to people who had lived on the island for at least five years .
this is a time many of us thought we would never witness , he told applauding supporters after the win , referring to the fact that nationalists only started to make headway in corsican elections two years ago .
our dream is becoming reality .
calling for discussions to find a political solution , simeoni told reuters : it s the start of a new era , the ball is in the government s court .
the nationalist vote also benefited from the island s most active clandestine group , the national front for the liberation of corsica ( flnc ) , having laid down its weapons in 2014 after a near four-decade long rebellion .
turnout for the run-off election , in which the top parties from an initial dec. 3 ballot participated , was barely above 50 percent .
but in a sign that the government may be heeding the call for dialogue , prime minister edouard philippe on sunday called simeoni to congratulate him on his win and told him he was willing to see him soon in paris , philippe s office said .
corsica has a population of just 320,000 people and a tiny 8.6 billion euro ( $ 10.13 billion ) economy .
( $ 1 = 0.8488 euros )