the social media director for trump called them out on it : now we have the washington post accepting a videotape from crazy environmentalists who carved six feet tall letters into the 5th green on trump s golf course .
they were so proud of their vandalism that they gave details to the post of how long it took to vandalize the property.when i went to the article to read it , there was a disclaimer at the top .
well , if you go to the comments section at the end of the article , the comments are mostly ripping on the environmentalists and the articles reference to the vandalism as a daring act of defiance .
so the editor replaced the phrase with a more accurate term of vandalism what these people did is disgusting and so wrong glorifying destruction of private property is never ok shame on you wapo ! editor s note : the beginning of this story was changed to more accurately reflect the nature of the actions taken by a protest group against the trump golf course in rancho palos verdes , calif.the group which labels itself an anonymous environmental activist collective snuck into trump national golf club in rancho palos verdes , calif. , and carved a message into the green with six-foot-tall letters that said : no more tigers .
no more woods .
the 18-hole , 7,300-yard course is set among cliffs overlooking the pacific ocean just south of los angeles .
last year , golf digest ranked it the 43rd best course in california.in a statement sent to the washington post , the group said the vandalism was carried out in response to the trump administration s blatant disregard for the environment : tearing up the golf course felt justified in many ways , the member said .
repurposing what was once a beautiful stretch of land into a playground for the privileged is an environmental crime in its own right .
in response to the president s recent decision to gut our existing protection policies , direct action was conceived and executed on the green of his california golf course in the form of a simple message : no more tigers .
no more woods , the statement said.read more : wapo