washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump has said the armed standoff at a national wildlife refuge in oregon had gone on “ too long , ” and that once people are allowed to take over federal property , “ you don ’ t have a government anymore. ” but last week , after he made those comments , the head of a veterans ’ group formed by his campaign traveled to oregon to meet with protesters whom he described as a “ peaceful ” and “ constitutionally just ” movement .
although jerry delemus , a 61-year-old retired marine , said he made the visit on his own rather than as a representative of trump ’ s campaign , he is the only member of a presidential campaign to have openly visited the occupation of the malheur wildlife refuge since it began on jan. 2 .
his presence at the oregon standoff highlights the array of extreme views in trump ’ s support base , as the billionaire real-estate mogul taps a vein of grassroots supporters who are deeply upset with current federal leadership in his quest to lead the republican party in this year ’ s presidential election .
in an interview on tuesday , delemus told reuters that while he was skeptical of the occupation at first , he now thinks the group is enjoying “ great success ” in resisting the “ thug-like , terroristic ” actions of the federal government by claiming the land for local citizens .
trump ’ s campaign has received support from several other sources who hold more extreme views than him , including white supremacist groups that recently launched a pro-trump automated telephone campaign in iowa and former ku klux klan leader david duke , whose endorsement trump rejected in august .
unlike those supporters , however , delemus is a formal member of trump ’ s campaign and says he plans to help inform the candidate about the true nature of the standoff in oregon in an effort to convince trump to support their cause .
the armed protesters garrisoned at the wildlife refuge are led by ammon bundy , a rancher from nevada .
the occupation , which began as a protest against the extended prison sentences of local ranchers who set fire to federal land , is now focused on reclaiming the federal land in the county for local citizens .
“ it ’ s my intention to ensure that he has the whole story , ” delemus said of trump .
“ i think it ’ ll really arouse him , and once he understands , i wouldn ’ t be surprised to see him heading out west. ” the trump campaign did not respond to requests for comment .
dan shea , a professor of government at maine ’ s colby college who has studied the polarization of american voters , says the oregon standoff would likely have strong appeal to some trump supporters .
“ what trump supporters want is dramatic action , and for some , what ’ s happening in oregon is an example of that. ” delemus has a history of expressing views and taking actions that are more extreme than those of trump , who has been criticized by democrats and republicans alike for what some see as a stream of shocking , offensive and radical remarks .
in 2014 , delemus spent about a month in nevada leading a makeshift militia in a standoff with the bureau of land management on behalf of rancher cliven bundy , whose sons are leading the oregon occupation .
last year , delemus also made headlines for planning an art contest for people to draw the prophet mohammad in new hampshire , though he called it off for public safety reasons .
depictions of the prophet of islam are considered offensive by many muslims .