ankara ( reuters ) - the turkish government has launched an investigation into a poster unfurled by fans of istanbul s galatasaray soccer team that pro-turkish media said was clearly linked to organizers of the 2016 attempted coup .
just before sunday s match kicked between galatasaray and local rivals fenerbahce , the home fans opened a giant red and yellow poster behind the goal showing sylvester stallone s famous fictional boxer rocky , with the caption stand up and they look big because you are kneeling .
pro-government turkish media linked the poster and its caption to the network of u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , whom ankara accuses of masterminding the july 2016 failed coup attempt .
pro-government daily takvim said the poster was a reference to a speech by gulen , where he was quoted reading from a poem that ends with the words stand up sakarya .
sakarya is a province in northwest turkey .
prime minister binali yildirim on monday ordered authorities to carry out an investigation into the poster , sources from his office said .
the game between galatasaray and fenerbahce , turkey s biggest fixture , ended in a 0-0 draw after a match that was marred by violence in which a referee was injured .
in a statement , galatasaray said the accusations were a pathetic attempt to discredit the club , adding that the same poster was used at a match in may .
we will use all our legal rights against any institution , person and social media account who tried to put the galatasaray name next to that of the red-handed leader of the heinous terrorist organisation by using the choreography as an excuse , the club said on its website .
some 50,000 people have been jailed pending trial over suspected links to last year s failed coup and more than 150,000 have been sacked or suspended from their jobs in the military , public and private sectors .
rights groups and turkey s western allies have said president tayyip erdogan is using the failed coup as a pretext to crush dissent , but the government says the measures are necessary to fight the threats it is facing .
following the statement from yildirim s office , galatasaray s shares were down 4.89 percent as of 1535 gmt .
current league leaders galatasaray are turkey s most decorated soccer club , with 20 league championships , and became the first turkish club to win a major european trophy when they won the 2000 uefa cup , the predecessor to the europa league .