abidjan ( reuters ) - the european union , united nations and african union have agreed to an emergency plan to dismantle people-smuggling networks and repatriate stranded migrants , in an effort to ease a human rights disaster in libya , officials said .
images broadcast by cnn earlier this month appeared to show migrants being auctioned off as slaves by libyan traffickers , sparking outrage in europe and anger in africa .
it forced the issue of abuse of african migrants heading for europe to the top of the agenda of a summit meant to focus on africa s youth .
european council president donald tusk called the slavery reports horrifying during the opening ceremony of the african union-european union summit on wednesday .
french president emmanuel macron said the plan included the establishment of an operational task-force composed of european and african police and intelligence services .
the goal will be in very short order to be able to arrest identified traffickers , dismantle these networks and their financing which goes through banks and payments that in the region contribute ... to sustaining terrorism , he said late on wednesday .
france would use its military presence in the region to help break up trafficking networks , but the plan would not involve sending french troops into libya , macron said at a press conference in ghana on thursday .
on libyan soil , it is now up to the libyan government to decide in connection with the african union , he said .
it is important to preserve the sovereignty of libya .
the plan , the details of which emerged on thursday , came from a meeting of un officials , eu leaders and government representatives from chad , niger , morocco , congo and libya that was called by france on wednesday .
the european union , african union and united nations agreed to freeze assets and impose financial sanctions against known smugglers .
libya s government , which has promised to investigate reports of slave auctions , said it would grant u.n. agencies access to migrant camps in areas under its control , german officials said .
eu countries , meanwhile , will finance the repatriation of migrants from libya , a process that is already being organized by the international organization for migration , they said .
allowing africans to come to europe on a temporary basis for three of four years of training or schooling was also discussed , according to european government officials .
circular migration could be key to easing illegal migration , experts have said .
regional governments have also agreed to educate africans about the dangers of migration , and there will be stronger coordination between security services across north , west and central africa to eradicate smuggling .
vulnerable migrants who might eventually qualify for asylum will be brought to chad or niger before being relocated to a third country either in europe or another region .