mind blowing incompetence and reckless disregard for the lives of these brave men and women by politically appointed leftists a new service award recently created by u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) for border patrol agents could actually put their lives at risk .
the award recognizes an agent who does not use deadly force in a situation where they are confronted by an armed assailant .
they want us to put ourselves in a bad tactical situation , national border patrol council vice president shawn moran told breitbart texas in an interview friday evening .
this could lead to one of our agents getting killed .
the award is defined by the cbp as : the use of deadly force encounter averted award is to recognize and employee who demonstrated clear situational awareness and courage while disarming a suspect using contact controls and verbal commands before the situation escalated to the use of deadly force .
the act must demonstrate courage in the face of an armed suspect and result in no injury in accordance with agencies use of force policy .
at first , i thought this was a joke , moran told breitbart texas .
but border patrol agent chris cabrera contacted officials in the awards section of cbp and they confirmed it is true , he said .
in addition to his border patrol duties cabrera also serves as vice president of nbpc local 3307 and as nbpc deputy spokesperson .
this is a true indication about how the politically appointed leaders of the cbp truly feel about our agents , he said.moran said he had not heard about the award before cabrera brought it to his attention .
i can t recall any official discussions between the union and the department over this , he explained .
this is typical pandering by our executives to organizations like the aclu and illegal alien advocates .
the exacerbated leader of the nbpc which represents more than 18,000 men and women who protect our nation s borders said , they are more concerned about placating these groups than protecting border patrol agents .
he said this is also typical for them to roll something like this out on the day before a big holiday weekend hoping no one will notice.the policy appears to put just one more thing an agent must think about when faced with a life threatening situation.the nbpc posted a copy of the award definition on its facebook page earlier on friday evening .
commenting on the award , the organization posted , this type of thinking will get border patrol agents killed .
if that happens we will hold the creators of this award accountable .
this is despicable .
the cbp seems to be following the lead of the los angeles police department who rolled out a preservation of life award .
the policy was designed to recognize officers who hold their fire to avoid using deadly force , breitbart news william bigelow reported in november 2015.the los angeles police protective league had a similar reaction to that of the nbpc .
the local police union responded that the award prioritizes the lives of suspected criminals over the lives of officers.nato forces in europe considered a similar idea but never implemented it , bigelow reported .
via : breitbart news