phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen threatened on monday that the main opposition party would be dissolved if it continues to back detained leader kem sokha , who has been charged with treason over an alleged plot to gain power with u.s. support .
kem sokha was arrested on sept. 3 and is the only serious election rival to hun sen , a 65-year-old former khmer rouge commander .
western countries have criticized the arrest , which marked a an escalation in a crackdown on critics ahead of a poll next year that could pose the toughest electoral challenge hun sen has faced in more than 30 years of rule .
the opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) said it would continue to support kem sokha as leader and threatened to boycott the election if he is not freed .
speaking at a graduation ceremony in phnom penh , hun sen warned that the cnrp s stand could mean the dissolution of the party .
if the political party continues to blockade and defend this traitor , it means the party is also a traitor so there is no time to let this party operate in cambodia s democratic process anymore , hun sen said .
parliamentarians from the cnrp went to the prison where kem sokha is being held to demand his release .
they said his arrest was illegal because he should have been protected by parliamentary immunity .
the party president kem sokha is the cnrp president now and will be in the future , one of his deputies , mu sochua , said outside the prison , adding that his release was an essential condition to allow a free and fair election .
we can t participate in an election that isn t free and fair , she said .
the opposition party boycotted a parliamentary vote on whether kem sokha should be prosecuted .
it would not have been able to block approval as hun sen s cambodian people s party ( cpp ) holds a majority , and the motion in favor of prosecuting was passed unopposed .
it was unclear whether that effectively overrode kem sokha s right to claim parliamentary immunity .
the evidence presented against kem sokha so far is a video recorded in 2013 in which he discusses a strategy to win power with the help of unspecified americans .
his lawyers have dismissed the evidence as nonsense and said he was only discussing election strategy .
western countries and human rights groups have condemned the arrest of kem sokha and raised doubts as to whether next year s election can be fair , given the crackdown on the opposition , activists and independent media .
however hun sen s main ally , china , has said it supports cambodia s efforts to preserve its own security .
hun sen was due to visit beijing on monday .
he said he was going to ask for more aid for cambodia s health sector .
( story refiles to correct opposition party acronym to cnrp in later references . )