san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - puerto rico s medical services are in critical condition in the wake of hurricane maria .
the strongest storm to hit the island in decades has left hospitals flooded , strewn with rubble and dependent on diesel generators to keep the neediest patients alive .
the precarious shape of the island s medical facilities is adding to the misery and devastation of this u.s. territory , whose 3.4 million residents are american citizens .
for some , the only option is to evacuate to the united states for treatment .
among them is cheira ruiz and her baby girl gabriellyz , who was born two weeks ago with a serious heart defect .
the newborn was admitted to the centro cardiovascular de puerto rico in the capital shortly before maria slammed into the island last wednesday , but it was impossible for doctors to operate in such precarious conditions .
gabriellyz was among the first infants cleared to take a medical flight out of puerto rico since the storm .
her parents , who live two hours south of the capital , found out the good news friday when emergency officials knocked on their door in the town of guanica and told them to pack for the trip to miami .
with phone service out , the doctors had called one of the island s radio stations , which broadcast their plea for help in locating the couple .
hours before the flight was scheduled to depart , the parents learned there was only room for one of them .
mother and baby would fly alone to miami .
i m trying to be strong , ruiz said on saturday .
in the days since the storm , the island s residents have awakened to an altered reality .
food is in short supply .
the island s electrical grid is down and may remain so for months .
motorists and pedestrians queue for blocks trying to secure scarce fuel to power vehicles and generators .
cellular service , internet , and email have virtually disappeared , hurling a modern society into a bygone era ; radio has become a primary source of information .
for hospitals across this region , the challenges are mounting .
after the power went out , back-up generators at some hospitals failed quickly .
other hospitals are running critically low on diesel .
fuel is so precious that deliveries are made by armed guards to prevent looting , according to dr. ivan gonzalez cancel , a cardiovascular surgeon and director of the heart transplant program at centro cardiovascular .
another hospital wants to transfer two critical patients here because they don t have electricity , gonzalez cancel said .
we can t take them .
we have the same problem .
medical staffers are also running low on gasoline for their daily commutes to work .
puerto ricans are queuing as long as seven hours at the island s few functioning filling stations .
marilyn rivera morales , a nurse at the center , said she had enough petrol to drive to the hospital for two more days .
how will they keep coming here if they don t have gas ?
gonzalez cancel wondered .
fuel is just the beginning .
the cardiovascular center was in shambles , gonzalez cancel said .
without air conditioning , the walls of the operating room were dripping with condensation and floors were slippery , he said .
most patients had been discharged or evacuated to other facilities , but some patients remained because their families could not be reached by phone .
on the sidewalk outside the cardiac center on saturday , jorge rivera and his wife dorca approached gonzalez cancel to ask about the woman s father , a patient still inside waiting for triple-bypass surgery .
the couple are residents of savannah , georgia who were in puerto rico to care for their loved one .
with the hospital scaling down operations and the island s infrastructure on its knees , gonzalez cancel estimated he would not perform another open heart surgery for a month or more .
his advice to the couple : leave .
i am talking to you , not as a physician , i am talking to you as a human being , he said .
get him on a plane .
you can be in miami in two and a half hours .
but leaving is not simple .
with the island s main airport still crippled , gonzalez cancel said he needed to secure a special waiver from authorities to obtain the medical evacuation flight for baby gabriellyz .
travelers at the airport on sunday were told that passengers who do not already have tickets may not be able to secure flights out until october 4 .
officials here expect the situation at puerto rico s hospitals could worsen before it improves .
at centro medico , the island s largest public hospital , the disaster medical assistance team of the u.s. department of health and human services is setting up makeshift hospital units .
i think this might be a calm before we see an influx as other hospitals lose generators , said commander michael garner , a regional coordinator for the effort .
the devastation caused by maria is similar to that wrought by hurricanes katrina , harvey and irma .
but puerto rico s remoteness , lack of communications and fragile infrastructure exacerbate the logistical challenges of recovery on a very grand scale , garner said .
u.s. air force colonel michael valle , who arrived in puerto rico on friday to help with recovery efforts , agreed .
to me , this is a lot worse , because you can t drive in from other states .
everything must come by boat or by air , valle said .
adding to the worries , a puerto rico dam damaged by heavy rains was in danger of failing on sunday , posing a risk to communities along the rain-swollen guajataca river .
if the dam fails , the flooding would be life-threatening , the national weather service warned .
stay away or be swept away , it said .
at least 10 people have died so far in puerto rico , where the humanitarian crisis is growing .
the federal emergency management agency has been posting images on twitter of u.s. responders on the ground in puerto rico , including the u.s. coast guard and fema search-and-rescue teams .
but patience is starting to fray with the speed of the aid response .
we need a massive military response , surgeon gonzalez cancel said .
waiting for news about his father-in-law , rivera , the georgia resident and a 49-year-old iraq war veteran , said the u.s. military could only do so much .
he forecast the island would take months to get back on its feet .
you need god pretty much to fix every light bulb , he said .
dr. juan carlos sotomonte , the medical director of the centro medico s cardiovascular unit , said intervention divine or otherwise is needed fast .
if this is not taken care of , people are going to start dying , he said .