madrid/barcelona ( reuters ) - spain s central government said on thursday it would suspend catalonia s autonomy and impose direct rule after the region s leader threatened to go ahead with a formal declaration of independence if madrid refused to hold talks .
in an act unprecedented since spain returned to democracy in the late 1970s , prime minister mariano rajoy said he would hold a special cabinet meeting on saturday that could trigger the move .
the socialist opposition said it backed the government but suggested the measures should be limited in scope and time .
catalan president carles puigdemont , ignoring a 10 a.m. deadline to drop his secession campaign , wrote a letter to rajoy threatening a formal declaration of independence .
the war of words increased uncertainty over a standoff that has raised fears of social unrest , cut growth prospects for the euro zone s fourth-largest economy and rattled the euro .
if the government continues to impede dialogue and continues with the repression , the catalan parliament could proceed , if it is considered opportune , to vote on a formal declaration of independence , puigdemont said .
catalonia , which has a distinctive culture and language , triggered spain s biggest political crisis for decades with a secession bid it put to a referendum on oct 1 .
only 43 percent of voters participated but those who did voted overwhelmingly to secede , while opponents of secession mostly stayed home .
spanish courts have ruled the referendum illegal , but puigdemont says the result is binding and must be obeyed .
the european union declined to help mediate , saying the crisis was for madrid and barcelona to resolve .
member states are clear there is no room or space for any kind of mediation , european council president donald tusk told a news conference during an eu leaders summit in brussels .
the regional authorities have not made clear how and when a declaration of independence would take place and whether it would be endorsed by the regional assembly .
some pro-independence lawmakers have said they want to hold a vote in the catalan parliament to lend it a more solemn character .
rajoy plans to invoke article 155 of the 1978 constitution , which allows taking control of a region if it breaks the law .
a senior government source said the exact measures would be agreed on saturday and probably voted through the upper house senate on oct. 30 , giving the secessionists a few days of leeway to respond before madrid takes control .
the regional authorities could use that time to split unilaterally , call elections in the hope of strengthening their mandate , or back down , although this is seen as highly unlikely .
from the moment the measures are known , the regional government knows what s going to happen and has a period of time to act until 155 can be acted upon , the source said .
spanish stocks , bonds and the euro all suffered in early trade , but recovered , a bounce some strategists attributed to a sense that madrid had the upper hand in the standoff .
the terms of article 155 are vague and could spur more wrangling with the restive region .
the government will use all the tools available to restore as soon as possible the law and the constitutional order , recover peaceful cohabitation between citizens and stop the economic damage that the legal uncertainty is creating , government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo said in a statement .
rajoy s team met members of the socialist party to coordinate their next steps .
a spokesman for the socialists said while they fully stood behind the government they would insist article 155 is applied in the most proportionate way .
madrid s options range from closing down the regional parliament and expelling lawmakers , to a softer and more targeted approach , the government source said .
theoretically , the central administration could take control of the region s finances and police , and call a snap election .
but some members of the catalan government have already questioned this interpretation of the constitution , suggesting the stand-off could extend for at least several more days .
carles riera , a lawmaker from the pro-independence cup party whose 10 deputies are vital to puigdemont s coalition , said dialogue with the spanish state now looked impossible , and called on the leader to formalize a declaration of independence .
from our point of view , the sooner this happens the better , riera told reuters in the catalan capital barcelona .
impatience is also setting in among residents of the port city .
merche , 55 , who voted for secession in the referendum , said she was tired of the political to-and-fro .
people want a resolution .
go for one thing or the other , but leave people in peace to carry on with their routine and their work , she said , rearranging lettuces on her market stall .
puigdemont has already defied rajoy once this week , when he ignored a first deadline to drop the independence campaign and instead called for talks .
rajoy says the catalan government has repeatedly broken the law , including when it held the banned referendum and when it made a symbolic declaration of independence on oct. 10 , only to suspend it seconds later .
puigdemont says a violent police crackdown during the referendum and arrests of pro-independence leaders on charges of sedition show the spanish state has become authoritarian .