beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s saad al-hariri on wednesday shelved his decision to resign as prime minister at the request of president michel aoun , easing a crisis that had deepened tensions in the middle east .
hariri made his announcement after returning to beirut for the first time since he quit abruptly on nov. 4 in a broadcast from saudi arabia .
top lebanese officials have said riyadh forced him to quit and held him in the kingdom .
riyadh and hariri deny this .
at the presidential palace near beirut , hariri said he hoped his move would lead to a responsible dialogue ... that deals with divisive issues and their repercussions on lebanon s relations with arab brothers .
hariri said all lebanese sides must commit to keeping the country out of regional conflicts , a reference to the iran-backed hezbollah political and military movement .
hezbollah s regional military role has greatly alarmed saudi arabia , hariri s long-time ally .
i presented today my resignation to president aoun and he urged me to wait before offering it and to hold onto it for more dialogue about its reasons and political background , and i showed responsiveness , he said in a televised statement .
the resignation had shocked even hariri s aides .
he returned to lebanon late on tuesday night after french intervention .
aoun , a political ally of hezbollah , had refused to accept the resignation because it happened in mysterious circumstances abroad .
he had called hariri a hostage in riyadh .
hariri appeared to express relief that aoun had not accepted the resignation right away .
he thanked aoun on wednesday for respecting constitutional norms and his rejection of departing from them under any circumstances .
the resignation pitched lebanon to the forefront of the regional rivalry between sunni muslim saudi arabia and shi ite islamist iran , which backs lebanon s hezbollah , and raised concerns of a protracted crisis .
in his resignation speech , hariri had cited fear of assassination , and attacked iran along with hezbollah for sowing strife in the arab world .
hundreds of hariri supporters packed the streets near his house in central beirut , waving the blue flag of his future movement political party .
the sunni leader told them he would stay with ( them ) ... to be a line of defense for lebanon , lebanon s stability and lebanon s arabism .
his presence in the country alone brings stability , said manar akoum , 26 , as she stood with the celebrating crowd .
hariri s resignation was followed by a steep escalation in saudi statements against the lebanese government , which includes shi ite hezbollah .
riyadh said the government as a whole - not just hezbollah - had declared war against it .
western governments including the united states struck a different tone , affirming their support for hariri and the stability of lebanon , which hosts 1.5 million syrian refugees - nearly one-in-four of the population .
ahead of his return to beirut , hariri had stressed the importance of the lebanese state policy of staying out of regional conflicts , notably yemen , where a saudi-led coalition is battling iran-backed houthi fighters .
hezbollah leader sayyed hassan nasrallah , who had also called for hariri s return , said on monday his group was open to any dialogue and any discussion .
nasrallah also issued his clearest denial yet of any hezbollah role in yemen .
a senior source in a political alliance that includes hezbollah said hariri s move on wednesday would start a breakthrough in the crisis .
this step is not detached from the framework of a complete solution whose features will appear in the coming days , the source told reuters .
lebanese dollar bonds , which had fallen in response to hariri s resignation , gained following wednesday s announcement .
a government minister from the united arab emirates ( uae ) , a close ally of saudi arabia , said lebanon must implement its policy of keeping out of middle east conflicts in order to get out of its own crisis as well as regional troubles .
the main problem facing that is the selective implementation of ( this ) principle and the functional iranian role of hezbollah outside the lebanese framework , anwar gargash , uae minister of state for foreign affairs , wrote on twitter .
cyprus , where hariri had briefly stopped on his journey home , said it would attempt to help defuse the crisis .
our common objective is stability in lebanon , stability in our area .
within this context ... the president of the republic will undertake some initiatives precisely to promote this objective ; stability in lebanon , cypriot government spokesman nikos christodoulides said .
hariri took office last year in a power-sharing deal that made aoun head of state .
he arrived in beirut in time for independence day celebrations on wednesday morning , taking the premier s seat alongside aoun and parliament speaker nabih berri .
hariri said he looked forward to real partnership with all the political powers , in placing lebanon s interests high above any other interests and preserving coexistence among lebanese .