vienna ( reuters ) - austrian conservatives and the anti-immigrant freedom party ( fpo ) have agreed to expand voter participation in legislative matters in their coalition deal to bring the state closer to the citizens , the party chiefs said on saturday .
austria is set to become the only western european country with a far-right party in government after the fpo under heinz-christian strache and sebastian kurz s people s party ( ovp ) struck a coalition deal on friday .
but their plans for more direct democracy ruled out referendums on austrian membership of the european union .
our model does not provide for any referendum ... that contradicts european law or fundamental rights or our constitution , kurz said .
it is also clear that there will be no votes on our memberships in international organizations including the european union .
the introduction of more ways for voters to participate in the legislative process was one of the fpo s main conditions and also one of the most difficult issues in the coalition negotiations .
in austria around 8,000 signatures are needed currently to initiate a popular petition .
if the petition then gets more than 100,000 signatures it must discussed in parliament .
such petitions are not legally binding and often do not result in legislation but they can fuel the public debate .
in future , if a petition has the support of 900,000 voters and parliament does not support the issue , it can be turned into a legally binding referendum , kurz said at a news conference in vienna , where he and strache presented the coalition program .
austrians will have to vote on this proposal as it will require a comprehensive change to the constitution , for which a vote is already mandatory , kurz said .
there were only two binding referendums in post-1945 austria : the nuclear power referendum in 1978 and the european union membership referendum in 1994 .
history will be written ( with this initiative ) , said strache .
in europe , the swiss vote the most , whereas germany has not as yet held a nationwide referendum .
ireland and italy are the european union countries with the most referendums .