el alto , bolivia ( reuters ) - in el alto , a former shantytown high in the andes that has mushroomed into bolivia s second-largest city , students and professors are growing disenchanted with evo morales , the leftist president their protests helped put in power a decade ago .
a sprawling settlement of nearly 1 million people on bolivia s dusty altiplano plateau , el alto is a larger and more politically radical extension of the capital la paz , which sits hundreds of meters below in a canyon .
an uprising here in 2003 over the use of revenues from the poor south american nation s natural gas reserves helped force the resignation of u.s.-backed president gonzalo sanchez de lozada .
some 60 residents were killed in the upheaval .
the protests were led in part from the campus of el alto s public university upea and opened the way for morales to take power as bolivia s first indigenous president three years later .
now , students and teachers feel forgotten .
demonstrations , some violent , have broken out in recent weeks over what teachers and students call insufficient funding for the school , a potential obstacle in morales plan to win a fourth term in 2019 .
the government has a pending debt , said ramiro limachi apaza , director of upea s communications department and an el alto resident who protested alongside morales in 2003 in the so-called gas wars .
morales fulfilled protesters demands to nationalize the gas industry after taking office in 2006 , promising to spread natural resource wealth in the country of more than 10 million , long one of latin america s poorest .
bolivia s economy grew and thousands of aymara peasants moved to el alto .
while el alto generally remains poor , some immigrants became wealthy merchants , building glamorous , colorful homes known as cholets and hosting lavish parties .
lines of cable cars , inaugurated by morales , whisk bolivians between el alto and la paz , above the dizzying mountain traffic .
yet limachi said the public university , which charges students next to nothing , has been unable to pay its teachers for three months .
morales administration , one of latin america s few remaining hard-line leftist governments after the region turned to the right in recent years , says it increased spending on education by 25 percent since 2006 .
it questions upea s use of its funding and the number of students enrolled .
due to its history , the recent protests at upea have drawn national attention , especially as they coincided with a widely criticized court decision in late november allowing morales to run for a fourth turn .
bolivia s constitutional court , padded with members of morales mas party , argued term limits violate human rights - defying the result of a referendum last year in which 51 percent of bolivians said they opposed morales running again .
the ruling was criticized by the united states and raised eyebrows in urban areas across bolivia where support for morales is weakening .
mining communities , coca farmers and rural villages generally still support him .
across the sprawling city of el alto , where new homes are being built every day , discontent had been creeping up for some time .
since 2015 , the city has had an opposition mayor .
it s quite disturbing that our demands are not being listened to , said celia quecana , a upea sociology student dressed in a traditional aymara pollera , a flowing skirt worn in the andes .
she said that bolivia s constitution guarantees funding for public universities .
there s a lot of discontent that democracy , in the form of the feb. 21 ( 2016 ) referendum , has not been respected , she said at the university , where trash had not been collected nor bathrooms cleaned for days .
in judicial elections on dec. 3 , nearly 54 percent of bolivians spoiled their ballots rather than voting , as a means of protesting against morales .
vote null graffiti remains scrawled across walls in el alto and la paz .
as el alto has grown , so has the number of students studying at upea , the basis for the university s dispute with the government .
upea says it now has 47,000 students , double the 2011 enrollment when the amount of funding it receives was determined .
for diego von vacano , a bolivian political scientist at yale university , the upea protests have legitimate roots and touch on a major problem for morales .
the government did not invest in education , vacano said .
el alto is one of the most radical areas of bolivia .
a government can quickly fall if it does not get the support of el alto .
the united nations says bolivia spent about 7 percent of its gross domestic product on education in 2014 , its most recent data , a percentage that is high for latin america , although one that had not changed much over the past decade .
el alto s explosive growth coincided with the end of a commodities boom felt in bolivia through lower gas prices , which have halved since 2006 .
bolivia s gas production peaked at an average 59.6 million cubic meters per day in 2014 and has fallen for the past two years , according to the government .
the gas issue is incredibly important , it affects everything .
we had received an impressive amount of money , but it s gone down for everyone , said nelson vila , a upea professor who was hospitalized after clashes with police in november .