harare ( reuters ) - new president emmerson mnangagwa laid out a grand vision on friday to revitalise zimbabwe s ravaged economy and vowed to rule on behalf of all the country s citizens .
sworn in days after the overthrow of robert mugabe , the 75-year-old former security chief promised to guarantee the rights of foreign investors and to re-engage with the west , and said elections would go ahead next year as scheduled .
in a 30-minute speech to tens of thousands of supporters in harare s national stadium , mnangagwa extended an olive branch to opponents , apparently aiming to bridge the ethnic and political divides exploited by his predecessor during his 37 years in charge .
i intend , nay , am required , to serve our country as the president of all citizens , regardless of color , creed , religion , tribe or political affiliation , he said , in a speech that also hailed the voice of the people as the voice of god .
behind the rhetoric , some zimbabweans wonder whether a man who loyally served mugabe for decades can bring change to a ruling establishment accused of systematic human rights abuses and disastrous economic policies .
he made clear that the land reforms that sparked the violent seizure of thousands of white-owned farms from 2000 would not be reversed , but promised that those who lost property would receive compensation .
to some political opponents , the speech was a welcome contrast with the habitual belligerence of mugabe and appeared to be drawing on mnangagwa s knowledge and understanding of china as a model for running an economy .
his model has been the chinese , said david coltart , a former education minister and mp from the opposition movement for democratic change .
he will drive to make zimbabwe a more attractive investment location , and more efficient , but like china will not tolerate dissent .
if you behave , you will be secure .
those skeptical about the new president s commitment to change question his role in the so-called gukurahundi massacres in matabeleland in 1983 , when an estimated 20,000 people were killed in a crackdown on mugabe s opponents by the north korean-trained fifth brigade .
mnangagwa was in charge of internal security at the time , but has denied any part in the atrocities .
many zimbabweans , especially the ethnic ndebele who bore the brunt of the gukurahundi slaughter , will see his appeal on friday to let bygones be bygones as an attempt to gloss over his nation s darkest chapter .
some critics have alleged harsh treatment by soldiers of opponents of the military intervention last week - a de facto coup against mugabe , 93 , and his 52-year-old wife grace .
axed finance minister ignatius chombo was in hospital with injuries sustained from beatings during a week in military custody , his lawyer told reuters .
he was blindfolded throughout his time in detention , lovemore madhuku said .
it was a very brutal and draconian way of dealing with opponents , he added .
asked to comment , police spokeswoman charity charamba said she had no information about chombo .
separately , high court judge president george chiweshe ruled that the military intervention last week was legal , following an application brought by two citizens who petitioned the court to confirm the military had been right to do what they did .
since his return to zimbabwe this month after fleeing a mugabe-led purge , mnangagwa has been preaching democracy , tolerance and respect for the rule of law .
along with mugabe , grace - mnangagwa s sworn enemy - has been granted immunity from prosecution and had her safety guaranteed , part of a deal that led to mugabe s resignation on tuesday , sources close to the negotiations said .
for decades mnangagwa was a faithful aide to mugabe , who was widely accused of repression of dissent and election-rigging and under whose rule one of africa s once most prosperous economies was wrecked by hyperinflation and mass emigration .
mnangagwa earned the nickname ngwena , shona for crocodile , an animal famed and feared in zimbabwean lore for stealth and ruthlessness .
in his speech , mnangagwa called for the removal of western sanctions and said he wanted to hit the ground running .
he appeared to have initial support from neighboring states .
south african president jacob zuma said he hoped he would steer zimbabwe successfully through the transition from mugabe s rule .
the southern african development community , an intergovernmental organization , said it was ready to work closely with mnangagwa s government .
zimbabweans listening to his speech said they were prepared to give him the benefit of the doubt , but were also realistic about the chances of injecting life into an economy with 90 percent unemployment and banks devoid of cash .
in the last 15 years , an estimated 3 million have emigrated to neighboring south africa in search of a better life .
i wanted to see for myself that mugabe has really gone .
he is the only president i ve known , said 33-year-old lenin tongoona .
we have a new president who may try something a little different to improve the economy .
i m excited today but tomorrow is uncertain because we don t know how he will turn out .
he talks about creating jobs .
how does he plan to do that ?