vienna ( reuters ) - austria s far-right freedom party ( fpo ) on tuesday accused foreign minister sebastian kurz of stealing its platform on immigration and the economy ahead of a parliamentary election , which he is favorite to win .
fpo leader heinz-christian strache s comments come a day after kurz presented plans for his conservative people s party ( ovp ) for a slimmer state , changes in corporate tax law and cuts to benefits for foreigners .
the program kurz presented is almost identical to the fpo economic program .
we are still waiting for the presentation of the ovp s own economic plan , strache told reuters .
kurz has led opinion polls ahead of the oct. 15 election with just over 30 percent .
the freedom party and the center-left social democrats ( spo ) trail with around 25 percent each .
the conservatives and the far right have enough common ground on migration , taxes and education to launch coalition talks if the vote does not yield a clear winner , said political analyst peter filzmaier .
austria s system of proportional representation will likely lead to another coalition government .
a coalition of the spo and ovp has held power since 2006 but is unpopular because it failed to agree major reforms on job creation , investment and taxes .
given sebastian kurz s popularity , a coalition between the ovp and the fpo seems to be the most likely outcome , said vienna-based analyst peter hajek .
kurz told reporters on tuesday he did not rule out working with any party and was equidistant from the fpo and the spo .
a cartoon in daily newspaper kurier showed a naked strache in a police station telling an officer kurz had stolen everything from him .
the fpo and ovp focus on the free market , a small state and low taxes .
the spo wants new taxes , including on wealth and inheritance and subsidies to promote job creation .
the social democrats under chancellor christian kern have begun to consider cooperation with the freedom party but kern this week said his party was light years from it .
the freedom party s popularity rose to a high during europe s migration crisis in 2015 when it denounced the government s decision to open austria s borders to hundreds of thousands of refugees and migrants .
it led polls for more than a year with support above 30 percent and its candidate came close to winning last year s presidential election .
tens of thousands of people from the middle east , afghanistan and africa have arrived in austria in the past two years , raising public spending on social benefits and fuelling support for policy makers who advocate cutting migration .