beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s saad al-hariri is expected to leave saudi arabia for france within 48 hours , before flying home to beirut to officially submit his resignation as lebanese prime minister , a source close to hariri told reuters on thursday .
hariri announced his resignation in a televised broadcast from saudi arabia on nov. 4 , and has not yet returned to lebanon .
he said on wednesday he would return soon .
lebanese president michel aoun tweeted on thursday that he hoped the country s political crisis was over following hariri s acceptance of the french invitation .
i await the return of pm hariri to beirut so we can decide on the situation of the government - if he wants to resign or rescind his resignation , aoun said , according to presidential sources .
aoun has previously said he will not accept hariri s resignation until he returns to beirut to tender it and explain his reasons .
the resignation of hariri pushed lebanon to the center of an intensifying regional rivalry between shi ite muslim iran and sunni saudi arabia .
lebanese presidential sources quoted aoun on thursday as saying lebanon remained committed to its policy of disassociation , especially among arab states .
the disassociation policy is generally known in lebanon to mean staying out of regional conflicts .
in his interview on sunday , hariri repeatedly called for disassociation to be respected .
french president emmanuel macron said in a statement on wednesday that he had invited hariri to france after speaking to him and saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman .
the invitation is to visit for a few days and is not an offer of political exile , macron said , speaking in germany .
hariri is expected to go to france with his family , the source close to hariri said .
hariri traveled to riyadh on nov. 3 before abruptly resigning a day later , and he has remained in the saudi capital since then .
top lebanese officials and senior politicians close to hariri have told reuters he was forced to quit .
hariri and saudi arabia have both denied he is being held in riyadh or was coerced to resign .
( this version of the story corrects the language of aoun statement to include word disassociation )