geneva ( reuters ) - syrians in the besieged enclave of eastern ghouta are so short of food that they are eating trash , fainting from hunger and forcing their children to eat on alternate days , the u.n. world food programme said in a report on wednesday .
since september , approximately 174,500 people in the town of douma in the besieged zone have been forced to adopt emergency coping strategies , the wfp report said .
this includes consuming expired food , animal fodder and refuse , spending days without eating , begging and engaging in high risk activities to get food .
moreover , many hunger-induced fainting episodes have been reported among school children and teachers .
at least four people have died from hunger , including a child in douma who took his own life due to hunger , said the report , which was based on a mobile phone survey and information from contacts on the ground .
forces loyal to president bashar al-assad have besieged rebel-held eastern ghouta since 2012 and douma has not had a food aid convoy since receiving wheat flour rations in august .
although the area is traditionally agricultural , arable land on the outskirts of eastern ghouta is either on the frontline of the conflict or targeted by snipers , the report said .
last week fighting destroyed recently distributed rations in a storehouse , exacerbating shortages .
although damascus is only 15 km ( 10 miles ) away , 700-grams ( 25 ounces ) of bread is 85 times more expensive in eastern ghouta , the report said .
the situation is anticipated to deteriorate further in the coming weeks when food stock is expected to be totally depleted and household coping strategies will be highly eroded as a result .
government restrictions meant wfp could only provide a fraction of the food needed .
family food baskets were being shared among six families and were reportedly the only source of food for many female-headed and destitute households , it said .
some households are even resorting to rotation strategies whereby the children who ate yesterday would not eat today and vice-versa .
the report quoted a female head of household in douma as saying she was forced to rotate rations between her 13-year-old daughter and her two- and three-year-old orphaned grandchildren .
my daughter cries every time i lock her door cause she knows today is not her turn and will sleep with an empty stomach , she said .