this is a blockbuster discovery that nails conservative media for being in cahoots with rubio and other high level politicians in their support of amnesty .
the gang of eight bill was the political football being tossed around by democrats and then rubio joined in to make it a bipartisan effort .
the account of what happened between politicians and media is a perfect example of what s got americans so ticked off at washington and the media .
it s very obvious that the media was a big reason for obama s two-term presidency and now we have fox news selling its soul for rubio in the 2016 election .
the article below will open your mind to the political manipulation happening all the time between media and washington- it s a stunner : a few weeks after senator marco rubio joined a bipartisan push for an immigration overhaul in 2013 , he arrived alongside senator chuck schumer at the executive dining room of news corporation s manhattan headquarters for dinner.their mission was to persuade rupert murdoch , the owner of the media empire , and roger ailes , the chairman and chief executive of its fox news division , to keep the network s on-air personalities from savaging the legislation and give it a fighting chance at survival.mr .
murdoch , an advocate of immigration reform , and mr. ailes , his top lieutenant and the most powerful man in conservative television , agreed at the jan. 17 , 2013 , meeting to give the senators some breathing room.but the media executives , highly attuned to the intensifying anger in the republican grass roots , warned that the senators also needed to make their case to rush limbaugh , the king of conservative talk radio , who held enormous sway with the party s largely anti-immigrant base.the dinner at news corporation headquarters which has not been previously reported and the subsequent outreach to mr. limbaugh illustrate the degree to which mr. rubio served as the chief envoy to the conservative media for the group supporting the legislation .
the bill would have provided a pathway to american citizenship for 11 million illegal immigrants along with measures to secure the borders and ensure that foreigners left the united states upon the expiration of their visas.it is a history that mr. rubio is not eager to highlight as he takes on donald j. trump , his rival for the republican presidential nomination , who has made his vow to crack down on illegal immigration a centerpiece of his campaign.those discussions of just a few years ago now seem of a distant era , when , after the re-election of president obama , momentum was building to overhaul the nation s immigration system.the senators embarked on a tour of editorial boards and newsrooms , and mr. rubio was even featured as the republican savior on the cover of time magazine for his efforts to change immigration laws .
he already was being mentioned as a 2016 presidential contender.now mr. trump has become the republican leader in national polls by picking fights with mr. ailes and offending the latino voters whom mr. rubio had hoped to bring into the republican fold .
and while mr. rubio ultimately abandoned the bipartisan legislation in the face of growing grass-roots backlash and the collapse of the conservative media truce , he , and to a certain degree fox news , are still paying for that dinner .
rubio discusses borders & benefits in immigration bill w/ bill o reilly the so-called gang of eight was four democrats and four republicans , including mr. rubio , who drafted an immigration bill in 2013 .
it passed the senate but was stymied by conservative opposition in the house.details of the dinner , and a previous one in 2011 , were provided to the new york times by an attendee of one of the meetings and two people with knowledge of what was discussed at both get-togethers.none of the attendees agreed to be identified for this article because the conversations were supposed to be confidential.but on monday , mr. limbaugh shed light on his interactions with the senators when he told a caller frustrated with his criticism of mr. rubio that the immigration position the senator had advocated comes right out of the gang of eight bill .
mr. limbaugh added , i ve had it explained to me by no less than senator schumer .
mr. schumer declined to comment for this article .
but before mr. obama s re-election and soon afterward , he could hardly stop talking with conservative senators and media power brokers about the chance to pass comprehensive immigration legislation.as early as march 9 , 2011 , mr. schumer joined senator lindsey graham , republican of south carolina and another eventual member of the gang of eight , at the palm restaurant in manhattan , where they made their case to mr. murdoch , mr. ailes and mr. limbaugh in a private room .
the senators argued how damaging the word amnesty was to their efforts , and walked mr. limbaugh through their vision for an immigration overhaul .