beijing ( reuters ) - china s top banking regulator guo shuqing and veteran banker jiang chaoliang are front runners to succeed zhou xiaochuan , the country s longest-serving central bank head who is likely to step down next year , according to multiple sources familiar with the matter .
the leadership reshuffle at the people s bank of china ( pboc ) is closely watched in global financial markets as monetary policy changes and any moves to further liberalize the financial system of the world s second-large economy would have repercussions well beyond china s shores .
the 69-year-old zhou has spearheaded financial reforms and boosted the yuan currency s global clout , as well as the central bank s policy influence , since taking up his post in 2002 .
zhou is likely to retire around the time of the annual session of parliament next march , according to the seven sources with ties to the leadership and close to the central bank .
guo , chairman of the china banking regulatory commission ( cbrc ) , whose rich experience and reformist credentials are similar to zhou s , is seen as more qualified for the job , the sources said .
however , jiang , the communist party chief of hubei province , has the backing of some top leaders and is seen as having a roughly equal chance of getting the post , they noted .
the pboc and the cbrc did not respond to reuters requests for comment , while officials at hubei communist party committee s propaganda department declined to comment .
yi gang , 59 , a pboc vice-governor who has a phd in economics from the university of illinois , is the leading in-house candidate to replace zhou but is not seen as a frontrunner .
yi is a well-trained economist who is supported by zhou , but his background as a sea turtle - a colloquialism for chinese who have returned from overseas - means he is less likely to gain the full trust of china s leaders , the sources said .
one of the sources , who correctly predicted a reshuffle of the country s top banking , securities and insurance regulators in 2011 , said that guo is most favored , helped by his understanding of the financial markets and the global economy .
his appointment would boost confidence , the source added .
guo , 61 , was summoned back to beijing in february to lead the cbrc after serving as governor of shandong province for four years - his second regional stint after serving as a deputy governor of guizhou province in the late 1990s .
under guo s leadership earlier this year , the cbrc started what was widely dubbed a regulatory windstorm to force banks to cut debt , but he later eased up after the move fueled fears of a liquidity crunch .
[ nl4n1i63ir ] guo , a philosophy major and once a visiting scholar at oxford university , has served as a deputy central bank governor and as the top foreign exchange regulator , and steered china construction bank corp to a successful share listing .
as a top stock market regulator , guo cemented a reputation as an economic reformer .
still , jiang , who has also alternated between top financial and provincial posts , remains a formidable challenger for guo , the sources said .
the 60-year-old hubei party chief , who has had stints as an assistant central bank governor and head of china development bank , the country s largest policy bank , emerged as a possible successor to zhou relatively recently .
jiang has been credited with helping to transform the state-owned bank of communications , which had been plagued by bad debt , into a bank with a stronger balance sheet that then listed in hong kong and shanghai .
jiang is not a dark horse , his resume is very good and he has been proved to be very capable , said one of the sources .
whoever takes the helm of the central bank will face tough challenges as he will have to walk a tightrope between ensuring economic stability and pushing reforms to rein in debt risks .
zhou has been steering broad financial and currency reforms , loosened controls on interest rates and moved away from what had effectively been a yuan peg to the u.s. dollar - a step along the path to turning it into a global currency on a par with the greenback .
in terms of international investors , guo may offer more continuity , said rob subbaraman , nomura s chief economist and head of global markets research for asia-ex-japan .
that s really what he represents - continuity of wanting to , over time , move to a more liberalized capital and financial market , and trying to ensure very good regulation and supervision .
zhou stayed on past retirement age after he was appointed a vice chairman of the top advisory body to parliament in 2013 , a move that made him a national leader .
the pboc still has limited policy independence despite growing influence under zhou .
unlike western central banks , the pboc does not have the final word on adjusting interest rates and the value of the yuan .
the basic course of monetary and currency policy is set by the cabinet or by the communist party s ruling politburo .