this isn t the first time obama left an important figure behind in our war on terror .
remember pakistani , dr. shakil afridi who helped us to locate osama bin laden , and was left behind to fend for himself ?
today , afridi is in solitary confinement at peshawar central prison , a fortified red-brick remnant of britain s colonial rule that is crammed with more than 2,000 inmates , ranging from petty thieves to taliban assassins.sami kazikhani once risked his life serving alongside u.s. marines in afghanistan , but now he , his wife and their young daughter find themselves sleeping in refugee camps and the unfamiliar streets of europe as they desperately seek a new life in america.marked for death in his homeland after being outed as a collaborator in a dramatic incident at a family wedding , kazikhani , who was lauded by marines he once served , was forced to flee last year even while he was applying for safe passage to the u.s. with his wife yasmiin and infant daughter roxanna under a special visa program designed for those who served our troops .
with tribal elders ordering his death , kazikhani fled first to turkey , then made the dangerous trip across the aegean sea just weeks ago after being ordered out of turkey .
the trip was horrible , kazikhani , 30 , told foxnews.com from germany , where he and his family are living with thousands of refugees .
we nearly drowned .
we saw others who drowned .
we were saved three times .
every time we had to jump into the boat with my daughter , i was sad .
it made me cry .
the only thing i ask is that they don t let me down , he added .
that they give me the chance to do more for my new home .
sami kazikhanionce in greece , the family wandered north , sleeping on streets , along railroad tracks and in squalid refugee camps , he said .
everywhere we went , it was no good for us , kazikhani said .
greece , macedonia , serbia .
they all began to deport afghans .
sami kazikani once risked his life serving alongside u.s. marines in afghanistan , but now he , his wife and their young daughter find themselves homeless in europe.now in germany , kazikhani awaits an asylum hearing on dec. 4 that would allow him to live there , but fears the worst .
i feared for my life in afghanistan , but now i m more afraid of being deported without even knowing what is what , he said.his supporters say he has more than earned a place in america for himself and his family .
all coalition allies offer special visas for interpreters in iraq and afghanistan who served their troops , but the u.s. process is fraught with paperwork that can turn bureaucratic snarls into life and death for afghans accused of being traitors and now actively hunted down by the taliban , isis and al qaeda .
everywhere we went ; it was no good for us .
greece .
macedonia .
serbia .
they all began to deport afghans , kazikani recently said to foxnews.com .
( aaron and marion fleming ) i became a translator because i wanted to serve my country and because i was able to speak english , kazikhani told foxnews.com in an interview conducted via facebook messenger .
i thought i could also be helpful to the coalition forces as well .
but there were many who absolutely did not like the people who worked with nato , he said .
especially interpreters .
one former marine who served shoulder-to-shoulder with kazikhani is trying to make sure the u.s. pays its debt to kazikhani .
all we are trying to get for him is a verification of employment so we can finish the visa process , but the [ u.s. ] government is not doing anything , said former marine counter-intelligence officer aaron fleming , who worked with kazikhani in afghanistan and praised his commitment to american troops.fleming is working with no one left behind , , a nonprofit founded by matt zeller , a former u.s. army intelligence officer who fought to bring to the u.s. a translator who saved his life in afghanistan .
he worries that kazikhani may not even be safe in refugee camps.via : fox news