what the heck !
senator john mccain just admitted that he doesn t answer to president trump !
can you imagine if a senator had done this to obama ?
mccain s oped in the washington post is a horrible hit on trump .
shame on him ! it starts out with a statement about how horrible the white supremacists are and then goes on to discuss congress getting back to order .
it s a snoozer of an oped until you get to the last part in a shocking slam on president trump s character and knowledge of government , mccain shows his bitterness towards trump .
he claims that , we don t answer to him but also say that , we must respect his authority wth ! mccain : it s time congress returns to regular order : we can fight like hell for our ideas to prevail .
but we have to respect each other or at least respect the fact that we need each other.that has never been truer than today , when congress must govern with a president who has no experience of public office , is often poorly informed and can be impulsive in his speech and conduct.we must respect his authority and constitutional responsibilities .
we must , where we can , cooperate with him .
but we are not his subordinates .
we don t answer to him .
we answer to the american people .
we must be diligent in discharging our responsibility to serve as a check on his power .
and we should value our identity as members of congress more than our partisan affiliation.i argued during the health-care debate for a return to regular order , letting committees of jurisdiction do the principal work of crafting legislation and letting the full senate debate and amend their efforts.we won t settle all our differences that way , but such an approach is more likely to make progress on the central problems confronting our constituents .
we might not like the compromises regular order requires , but we can and must live with them if we are to find real and lasting solutions .
and all of us in congress have the duty , in this sharply polarized atmosphere , to defend the necessity of compromise before the american public.see what he did there ?
he basically said our president is clueless and impulsive so we don t need to listen to him .
unreal !
is mccain bitter and trying to get back at trump ?
it s unheard of for a sitting senator of the party in power trashes the president that is from the same party !
read more : wapo