brighton , england ( reuters ) - a baby gurgles in the background , posters defend workers rights and between dj decks and a well-stocked bar of an old nightclub , dozens of young activists flesh out their demands that britain s labour party become a wider movement for the left .
across the road , in the southern seaside town of brighton s main conference center , and in the nearby hotels and restaurants , labour s established lawmakers are discussing brexit , policy and how to oust the governing conservative party .
welcome to the two worlds of britain s main opposition party : a division centered around labour leader jeremy corbyn who after months of fighting off attempts to depose him , is more cemented at its helm than ever .
it is not the only division at labour s annual conference , where the party is struggling to unite over britain s departure from the european union .
but it is one that may define labour s future for beneath the outward comradeship is a fight for direction .
i m more convinced now than i ever have been that mps ( members of parliament , or lawmakers ) aren t as relevant as they think , said laura pidcock , a labour lawmaker who was elected for the first time to parliament in june and has frequently spoken out about it as an elitist institution .
i bet there s people in this room who have felt this during this conference , or are experiencing this now , that you shouldn t really be there , she told an audience gathered to talk about corbynism from below organized by a group called the world transformed .
the world transformed grew out of momentum , a campaign group which drummed up support for veteran leftist corbyn to lead labour and acted in his defense when centrist members in the party tried to oust him , unconvinced his leftist views could ever win over voters .
but june s general election changed all that .
corbyn , running on a manifesto that instead of austerity promised an end to university tuition fees , renationalization and increased public spending , won more votes than expected , many from younger voters who wanted change .
the vote forced conservative prime minister theresa may into a minority government , and set the mood at this conference mostly upbeat , with corbyn feted by almost all wings of the party .
his face adorns t-shirts , mugs and posters on sale .
oh jeremy corbyn sung to the chords of the white stripes 2003 hit seven nation army can be heard across the conference , much as it was at the glastonbury rock festival earlier this year .
for those activists behind the world transformed , it is a chance to revel in their moment and press for change in a parliamentary party populated what some describe as the suits .
it is a sea change for the labour party , which last won power in 1997 with the business-friendly , center-ground policies of former prime minister tony blair .
once momentum was written off by some labour lawmakers , seen as little more than a cult following for a leader whose politics , his critics said , were little changed from the 1980s when the party wrote what was described as the longest suicide note in history for helping the conservatives to victory .
now , with labour closing the gap in opinion polls to stand roughly level with the conservatives and corbyn in sight of becoming prime minister if an early election were called , it has the power to influence party policy .
earlier this week , several labour lawmakers criticized momentum for blocking a main conference debate on brexit after the group urged its members to vote for other issues to be included on the official conference program .
in response , some activists accused lawmakers of wanting to undermine corbyn by speaking about an issue that divides the party .
jeremy corbyn wouldn t be the first labour leader to fix a conference vote , said alison mcgovern , a labour lawmaker who is leading a campaign to keep britain in the single market after brexit .
i just think it s a mistake on their part .
conference wants to talk about brexit ...
the world transformed has been wall-to-wall brexit chat .
and nothing seems to be off the agenda at the venues used by the world transformed , which offers child-friendly spaces for discussion of everything from bringing the game of football back to its roots to how to run a kickass social media campaign .
but the overriding message is , don t let this opportunity slip .
the fight really isn t over if we get a labour government , said maya goodfellow , a writer and researcher .
we hear people chanting jeremy corbyn s name which is great .
great that so many people are enthused , but the state will kick into power , there will be moves to stop a radical government from doing what it wants to do .