new york ( reuters ) - donald trump likes to boast to his supporters that he ’ s so rich he doesn ’ t need outside money to pay for his presidential campaign .
his fans seem happy to oblige him , according to financial disclosures released on sunday .
the new york businessman ’ s quest to become the republican party ’ s presidential nominee has attracted massive crowds but only a trickle of donations , the disclosures filed with the u.s. federal election commission show .
he raised just $ 2.6 million from donors in the last three months of 2015 .
three quarters of that money came from sales of merchandise like baseball caps bearing his campaign slogan “ make america great again , ” while only about $ 540,000 came from individuals giving more than $ 200 .
most of his republican rivals have raised far more .
his nearest rival , senator ted cruz , raised $ 20.5 million , while former florida governor jeb bush , who was once the front runner but has fallen sharply in the polls , raised $ 7 million .
yet trump still leads in every national poll as voters in iowa prepare to gather for the country ’ s nominating contest on monday .
the bulk of the cash trump is using to fund his presidential run comes from $ 12.6 million in loans he made to his campaign in 2015 .
some of that money has gone right back to his businesses : his biggest campaign expenditure in the fourth quarter of 2015 was the $ 826,590 he paid tag air , inc , which runs his fleet of private aircraft , to shuttle him between campaign stops and his homes in new york and florida .
trump ’ s second largest expenditure was $ 478,000 to wizbang solutions , a printing and design firm , followed by $ 411,000 his campaign paid to a consulting company that collects signatures to get candidates onto states ’ election ballots .
he ’ s the only billionaire in race , although a few of his competitors are millionaires .
supporters across the country often say his financial independence appeals to them because they believe he can ’ t be bought by special interest groups .
trump ’ s financial reports show his fundraising isn ’ t the only area that sets him apart from the other candidates .
trump spent $ 6.9 million during the last three months of 2015 .
his distant rival for the republican nomination , the retired neurosurgeon ben carson , spent $ 27 million .
cruz spent $ 15.5 million .
and the man now seen as the most plausible establishment alternative to trump , florida senator marco rubio , spent $ 14.8 million in the fourth quarter .
that ’ s about $ 2 million more than trump spent in all of 2015 .
( reporting by emily flitter in new york ; additional reporting by jonathan allen in washington ; editing by robert birsel ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .