this ridiculous article by politico , who pretends to be a non-biased source for news is sadly , what passes as journalism today .
we ve taken the liberty of highlighting the article in places where poltico has gone out of their way to blame trump and/or his supporters for the violent protesters ( many of whom are paid by leftist organizations ) .
our comments can be found in parenthesis following the highlighted copy.outside donald trump s campaign rallies in recent days , protesters have gathered and , increasingly , clashed violently with trump supporters and police .
inside , trump is going to new rhetorical extremes in his attempts to delegitimize a mexican-american judge .
together , ( together ?
does anyone else find it to be slightly ridiculous that the person writing this piece would honestly think anyone believes trump and the violent anti-trump protesters were working together ? )
they re forming an increasingly combustible atmosphere as the campaign enters the summer and temperatures here climb into triple digits.trump has in the past vowed to become more presidential after dispatching his primary foes , and many political observers hoped tensions would decrease as trump pivoted to appeal to broader swath of voters in the general election.instead , the end of the primary has seen a steady rise in tension , fueling fears that the convention in cleveland next month will surpass the turbulence of the 1968 democratic convention in chicago.tense standoffs involving police , protesters and trump supporters are common sights at campaign rallies , and violence has occasionally flared up , but there has been an uptick in the scale and frequency of violence over the past two weeks during the candidate s swing through the west .
most of the violence has been directed at police officers and trump supporters outside rally venues , but on friday , one local leader who condemned the violence also partly blamed trump for it .
( of course , it s trump s fault that the left is paying people to riot and to attack innocent people along with the law enforcement officers who are hired to keep the peace . )
while it s a sad statement about our political discourse that mr. trump has focused on stirring antagonism ( trump s fault ) instead of offering real solutions to our nation s challenges , there is absolutely no place for violence against people who are simply exercising their rights to participate in the political process , said san jose mayor sam riccardo , a democrat , in a statement on friday .
in another statement , riccardo said trump s rhetoric is no excuse for violence and that city police would investigate and prosecute offenders .
she said no protesters had applied for permits to demonstrate .
in albuquerque , where demonstrators shattered windows at the site of trump s rally on tuesday , police made three arrests and have an outstanding felony warrant for another demonstrator that includes eight counts of aggravated battery on a police officer , according to albuquerque police public information officer tanner tixier .
he added that police were working four to five other cases that could lead to more arrests.tidier also shot down as conspiracy theories rumors that anti-trump demonstrators were illegal immigrants or paid agitators .
( because this public information officer knows each and every protester , and whether they ve been paid or are legal citizens of the united states . )
they re just general local criminals .
i don t even think they knew what they were protesting , he said.the mexican flag has been a common sight at recent protests in the west , which is home to many mexicans and mexican-americans .
trump , meanwhile , began insisting during the past week that the judge presiding over one of the lawsuits against trump university , gonzalo curiel , could not be fair because of his mexican heritage .
the statement condemned by house speaker paul ryan , editorial boards and legal watchdogs can only inflame tensions out here .
muriel , the son of mexican immigrants , was born in indiana .
( because if paul ryan condemned trump , the whole republican party must be against him right ?
) despite the warning signs , there is little indication from the trump campaign or anti-trump demonstrators that they plan to change course , making continued unrest likely in the months ahead .
( in other words , there is no indication trump plans to change his policies in order to appease illegal aliens and leftist thugs .
) entire article can be found at politico