washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump , casting doubt on the nation ’ s economic health , said on tuesday the u.s. economy is in a bubble he fears will burst and he does not want to deal with a financial collapse if he is elected to the white house .
the billionaire real estate mogul cited the economy as one of the toughest assignments he would face as president if he wins the nov. 8 presidential election , along with the iran nuclear deal .
“ it ’ s a very daunting task , and we ’ re in deep trouble .
the country ’ s a mess , ” trump told abc ’ s “ good morning america ” program .
“ we ’ re in a bubble , ” added trump , the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination .
“ and , frankly , if there ’ s going to be a bubble popping , i hope they pop before i become president because i don ’ t want to inherit all this stuff .
i ’ d rather it be the day before rather than the day after , i will tell you that. ” recent u.s. job growth has been strong and the latest government data showed that the nation ’ s unemployment rate held steady last month at a 7-1/2-year low of 5 percent even as more people entered the labor force , a sign of confidence in the job market .
the u.s. economy is growing at about a 2 percent annual pace , but the manufacturing and industrial sectors have shown weakness .
slumping oil prices and slowing growth in china have cast a pall on the outlook for the global economy .
world markets have slumped amid worries over china ’ s debt .
“ look at the stock market today , look at it for the last week , ” trump said .
“ ... we ’ ve gone down so much. ” in november , trump accused the u.s. federal reserve of keeping interest rates low to help democratic president barack obama , saying higher rates would burst the u.s. economic bubble .
obama took office in january 2009 amid the biggest u.s. financial crisis in decades , leading to bank and auto industry bailouts and a multibillion-dollar economic stimulus package .
( reporting by washington newsroom ; editing by will dunham ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .