when us representative and conservative rebel justin amash ( r-mi ) introduced his good friend , senator rand paul , to a room full of republicans at the michigan republican leadership conference on mackinac island , the guests continued to talk amongst themselves as though he wasn t even there .
it was almost as though they had already made up their minds about rand paul before he ever uttered a word .
they were clearly not interested in anything justin amash or his good friend had to say because , after all , they represented the obstructionists in the party .
rand paul was just an isolationist like his father right ? we got to the event late and by default , were seated only 3 tables back from the stage .
we were just in time to catch carly fiorina s speech .
carly was riding high on new poll numbers that showed she had miraculously catapulted herself to the top of the field of republican presidential candidates .
the crowd went wild when carly talked tough about ignoring putin .
in fact , the crowd seemed very attentive and fairly pleased with carly s overall message , as they clapped like seals at all of the usual i m going to fix what s broken ( yawn ) in washington republican campaign talking points.it wasn t until about 30 seconds into rand paul s speech that we noticed the disrespectful chatter around the stage began to slow down .
by the time rand paul began speaking about foreign policy , the eyeball rolling stopped , and you could have heard a pin drop in the room.we d like to share with you a portion of his speech in this video we took from our table .
leisa and i left that night feeling much differently about rand paul than when we walked into the room .
he is smart , extremely witty and most importantly , he s committed to the same principles our founding fathers held so dear.after getting a chance to see many of the republican presidential candidates up close and hear them speak , rand paul came out on top in the minds of the voters who attended this 3 day event .
rand paul received a hefty 22 % of the vote , followed carly fiorina with 15 % , rino john kasich managed to get 13.8 % of the vote ( although we re not quite sure why ) , sen. ted cruz was at 13 % , jeb bush had 9.7 % of the vote , sen. marco rubio got 8 % , and donald trump came in dead last with only 6 % of the vote.many of the pundits are attempting to paint rand paul as a loser and suggest that he drop out of the race and spare us of his boring defense of our constitution .
we hope that rand paul continues this fight and is able to get his message out to more americans , who like the guests on mackinac island might be surprised to hear that most of what he says makes perfect sense.on a side note , we registered to vote and were told we would receive an email that would allow us to cast our ballot .
we never got that email , despite sending more than one email to the mi gop asking them to please send us our ballots .
we won t say who we would ve voted for , but we ll give you hint it would have either helped the guy at the top or knocked rino john kashich down a notch .
-patty , 100 % fed up !