who needs family when you have a neighborhood mentor who can teach you the value of racism , communism and hate for america ? in his 1995 book , dreams from my father , barack obama never discussed the identity of the mysterious frank who had given him important advice on growing up black in what was described as a white racist world .
we learned in 2008 that frank was frank marshall davis , a member of the communist party who was the subject of a 600-page fbi file .
still , the major media never asked obama about this important relationship during his growing up years in hawaii.now , in an extraordinary development , video of obama explicitly and openly identifying frank as frank marshall davis has suddenly surfaced on the internet .
the footage is said to have been recorded on september 20 , 1995 , with the program originally airing on channel 37 cambridge municipal television as an episode of the show , the author series .
it s not clear how many saw this program when it aired .
for some reason , this from the vault barack obama presentation was just recently posted on youtube .
in the video , obama is introduced as a harvard law school student and president of the harvard law review .
he discusses frank as frank marshall davis at about 8:37 in the video.in his remarks , obama never identifies davis as a communist or even a leftist .
but the remarks do reflect the significant influence that davis had over his young life as he was growing up in hawaii .
obama talks about how davis schools him on the subject of race relations .
the term implies a teacher-student relationship the two of them had , confirming what we had reported back in 2008 , that davis had functioned as obama s mentor .
it s important to understand what obama is saying here .
getting ready to read directly from his book , dreams from my father , obama talks about the passages ending with me having a conversation with a close friend of my maternal grandfather , a close friend of gramps , a black man from kansas , named frank , actually at the time a fairly well-known poet named frank marshall davis , who had moved to hawaii and lived there , and so i have a discussion with him about the kinds of frustrations i m having , and he sorts of schools me that i should get used to these frustrations davis was indeed a black poet .
his works included attacks on christianity .
one davis poem referred to christ irreverently as a nigger .
davis was himself an atheist.however , davis was better known as a communist propagandist whose work for the communist party in hawaii earned him surveillance by the fbi and placement on its security index .
davis was also a pornographer who engaged in bizarre sexual practices , even pedophilia.needless to say , obama s willingness to identify frank as davis before this audience raises questions as to why frank wasn t identified by his full name frank marshall davis in the book itself .
obama made references to frank 22 times throughout his book .
paul kengor notes that obama s audio version of dreams from my father omitted every reference to frank that was in the book .
those omissions were clearly designed to keep people from asking questions about frank , since obama was considering a run for the presidency.today , in 2015 , discovering film of obama identifying frank as davis is confirmation of the obvious .
it doesn t make a lot of difference politically , since obama is serving out his second term .
but it could have made a difference seven years ago , in 2008 , when we identified frank as davis , during obama s campaign for his first term in office.the clip of obama talking about davis during his 1995 cambridge presentation is important for other reasons , however.by his own admission , obama was preoccupied with his own feelings and thoughts about race relations .
he saw himself as an angry young man whose father was absent from his life .
he said he was without father figures around who might guide and steer my anger .
that s significant because it s clear , from the passages he reads , that davis became that father figure .
davis was indeed picked by his white grandfather to be a role model or father figure for the young barack obama.in the passages he read back in 1995 , obama discussed inviting some white friends to a black party and seeing them squirm .
they re trying to tap their foot to the beat and being extraordinarily friendly , he said .
they are trying to fit in but they are uncomfortable and they tell obama they want to leave .
obama concluded , what i have had to put up with every day of my life is something that they find so objectionable that they can t even put up with a day .
this is like a revelation to obama about the world of white racism .
all of this he says triggers something in his head and he comprehends a new map of the world .
he gets a sense of the anger and betrayal in society and even in his own family , where he is being raised by his white grandfather , gramps , and white grandmother , toot .
this leads him to seek advice from frank .
frank marshall davis then sort of schools me that i should get used to these frustrations , obama says.the passages that he reads from the book before the cambridge audience include a discussion of when his own white grandmother was accosted by a black panhandler .
davis told obama that his grandmother was right to be scared and that she understands that black people have reason to hate .
in other words , davis did not encourage obama to pursue racial harmony or reconciliation .
he told obama that blacks have a reason , or right , to hate.via : aim.comh/t weasel zippers