* * * update to story below * * * in a blow to every mainstream media news outlet ( and likely hurting a lot of feelings ) , president donald trump s ban on immigrants from seven muslim-majority countries will take effect in boston on sunday after a federal judge refused to extend a temporary ruling blocking its enforcement.as bloomberg reports , the decision by u.s. district judge nathaniel gorton on friday dealt a setback to rights advocates who argued that blocking people from seven nations in the middle east was unconstitutional .
gorton was weighing whether to extend a seven-day order blocking parts of trump s executive order.the case , filed by the american civil liberties union on behalf of several affected immigrants , is one of several that followed trump s jan 27 order , which roiled global travel by barring entry to the u.s. of citizens of iran , iraq , libya , somalia , sudan , syria and yemen .
individuals , organizations , politicians and some states called it unconstitutional religious discrimination against muslims.as gma news onine reports , u.s. district judge nathaniel gorton on friday asked matthew segal , an attorney with the american civil liberties union ( aclu ) representing the plaintiffs in the boston case .
if your honor s question is , does the word muslim make a profound presence in this executive order ? , my answer is that it doesn t , but the president described what he was going to do as a muslim ban and then he proceeded to carry it out .
am i to take the words of an executive at any point before or after election as a part of that executive order ?
judge gorton on friday asked u.s. justice department lawyer joshua press how the seven countries had been selected.press responded that the list had come from a law passed in 2015 and amended early last year requiring that citizens of the seven countries apply for visas to enter the united states , out of concern about the refugees that were coming , mainly from syria at that time and terrorist events that were occurring in europe .
as we noted previously , only 12.5 % of the world s muslims live in the seven countries on trump s immigration ban list which left the judge to decide ( as the full docket explains here ) , the language in section 5 of the eo is neutral with respect to religion , the provisions of section 5 , however , could be invoked to give preferred refugee status to a muslim individual in a country that is predominately christian .
nothing in section 5 compels a finding that christians are preferred to any other group .
the order provides a reasonably conceivable state of facts ( which concerns national security and ) that could provide a rational basis for the classification , he wrote .
accordingly , this court declines to encroach upon the delicate policy judgment inherent in immigration decisions .
orderfor the forgoing reasons , the court declines to impose any injunctive relief and will not renew the temporary restraining order that was entered on january 29 , 2017 ( docket no .
6 ) .
full order at zero hedgeupdate : two federal judges across the country from each other issued two separate and equally different decisions late friday one refusing to extend an injunction against president donald trump s u.s. travel suspension and one blocking its effect nationwide.first , u.s. district judge nathaniel m. gorton , in boston , said in a preliminary 21-page ruling that he would not extend a seven-day restraining order that has prevented the travel restrictions from being implemented this week.a short time later on friday , though , u.s. district court judge james robart , in seattle , upheld a challenge to trump s order from the attorneys general of washington state and minnesota and issued another temporary national restraining order .
the state has met its burden in demonstrating immediate and irreparable injury , robart saidthe boston ruling was a key victory for the trump administration on the matter , but the win didn t last very long .
the subsequent seattle decision , meanwhile , represented the most significant legal setback yet in the battle over the president s directive as it blocks the order with a new injunction .
upi