berlin ( reuters ) - germany should learn from security shortcomings exposed by a deadly truck attack on a berlin christmas market a year ago and increase aid to survivors and families of victims , chancellor angela merkel said on tuesday .
anis amri , a failed tunisian asylum seeker with islamist links , hijacked a truck on dec. 19 , 2016 , killed the driver and then plowed it into a crowded market place , killing 11 more people and injuring dozens of others .
merkel spoke on the anniversary of the attack at the unveiling of a memorial on the breitscheidplatz square where it took place .
the ceremony came amid criticism from families of the victims and from survivors about the government s handling of the incident .
today is a day for mourning but also a day for the determination of making things better that did not work ( in the past ) , merkel said .
merkel , who met victims and relatives of those killed at the chancellery on monday , said she would meet the group again in a few months to provide updates on lessons learned from germany s worst islamist militant attack .
hundreds of people gathered with candles at the site after a church service at the kaiser wilhelm memorial church that was also attended by berlin mayor michael mueller and former german president joachim gauck .
the church bells tolled for 12 minutes , one minute for each of those killed , at 8:02 p.m. , the precise time when the attack occurred .
the normally crowded christmas market at the plaza remained closed all day on tuesday .
the memorial shows the names of the victims carved on the steps of the kaiser wilhelm memorial church near the scene of the attack .
a long crack filled with metal and gold alloy runs through the steps and the christmas market .
president frank-walter steinmeier said support for the victims of the attack came late and had not been sufficient .
it s bitter that the state could not protect your relatives , steinmeier said addressing the families .
german justice minister heiko maas said the government had not been well enough prepared to avert such an attack .
we can only apologize for the victims and the surviving relatives , maas wrote in an article published in tagesspiegel paper on tuesday .
the german government has agreed to increase compensation payments to victims families and survivors after complaints that the 10,000 euros ( $ 11,820 ) compensation the german government had offered was insufficient , kurt beck , an advocate for victims and survivors said on tuesday .
dozens of protesters rallied near the breitscheidplatz , carrying signs expressing solidarity with the victims but warning against turning the tragic event into a rallying cry against islam , as some far-right groups have sought to do .
i m angry about the right wing s efforts to instrumentalize this , said martin pfaff , who organized the event .
that s why we re making clear that racism can not be an answer to terrorism .