beijing ( reuters ) - china will have to launch more ambitious renewable energy and non-fossil fuel targets and ramp up efforts to enforce them to avoid missing global climate accord requirements , two government think tanks said on monday .
china s capacity for renewable energy , including hydro , wind and solar , will significantly exceed beijing s own target set in the five-year plan to 2020 , according to the report jointly issued by china national renewable energy centre ( cnrec ) and the energy research institute of academy of macroeconomic research .
the world s top energy consumer pledged to install 340 gigawatts ( gw ) of hydropower capacity , 210 gw of wind and 110 gw solar by 2020 in the five-year plan .
but to meet commitments agreed to in 2015 in the paris global pact to fight climate change , china should raise its target for non-fossil fuel to 26 percent of its total energy mix from a current target of 15 percent by 2020 , the report said .
the paris agreement of reducing the global temperature by two degrees puts pressure on the short-term energy transition from coal and oil to non-fossil fuels , said wang zhongying , deputy director general at cnrec .
china , the world s second-largest economy , overtook the united states as the world s biggest emitter of greenhouse gases in 2007 .
china pledged to bring its carbon emissions to a peak by 2030 or earlier as part of a joint pledge made with the united states ahead of the 2015 paris talks .
if current government policy is enforced properly , non-fossil fuels should account for 60 percent of energy supply by 2050 , higher than an official government target of reducing coal alone to just half , the report said .
still , getting stranded clean power in the west to urban users has been a major headache for the government as beijing seeks wean the nation off coal , the nation s favorite fuel .
an official at the national energy administration said at the conference on monday he reckons the country will solve the problem of wasted energy by 2020 .
chinese authorities have been striving to improve energy efficiency and upgrade energy infrastructure by introducing measures including national carbon trade , green certificates and promoting energy storage systems .
( but ) to ensure compliance with the paris agreement , strong support to renewable energy deployment is needed on both the national and local levels , said wang .