washington - a donald trump rally in virginia was repeatedly disrupted on monday by protesters , including some from the black lives matter movement , in a stark display of the divisions the republican front-runner ’ s presidential campaign has long been accused of sowing .
a time magazine photographer trying to document the exit of dozens of black protesters from the rally in southwestern radford , virginia , was grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground by a u.s. secret service agent .
hecklers disrupted the rally on a day when the new york billionaire fended off criticism that he had not clearly condemned white supremacist support during an interview on cnn on sunday .
trump taunted the protesters , shouting “ are you from mexico ? ” at one of them .
supporters in the audience confronted the hecklers in angry , face-to-face exchanges .
as black protesters were escorted from the rally , the crowd around them began to chant , “ all lives matter. ” trump waited for the scene to quiet down before saying , “ folks , you ’ re going to hear it once : all lives matter. ” the crowd roared with applause .
black lives matter is a civil rights movement that sprang from police shootings of black americans in recent years .
the trump rally took place on the eve of super tuesday , the biggest voting day in the race to pick the 2016 presidential nominees for the november election .
a number of southern states including virginia are holding contests on tuesday , and opinion polls show trump is likely to consolidate his status as favorite to win the republican nomination .
it was unclear whether trump would be damaged by support from white supremacists .
he has risen in opinion polls and won three of four early nominating contests while proposing a temporary ban on muslims entering the country , calling mexican immigrants criminals and insulting women .
his rivals for the republican nomination , ted cruz and marco rubio , urged him to ask the new york times to release a recording of his recent interview with its editorial board , following a report he told it he was not serious about his immigration proposals .
on monday , the protesters disrupted trump ’ s remarks several times for long stretches , prompting him to shout to security guards several times , “ get them out please , get them out. ” trump appeared to relish the discord , saying after the turmoil in the crowd that his rallies were more exciting than those of the other candidates : “ but it is fun , and exciting. ” at a rally last week in nevada , trump also jumped into the fray with a protester when he said , “ i ’ d like to punch him in the face. ” time photographer chris morris was on the fringe of an enclosed media section when he was seized by an agent from the secret service , which has the job of protecting the u.s. president and some white house candidates .
“ i stepped 18 inches out of the ( press ) pen and then he grabbed me by the neck and started choking me and then he slammed me to the ground , ” morris told cnn at the scene .
the trump campaign said it was not aware of the details of the incident and directed inquires to local law enforcement .
secret service spokesman robert hoback said the agency was aware of the incident involving one of its employees but it still working to “ determine the exact circumstances that led up to this incident. ” earlier on monday , trump ’ s rivals criticized him for equivocating on white supremacist support when he was asked repeatedly on cnn if he would condemn the klan and disavow support from white supremacists , including david duke , a former klan grand wizard from louisiana .
trump said that he had been hampered by a faulty earpiece during the cnn interview .
duke on monday denied that he had endorsed trump .
but he said he planned to vote for him and had advised his friends to do so too because of the candidate ’ s views on immigration and world peace .
duke told fox news radio he disapproved of trump ’ s “ lip service ” in support of israel , but “ i told my people to vote for him in the election ” for strategic reasons .
he said he had not been part of the ku klux klan for nearly 40 years .
on the democratic side , front-runner hillary clinton alluded to the country ’ s divisions on monday after a landslide victory on saturday in south carolina ’ s primary shifted her attention from party rival bernie sanders to the candidate she may end up facing in november .
“ i don ’ t think america ever stopped being great , ” she told supporters in massachusetts , adding a twist to trump ’ s “ make america great again ” slogan .
“ what we need to do now is make america whole. ” ( additional reporting by amanda becker , susan heavey , megan cassella and eric walsh ; writing by doina chiacu ; editing by jonathan oatis , frances kerry and cynthia osterman ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .