bologna , italy ( reuters ) - pope francis on sunday urged governments and people to do more to help migrants and not see them as enemies , wearing a plastic id bracelet used by asylum seekers to drive home his message .
francis visited a drab refugee center on the outskirts of bologna known simply as the hub .
run by a charity , it is home to about 1,000 asylum seekers , most of whom risked their lives crossing the mediterranean from africa and the middle east .
there , they live in gray containers and other forms of temporary housing while awaiting decisions on their asylum requests to be moved to other towns in italy .
many of the refugees and migrants are without documents and all wear a plastic yellow bracelet .
the pope wore one bearing his name and the number 3900003 on his right wrist .
it was given to him by an african refugee .
many who don t know you are afraid of you , he told them as a light drizzle fell .
that makes them think they have the right to judge ( you ) coldly and harshly , he said .
he paid homage to those who never arrived because they were eaten up by the desert or the sea .
some 600,000 impoverished migrants and refugees have arrived in italy in less than four years .
in that time , more than 13,000 have died trying to cross the mediterranean .
francis , who has made defense of migrants and refugees a major plank of his papacy , also condemned internet trolling against foreigners , saying they had been subjected to terrible phrases and insults .
if we look on our neighbors without mercy we risk that even god will look on us without mercy , he said .
the pope s defense of migrants , his second in less than a week , comes at a time of growing anti-immigrant sentiment in the united states and many european countries where far-right parties have made inroads .
last week , the far-right , anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) party surged to third place in a national election , tapping into public disquiet over the arrival of more than a million migrants in germany over the past two years .
francis called on more governments to facilitate initiatives backed by the private sector and community groups to set up humanitarian corridors for refugees in the most difficult situations .
this was a reference to programs such as one run in italy by the rome-based sant egidio peace community , which regularly brings into italy refugees fleeing the civil war in syria .
italy s anti-immigrant northern league , whose base is in the regions just north of bologna , has vowed to clamp down on migration from developing countries if it forms part of a coalition government after next year s elections .