nothing like riding on your sister s coattails and making bucketloads of cash just because you re a mooch and a grifter like they are .
the clinton foundation was nothing but a slush fund for these scumbags sitting in a courtroom three years ago , after skipping out on a sizable legal bill , hillary rodham clinton s youngest brother struck a reassuring tone : don t worry , the money is coming .
i deal through the clinton foundation , tony rodham said , according to court transcripts uncovered by the new york times .
he gave his word that hillary and bill were setting him up with haitian-government permits to build a $ 22 million housing development in the earthquake-stricken country .
i hound my brother-in-law , because it s his fund that we re going to get our money from , rodham explained , promising a $ 1 million check once the haitian-government paved the way , enough both to cover the outstanding legal fees and take his family to disney world.the construction deal fell through , but rodham managed to settle his debt .
and the next year , he got another crack at making money in haiti s heavily-regulated economy when he joined the advisory board of a company , vcs mining , which was developing a gold mine on the island .
he d met the company s ceo at a meeting of the clinton global initiative .
i go to see old friends [ at the meetings , ] rodham told the washington post , but you never know what can happen .
from the moment the clintons walked through the white house doors in january of 1993 , rodham has proven remarkably adept at harnessing their political horsepower for his personal gain .
his schemes don t always pan out , and they have caused numerous headaches for hillary and bill .
but rodham s fortunes have always been tied to theirs , his bank account waxing and waning in time with the clintons political prospects .
he may lack their sophistication , but to many observers , tony is the unvarnished embodiment of the clintons decades-long dance with crony capitalism.rodham sits atop of a pile of money acquired through a vast tangle of enterprises just a little less secret and complex than those of his sister and brother-in-law .
there s really no better definition of what this is , says david bossie , president of the conservative group citizens united and a longtime clinton foe .
this is a person who is not directly the principal , but he s the brother or , in the 1990s , the brother-in-law of the president , using these open doors of family to shake people down .
tony is the unvarnished embodiment of the clintons decades-long dance with crony capitalism.read more : national review