( reuters ) - louisiana governor john bel edwards presented a dire picture of the state ’ s fiscal situation on thursday , urging lawmakers to consider a set of budget cuts and revenue-raising measures , including tax increases .
edwards made his remarks before state legislators convene for a special session on sunday to hash out how to fix the budget woes .
the state is contending with a $ 940 million budget deficit for the current fiscal year and a $ 2 billion projected deficit for the next fiscal year starting in july .
“ this is a historic fiscal crisis , the likes of which our state has never seen , ” edwards said during thursday ’ s televised address .
he warned that the state ’ s public colleges and universities will face “ catastrophic cuts over the next four months. ” louisiana is at risk of not being able to pay student scholarships that have already been awarded , and some campuses will be forced to cancel classes , even file for bankruptcy .
“ if you are a student attending one of these universities , it means that you will receive a grade of incomplete , many students will not be able to graduate , ” said edwards .
“ you can say farewell to college football next fall. ” the governor also warned that the state ’ s healthcare system was “ on the verge of imploding. ” without new revenues , hospitals that care for a significant portion of poor and under-insured patients would close in places like lake charles , alexandria and bogalusa .
“ i don ’ t say this to scare you .
but i am going to be honest with you .
no more tricks .
no more smoke and mirrors , ” said edwards , a democrat who took office last month .
louisiana ’ s former governor bobby jindal had signed a “ no tax ” pledge , which handicapped the state from raising new revenues .
edwards on thursday juxtaposed louisiana ’ s finances when jindal took office in 2008 - when the state enjoyed a $ 1 billion surplus - to today , when the state is facing a looming $ 2 billion projected deficit .
the budget problems in louisiana , a big oil-producing state , stem in part from the global drop in oil prices , in addition to the state ’ s reliance in recent years on one-time money and lower-than-expected revenues .
edwards has proposed several budget fixes , including a 1-cent sales tax hike and increases to alcohol and cigarette taxes .
he would freeze hiring for state workers , reduce state contracts , and cut $ 160 million of state funding .
he has also proposed tapping $ 128 million from the rainy day fund and $ 200 million from non-coastal bp payments to reduce the current year deficit .