during a discussion about sexual harassment charges against fox news host bill o reilly , blogger debbie schlussel was asked by radio host pat cambell of 1170 talk radio if anyone at fox news made her feel uncomfortable ?
or if sexual advances were made on her ?
campbell asked : what do you make of this whole thing ?
schlussel responded , well , only by sean hannity , not by bill o reilly .
campbell stopped her whoa wait , wait , wait !
say that again .
schussed responded : only by sean hannity , not bill o reilly .
although listeners get the sense the whole interview was a set-up , campbell appears shocked by this new sexual harassment allegation being made against sean hannity and asks again , sean hannity what ?
he hit on you , or he made you feel uncomfortable ?
to which schlussel responded , yeah .
she then went on to explain her so-called experience with hannity.after she finished her story where she claims hannity asked her to come back to his hotel , and that she received horrible treatment from him and his executive producer after she declined his offer , she went on to claim that he never booked her on his show again and that she got a very weird feeling about it .
this kind of stuff very uh all over the place at fox news and with anything that has to do with sean hannity .
she then went on to make an infer that hannity s executive producer jill vitale quit the show because sean hannity wanted something from her and she wouldn t give it .
schlussel claimed that everyone should start looking into it because , it s not an above-board story .
here is jill vitale s response to the lie schlussel told radio host pat campbell , when she inferred the reason vitale left hannity s radio show had to do with hannity s inappropriate sexual behavior : i left because i had kids !
https : //t.co/ek81evgkrh jill vitale ( @ flirtyflipper ) april 23 , 2017sean hannity used to tease vitale about being a liberal on his show , which makes her tweet defending bill o reilly very interesting : bill o'reilly 's out .
who 's next ?
jill vitale ( @ flirtyflipper ) april 19 , 2017vitale also advocates for o reilly here where she tweets that nyc s top radio talk show should hire o reilly .
she doesn t exactly sound like a woman who left sean hannity s show because she was victim of sexual harassment : it 'd be a smart decision for @ 77wabcradio to hire him !
https : //t.co/koig93qc7k jill vitale ( @ flirtyflipper ) april 20 , 2017schussed continued to make more accusations during her interview : and it s funny because i have a friend that s a radio host in a different city and , um that used to work for rush limbaugh .
and whenever sean hannity would take about jon edwards and his love child , he would always call me and we would laugh about it because he could ve had a love child too , given that with some of the stuff we ve heard about him and some of the stuff i know about him .
schlussel went on to make another wild claim about hannity , calling him a pimp for roger ailes and a fixer for bill o reilly .
debbie schlussel , a former fox news guest , appeared on a local radio show on friday and recounted an incident where sean hannity purportedly asked her to a hotel , and when she rebuffed his advances , she claims , she was ostracized by the network star .
the story has since gone viral garnering headlines like sean hannity accused of sexually harassing fox news guest in publications like the daily beast and the huffington post .
now , in an interview with lawnewz.com on monday morning , schlussel is denying that she was ever sexually harassed by sean hannity .
while schlussel stands by her description of the incident , schlussel told us that she doesn t believe what happened between the two amounted to sexual harassment by any legal definition .
i would never accuse him of that .
sexual harassment has a special meaning under the law , and i would never accuse him of that , schlussel , an attorney herself , said .
schlussel said the interaction happened in the early 2000 s when hannity was in detroit taping a show .
he tried to get me to go back to the hotel after the show after he and his executive producer bill shine treated me horribly , she said on the radio program .
schlussel later clarified that it wasn t his hotel room , but rather his hotel .
she told lawnewz.com that she did go on the show following the incident , but after that was banned from fox news .
i never thought i was sexually harassed by sean hannity , i thought he was weird and creepy not someone i liked , schlussel said.following the radio interview on friday , hannity issued a strongly worded statement denying schlussel s claims saying he plans to take legal action against schlussel for possible libel .
let me be clear the comments about me on a radio show this week by this individual are 100 % false and a complete fabrication , hannity said in a statement obtained by lawnewz.com .
this individual is a serial harasser who has been lying about me for well over a decade .
the individual has a history of making provably false statements against me in an effort to slander , smear and besmirch my reputation .
the individual has not just slandered me over the years but many people who this individual disagrees with .
schlussel responded to hannity s legal threats , telling lawnewz.com she believed they were laughable , and that she is also contemplating countersuing him based on his statements on sunday in which he called her a serial harasser .
it s defamatory , schussel said , everything i said was true , and truth is an absolute bar to defamation .
he on the other hand has a murky record on truth .
the accuser has a history of making allegations against hannity .
back in 2010 , schlussel , who gawker claimed at the time was a crazy birther blogger , wrote a blog post claiming that the freedom alliance , a war veteran charity , which is supported by hannity , was skimming donations , and was all a huge scam .
according to a 2010 letter obtained by lawnewz.com , thomas kilgannon , the charity s founder and president , fired back in a note to donors : the blog posting accuses our friend sean hannity of personally benefiting from freedom alliance .
this is false .
freedom alliance has never provided planes , hotels , cars , limos , or anything else to sean .
sean gets nothing from freedom alliance except our gratitude for his personal generosity and for all he has done to help the troops and our organization .
hannity has reportedly donated more than a million dollars to the charity over the last several years .
lawznewz