nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s opposition national super alliance said on sunday that one of its key strategists had been arrested in kwale , in the country s coastal region , and that his whereabouts were unknown .
the alliance said economist david ndii had been taken away from the diani area late on sunday .
the family was told that he had been taken to the diani beach police station , but when they went there they were told he was not there nor did they know where he was .
no reason was given for his arrest , salim lone , an adviser for raila odinga , the coalition s leader , said in a statement .
nasa lawyers from nairobi and the coast are trying to locate where he is being held , he said , referring to the coalition by its acronyms .
charles owino , a police spokesman , said he was unaware of ndii s arrest , as were police in kwale .
police have confirmed they have david ndii at diani police station .
but they want to go back to his leopard beach hotel in kwale and pick the computer and laptop for the information they need , dennis onyango , odinga s spokesman , said on twitter .
president uhuru kenyatta defeated odinga in august , but odinga challenged the election and a court voided the results , citing procedural irregularities , and ordered a fresh vote .
the court s decision was the first of its kind in africa .
odinga boycotted the october repeat poll , saying the country s election commission had failed to carry out sufficient reforms .
kenyatta won with 98 percent of the vote .
last week , odinga said he planned to have a people s assembly swear him in on dec. 12 - the country s independence day - raising the prospect for confrontation with security forces .
lone said that ndii had been appointed chairman of a steering committee for the steering committee organizing for odinga s planned swearing in .
why has @ davidndii been arrested and where is he being held ?
is he being permitted to speak to his lawyer ?
is the rule of law and due process being respected ?
isaac okero , the president of law society of kenya , said on twitter .
kenya is a regional hub for trade , diplomacy and security .
the prolonged election season disrupted its economy as investors waited to see the outcome .