washington ( reuters ) - only six more nations need to ratify an amendment to a nuclear security convention that would make it legally binding for countries to tighten protection of nuclear facilities and materials , the head of the international atomic energy agency said on wednesday .
iaea director yukiya amano told reporters that the measure should take effect “ in the near future ” after serbia and the marshall islands formally ratified it on wednesday and more countries were expected to submit paperwork on thursday or friday .
it was not immediately clear which countries they were .
amano , in washington for president barack obama ’ s fourth and final nuclear security summit this week , said the ratification would be “ a very important step up ... in nuclear security. ” pakistan ratified the amendment last week .
“ entry into force would reduce the likelihood of terrorists being able to detonate a radioactive dispersal device , otherwise known as a ‘ dirty bomb , ’ ” amano said in a speech in washington earlier wednesday .
amano has pressed hard to advance the amendment to the convention on the physical protection of nuclear material , which was adopted by 152 member countries a decade ago .
two thirds of the members , or 102 countries , must ratify the long-delayed measure for it to take effect .
the amendment makes it legally binding for countries to protect nuclear facilities , as well as the domestic use , storage and transportation of nuclear material .
it provides for expanded cooperation among countries on finding and recovering stolen or smuggled nuclear material .
states would be required to minimize any radiological consequences of sabotage , and to prevent and combat any such offenses .
amano said that more work was needed in making the amendment universal , which would help ensure that all countries with nuclear capabilities - including north korea - adhered to the measure , not just those countries that had ratified the measure .
the iaea director said he favored organizing a separate conference to review the amendment once it took effect .