berlin ( reuters ) - the bavarian sister party of german chancellor angela merkel s christian democratic union ( cdu ) has said her conservative bloc must agree policies on immigration , pensions and healthcare before opening coalition negotiations with two other parties .
leaders of bavaria s christian social union ( csu ) - stung by a drop in support of more than 10 percent in the sept. 24 election - have redoubled their push for a 200,000 per year cap on immigration , a demand that merkel has rejected , complicating her efforts to form a new government .
merkel s bloc of the cdu and csu , which have worked as partners for decades , hung onto their position as the largest group in parliament after a sept. 24 vote , despite seeing their combined support fall to its lowest since 1949 .
they must find coalition partners to build a government , with the most likely path toward a majority being an alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens .
csu leader horst seehofer said the conservative allies could not begin negotiating with the other parties until they resolved their own position on major issues , the sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper reported on monday .
it quoted the bavarian premier , who is fending off calls for his own resignation , as saying the two parties faced their biggest challenge since 1976 - when his predecessor franz-josef strauss threatened for weeks to break up the alliance .
seehofer , whose biggest challenger is bavarian finance minister markus soeder , a hardliner on immigration , will meet merkel and other top officials on sunday , with top officials in merkel s cdu split on the need for a rightward shift .
the conflict inside the conservative camp is straining merkel s already difficult task of bringing together parties with big differences on energy , europe , migration and taxes .
armin laschet , premier of germany s most populous region , north rhine-westphalia , told the handelsblatt newspaper that the migrant cap sought by csu leaders was unacceptable .
but he suggested a compromise could be found that included some ballpark figures .
laschet also said the greens would have to step back from some of their hardline environmentalist demands .
the cdu s leader in the eastern state of thuringia on monday argued against the rightward shift demanded by the csu and the conservative premiers of two states - saxony and saxony-anhalt - where the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party made big gains in sunday s national elections .
our job is to fence ourselves off against the left and the right , mike mohring told reuters .
manfred weber , deputy leader of the csu and head of the center-right group in the eu parliament , told deutschlandfunk radio it was important to avoid setting red lines before the coalition talks , given the urgent need to win back afd voters .
weber said he expected all mainstream parties to focus on preventing the anti-immigrant afd from gaining a permanent foothold in the german parliament .
he said a three-way coalition among conservatives , greens and the fdp , dubbed a jamaica coalition since the parties colors match those of the black , green and yellow jamaican flag , offered a chance to build consensus on other issues such as energy and agriculture .
jamaica offers us a chance ... to embark on a new start , he said .
the csu is ready to do that .
merkel has sought to keep the door open for a renewal of her grand coalition with the social democrats that has ruled for the past four years , but the spd is determined to stay in opposition after suffering its worst result since 1933 .
we got 20.5 percent of the vote .
that is not a mandate to govern , spd secretary general hubertus heil told broadcaster ard on monday .
he accused the other parties of stalling coalition talks until after a state election due on oct. 15 in lower saxony .
they want to govern , now they should govern , he said .
a new poll by the hannoversche allgemeine zeitung newspaper showed the cdu and spd nearly tied in lower saxony , with 33.1 percent and 32.8 percent , respectively .