washington ( reuters ) - a group that wanted to draft house speaker paul ryan as a republican presidential candidate is shutting down , a day after ryan ’ s political operation sent the organization a cease-and-desist letter demanding it halt its campaign .
in a statement on friday the committee to draft speaker ryan said it had become “ increasingly clear that the committee ’ s efforts , however well intended , could become an unwanted distraction to the speaker ’ s current responsibilities. ” ryan , a wisconsin congressman who was mitt romney ’ s vice-presidential running mate on the republicans ’ 2012 ticket , has said he does not want to run for president this year and disavowed the draft ryan group .
with establishment republicans desperately searching for a way to stop real estate businessman and former reality tv personality donald trump ’ s march toward the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election , ryan ’ s name has been mentioned often as an alternative .
but ryan ’ s political operation , in a letter sent thursday , told the draft ryan group it should not be “ misleading people into supporting your organization ” and warned of legal risk , saying it believed the group ’ s actions “ may constitute fraudulent solicitation of funds. ” in its statement friday , the committee acknowledged that neither ryan nor his allies had sanctioned the group .
“ nor was this , as it was incorrectly described in some media reports , an ‘ establishment ’ effort to oppose any candidate currently running for president , ” the statement said .
the effort had been funded by earle mack , a former u.s. ambassador to finland .
mack had told the new york times that he would spend up to $ 1 million on the draft ryan committee .
the organization had wanted to advance the idea that if the republican convention to formally nominate the party ’ s candidate was contested , “ the best person to lead our country would be speaker paul ryan , ” the statement said .
it said the group had received a “ resounding response from around the country ” and was confident that if it had stayed in operation , it would have surpassed its goal of collecting 1 million signatures on an online petition to draft ryan .
a spokesman for ryan said in response to friday ’ s announcement that ryan was grateful for mack ’ s “ passion. ” “ he ( mack ) cares deeply about the future of our country .
speaker ryan does too , and that ’ s why he is focused on advancing a bold policy agenda with his house colleagues to unify our party and turn around our country , ” the spokesman said .
the draft ryan group was only registered with the u.s. federal election commission last week as a super pac , an independent political action committee that may raise unlimited sums of money .
( reporting by susan cornwell ; editing by grant mccool ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .