this nightmare could have all been prevented if america was able to look past their unwarranted white guilt for one second , and realize they were electing a second rate community agitator , with sealed records and a questionable birth certificate if donald trump wins the republican nomination and defeats likely democratic nominee hillary clinton in november , president obama will sabotage the economy in his final months in office , predicts talk-radio host michael savage .
if trump wins and i think he will there will be an economic crash , savage told listeners of his nationally syndicated show , the savage nation , monday .
the reason i say that is not because of his policies , but because of what obama will do on the way out the door .
savage said that if anyone thinks that a president trump will be able to easily turn this huge ship around , you don t know much about navigation in turbulent waters .
wait until you see what happens in the last few months if trump wins , savage said .
wait until you see what that nice guy in the white house does .
( federal reserve chairman janet ) yellen ups interest rates , obama and his band of unmerry pranksters sharpton and company unleash the mobs , savage said .
( george ) soros makes a last-ditch effort to distract trump and the new justice department from currency manipulation and other financial games he may have been playing .
spends tens of millions on social agitation .
obama floods the u.s. with central americans , syrians and africans , mainly muslim , mainly young males , and grants pardons to 10,000 more central american drug dealers , savage continued .
let s see what else might these decent americans do ?
release a few more billion pork barrel green projects ?
you can guess !
prior to his remarks about obama s final days in office , savage told his listeners he believed trump would defeat clinton in a landslide , describing the former secretary of state , senator and first lady as fidel castro in a dress .
savage cited the new rasmussen poll of likely voters showing trump with a 41-39 lead over clinton nationally .
and this is only an early poll , savage noted on his show monday .
i said a long time ago that when it comes down to trump vs. clinton , he would win by a landslide , 60-40 , 59-41 , something like that .
no matter how many illegal aliens obama tried to flood into this country , trump will win by a landslide , he said.in february , savage warned that the banking deregulation under the bill clinton administration that led to the 2008 recession appears to be on the verge of impacting the economy again .
we re being set up for an economic meltdown similar to the one that triggered the great depression , he said.this time , however , savage continued , it s going to occur on a global scale , and it s unlikely that we ll be able to recover within even the next several decades , once it happens .
for entire story : wnd