because books written by authors like ernest hemingway , william shakespeare , mark twain and john steinbeck are so-o-o-o overrated and so culturally irrelevant chicago area schools are replacing white male authors on student reading lists with minority and women authors who delve into themes like power , justice , humanity and social responsibility .
i think yes , book lists in schools are sexist , but i don t think it s the school s fault , senior sarah eiden told the gapers block book club blog .
i think it s because we still think good literature is only written by white males , which simply isn t true .
i do see though that teachers are trying to change that .
new trier high school english teacher scott campbell is among them .
when we think about summer reading books or adding a new book to a course , we re often looking for woman or people of color , he told the site.it s some teachers way of countering the prevalence of white male authors who penned classics like the great gatsby , lord of the flies , the catcher in the rye and of mice and men , campbell said .
women a hundred or so years ago were not encouraged or expected that they might write , so we re left with literature that seems unbalanced and institutionalized , almost in the way we talk about racism , he said .
women haven t been championed as writers generally , campbell said .
this is just one of the after-effects of male domination .
john hancock college prep english teacher and curriculum coordinator natalie garfield seems to share campbell s perspective.she hunts out books that are more culturally relevant to students at the school than classic books written by white male authors .
at the end of their high school career , a kid can pick up any new book and potentially have been exposed to anything like it based on the wide spectrum of texts we offer here , garfield told gapers block .
( you ) make changes and reflect the times and kids in front of you .
those changes include books like the absolutely true diary of a part-time indian , which is actually a fictionalized story about a 14-year-old native american teen that attends a mostly white high school with themes of alcoholism , sexuality , violence and bullying , according to the blog.other titles like always running : la vida loca , gang days in l.a. focuses on gang life , unemployment , drug addiction , incarceration and suicide .
but in the end , it s a positive , uplifting story of a man who realizes his potential as a chicano activist and artist and manages to turn his life around , gapers block reports .
this book gives readers a raw look at what it meant to be latino in los angeles during the 80s and how community involvement can truly impact marginalized groups .
some student told the site they appreciate that teachers are catering reading lists to their culture by replacing books written by white male authors with minority-penned prose.hancock senior lisseth perez said books on hispanics offered in the past are from a white person s perspective .
we come from a hispanic culture , but enven when they give us hispanic books , it s more like , just hispanic people trying to fit into a white community , perez said .
it s the same book over and over : hispanic kid wants to go into the white community and not get looked down upon .
it s the same story with women , hancock junior sandra rodriquez told gapers block .
these books just talk about men and men and men .
and they never actually show women actually doing something , she griped .
you have to read something you feel good about .
via : eag news