( reuters ) - financial market concerns are rising about the pace of policymaking in washington under u.s. president donald trump and fellow republicans in congress , with investors focused on knock-on effects from any setbacks in trump ’ s obamacare rollback plan .
trump set sky-high expectations on the campaign trail and after taking office , not only for repealing and replacing obamacare but also for cutting taxes , reducing business regulations and boosting infrastructure .
after eight weeks in power , trump has not introduced any major legislation or won passage of legislation he favors .
the republican healthcare bill he supports was facing resistance from members of his own party , as well as democrats , ahead of a vote on it expected in the house of representatives on thursday .
market analysts have been expecting trump and the republicans to complete confirmation of his supreme court nominee by early april ; repeal obamacare by mid-may ; pass a budget resolution by late june ; and reform the tax code by year-end .
analysts this week expressed doubt about those targets .
here is a look at key 2017 dates coming up on the washington policy calendar that could influence trump ’ s agenda .
march 23 : vote expected in the house on republicans ’ obamacare rollback bill .
april 3 : senate judiciary committee expected to vote on supreme court nominee neil gorsuch , sending nomination to full senate .
april 7 : start of two-week congressional recess .
april 18 : early check on u.s. voters ’ assessment of trump in special election in georgia to fill a vacant house seat .
april 28 : spending authority for government under continuing budget resolution expires , requiring congressional action .
may 25 : trump attends nato summit in brussels .
may 26 : trump attends g-7 conference in italy .
congress adjourns for one-week memorial day holiday recess .
june 14 : federal open market committee ( fomc ) meeting , chairman janet yellen holds news conference .
june 20 : georgia special election runoff .
june 30 : congress adjourns for one-week independence day holiday recess .
july 7-8 : trump attends g20 summit in germany .
july 28 : congress adjourns for five-week summer recess .
sept. 20 : fomc meeting and yellen news conference .
oct. 1 : fiscal 2018 starts , requiring a new government spending resolution from congress or a shutdown .
october-november : treasury department ’ s “ extraordinary measures ” to avoid the federal debt ceiling are projected to run out .
nov. 7 : election day for governor ’ s races in virginia and new jersey .
nov. 25 : trump expected to attend asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in vietnam .
dec. 13 : fomc meeting and yellen news conference .