new york ( reuters ) - many americans view islam unfavorably , and supporters of republican presidential candidate donald trump are more than twice as likely to view the religion negatively as those backing democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton , according to a reuters/ipsos online poll of more than 7,000 americans .
it shows that 37 percent of american adults have a “ somewhat unfavorable ” or “ very unfavorable ” view of islam .
this includes 58 percent of trump supporters and 24 percent of clinton supporters , a contrast largely mirrored by the breakdown between republicans and democrats .
by comparison , respondents overall had an equally unfavorable view of atheism at 38 percent , compared with 21 percent for hinduism , 16 percent for judaism and 8 percent for christianity .
spokespeople for trump and clinton declined to comment .
the poll took place before an attacker on thursday drove his truck into a holiday crowd in nice , france , killing more than 80 people in what president francois hollande called a terrorist act .
police sources said the driver , while linked to common crimes , was not on a watch list of intelligence services and no islamist militant group immediately claimed responsibility for the attack .
the race for the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election has put a spotlight on americans ’ views of muslims with trump proposing a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
he repeated the proposal after omar mateen , a new york-born muslim armed with an assault rifle , killed 49 people in an attack on a florida gay nightclub last month .
the ideological divide between trump and clinton supporters is set against a backdrop of increasing violence and discrimination against muslims in the united states .
the poll shows 78 percent of trump supporters and 36 percent of clinton supporters said that when compared to other religions , islam was more likely to encourage acts of terrorism .
trump supporters were also about twice as likely as clinton supporters to say that islam was more encouraging of violence toward americans , women and gay people .
polling on none of the other belief systems and their perceived connection to terrorism or violence came close to matching those numbers .
clinton has called for a more inclusive environment within american society and for a joint effort between the u.s. government and muslim countries to battle the spread of islamist militancy .
she has criticized trump ’ s harsh statements about muslims and mexicans while trump has bemoaned what he calls american society ’ s devotion to political correctness .
graphic : tmsnrt.rs/29ipj6l party affiliation accounted for the deepest division among americans where their views on muslims were concerned .
respondents ’ status as rich or poor , young or old , or male or female did not offer as pronounced an overall view as did their identification as democrats or republicans .
“ if it was true that trump did not represent republicans broadly defined , you would think republicans would look different ; they don ’ t , ” said douglas mcadam , a sociology professor at stanford university who studies american politics .
“ it goes against the claims of the ( former presidential candidate ) mitt romneys of the world , that trump is not really a republican , that he doesn ’ t represent the republican party .
he seems to be resonating with republicans generally. ” according to the council on american-islamic relations , a muslim civil rights group , attacks on american muslims and on mosques in the united states rose in 2015 to their highest level ever recorded .
the group said 31 incidents of damage or destruction of mosques were reported ; there were 11 incidents in which a muslim person was the target of a slur or another kind of harassment .
the reuters/ipsos poll ran in all 50 states from june 14 to july 6 .
it included 7,473 american adults and has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 1 percentage point .