raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - in the gutted four-storey building that he and five other u.s.-backed fighters have turned into a frontline fortress , babel can peer out at islamic state positions just 150 meters away .
the jihadist militants expected to make a last stand for this stronghold of their self-proclaimed caliphate are cornered and desperate here in raqqa , the city on the euphrates river that has served as their de-facto syrian capital since 2014 .
let daesh come - we re ready for them .
we have explosives to drop downstairs , said babel , which is his nom de guerre .
he and his fellow members of the u.s.-backed syrian defense forces have occupied the frontline building for three weeks and are now preparing for a final showdown with islamic state , the group also known as isis , isil or daesh .
the sdf fighters position is well prepared in case the cornered is militants attempt an attack .
the front porch steps have been demolished , leaving a drop to the basement that can be crossed only by climbing a section of iron fence - a makeshift ladder , which the defenders can pull up .
inside , plastic bottles have been strewn across the floor to squeak when stepped on and alert them to intruders .
after months of intense fighting and heavy u.s. bombardment , the sdf have surrounded islamic state militants in a small part of the city .
as the kurdish and arab militias of the sdf close in and u.s.-led air raids increase , they expect fierce fighting to mark the final stages of the campaign .
daesh regularly launch small raids , even behind our position .
yesterday they attacked the building opposite and tried to push toward us .
we killed a few and they retreated to the hospital , babel said .
sdf units have a clear view over the raqqa hospital , one of islamic state s last strongholds in the city , from a line of buildings they occupy to its northwest .
apartment blocks between them and the hospital have been flattened by air strikes .
commanders say the hospital and a nearby stadium , where the jihadists are said to be holding civilian hostages , will be where they make their last stand .
babel s unit are holding the front line ahead of an anticipated final push , firing at militants whenever they can spot them .
the last few nights they ve been shining spotlights from the hospital towards our lines , so we can t really see , he said .
another fighter in the unit said sniper fire from islamic state had recently reduced , possibly as a means of conserving ammunition for more intense fighting to come .
an sdf field commander said on sunday assaults were to begin soon as part of a final push against islamic state , focused initially on surrounding the stadium .
the hospital is already encircled .
daesh is amassing , preparing to fight .
this is the last stage , so they ll resist and then surrender or die , the commander who gave his name as ardal raqqa said .
u.s. coalition spokesman ryan dillon was more cautious about calling the current stage of the offensive a final assault .
whether this is the final assault or an assault , i won t characterize it either way , dillon said by phone .
the fight was concentrated around the complex which was the national hospital and the stadium , he said .
the sdf predicted ahead of a major push in june that it could take just weeks to drive islamic state out of raqqa .
that has proven overly optimistic , with the militants holding out for months so far .
their use of civilians for cover , tunnels to launch counter attacks , snipers and countless booby traps have slowed sdf advances .
many are being wounded , especially by snipers .
daesh snipers often shoot to wound , not to kill , so they can target whoever comes to save an injured comrade , babel said .
one shaken sdf fighter in a nearby base last week showed cuts on his face from where a sniper bullet had ricocheted .
both the u.s. spokesman dillon and the sdf fighter babel said that some islamic state fighters were surrendering .
the other day a saudi fighter escaped and handed himself over .
the guys who surrender usually have families , babel said .
interrogations of surrendering militants revealed is had dug a tunnel between the hospital and stadium , he said .
dillon said several is militants and leaders had surrendered in recent weeks .
it is a growing trend , he said .
at the front line , sdf fighters said morale was high .
one fighter belted pop music to other units over his walkie talkie .
hopefully we ll be done soon , babel said .