chishawasha , zimbabwe ( reuters ) - robert mugabe s face glowed with relief when he agreed to step down as zimbabwe s president last week under pressure from the military and his party after 37 years in power , the priest who mediated his resignation said on sunday .
father fidelis mukonori , a jesuit priest who is a close mugabe friend , laughed off a report by the privately owned standard newspaper that mugabe cried and lamented the betrayal by close lieutenants when he agreed to resign .
when he finished his signature his face just glowed , no weeping unless there were angels weeping somewhere , mukonori told reuters after mass at the chishawasha catholic mission just outside the capital harare .
for me it was a sign that he was accepting that ah this is done , he is relieved , not that he is aggrieved but relieved .
he said mugabe realized it was the end of the road two days before he resigned , when he saw 60,000 zimbabweans protesting and demanding he quit at the harare grounds where he was inaugurated as prime minister in 1980 .
his signed resignation letter was read out on tuesday , as parliament heard a motion to impeach him .
sources have told reuters mugabe was defiant when he met army top brass on nov. 16 - which was the start of an extraordinary five-day standoff between mugabe and zimbabwe s supreme law on one side , and the military who had seized power , his party and zimbabwe s people on the other .
the 93-year-old president finally accepted defeat only after he was sacked by his zanu-pf party and faced the ignominy of impeachment .
mugabe s fall after 37 years in power was spurred by a battle to succeed him that pitted his former deputy emmerson mnangagwa , who had stood by him for 52 years , and mugabe s wife grace , who is 52 .
mnangagwa was sworn in as president on friday and all eyes now are on whether he will name a broad-based government or select figures from mugabe s era .
mukonori said mugabe had wanted a gradual and smooth transition of power to mnangagwa , whom he had fired as vice president two weeks ago , but this was thwarted after mnangagwa failed to immediately return from exile in south africa .
the standard newspaper , which has been critical of mugabe and his government over the years , urged mnangagwa to walk the talk on graft .
at his swearing in ceremony , mnangagwa said he valued democracy , tolerance and the rule of law and would tackle corruption .
he has also urged citizens not to undertake vengeful retribution .
the new government is already moving to bring some of mugabe and his wife s close associates to court .
former finance minister ignatius chombo faced magistrates on saturday on corruption charges .
he did not enter a plea .
chombo was among several members of a group allied to grace who were detained and expelled from the zanu-pf after the military seized power in operation restore legacy which it said was meant to remove the criminals around mugabe .
chombo , who told the court he was forcibly removed from his home on nov. 15 by armed men in military uniform , was detained until monday when his bail application will be heard .
he was led away in leg irons together with ousted head of the zanu-pf s influential youth league kudzanai chipanga .