columbia , s.c. ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton crushed rival bernie sanders at the south carolina primary on saturday , propelling her into next week ’ s crucial “ super tuesday ” voting in 11 states on a wave of momentum .
the rout of sanders solidified clinton ’ s status as the strong front-runner to capture the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 election in her quest to become america ’ s first woman president .
with nearly half of the votes counted in south carolina , clinton led sanders by a 50-point margin , dramatically reversing her 28-point loss in the state to president barack obama during their bitter 2008 primary battle .
the former secretary of state ’ s victory decisively established her strength among black voters , a crucial democratic constituency who make up more than half of the party ’ s primary electorate in south carolina .
after the win , clinton appeared to be looking ahead to a general-election matchup with republican front-runner donald trump , the billionaire whose campaign slogan is “ make america great again ” and has called for building a wall on the border with mexico .
“ despite what you hear , we don ’ t need to make america great again , america has never stopped being great , ” she told cheering supporters in columbia after the win .
“ instead of building walls , we need to be tearing down barriers. ” the result was clinton ’ s third victory in the first four democratic contests , and raised more questions about whether sanders , the democratic socialist u.s. senator from vermont , will be able to expand his support beyond his base of predominantly white liberals .
“ today you sent a message , ” clinton said .
“ in america , when we stand together , there is no barrier too big to break. ” sanders admitted defeat early in the night .
“ let me be clear on one thing tonight .
this campaign is just beginning .
we won a decisive victory in new hampshire .
she won a decisive victory in south carolina .
now it ’ s on to super tuesday , ” sanders said in a statement .
the democratic race now becomes a broader national contest .
eleven states , including six in the south with large minority populations where polls show clinton with big leads , will vote on super tuesday and four more over the next weekend .
“ tomorrow , this campaign goes national , ” clinton said .
clinton ’ s camp was hoping a big win in south carolina , after more narrow victories in iowa and nevada and sanders ’ clear win in new hampshire , will set her up for a big night on tuesday , when about 875 delegates will be up for grabs , more than one-third of those needed to win the nomination .
sanders , who has energized the party ’ s liberal wing and brought young people to the polls with his message of attacking income equality and reining in wall street , needs a breakthrough win in a key state in the next few weeks to keep his hopes alive .
“ the door is closing fast for bernie sanders , ” unaligned democratic strategist chris kofinis said .
“ movement candidates are about momentum and excitement , and losses sap that momentum .
that ’ s his problem right now. ” recognizing his steep odds in south carolina , sanders had spent most of the past week in states that will vote in march .
as the results rolled in on saturday , he was scheduled to hold a rally in the “ super tuesday ” state of minnesota .
( additional reporting by alana wise in washington ; editing by alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .