geneva ( reuters ) - the u.n. human rights committee on thursday gave democratic republic of congo a year to report on actions it has taken to hold free and fair elections and clean up its rights record .
the united nations watchdog , whose 18 independent experts monitor countries compliance with a global human rights treaty , said congo should come back with an explanation by nov. 10 , 2018 , rather than after the regular four years between reviews .
congo should cooperate with all stakeholders to establish an agreed electoral calendar for the holding of free , peaceful and honest elections as soon as possible , the committee said in its report on the central african country .
congo s electoral commission said on sunday the election to replace president joseph kabila , originally scheduled for late 2016 and repeatedly delayed , would be held on dec. 23 , 2018 .
the main opposition parties have rejected the date , saying it broke the law and an agreement to go to the polls this year .
the african union has said the new electoral timetable must be scrupulously respected and u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley has said citizens are hungry for democracy and new leadership .
further delays and attempts to hold onto power will only serve to isolate the drc s leaders and government , she said on monday .
the u.n. committee s report also said kabila s government should put an end to intimidation and human rights violations against opposition candidates , and ensure they were protected .
the government should take steps to make judges , officials and the public aware of the rights guaranteed by the u.n. treaty , it said , listing shortcomings such as the treatment of women and indigenous minorities , torture , extrajudicial killings , child labor and arbitrary detention .
sexual violence was persistent both in peaceful areas and in conflict zones , where it was used as a weapon of war by armed groups and by congolese soldiers alike , the committee said .
it was particularly concerned about the situation in the kasai region , where the united nations has said a rebel militia largely composed of children has been confronted by a militia suspected of a campaign of ethnic massacres and rapes .
the united nations has set up a fact-finding mission to investigate the kasai atrocities , although the government has insisted congo s justice system is in charge .
it has acknowledged isolated human rights violations in the kasai conflict and other conflict zones but denies its troops systematically use disproportionate force .
but the u.n. committee said congo s national human rights commission was unable to operate outside kinshasa , had received no funds since march 2017 , and was not regarded as independent .