amman ( reuters ) - a senior commander defected to turkey on wednesday from the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , a leading combatant in the fight against islamic state , syrian rebel officials said , in the first such departure from its higher ranks .
they said brigadier general talal silo handed himself in at dawn to the free syrian army ( fsa ) , an adversary of the sdf , near jarablus city in northern syria where he was then escorted to turkey , which backs some fsa groups in that area .
the officials gave no reason for move by silo , who was the sdf spokesman , but it follows months of growing discontent by some arab tribes with the sdf , an alliance of kurdish and arab forces that is dominated by the kurdish ypg .
many local arab tribes in areas controlled by the sdf complain they are marginalized in decision making and blame the ypg for discrimination against them , including the forced conscription of their youths .
the ypg denies these allegation .
silo was secretly coordinating with commanders from the fsa and when he entered areas under their control he then crossed into turkish territory , said ibrahim al-idlibi , an fsa spokesman .
kurdish fighters , alongside arab allies , u.s. advisers and coalition jets , have driven islamic state from swathes of territory including its former syrian headquarters in raqqa city .
the kurdish ypg militia and its political allies have carved out autonomous cantons in the north , and now control nearly a quarter of syria .
their influence angers neighbor turkey , which considers the ypg an extension of the banned kurdistan workers party that has fought a decades-long insurgency on turkish soil .
the u.s.-led coalition said it was aware of reports of talal silo s apparent departure from the sdf , but have no further details on his current status at this time .
reuters could not immediately reach the sdf for comment .
u.s.-backed militias and the syrian army have been advancing in separate offensives against islamic state in eastern syria , piling pressure on a small stretch of remaining territory the group still holds in oil-rich areas near the iraqi border .