kampala ( reuters ) - ugandan police raided the office of a local newspaper , detaining staff and confiscating equipment on allegations it had published an inaccurate story , the paper s lawyer and police said on wednesday .
the day before the tuesday evening raid , red pepper , uganda s leading tabloid , published a story alleging that rwanda believed president yoweri museveni of uganda was plotting to oust president paul kagame .
the article cited unnamed sources .
the government said there were no tensions between uganda and rwanda .
police spokesman emirian kayima said eight managers and editors at the newspaper s kampala head office were detained after police searched the paper s kampala office and confiscated computers and mobile phones .
kayima said the eight staff were being held at a detention facility in eastern uganda and would appear in court when investigations were complete .
he said the story contained serious statements and insinuations ... that have grave implications on national and regional security and stability .
the paper s lawyer maxma mutabingwa said uniformed police told red pepper staff during the search that they wanted material and information on a story published on monday .
he said some managers homes were also searched but gave no details .
red pepper was not published on wednesday and staff had not been allowed to access the offices since the raid , mutabingwa said .
human rights groups say harassment of independent media by security personnel has been escalating in the east african country where museveni , 73 , has ruled for 31 years .
local media including red pepper have reported this month on tensions between uganda and neighboring rwanda over a range of economic and security disputes .
there s no tension between uganda and rwanda ... we have no problem at all ( with rwanda ) , uganda s foreign affairs ministry spokeswoman , margaret kafeero , told reuters .
she said uganda had not received any official complaint from rwanda regarding any allegations of a plot against kagame and that the reports in ugandan media were rumors .
relations between the two countries are often complicated by a shared history which has by turns been a source of mutual suspicion and amity .
kagame , the rwandan leader , grew up as a refugee in uganda and also occupied a top position in the ugandan army after serving in the guerrilla movement that helped museveni take power in 1986 .
the rwandan leader launched his own rebellion from uganda that ushered him into power and halted a genocide in rwanda in which an estimated 800,000 people were killed .