( reuters ) - the following are stories and tables about president donald trump ’ s proposed budget for the fiscal year 2018 starting oct. 1 , unveiled by the white house on monday and due to be delivered to congress on tuesday .
main story - trump ’ s first full budget would slash funding for healthcare and food assistance programs that help the poor while it trims the deficit .
the plan - if agreed to by congress - would cut $ 3.6 trillion in government spending over 10 years , balancing the budget by the end of the decade .
more than $ 800 billion would be cut from the medicaid program for the poor , and more than $ 192 billion from food stamps .
the wall - trump is asking congress for $ 1.6 billion for fiscal 2018 to begin building a wall along the border with mexico , far short of the amount needed for a project sharply criticized by democrats and even some conservative republicans .
an internal department of homeland security plan has estimated the wall ’ s total cost at $ 21.6 billion .
agriculture - the white house budget proposed $ 46.54 billion in cuts to federal funding for the agriculture sector over the next 10 years , with the biggest cut in the form of a $ 38 billion bite out of farm supports , including new limits on subsidies for crop insurance premiums and caps for commodity payments .
foreign outlays - the trump administration ’ s budget proposal would convert some of the united states ’ foreign military grants to loans , part of a larger effort to slash spending on diplomacy , aid and programs abroad by more than 29 percent .
energy - trump ’ s white house would sell half of the nation ’ s emergency oil stockpile and open the alaska national wildlife refuge to drilling as part of a plan to balance the budget over the next 10 years and ramp up american energy output .
financial regulation - two wall street financial regulators , the consumer financial protection bureau and the securities and exchange commission , would face cuts or major structural changes under trump ’ s budget proposal .
the cfpb , created to protect borrowers from predatory lending , would undergo a “ restructure ” that would cut the federal deficit by $ 145 million , while the sec , which polices securities markets , would have its reserve fund used to supplement its budget .
assumptions - trump ’ s promise to balance the federal budget in a decade rests on a sustained rise to 3 percent annual economic growth and a vague “ feedback ” effect that lowers the annual deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars .
the projections are a leap of faith that many economists and the federal reserve regard as unlikely .
economy - a table detailing the main economic forecasts underlying the budget proposal deficit - a table detailing the deficit projections from the budget proposal