this is an old video that exposes so much about the phony race issues that obama and the robinson s ( michelle s maiden name ) seem to be so obsessed with .
please watch this very informative video to the end .
you will see pictures of obama s white uncle and aunt that , for some reason , have been hidden from plain site .
there is also an interesting picture of barack s extended white and asian family .
why did the press work so hard to keep these photos , and this video hidden during his campaign and presidency ?
it s pretty clear that barack learned how to work the system from his father/sperm donor , barack hussein obama sr .
but life changed dramatically when he was only two , and his father abandoned his wife and son to accept a scholarship at harvard .
after completing his phd , obama sr. returned to kenya .
barry saw his father only one more time when he was 10 and his father returned to hawaii for a visit.at age 6 , young barry did gain a stepfather .
his mother met and married a muslim graduate student at the university of hawaii who was from indonesia .
barry and his mother moved to indonesia and soon , a half-sister was born .
indonesia s poverty and its politics , which had victimized ( is it possible to be a part of barack s life if you re not a victim ? )
his step-father , left a lasting impression on the young bi-racial child trying to fit into yet another culture.it was in indonesia where barry first saw magazine stories and ads about blacks bleaching their skin .
that was ( apparently ) when he realized , ( at the age of 10 yrs ) there were power relationships in race .
so when most boys barry s age are worrying about building tree forts , catching frogs , riding their bikes or securing the neighborhood paper delivery job , barack was concerned with power relationships in race ?
really ? punahou occupies a privileged position , not just on the hillside , but in hawaii society .
in his memoir , dreams from my father , barack obama recalled how his grandfather pulled strings to get him in .
[ f ] or my grandparents , my admission into punahou academy heralded the start of something grand , an elevation in the family status that they took great pains to let everyone know , obama wrote.for generations , punahou educated the children of plantation owners , businessmen and politicians .
pal eldredge graduated from punahou in the 1960s .
in the beginning , we were known as the haole school , says eldredge.haole is hawaiian for foreigner or white person .
eldredge says that when young obama arrived as a fifth-grader in 1971 , the school s complexion was just beginning to change .
we didn t have a lot of african-americans .
so your first thing is , oh , we ve got an african-american .
terrific !
says eldredge.he was teaching at punahou at the time , and he remembers the future president as a pudgy , cheerful kid .
he used to wear these shorts and striped t-shirts a lot , and sandals .
but after you got to know him , not only was he a bright student , but he was just a funny , all-around kid , and everybody liked him , says eldredge.as usual , barry can turn a story of privilege into a story of victimhood like nobody s business : in his memoir , obama dwells on moments at punahou when his race made him feel conspicuous , such as the time he was teased for playing with the only other black child in his grade .
when i looked up , i saw a group of children , faceless before the glare of the sun , pointing down at us .
coretta has a boyfriend !
coretta has a boyfriend !
obama writes.in the book , obama s struggles with racial identity grow as he reaches high school , and he recalls intense discussions with another black student , an embittered boy he calls ray .
ray is really keith kakugawa .
he s part black , part japanese.kakugawa says he and young obama did have some heart-to-hearts about race but , in general , it wasn t a big issue at the school because punahou kids had to stick together .
because we knew once we left that school , there was a target on our backs .
no matter what race you are , you re punahou .
you re the rich , white kids .
period , kakugawa says .
he wasn t raised black , because he was raised in a white family , and raised as if he were a white boy . '
-barack obama s unclereporter asks obama : were you essentially raised as a white child ?
obama : no .
i don t think so .
i mean i was raised as an indonesian child , and as a hawaiian child and as a black and white child .
sorry barry wrong again !
as much as you try to deny it , you were not only raised as a white child , but a white child with more privilege than 90 % of the rest of the white population .
you were in the 1 % of the white population , but you quickly learned to take advantage of all the benefits that come with being black when it was time to apply for college scholarships .
like his dad , young barry accepted a scholarship ( free education ) to the mostly white occidental college in los angeles .
but he was dissatisfied and transferred to columbia university in new york city in his junior year .
hoping to find more black students or at least a broader black community .
that is where barry changed his name to barack.michelle obama met barack when she was tasked by her law firm to recruit him .
michelle was surprised when she saw he was from hawaii and asked her ( racist ) self : what normal black people grow up in hawaii ?
watch at the 13 minute mark : michelle s racist mom was a little worried about the mixed heritage of her future son-in-law .
when asked about her concern about his race , she had this to say about barack : that [ his mixed race ] didn t concern me as much as if he was completely white .
when barack obama lost his first election , many questioned if , given his heritage and harvard law degree , if he was black enough ?
michelle obama was furious over the charge of her husband not being black enough .
she had this to say about barack being black enough : i m as black as it gets .
i was born on the south side .
i come from an obviously black family you know , we weren t rich .
i ll put my blackness up against anyone s blackness in the the state .