21st century wire says the culture wars continue to ramp-up after events in charlottesville .
white house secretary of housing and urban development ben carson reported on wednesday that his virginia home was vandalized by people who also wrote hateful rhetoric about president trump .
we were out of town , but other kind , embarrassed neighbors cleaned up most of the mess before we returned , he said.carson issued a statement in which he noted a personal experience of an incident which took place after he and is wife previously purchased a farm in maryland : one of the neighbors immediately put up a confederate flag .
a friend of ours who is an african-american three-star general was coming to visit and immediately turned around concluding that he was in the wrong place .
interestingly , all the other neighbors immediately put up american flags shaming the other neighbor who took down the confederate flag .
in both instances , less than kind behavior was met by people taking the high road we could all learn from these examples .
hatred and bigotry unfortunately still exists in our country and we must all continue to fight it , but let s use the right tools .
unfortunately , carson s comments were met with a cynical and disrespectful response from the divisive gatekeepers at cnn , who proceeded to insult the african-american republican cabinet minister .
incredibly , cnn s national political reporter maeve reston implied he was lying , saying that carson s anecdote is worth a fact-check : this ben carson anecdote is worth a fact-check .. https : //t.co/cvjsdskfxw maeve reston ( @ maevereston ) august 16 , 2017along with the criminal act of vandalism , cnn s attack on carson also proves that the new left in america do not accept the presence of an african-american , or black conservative in politics , and will seek to undermine him simply for being in the wrong party .
read more charlottesville news at : 21st century wire charlottesville files support 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv