new york ( reuters ) - public approval of president donald trump has dropped to its lowest level since his inauguration , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on friday , after trump was accused of mishandling classified information and meddling with an fbi investigation .
the may 14-18 opinion poll found that 38 percent of adults approved of trump while 56 percent disapproved .
the remaining 6 percent had “ mixed feelings. ” americans appear to have soured on trump after a tumultuous week in the white house during which the president fought back a steady drumbeat of critical news reports that ramped up concerns about his administration ’ s ties to russia .
the week started with revelations that trump shared highly classified information with russian diplomats in a private meeting .
that was followed by reports that former federal bureau of investigation director james comey , whom trump recently fired , had written memos expressing concerns that the president had pressured him to stop investigating trump campaign ties to russia .
later in the week , the justice department appointed former fbi director robert mueller to oversee an independent probe into contacts between russia and the trump campaign .
trump has denied colluding with the russians and called ongoing efforts to investigate him a “ witch hunt. ” no politician in history , he said , “ has been treated worse or more unfairly. ” while trump remains popular with members of his own party , many rank-and-file republicans appear to have backed off their support for the president during the past week .
among republicans , 23 percent expressed disapproval of trump in the latest poll , up from 16 percent in the same poll last week .
the decline in support from republicans appears to be a primary reason why trump ’ s overall approval rating is now at the lowest level since he took office .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english across the united states .
it gathered responses from 1,971 adults , including 721 republicans and 795 democrats .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group and 4 percentage points for the democrats and republicans .
( this version of the story has been refiled to delete link to poll results )