madrid ( reuters ) - broadly positive results from bbva and sabadell were overshadowed on friday by growing fears over the impact of catalonia s bid for independence .
the crisis has split catalonia and caused deep resentment around spain .
it has also prompted a flight of business from the wealthy region and alarmed european leaders who fear the crisis could fan separatist sentiment around the continent .
bbva and sabadell are among the spanish banks with the highest exposure to the region , where madrid was preparing to impose direct rule on friday shares in sabadell were the among the worst performers on spain s ibex-35 falling 4.5 percent , while bbva dropped 1.8 percent as investors focused on events in catalonia .
we did see some movements of deposits during a few days but really nothing material and things have really normalized but there were some days when clients were nervous about the uncertainty , bbva s chief executive officer , carlos torres , told analysts deposits in the northeastern region were safe , although if the situation persists it could cut spanish growth to less than 2.5 percent in 2018 , he later added .
although bbva is based in the northern city of bilbao it became one of the biggest lenders in catalonia after buying two former savings banks in the region , catalunya banc and unnim .
in an attempt to calm clients , sabadell decided in early october to move its legal headquarters out of catalonia .
while an economic recovery and a property rebound has allowed most of spain s banks to tackle toxic balance sheets faster than peers in italy , the results from bbva and sabadell underlined that pressure on revenue from lending remains .
spanish banks are struggling to lift earnings from loans , as interest rates hover at historic lows and increasing competition erodes margins .
bbva s net interest income ( nii ) , or profit from loans minus funding cost , was down around 2 percent against the previous quarter , while sabadell s nii fell 4 percent .
to offset pressure at home , spanish banks have been expanding abroad in search of higher revenues .
bbva s net profit was up 19 percent up for the period july to september to 1.14 billion euros , slightly above analysts forecast in a reuters poll , boosted by mexico , which accounts for more than 40 percent of its earnings .
net profit at sabadell however fell 8 percent in the third quarter to 203 million euros , below analysts forecasts , after its bottom line was impacted by the sale of some its units .
the lender however stuck to its profit target of 800 million euros for 2017 .
friday s results showed bbva , the country s second biggest bank by assets , reduced its non-performing loans by 1.5 billion euros ( $ 1.7 billion ) in the quarter , while sabadell reduced its problematic assets by 500 million euros .
sabadell s chief executive , jaime guardiola , said it would also meet its target of reducing problematic assets by 2 billion euros by year-end despite the political uncertainty .
the european central bank announced this month new guidelines for lenders to reduce bad loans , although the plans are meeting with a fierce backlash in italy .
italian banks have more than 210 billion in non-performing exposure , while spanish banks have combined non-performing loans of 106 billion euros ..