united nations ( reuters ) - the united states wants to cut $ 1 billion from the total united nations peacekeeping budget for the year from july 1 to shave over 10 percent off washington ’ s share of the bill following calls by president donald trump for u.s. funding to be slashed .
the proposal by the largest u.n. contributor is an opening bid in negotiations by the 193-member general assembly budget committee , which has to agree funding for 13 peacekeeping missions and a logistics support office by the end of june .
reuters reviewed a document compiling the peacekeeping budget proposals by states and regional groups .
the u.s. proposal of an annual budget of $ 6.99 billion was the lowest made - nearly $ 1 billion less than u.n. chief antonio guterres ’ proposal and almost $ 570 million less than the recommendation by the world body ’ s budget advisory experts .
under the u.s. proposal , washington would have to pay $ 1.99 billion compared with $ 2.25 billion for the current year .
while trump has described u.s. funding for the united nations as “ peanuts ” compared to its “ important work , ” he complains its share of the peacekeeping bill , currently 28.5 percent , is “ unfair. ” in his 2018 budget proposal he requested congress approve only $ 1.2 billion for u.n. peacekeeping .
this is $ 1 billion less than the u.s. peacekeeping bill for the 12 months to june 30 , 2017 , when the total peacekeeping budget was $ 7.9 billion .
washington currently owes $ 417 million for peacekeeping , u.n. officials said .
ultimately the u.s. congress sets the federal government budget and will decide how much money is made available for u.n. peacekeeping .
republicans , who control both houses , and democrats have said they do not support drastic cuts proposed by trump .
under the u.s. proposal to the u.n. budget committee , the largest cuts would be made to some of the most expensive operations in democratic republic of congo , mali and sudan ’ s darfur , according to the document seen by reuters .
the 193 u.n. member states are working to negotiate a compromise by the end of the month between the u.s. proposal , at the low end of the scale , and the highest suggestion of $ 7.72 billion by the african group , according to the document .
trump also wants to enforce a 25 percent cap on the u.s. contribution to u.n. peacekeeping .
the u.n. general assembly is due to negotiate next year new levels of contributions by countries for 2019 , 2020 and 2021 .
the united states also pays 22 percent of the $ 5.4 billion u.n. core budget .
guterres has pledged to make u.n. peacekeeping more efficient but has noted that the current budget to fund it is less than one half of 1 percent of global military spending .