the obama administration has spent over $ 166 million federal dollars on the childhood obesity program started by michelle obama .
what s curious about this is the breakdown in numbers and why only minorities .
the obama administration has been dolling out millions to minority only groups to prevent obesity and another program called padres to prevent smoking .
some of the projects funded through the usda are simply outrageous and reek of fraud and waste : the latino fathers promoting healthy youth behavior project is getting $ 998,484 so that academics at the university of minnesota , minneapolis can conduct an eight-week study that addresses paternal parenting practices related to the food and physical activity environment in the home .
don t forget that this is your money being thrown around ! the obama administration just allocated another $ 10.8 million to tackle childhood obesity among minorities , including about $ 1 million to a project called latino fathers promoting healthy youth behavior that aims to prevent obesity among latino youth in a culturally and linguistically-appropriate prevention program .
it s part of a federal initiative called childhood obesity challenge area that has doled out north of $ 166 million since the president and his wife launched it in 2011.the cash flows through the u.s. department of agriculture ( usda ) and funds all sorts of outrageous projects like the disastrous healthy public-school lunches that have resulted in massive waste and caused uproar among students and parents .
first lady michelle obama made it her mission to tackle this particular cause because child and adolescent obesity has tripled in the past 30 years , according to information released by the usda s special agriculture and food research initiative ( afri ) childhood obesity prevention challenge area .
low income children and adolescents are more likely to be obese than their higher income counterparts , but the relationship is not consistent across race and ethnicity groups , the agency states.to deal with this epidemic the administration has dedicated a lot of taxpayer money , more than $ 166 million , according to usda figures .
this latest chunk is going to six universities that will find innovative ways to eradicate childhood obesity among this demographic .
the latino fathers promoting healthy youth behavior project is getting $ 998,484 so that academics at the university of minnesota , minneapolis can conduct an eight-week study that addresses paternal parenting practices related to the food and physical activity environment in the home .
researchers claim that participation will increase father involvement in positive parenting practices to address youth energy balance-related behaviors .
it appears that they convinced uncle sam to fund their project by claiming that few evidence-based interventions have specifically targeted latino fathers of youth regarding parenting practices that impact youth behaviors .
it will be modeled after another government-funded program called padres designed to prevent tobacco and substance abuse among latino youth by engaging families in culturally and linguistically-appropriate training.read more : judicial watch