mar del plata , argentina ( reuters ) - the argentine navy raised the possibility on thursday that a navy submarine missing in the south atlantic suffered an explosion , heightening concerns over the fate of the 44 crew members on the eighth day of an international search effort .
a sound detected underwater by an international agency on the morning of nov. 15 , around the time the ara san juan sent its last signal and in the same area , was consistent with an explosion , navy spokesman enrique balbi told reporters .
the sub had only a seven-day supply of oxygen , a fact that drained hope from some of the relatives of the crew who have gathered at the vessel s base in the city of mar del plata .
what s the point of hope if it s already over ?
itati leguizamon , wife of one of the missing crew members , told reporters .
the navy did not have enough information to say what the cause of the explosion could have been or whether the vessel might have been attacked , balbi said .
search-and-rescue crews were undeterred by a series of false leads that raised hope over recent days that the sub might be located .
asked during an evening news conference about the fate of the 44 sailors , balbi said the situation was critical .
we are not going to enter into conjecture out of respect for the families , he added .
the information about the possible explosion was received on thursday from the comprehensive nuclear test-ban treaty organization , or ctbto , an international body that runs a global network of listening posts designed to check for secret atomic blasts .
the vienna-based agency , which has monitoring stations equipped with devices including underwater microphones that scan the oceans for sound waves , said in a statement that two of its stations had detected an unusual signal near where the submarine went missing .
the agency was more guarded about whether that was caused by an explosion .
a huge sea and air hunt is being conducted for the san juan , a german-built , diesel-electric powered submarine that was launched in 1983 , as crew members relatives waited anxiously for news more than a week after the vessel disappeared .
the relatives had been largely optimistic until thursday .
they shed tears and insulted authorities after being briefed on the news of the possible explosion .
they were told about it before the public announcement .
balbi said the news of the abnormal sound was consistent with a separate report received on wednesday of an acoustic anomaly in the same area and around the same time .
the san juan was some 430 km ( 270 miles ) off the patagonian coast when it sent its last signal .
this is very important because it allows us to correlate and confirm the acoustic anomaly from the u.s. report yesterday , balbi said .
here , we re talking about a singular , short , violent , non-nuclear event , consistent with an explosion .
in vienna , ctbto hydroacoustic engineer mario zampolli said the signal his agency had detected could be consistent with an explosion but there is no certainty about this .
speaking to reuters , he agreed with balbi s description of the signal as unusual and short , adding that the cause was non-natural .
the submarine was en route from ushuaia , the southernmost city in the world , to mar del plata , 400 km ( 250 miles ) south of buenos aires , when it reported an electrical malfunction shortly before disappearing .
some relatives have questioned authorities for letting the crew navigate on an ageing submarine - criticism that has highlighted the armed forces dwindling resources since the end of a military dictatorship in the 1980s .
authorities have said the level of maintenance , not the age , was what mattered , and that the vessel was in good condition .