geneva ( reuters ) - north korea and the united states accused each other on tuesday of posing a nuclear threat , with pyongyang s envoy declaring it would never put its atomic arsenal up for negotiation .
the debate at the united nations began when the u.s. envoy said president donald trump s top priority was to protect the united states and its allies against the growing threat from north korea .
to do so , he said , the country was ready to use the full range of capabilities at our disposal .
u.s .
ambassador robert wood told the conference on disarmament that the path to dialogue still remains an option for pyongyang , but that washington was undeterred in defending against the threat north korea poses .
fears have grown over north korea s development of missiles and nuclear weapons since pyongyang test-launched intercontinental ballistic missiles ( icbms ) in july .
those fears worsened after trump warned that north korea would face fire and fury if it threatened the united states .
his remarks led north korea to say it was considering plans to fire missiles towards the u.s. pacific territory of guam .
trump responded by tweeting that the u.s. military was locked and loaded , should north korea act unwisely .
a few days later , north korean media reported the country s leader , kim jong un , had delayed any decision on whether to fire missiles towards guam while he waited to see what the united states would do .
experts warned pyongyang could still go ahead with the missile launches .
north korea s ballistic missile and nuclear weapons programs pose grave threats to the entire world , wood told the geneva forum .
its recent icbm tests are another example of the dangerous reckless behavior of the north that is destabilizing the region and beyond .
north korea had openly stated that its missiles are intended to strike cities in the united states and its allies south korea and japan , he said .
my president s top priority remains protecting the homeland , u.s. territories and our allies against north korean aggression .
we remain prepared to use the full range of capabilities at our disposal against the growing threat from north korea .
north korea diplomat ju yong chol said that measures taken by his country to strengthen its nuclear deterrent and develop inter-continental rockets were justifiable and a legitimate option .
as long as the u.s. hostile policy and nuclear threat remains unchallenged , the dprk will never place its self-defensive nuclear deterrence on the negotiating table or step back an inch from the path it took to bolster the national nuclear force , ju said .
in a subsequent speech , ju said : the united states should clearly understand that military threats and pressure are only serving as a momentum that pushes the dprk further into developing fully strengthened nuclear deterrence .
regarding joint u.s.-south korean military exercises that began on monday , he said : the ongoing military adventure would certainly add gasoline to the fire , driving the current tense situation to further deterioration .
china s disarmament ambassador , fu cong , called for support for its proposal to defuse the crisis affecting its pyongyang ally .
china has called for dual suspension , that is of north korea s nuclear activities and joint military exercises between the republic of korea and united states .
this seeks to denuclearize the peninsula and promote a security mechanism .
wood rejected beijing s freeze for freeze plan .
this proposal unfortunately creates a false equivalency between states that are engaging in legitimate exercises of self-defense who have done so for many years with a regime that has basically violated countless security council resolutions with regard to its proscribed nuclear and ballistic missile programs , he told the gathering .
that is a false equivalency that we can not accept and will not accept , he said .
fu retorted : i just want to say that we re not creating equivalency between anything .
we are just actually making the proposal to facilitate a dialogue and to reduce the tension .
we need a starting point to really launch the dialogue .