andrew c. mccarthy , former assistant united states attorney for the southern district of new york , writes in national review that donald trump s proposed temporary ban on muslim immigration is not unconstitutional .
mccarthy notes that properly vetting would-be immigrants religious beliefs is not only legal it would be wise and prudent .
of all the ignorant pronouncements in the 2016 presidential campaign , the dumbest may be that the constitution forbids a religious test in the vetting of immigrants .
monotonously repeated in political speeches and talking-head blather , this claim is heedless of the islamic doctrinal roots on which foreign-born islamists and the jihadists they breed base their anti-americanism .
it is also dead wrong.the clause said to be the source of this drivel is found in article vi .
as you ll no doubt be shocked to learn , it has utterly nothing to do with immigration .
the clause states , no religious test shall ever be required as a qualification to any office or public trust under the united states ( emphasis added ) .
on its face , the provision is not only inapplicable to immigrants at large , let alone aliens who would like to be immigrants ; it does not even apply to the general public .
it is strictly limited to public officials specifically to their fitness to serve in government positions.this is equally clear from the clause s context .
right before the no religious test directive , article vi decrees that elected and appointed officials shall be bound by oath or affirmation , to support this constitution [ . ]
an oath of office customarily requires the official to solemnly swear that he or she will support and defend the constitution , so help me god .
( see , e.g. , the oath prescribed by federal law . )
the framers tacked on the no religious test clause to clarify that the mandate of a solemn oath before taking office did not mean fidelity to a particular religious creed was required .
the same principle informs the first amendment s prohibition on the establishment of a state religion.this is as it should be .
the constitution prescribes very few qualifications for even the highest offices because its purpose is to promote liberty , which vitally includes the freedom to elect whomever we choose , to vote our own private consciences .
the principal check on public officials is the ballot box , not the law s minimalist requirements.as voters , we have the right to weigh a candidate s religious beliefs as a significant part of the total package .
we have done so from the republic s founding and to this day , virtually all candidates take pains to wear their faith , however nominal , on their sleeves .
when the loathsome jeremiah wright fleetingly became an issue in the 2008 campaign , barack obama did not thunder , under the constitution , you must not inquire into my religious beliefs !
he threw the rev under the bus .
when it comes to choosing those who will represent us , we do not limit ourselves by intrusive laws , but we reserve the right to bring to bear any consideration , including religion , that we deem relevant.read more : national review