wellington ( reuters ) - the leaders of new zealand s main parties prepared on sunday to start talks with winston peters , the leader of a nationalist party who emerged as kingmaker after an inconclusive general election , but peters indicated he was in no rush to pick a side .
prime minister bill english s national party won the largest number of votes in saturday s general election , securing a comfortable margin over the labour opposition after what had shaped as one of the closest votes in recent history .
but it was peters and his often controversial new zealand first party who emerged in a position of power , with both national and labour needing his support to form a government under new zealand s proportional representation system .
the national party , which has been in power for a decade , secured 46 percent of the vote , while labour had 35.8 percent and new zealand first 7.5 percent .
a final tally , including overseas votes , will be released on oct. 7 .
the results so far secured 58 seats for national in the 120-seat parliament and 45 for labour .
new zealand first has nine seats and the green party has seven .
labour and the greens already have a working agreement , with labour leader jacinda ardern potentially in a position to form a coalition government with 61 seats if she wins peters support - the bare minimum needed .
peters , who has served in previous labour and national governments , appeared to be in no hurry .
he told reporters on sunday he had not yet received any calls from national or labour , and had not contacted them .
the colourful populist , a rugby-loving former foreign minister , has in the past backed the party that won the most votes but said he was discussing options with members of his own party first .
i m doing it one-by-one by phone , said peters , a lawyer of indigenous maori and scottish descent .
asked how long it might be before he made a decision , peters said : how long before i pick you up and throw you into the water over there ?
ardern , a charismatic 37-year-old , revived her party s flagging fortunes after only taking over as leader in august but fell far short of what early opinion polls suggested could have been a stunning turnaround .
she said it would be hard to complete coalition talks until all votes were tallied .
speaking outside her home in auckland on sunday , she said her centre-left party would not concede until we are sure that a stable government has been formed .
english said he would proceed with negotiations with new zealand first .
the shortest path to stable government is a two-party coalition between national and new zealand first , english told a news conference .
analysts saw english and his national party as the clear favorites .
i think it s fairly obvious that it will be a national-new zealand first government , said grant duncan , associate professor at massey university .
national and labour were both expected to maintain a policy of fiscal prudence if they form the next government , although they differ on monetary policy , trade and immigration .
that would likely have implications for the new zealand dollar , the world s 11th most-traded currency .
the currency had tended to rise when national rose in the pre-election polls .
clearly when we open on monday morning we re at the moment no better off it s either going to be labour or national leading the country , stuart ive , a wellington-based dealer at om financial , said on sunday .
peters has been in parliament since 1978 and was a member of the national party until he formed new zealand first in 1993 .
he was first cast as kingmaker in 1996 , when he famously put off coalition talks the day after the election to go fishing .
he has often expressed views , such as opposing chinese migration , that have been criticized as xenophobic .
his policies consistently center around tight immigration controls and reduced taxation .
( click tmsnrt.rs/2jojzgv for a graphic on 'new zealand parliamentary elections ' ) ( click tmsnrt.rs/2famawe for a graphic on 'new zealand markets react to opinion polls ' )