mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican leftist presidential frontrunner andres manuel lopez obrador has pledged in his manifesto to clamp down on financial crime , and tighten money laundering , banking and tax regulations if elected next july .
lopez obrador , the 64-year-old former mayor of mexico city and a two-time presidential candidate , on monday unveiled his 2018 policy platform , vowing to boost infrastructure spending while preserving economic stability .
in his 415-page manifesto , published late on monday , the founder of the national regeneration movement ( morena ) party said he would combat money laundering by tightening controls on the banking system , including tougher sanctions for public officials convicted of financial crimes , a new conflict-of-interest law and longer sentences for tax offenses .
banks and financial institutions aren t victims , but rather those principally responsible for , and benefiting from , the total lack of control in money laundering , the proposal said .
lopez obrador s plan also aims to ensure transparency in sworn-wealth declarations and to block the right to confidential information for people under investigation for financial crimes .
amlo , as he is known locally , has sought to deflect accusations that he would pursue venezuela-style socialist policies if elected , vowing instead to clean up the country s graft-stained politics .
mexico s government estimates that the drug trade , tax fraud and other crimes are worth at least 1.13 trillion pesos ( $ 58.5 billion ) a year in mexico , with all of the funds susceptible to money laundering , according to a classified report seen by reuters in october .
the manifesto also gave details on lopez obrador s plan to scrap president enrique pena nieto s new $ 13 billion mexico city airport project , which is currently under construction .
lopez obrador s plan recognizes the need to ease traffic and delays at mexico city s existing airport , but proposes preserving it while expanding a nearby military site .
amlo would add two runways and a terminal at the saint lucia international airport in the state of mexico .
the expansion would cost 50 billion pesos ( $ 2.66 billion ) and take less than three years , resulting in five runways shared between saint lucia and the current airport , he said .
the document said this alternative would cost about one-third what will be spent on the new airport , which lopez obrador says would drain government coffers with maintenance costs .
pena nieto s office said in a statement that cancelling the project would cause job losses and send a bad signal .
the macroeconomic risk for mexico would be enormous , as it would be sending the message that mexico doesn t respect contracts nor private investment , the statement added .