( this version of the story was corrected to change waurishuk statement to say “ willing ” not “ happy ” in paragraph 10 ) by mark hosenball and susan heavey washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential front-runner donald trump acknowledged on tuesday he does not yet have a foreign policy team , and three former u.s. military and intelligence officials who have endorsed him are little known in either the republican party or the wider foreign policy community .
the new york billionaire , who had promised to name his foreign policy and national security advisers last month , told msnbc that he has met with people but made no decision yet on who to advise him on global affairs .
asked whether he had a team , trump said on tuesday : “ yes , there is a team .
well , there ’ s not a team .
i ’ m going to be forming a team at the appropriate time .
i ’ ve met with far more than three people. ” trump has given hints of the kind of advisor he would hire to promote his national security policy , much of which is focused on cracking down on islamic state .
he also promises to gut global trade deals and build a wall on the mexican border to halt illegal immigration .
asked during a debate last week who he trusts on national security , trump had warm words for three men with world views that differ from one another : former diplomat richard haass and retired u.s. army officers gen. jack keane and col. jack jacobs .
and on his campaign website last month , trump announced that he had received endorsements in florida from two “ top national security experts. ” foreign policy experts say they know little about those trump supporters .
they are gary berntsen , a former senior cia officer , and retired colonel james waurishuk , a one-time deputy chief of intelligence for u.s. central command during the wars in afghanistan and iraq who also once served on the national security council staff .
“ these people are not well known in foreign policy circles ... i never heard of any of them , ” said harvard professor and former kennedy school of government dean joseph nye .
waurishuk said on tuesday he would have been willing to give advice if asked , by any presidential candidate , including democratic front-runner hillary clinton .
apart from trump , however , waurishuk said that the only other candidate he had contact with was republican jeb bush , who he says snubbed him when they met at an event in 2014 .
bush “ ignored me and walked away , ” waurishuk said .
former cia officer berntsen is perhaps the best known of the three endorsers .
a participant in efforts to hunt down osama bin laden , he later wrote a book entitled “ jawbreaker , the attack on bin laden and al qaeda. ” according to the hill newspaper , one of its contributors , j.d .
gordon , has also endorsed trump .
gordon is a former navy commander officer and former pentagon spokesman .
on tuesday , trump described u.s .
senator jeff sessions from alabama , as someone he would consider for his team , adding that he would make a decision “ in due time. ” sessions is a member of the senate armed services committee and one of the few senior mainstream republicans to endorse trump .
sessions is not known as one of the party ’ s leading foreign policy voices in the senate .
he opposes comprehensive immigration reform and supports tight border security measures .
on tuesday , trump , dismissed criticism that his harsh rhetoric would damage america ’ s standing in the world .
foreign diplomats from europe , the middle east , latin america and asia have expressed alarm to u.s. government officials about trump , calling his public statements inflammatory and insulting .
the businessman shot back , saying diplomats are upset over his tough stance on trade and returning jobs to the united states as he seeks the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 presidential election .
“ every country is ripping us off in trade , and other things .
and they know that won ’ t happen with me .
i ’ m going to bring trade back , i ’ m going to bring our jobs back , ” trump told fox news .