sarah huckabee sanders decided to once again show everyone how much people love donald trump by reading a suspicious letter allegedly sent this time from a child in falls church , virginia.this letter come from frank , who is 10 or 11 years old ( sanders could not exactly decide , later amending his age because frank had a birthday ) and wants to mow the white house lawn for free ( which is good because trump doesn t exactly pay his contractors ) .sanders invited frank to work in the rose garden with the groundskeeper for a morning , then did something that is more disgusting if he is actually real than if he is not : she used frank s letter to support the administration s new racist immigration agenda that will prioritize people who speak english over those who do not : it s our responsibility to keep the american dream alive for kids like frank , immigrants who are already here and those who dream of immigrating here in the future .
recently , sanders read a letter from a child called pickle that was allegedly mailed unfolded to the white house.dylan aka pickle thank you for your letter and hope to meet you soon !
pic.twitter.com/xzljarz9cs sarah huckabee ( @ sarahhuckabee ) july 26 , 2017when the letter failed to prove that pickle was real , it seems that a casting call for the role was successful complete with a photo of pickle wearing a suit in front of ( as the letter says ) a donald trump-themed birthday cake .
the photo included no other people .
it is still unclear if pickle actually wrote the unfolded-yet- mailed letter , but a little boy allegedly named dylan harbin will be touring the white house soon.unlike pickle s letter , which appears to be a terrible mockup of what an idiot would assume is age-appropriate writing and spelling for a 10-year-old , frank s is typed ( but , as with the last one , it appears to have never been folded ) .
though frank was able to type a letter , he appears incapable of signing his own name : .
@ shsanders45 : `` it is our duty to keep the american dream alive for kids like frank . ''
pic.twitter.com/kaumlghn75 the white house ( @ whitehouse ) august 2 , 2017let s say frank and pickle actually exist and were not in any way manufactured .
we have a president who is attempting to use children to salvage his abysmal reputation and support his hateful agenda.naturally , people are both skeptical of and sickened by this : it s your duty to keep the dream of child labor alive ?
interesting .
eric rosso ( @ ericopinion ) august 2 , 2017lol please see attached flier i admire your business background sounds like a 10 yr old to me ?
nancy ? ? ?
( @ rinaldo_nancy ) august 2 , 2017propaganda party again ?
? y all are some sick people .
susan ( @ susanmitch7 ) august 2 , 2017is that crossout on the signature where the president started to write donnie ?
steven dupler ( @ stevendupler ) august 2 , 2017authenticity is highly doubted , but nice try sarah .
next time how about we talk russia policy ?
j.a .
meyer ( @ jennifermeyer6 ) august 2 , 2017oh my gosh .a ten year old can t sign his name .
you really want me to believe this ? !
john connolly ( @ johnthecon216 ) august 2 , 2017ya that was totally penned by a 10yo .
ben weston ( @ psiphyr ) august 2 , 2017frank is 10 and scribbles like he s 3 ? !
my granddaughter is 6 and writes in full cursive !
# trumplies # whlies lisa !
lisa !
lisa !
( @ lisapalermo_ ) august 2 , 2017any kid that sounds that sophisticated in his verbiage would be able to sign his name more skillfully we think youre lying even if youre not donna neal ( @ mizneal67 ) august 2 , 2017he writes so well but signs his name as if he were 5 years old ?
looks like # fakenews flor de calabaza ( @ zucchiniblute ) august 2 , 2017these bullshit fake ass kid letters are just ridiculous .
frank just started learning to write .
i doubt he has started business or he exists maatkare ( @ maatkare ) august 2 , 2017frank must be attending a betsy devos accredited school .
10 years old and he can t sign or spell his own name .
fake frank .
jane leamy ( @ parkcityjanie ) august 2 , 2017frank can t sign his name at 10 but can write this type of letter ?
lol !
which wh intern wrote it and signed it with their non-dominant hand ?
cubbybear1714 ( @ cubbybear1744 ) august 2 , 2017a 10 year old who signs his name like that wouldn t know how to make a plural into a possessive .
this teacher isn t believing these .
gingeroots17 ( @ gingeroots17 ) august 2 , 2017this was not written by a child .
gtfoh .
i hate how many people will believe this .
10 year olds don t write like that .
america is losing it josiah beamish ( @ josiahbeamish ) august 2 , 2017frank is not real .
johnnto ( @ johnnto ) august 2 , 2017if it seems like trump wouldn t just make this up , keep in mind that he recently got busted hanging a fake time magazine cover in his establishments and making up a fake friend named jim .
wonder if trump told frank what a dump the white house is .
watch sanders read this totally not fake letter below : here 's sarah huckabee sanders reading a letter from 10-year-old frank from virginia https : //t.co/0tcpj3p2xe meg wagner ( @ megwagner ) august 2 , 2017featured image via screengrab