john kerry just announced that america will be taking thousands upon thousands of muslim refugees in the coming months .
the refugees are being referred by the un so the un is in charge of who comes .
this move by the obama administration shows great disregard for the american people who ll be funding this mass migration .
this refugee resettlement scam will cost a huge amount of money and you will be paying for it !
the refugees get all the goodies when they arrive : the federal programs available to them include : temporary assistance for needy families ( tanf ) formerly known as afdc medicaid food stamps public housing supplemental security income ( ssi ) social security disability insurance administration on developmental disabilities ( add ) ( direct services only ) child care and development fund independent living program job opportunities for low income individuals ( joli ) low-income home energy assistance program ( liheap ) postsecondary education loans and grants refugee assistance programs title iv foster care and adoption assistance payments ( if parents are qualified immigrants refugees , asylees , etc ) title xx social services block grant fundssource : refugee resettlement watchwe can not and should not be doing this especially since saudi arabia and the gulf states like qatar have taken zero refuses .
zero ! ! !
they ve spoken out that they are afraid of terrorism and that s why they ve refused refugees .
the u.s. is offering new details about its plan to ease the syrian refugee crisis by significantly increasing the number of worldwide refugees it will take in over the next two years.u.s .
secretary of state john kerry says the u.s. will accept 85,000 refugees from around the world next year , up from 70,000 , and the number will rise to 100,000 in 2017.aides to kerry say that many , though not all , of the additional refugees would be syrian.the migrants would be referred by the united nations , screened by the u.s. department of homeland security and resettled around america.kerry made the announcement sunday during a visit to berlin after meeting with german foreign minister frank-walter steinmeier to discuss the mass migration of syrians fleeing their civil war.kerry s announcement came amid a growing call for the u.s. to do more to relief the escalating crisis .
democratic presidential hopeful hillary clinton said sunday on cbs news face the nation that as many as 65,000 syrian refugees should be taken in .
we re facing the worst refugee crisis since the end of world war ii , and i think the united states has to do more , the former secretary of state said on cbs face the nation on sunday .
i would like to see us move from what is a good start with 10,000 to 65,000 and begin immediately to put into place the mechanisms for vetting the people that we would take in .
president obama said his administration will let in at least 10,000 syrian refugees.via : nbc