by brandon turbevillecnn is in full panic mode with the recent resumption of the syrian government assault on terrorist-held east aleppo .
the discredited news agency is now reduced to rehashing tired and disproven propaganda against the syrian government and claims that assad is killing his own people by bombing head-chopping terrorists in east aleppo.you have to hand it to cnn for consistency at least .
cutting edge propaganda , however , is not the corporation s strong suit , since every time it has tried to deliver a major blow , it has resulted in an epic fail recycled image : yesterday , cnn used this recycled , staged image to sell its story , allegedly from a hospital in aleppo used across us media last month .
[ watch cnn reporter will ripley s propaganda video here , complete with staged imagery from the us , nato member-funded white helmets and aleppo media centre regime change ngos ] this time , the propaganda of choice is the same tired line that every bomb ( excuse me , every barrel bomb ) being dropped on east aleppo has been dropped intentionally on top of civilians for the purpose of killing them all because .
.
.
.
well , that part has never been explained .
but , for the average cnn reader , just know that assad is a bad guy and that the rebels who demand veiled , silent , women and full adherence to sharia law under pain of death are good guys and democracy-loving freedom fighters .
the regime s siege of rebel-held neighborhoods has triggered a humanitarian catastrophe as food , water and medical supplies run low , says cnn.obviously , the humanitarian conditions in east aleppo have nothing to do with savages and pre-historic bearded freaks running rampant and demanding that their ridiculous interpretation ( or should i say saudi interpretation ) of their religion be enforced by the blade of a dull knife .
it couldn t be because the terrorists have prevented aid from reaching civilians and have actively prevented civilians from leaving east aleppo to flee to the ( * gasp ! ! )
government-held areas .
it couldn t be because of the western sanctions on syria .
it couldn t be because the united states and its treacherous allies funded a proxy army of extremists to destroy the country.no , it s because the syrian military dared bomb foreign terrorists in east aleppo .
cnn uses interesting logic , indeed.see also : rescue redux : are syria s white helmets recycling its child victims ? the article laughably uses the notorious terrorist support group known as the white helmets as its source relaying all the horrors of the assad regime .
this has been typical of the corporate press in the west ever since the beginning of the syrian crisis , i.e .
using terrorist organizations to cite claims against the syrian government .
generally speaking , these terrorists are labeled activists when a quote is needed but , in the case of the white helmets , the label of humanitarian organization is tossed around , a much more effective propaganda technique.but what is even more deceitful is that cnn also labels the white helmets and the syria civil defense as the same organization , an absolute fallacy as vanessa beeley , the individual who is probably most responsible for exposing this propagandistic terrorist organization , can personally attest to , having met with members of the real syria civil defense in syria and hearing their stories about the terrorism of the white helmets .
beeley has also interviewed a doctor with the aleppo medical association who was responsible for assessing east aleppo refugees who stated clearly that , despite being widely popular in the u.s. , the people in east aleppo simply don t know who the white helmets are .
for them , white helmets are just another terrorist group.none of this matters to cnn , however , since the corporation is nothing but a mouthpiece for the u.s. state department , wall street , and international corporations .
it is , in fact , nothing more than a propaganda site.perhaps cnn was one of the fake news sites that obama was whining about during his latest trip to germany .
.
.
.brandon turbeville article archive here is the author of seven books , codex alimentarius the end of health freedom , 7 real conspiracies , five sense solutions and dispatches from a dissident , volume 1 andvolume 2 , the road to damascus : the anglo-american assault on syria , and the difference it makes : 36 reasons why hillary clinton should never be president .
his website is brandonturbeville.com he is available for radio and tv interviews .
please contact activistpost ( at ) gmail.com.this article may be freely shared in part or in full with author attribution and source link.read more syria news at : 21st century wire syria filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv