alert !
alinsky tactics at work here !
remember pick a target ?
well , the media and deep state have picked their target breitbart news has been exposing h.r .
mcmaster so now the media and deep state are going hard after steve bannon even harder than they had been before .
the media and politicians have been targeting bannon since the election .
they ve been calling him all of the usual names like nazi or white supremacist .
they re clearly afraid of bannon because he has the media and the left figured out just like breitbart did .
we re hoping bannon won t get squeezed out by kelly and mcmaster !
this could cause a huge policy shift for the trump presidency .
not good , not good at all for trump supporters who want america back after 8 awful years of obama.white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster repeatedly refused say whether he could work with chief strategist steve bannon sunday on meet the press , dodging the question three times !
three times !
this is a deep state wake up call ! is bannon on the way out ?
not good ! did you notice that scaramucci went after president trump today ?
and steve bannon ?
yes , he was on the morning shows letting it rip on those two ! axios reported saturday that bannon has entered president donald trump s doghouse and that top officials believe he s part of leaks meant to target mcmaster .
bannon was previously executive chairman of breitbart , and the right-wing website has published a series of stories attacking mcmaster in recent weeks.shouldn t the truth come out on mcmaster ? new chief of staff john kelly has said he will not tolerate the infighting and anonymous comments to the media that characterized predecessor reince priebus tenure , according to politico.earlier in the interview , host chuck todd asked what was going on between him and bannon .
mcmaster dismissed the saga as a lot of noise and didn t mention bannon s name.at the end of the interview , todd repeatedly asked mcmaster if he could work together with bannon , but mcmaster wouldn t answer .
can you and steve bannon still work together in this white house or not ?
todd asked .
i get to work together with a broad range of talented people , and it is a privilege every day to enable the national security team , mcmaster said .
you didn t answer .
can you and steve bannon work in that same white house ?
todd asked .
i am ready to work with anybody who will help advance the president s agenda and advance the security , prosperity of the american people , mcmaster said .
do you believe steve bannon does that ?
todd asked .
i believe that everyone who works in the white house , who has the privilege , the great privilege every day of serving their nation , should be motivated by that goal , mcmaster said.via : wfb