new delhi ( reuters ) - at least 200 muslims have fled their village in the western indian state of rajasthan after a hindu priest and his friends were alleged to have killed a muslim folk singer late last month , police said on wednesday .
trouble erupted in dantal village near the india-pakistan border on sept. 27 , when a hindu priest accused folk singer ahmad khan of making mistakes while reciting hymns to evoke a hindu goddess .
khan , 45 , was a member of the langa manganiyar community that has been singing hindu religious songs and spiritual verses in temples and at festivals for generations .
the priest suggested changes to the hymn , leading to an argument .
police said the priest , ramesh suthar , and his friends then broke khan s musical instruments and killed him .
the news of the murder triggered unrest between hindus and muslims who have been living together for generations , said gaurav yadav , a senior police officer investigating the case .
he did not say how khan was killed , but said suthar had been arrested .
the priest s accomplices had fled , yadav said .
two of suthar s family members said he was in shock and refused to talk about the case .
government authorities had sent paramilitary forces to the area but the muslims , fearing clashes , refused to return home .
for one small mistake the hindus killed my brother , said rakha khan , the dead singer s cousin .
we can t live in the same village ever again .
rakha khan said they had sought refuge in a school and that the state government office and other local authorities were providing them with food .
the attack is the latest in a series of incidents targeting the minority muslim community in states ruled by prime minister narendra modi s hindu nationalist party .
since his bharatiya janata party came to power in 2014 , hardline hindu groups and cow protection vigilantes have carried out numerous attacks on muslims accused of eating beef or killing cows .
many hindus believe cows are sacred and killing them is banned in some states .