berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel s conservatives are rallying around her despite the failure of talks to form a three-way ruling coalition , buying her time in office and putting the onus on her social democrat rivals to break germany s political impasse .
resolute conservative support for merkel is significant , as some members of the social democratic party ( spd ) have said privately their price for a re-run of its grand coalition with the conservatives would be merkel s head .
the collapse late on sunday of the coalition talks , which followed an inconclusive sept. 24 election , has plunged germany into the worst political crisis since the end of world war two .
president frank-walter steinmeier , who is trying to broker a deal , is keenly aware the source of germany s international clout is its economic power and that businesses want a stable coalition soon to end the uncertainty and avoid another poll .
spd leader martin schulz , whose party is the second biggest in germany and was the junior coalition partner to merkel s conservative bloc in the last parliament , has insisted the spd should rebuild in opposition after heavy losses in september .
but with merkel secure for now at the helm of her christian democrats ( cdu ) , the pressure shifts to the spd to help form a coalition after the failure of the chancellor s three-way talks with the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) and greens .
surveys suggest going to the polls again would deliver a similar outcome to september s result .
furthermore , 58 percent of voters want merkel to remain chancellor , an infratest dimap poll for broadcaster ard showed this week .
while the spd prevaricates , merkel looks reasonable for trying to resolve the impasse .
one thing is clear : angela merkel s position in the cdu is very strong .
she is our number one , david mcallister , a cdu executive committee member , told reuters .
her party believes she did all she could to forge a three-way coalition .
merkel s efforts also improved ties with the cdu s bavarian allies in the conservative bloc , the christian social union ( csu ) , which had been strained over immigration .
another senior cdu official said there was no question of sacrificing merkel as the party had no credible alternative .
a third senior cdu official , volker kauder , leader of the conservative parliamentary group in the lower house of parliament , said he hoped the social democrats would change their minds about rejecting another grand coalition .
[ nl8n1nt1pp ] steinmeier is due to meet schulz on thursday at 1400 gmt as part of his efforts to help facilitate a coalition government and avoid more elections .
asked about the possibility of the spd supporting a merkel-led minority government or entering a new grand coalition , an spd spokesman pointed to schulz s meeting with steinmeier and said , then we will see what comes afterwards .
a former spd leader , steinmeier is meeting leaders from all parties in parliament this week and wants them to make agreement on a new government possible in the near future .
only after a new government has formed is merkel s position likely to come under pressure - and even then , not immediately .
her mentor , helmut kohl , and konrad adenauer , who led germany s rebirth after world war two , are the only post-war chancellors to have ruled germany longer than her .
merkel , 63 , only decided to run again last november after thinking long and hard .
she said then she was seeking to stay on if health allows .
in 1998 , she was quoted as saying : i don t want to be a half-dead wreck when i leave politics .
she appears in robust health , but given she has already held power for 12 years , questions will inevitably arise about who will succeed her before she is half way through any new four-year term .
potential successors are not circling just yet .
she will have probably a year or so after a government is formed before the question of her succession becomes an overwhelming issue in german domestic politics , said jan techau at the american academy in berlin .
the moment that starts , her power will be greatly diminished .
but first , merkel must form a new government .
if steinmeier fails to convince the spd to enter a new grand coalition , other options include a three-way coalition after all , a merkel-led minority government , or new elections .
since snap elections won t change relative strengths , my prediction is ... another grand coalition between the only two parties that have learned to compromise , said josef joffe , publisher-editor of weekly die zeit .
bild newspaper reported on wednesday that some spd deputies were now questioning their party s rejection of a renewed grand coalition .
[ nl8n1ns1pn ] changing course and teaming up with merkel again may require a change of leadership at the spd and there could yet be a shake out at a party conference in early december .
the pressure needs to build up within the social democratic party , said techau .
he said merkel should focus on being a responsible caretaker chancellor until a new government forms .
she just needs to play her own game well and then she can survive .