flint , mich. ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders told residents of flint , michigan , on thursday their “ horrific ” water contamination crisis should be a wake-up call about the country ’ s crumbling infrastructure and required an emergency response .
“ if there is any silver lining out of this tragedy , it is my hope that the american people will look at flint and say , ‘ never again , ’ ” sanders said on his first campaign visit to the city , where a cost-saving decision to switch the water supply has led to a public health crisis from lead contamination .
“ we are looking at children being poisoned - if that is not an emergency , i just don ’ t know what an emergency is , ” sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , told about 300 people jammed into a flint church for a meeting that at times featured a freewheeling exchange with shouting residents .
sanders , who has made his call for a $ 1 trillion investment in u.s. infrastructure a key part of his campaign agenda , said flint ’ s water crisis illustrated the need for a long-term commitment to rebuilding dilapidated water systems across the country .
“ while flint may be the canary in the coal mine , there are a lot of other canaries all around the country .
the truth is our infrastructure is collapsing , ” sanders said .
“ i hope that out of the tragedy will come fundamental changes. ” sanders ’ democratic campaign rival , hillary clinton , visited the predominantly black city weeks ago and frequently highlights the crisis as an example of racial inequity as the two candidates vie for african-american support .
sanders has called for the resignation of michigan governor rick snyder , a republican , and met recently with some flint activists during a visit to michigan .
he told the flint crowd that hearing their stories of suffering was “ horrific. ” “ clearly this is part of a long-term trend of starving communities of color , ” he said .
the crisis was triggered when a city manager installed by snyder switched the city ’ s water supply from lake michigan to the nearby flint river .
the change corroded flint ’ s aging pipes and released lead and other toxins into the water supply .
president barack obama declared a state of emergency in flint in january , authorizing federal emergency management officials to coordinate relief efforts .
lawmakers in congress have wrestled with the size of a federal funding package to replace aging pipes .
sanders and clinton will return to flint on march 6 for their next nationally televised debate ahead of the michigan primary on march 8 .
( editing by tom brown ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .