wow !
this just keeps getting better and better !
this couldn t have happened to a better person pelosi !
lol ! after disappearing for a couple of weeks , the hacker guccifer 2.0 returned late this afternoon to provide a new headache for democrats.in a post to his wordpress blog , the vandal who previously provided nearly 20,000 democratic national committee e-mails to wikileaks uploaded an excel file that includes the cell phone numbers and private e-mail addresses of nearly every democratic member of the house of representatives.the excel file also includes similar contact information for hundreds of congressional staff members ( chiefs of staff , press secretaries , legislative directors , schedulers ) and campaign personnel.in announcing the leak of the document , guccifer 2.0 reported that the spreadsheet was stolen during a hack of the democratic congressional campaign committee .
as you see i wasn t wasting my time !
it was even easier than in the case of the dnc breach , the hacker wrote.along with the excel file , guccifer 2.0 also uploaded documents that included the account names and passwords for an assortment of subscription services used by the dccc , from lexis-nexis to glenn beck s web site ( password : nutbag ) .while guccifer 2.0 claims to be romanian and an unknown hacker with a laptop , cybersecurity investigators have concluded that he is part of a russian intelligence operation that has targeted the dnc , hillary clinton campaign staffers , and assorted republicans , including john mccain , lindsey graham , and michele bachmann.in a message today , the hacker branded the u.s. presidential elections a farce that is being settled behind the scenes as it was with bernie sanders .
he added , i wonder what happened to the true democracy , to the equal opportunities , the things we love the united states for .
the big money bags are fighting for power today .
they are lying constantly and don t keep their word .
the msm are producing tons of propaganda hiding the real stuff behind it .
but i do believe that people have right to know what s going on inside the election process in fact .
guccifer 2.0 also invited reporters to contact him via twitter direct message : dear journalists , you may send me a dm if you re interested in exclusive materials from the dccc , which i have plenty of .
read more : smoking gun