why couldn t the parents be notified of his death ?
what possible reason could the obama regime have for keeping his death a secret from his parents ? an american and an italian being held hostage by al qaeda in a remote region of pakistan near the afghan border were killed in a cia drone strike in january an accident president obama on thursday blamed on the fog of war .
obama grimly admitted the botched operation at the white house and apologized to the families of the two aid workers warren weinstein , 73 , of rockville , md. , and palermo native giovanni lo porto , 39 .
i profoundly regret what happened .
on behalf of the united states government , i offer our deepest apologies , obama said.meanwhile , the family of hostage warren weinstein ( who had already paid $ 250,000 in ransom money to the al qaeda captors of the now-slain hostage in 2012 ) , were still negotiating to pay more money for his release months after his death.here is a heartbreaking video of slain hostage , warren weinstein asking for help from a country he came to pakistan to defend : the weinstein family shed little light on the secret ransom plot when it was revealed friday , saying only that they d sought out efforts to rescue him .
his wife had spoken by phone with her husband in a proof of life telephone call prior to the money being handed over , a family spokesman said .
over the 3 / -year period of warren s captivity the family made every effort to engage with those holding him or those with the power to find and rescue him , the spokesman said .
weinstein got along well with his captors , the intermediary said .
he spoke urdu , the national language of pakistan , and learned to speak with his kidnappers in another local language , pashto .
they kept him well and sent a lot of money to keep him alive on medicine for the heart , said the intermediary .
otherwise , he would have been dead long ago .
also friday , white house officials said they were considering setting up a fusion cell , or task force , to better communicate with hostage families and integrate the multiple agencies responsible for the rescue of captives.via : ny post