washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. military said on friday that a fourth soldier was killed during an attack on wednesday in niger , raising the death toll from an incident that has thrown a spotlight on the u.s. counterterrorism mission in the west african nation .
the united states had previously announced that three u.s. army special forces soldiers had been killed and another two wounded when a joint u.s.-nigerien patrol came under attack near the village of tongo tongo .
it did not disclose until friday that a fourth soldier had been missing .
officials said his body was found by nigerien forces on friday morning near the site of the ambush , ending an extensive rescue and recovery mission .
no group has taken responsibility for the killings , although officials , speaking on condition of anonymity , say the united states suspects a local branch of islamic state was responsible .
the u.s. military s africa command declined to publicly name any group but said the american military would hunt down the insurgents .
absolutely , we are resolved and stalwart in our efforts to go after those who attacked this joint patrol of nigerien and u.s. forces , said army colonel mark cheadle , a spokesman for the u.s. military s africa command .
from initial accounts , the 40-member patrol , which included about a dozen u.s. troops , came under a swift attack by militants riding in a dozen vehicles and on about 20 motorcycles .
islamist militants form part of a regional insurgency in the poor , sparsely populated deserts of west africa s sahel .
jihadists have stepped up attacks on u.n. peacekeepers , malian soldiers and civilian targets since being driven back in northern mali by a french-led military intervention in 2013 .
u.s. president donald trump and french president emmanuel macron discussed joint counterterrorism operations in the sahel to defeat al-qaeda and other terrorist groups during a call on friday , the white house said .
low-risk cheadle said the u.s. and nigerien troops had been meeting with local leadership at the time of the attack , in what had been seen as a relatively lower-risk endeavor for america s elite commandos .
there was not even any armed air cover at the time that could carry out air strikes if necessary .
it was not meant to be an engagement with the enemy .
it was meant to establish relations with the local leaders and the threats at the time were deemed to be unlikely , so there was no overhead armed air cover during the engagement , he said .
cheadle acknowledged that loss of elite u.s. forces would trigger a review of how the u.s. military carries out operations but did not suggest any move to scale back the american mission .
the u.s. military on friday published the names of the three army special forces soldiers from 3rd special forces group ( airborne ) who were killed when their reconnaissance patrol with nigerien forces came under fire .
they were staff sergeant bryan black , 35 , of puyallup , washington , staff sergeant jeremiah johnson , 39 , of springboro , ohio and staff sergeant dustin wright , 29 , of lyons , georgia .
the u.s. military said it had surged resources to niger to try to locate the missing american soldier .
cheadle said that included u.s. fighter jets , helicopters and surveillance assets .
there was a full-court press , he said .