( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie said on thursday he has urged donald trump not to leave the republican party , saying it remains unified despite scathing criticism of trump ’ s presidential candidacy by a senior party leader earlier on thursday .
“ i have urged him not to leave the party , ” said christie , a former candidate himself , who gave trump a major boost last week when he endorsed him for the party ’ s nomination for the nov. 8 election .
“ i don ’ t think that ’ s a constructive way to go about it , and he knows that , ” christie told reporters .
trump , who has repeatedly threatened to leave the republican party if it does not respect him , told abc news on thursday that republicans should be glad he has brought millions more people into the party : “ they ’ re leaving the democrats .
they ’ re leaving the independents .
and they ’ re with me 100 percent. ” the new york real estate magnate is the clear front-runner to be the republican nominee in november but is facing heavy criticism from many in the party establishment - including a blistering speech on thursday by the party ’ s 2012 presidential candidate , mitt romney .
u.s .
senators marco rubio and ted cruz , and ohio governor john kasich are trailing trump in their bids for the nomination , but are trying to coalesce the support of establishment republicans to topple trump before or at the party ’ s nominating convention in july .
trump told msnbc that the increasing number of ads from the establishment targeting him are “ really unfair , ” and that he could depart the party to run as an independent .
“ if i leave , if i go ... which i may do , i mean , may or may not , but if i go , i will tell you these millions of people that joined , they ’ ve told them , they ’ re all coming with me , ” he said .
concern about trump among republicans increased at the weekend over his failure to quickly disavow support from a leading white supremacist .
“ i ’ ve know donald trump for 14 years , and donald trump is not a bigot , ” christie told a news conference in new jersey .
“ in fact , donald trump is someone i think who has given a lot of opportunity to a lot of people of a lot of different backgrounds , and i disagree with governor romney on that one. ” ( reporting by washington newsroom ; editing by mohammad zargham and frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .