washington/new york ( reuters ) - republican marco rubio ’ s presidential run has drawn more money from wall street donors than any other candidate , according to a reuters review of campaign finance disclosures , shoring up his position as his party ’ s establishment alternative to front-runner donald trump .
the u.s. senator from florida has received more than $ 4 million from the employees of banks and investment firms like bank of america corp ( bac.n ) , deutsche bank ( dbkgn.de ) and goldman sachs group inc ( gs.n ) since launching his bid for the presidency last year , according to the analysis of individual donations totaling more than $ 200 each .
( click here for a graphic : reut.rs/1q4zisk ) former florida governor jeb bush , who dropped out of the race on saturday after poor finishes in the early nominating contests of iowa , new hampshire and south carolina , came in second in wall street donations , accumulating $ 2.45 million in contributions , while democratic hopeful hillary clinton took third place with $ 723,361 , according to the review .
the amounts include contributions to the candidates ’ respective super pacs , fundraising groups that are not directly connected to their campaigns but which spend on their behalf .
more money could be on the way for rubio as the republican field narrows .
within minutes of bush leaving the race , for example , some of his donors told reuters they were preparing to throw their financial support behind rubio .
wall street donations , however , can hurt as well as help a candidate , especially with voters who blame bankers for the 2008 financial crisis and the ensuing great recession .
“ the idea of raising cash from wall street is a tricky one , ” said university of iowa professor tim hagle .
“ even on the republican side , there ’ s a certain mistrust among the base for that sector. ” but hagle added that the financial support could help rubio as he seeks to become the republican party ’ s anti-trump candidate .
“ the advantages of having the additional funding at this critical time seem to be worth the extra criticism that might come his way as a result , ” the professor said.u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , who won iowa ’ s caucuses but trailed rubio slightly in south carolina ’ s primary , where he had hoped to win second place , has drawn just under $ 85,000 from wall street employees , according to the review .
the support for rubio was largely driven by donations to his allied super pac , conservative solutions .
billionaire investor paul singer endorsed rubio in october and contributed $ 2.5 million to the super pac , according to the filings .
in january , rubio raised $ 9,792 , the third-highest total for the month in the presidential field behind clinton , with $ 51,000 , and new jersey governor chris christie , with $ 26,000 .
christie has also dropped out of the race .
bush raised just $ 5,513 from the sector in january .
democrat bernie sanders and republican donald trump have received some of the smallest totals from wall street .
sanders , who has blamed the financial crisis on wall street and has promised to break up big banks , raised $ 26,650 from bank employees since launching his bid , a tiny fraction of the $ 96 million he has raised from all sources .
trump , a billionaire businessman who is self-funding his campaign , raised only $ 1,566 from employees of banks .
most of trump ’ s fundraising has come in the form of selling merchandise on his website .