washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration would virtually eliminate federal funding for the environmental protection agency ’ s budget for vehicle emissions and fuel economy testing but will seek to raise fees on industry to pay for some testing , a government document shows .
the cuts would slash by more than half the staff of the epa department that conducts vehicle , engine , and fuel testing to verify emissions standards are met and mileage stickers are accurate .
its work helped lead to volkswagen ag ’ s ( vowg_p.de ) 2015 admission that it violated vehicle emissions rules for years .
in a march 21 budget document posted online by the washington post , the trump administration proposed eliminating $ 48 million in federal funding for epa vehicle and fuel testing and certification .
it represents a 99 percent federal cut to the vehicle testing budget and would require “ pretty much shutting down the testing lab , ” said margo oge , who headed the epa ’ s office of transportation and air quality under president barack obama .
the proposal , which would also cut 168 out of 304 full-time jobs , seeks to partially fund current operations by boosting fees automakers and engine manufacturers pay for testing .
an epa official confirmed the document ’ s authenticity .
the trump administration has proposed cutting the epa ’ s budget by 31 percent and eliminating more than 50 programs .
epa spokesman john konkus declined to answer questions about how the cuts could affect vehicle testing .
“ we know we can effectively serve the taxpayers and protect the environment .
while many in washington insist on greater spending , epa is focused on greater value and real results , ” konkus said .
gloria bergquist , a spokeswoman for the alliance of automobile manufacturers , an auto trade association , said automakers were concerned the proposed cuts could delay certification of new vehicles “ and getting products to consumers. ” janet mccabe , a former epa official in the obama administration , said monday that companies that take care to comply with the rules can be at a disadvantage without strong enforcement of the rules .
“ we know that a little bit of cheating can mean a lot of air pollution , ” mccabe said .
the administration plans to release a detailed budget plan in may .
in march , trump ordered a review of tough u.s. vehicle fuel-efficiency standards put in place by the obama administration .
the epa stepped up scrutiny of automakers after volkswagen admitted to cheating diesel emissions tests in 580,000 u.s. vehicles .
vw agreed to pay up to $ 25 billion in penalties and buyback costs and pleaded guilty in march to felony charges .
in september 2015 , epa said it would review emissions from all u.s. diesel vehicles after volkswagen ’ s admission it used secret software to emit up to 40 times allowable emissions .
that review prompted the allegation by the epa in january that fiat chrysler automobiles nv used undisclosed software to allow excess diesel emissions from 104,000 u.s. trucks and suvs .
fiat chrysler denies wrongdoing .
the epa is also scrutinizing emissions from daimler ag ’ s mercedes-benz vehicles .
it has not approved daimler or fiat chrysler ’ s request to sell 2017 model diesels .
the epa has also investigated cases of several automakers overstating mileage on window stickers in recent years .
in 2014 , the epa hit korean automakers hyundai motor co and affiliate kia motors corp with $ 350 million in penalties for overstating fuel economy ratings .