there s no lengths lying conservative media won t go to in order to try and defend their golden boy , trump , and anyone around him .
take jeff sessions , for example .
sessions was just caught lying under oath about contact with russian officials during the campaign , and conservatives are desperate to figure out how to defend him .
take the following tweet by the origin of fake news , fox : democratic lawmakers who met with russian ambassador .
pic.twitter.com/nemwyla790 fox news ( @ foxnews ) march 3 , 2017that s right conservatives are trying to say that since democrats have talked to russians before , there s no wrongdoing here.except that awkward part where none of the pictured democrats lied under oath about it.except that super awkward part where democrats weren t part of a presidential campaign that benefited from , if not colluded with , russian hacking and attempts to derail our 2016 electoral process.users on twitter are calling fox news out for this incredibly misleading bullsh * t : @ foxnews which ones then lied about the meeting under oath ?
kevin m. kruse ( @ kevinmkruse ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews how many are in # trumps cabinet or are asked to lead national security ? ! ? !
mike wickett ( @ mikewickett ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews i m confused , which of these people was nominated for a cabinet position and then lied under oath ?
buttered scones ( @ tedlangley ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews again , must have context .
trumps team met with russia during height of election hacking .
please do not make these look the same mike battuello ( @ mikebattuello ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews again .
it s not against the law to meet with foreign ambassadors .
it s against the law to lie under oath about such meetings .
kathie ( @ anastaisastweet ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews ok , but did they lie under oath about it ?
we need an independent prosecutor to sort this out ; party line & divided nation need ans !
josh marcus ( @ moshuajarcus ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews how many of these were questioned in confirmation hearings and lied ?
dipti khanna ( @ dkhanna77 ) march 3 , 2017 @ foxnews and precisely which ones lied about it under oath .
i ll wait .
fd brian ( @ fdbrian70 ) march 3 , 2017conservative media is working hard to create an alternate reality .
it s up to all of us not to let them.featured image via zach gibson/getty images