baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq s supreme federal court ruled on monday that no region or province can secede , strengthening the government s hand as it seeks to prevent a repeat of september s kurdish independence vote .
the ruling was a response to a request from the central government in baghdad to put an end to any wrong misinterpretation of the constitution and assert the unity of iraq , a court spokesman said .
soon after , iraqi pm haider al-abadi urged the northern semi-autonomous kurdish region to abide by the court s decision .
we call on the region to clearly state its commitment to non-separation or independence from iraq , he said in a statement .
there was no immediate reaction from kurdish authorities .
iraq s kurds voted overwhelmingly to break away from iraq in a referendum held on sept. 25 , defying the central government in baghdad as well as neighboring turkey and iran who have their own kurdish minorities .
iraqi government forces and the iran-backed popular mobilisation forces launched a surprise offensive on oct. 16 in retaliation .
government forces managed to wrest back control of the oil city of kirkuk and other disputed territories .
abadi said the government was now taking the necessary measures to impose federal authorities without going into further details .
baghdad was committed to preserving iraq s unity and preventing any attempt for separation , he added .
the ruling would strengthen abadi s hand in future dealings with the kurds , said ahmed younis , a baghdad-based constitutional expert .
the court ruling has put an end to the kurdish attempt to breakaway from iraq , he added .
the court is responsible for settling disputes between iraq s central government and the country s regions and provinces , including kurdistan .
its decisions are final and mandatory for all parties according to the constitution , however it has no mechanism to enforce its ruling in the kurdish region .
earlier on monday , the kurdish region s prime minister nechirvan barzani reiterated his call to resolve its issues with the central government through dialogue and not through force .