cairo ( reuters ) - lebanon s saad al-hariri , who resigned as prime minister on nov. 4 , met egypt s president abdel fattah al-sisi for talks in a brief cairo stopover before a planned return to lebanon , egypt state media said on tuesday .
hariri had been in paris since saturday when he met french president emmanuel macron .
he has said he will return to lebanon by wednesday for the country s independence day celebrations , where he said he will clarify his position .
his surprise resignation announced from riyadh triggered a political crisis in lebanon s power-sharing government and drew his country deeper into a regional power struggle between sunni kingdom saudi arabia and shi ite islamist iran .
a saudi ally , hariri said he quit over interference in lebanon by iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah , a shi ite group , which is part the government .
but president michel aoun and others say hariri may have been coerced into resigning .
sisi , a former military commander who presents himself as a bulwark against islamist militancy , has stressed his backing for saudi arabia and gulf arab allies who have helped with aid since he ousted a government led by the muslim brotherhood in 2013 .
but he has also said egypt is not considering measures against hezbollah despite saudi demands for sanctions against the lebanese group .
he has received calls from macron and from u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson over the crisis .
hariri arrived at cairo international airport , where he was received by egypt s health minister , the lebanese ambassador to cairo and egypt s ambassador to beirut , his press office said .
he went immediately to the presidential palace , it said .
a message on hariri s twitter account said the meeting would be followed by a dinner in his honor .
saad hariri arrived in cairo on tuesday evening from paris to meet president sisi , and he is scheduled to return to lebanon on wednesday , mena state news agency said .
egypt s presidency said aoun , a hezbollah ally , also spoke with sisi to discuss developments .
sisi and aoun underscored the importance of preserving lebanon s stability as well as upholding lebanon s national interest .