for decades hillary clinton has claimed that back in the 1970s the u.s. marines rejected her because she was a woman .
but a look at some of the information released by wikileaks reveals that the democrat nominee has more recently changed her story and admitted that the marines did not reject her because of her gender.one of the earliest reports on hillary s rejection claim came from the new york times maureen dowd , who in 1994 reported clinton s claims as delivered at an event meant to honor military women hosted at the capital in washington d.c.dowd reported that hillary told those gathered that she was rejected by the marines because she was a woman .
dowd wrote that in 1975 , the year she married bill clinton and when she was teaching at the university of arkansas law school in fayetteville , hillary said she went to the marines to see if she could sign up.she was 27 then , she said , and the marine recruiter was about 21 .
she was interested in joining either the active forces or the reserves , she recalled , but was swiftly rebuffed by the recruiter , who took a dim view of her age and her thick glasses .
not very encouraging .
you re too old , you can t see and you re a woman , mrs. clinton said she was told , adding that the recruiter dismissed her by suggesting she try the army .
maybe the dogs would take you , she recalled the recruiter saying .
it was not a very encouraging conversation , she said .
i decided maybe i ll look for another way to serve my country .
flash forward to one of her speeches in 2013 that wikileaks just published .
somehow , the lie she told so many years ago had morphed into the fact that the marines wouldn t take her because they felt she was too old : this according to the excerpt from her 2013 appearance : question from the audience : is it true that until 1975 you applied for the marines and they told you no because you were a female ? hillary : no .
here is what did happen : it was actually there was a recruiting station , and i thought , you know , maybe i should consider serving my country by joining the military .
so i walked into the recruiting station , and the person on duty was a marine .
and i think i was 26 , maybe 27 , so , an older potential recruit .
i said to the young marine , i said , well , you know , i d be interested in getting some information to see whether i could maybe serve .
i m a lawyer .
maybe i could help in some way .
he says , well , i think you are too old for the marines but maybe the dogs will take you .
i said , the dogs ?
he goes , yeah , you know , the army .
i said , well , it doesn t sound like i m going to be welcome so read more : breitbart