trump and palin etc , represent the contempt that whitey shares for this intangible , uncontrollable new black mind that s been steeping for a while now .
azealia banks penned another expletive-filled note wednesday attacking sarah palin , crackers , and whitey just hours after the former alaska governor vowed to sue the rapper for an earlier graphic outburst against her .
despite their best efforts to conceal the contempt and envy that the cracker has for blacks and other people of color they just can t hide it and it s seeping from the seams of their being , banks wrote in a tumblr post wednesday ( emphasis hers ) .on monday , the 24-year-old rapper issued a series of since-deleted tweets that suggested palin should be gang-raped and forced to perform oral sex on a group of black men , and that the incident should be filmed and uploaded to the website worldstarhiphop .
sarah palin needs to have her hair shaved off to a buzz cut , get headf ked by a big veiny , ashy , black d k then be locked in a cupboard , banks wrote in a tweet that was later deleted but screen-shotted by media research center .
honestly let s find the biggest burliest blackest n es and let them run a train on her .
film it and put it on worldstar , she wrote in another since-deleted message.on tuesday , palin vowed to sue the rapper over the comments , telling people magazine that banks engages in a form of racism and hate that is celebrated by some in the perverted arm of pop culture , but is condemned by those who know it s tearing our country apart .
on your behalf , i think this time i don t just sit back and swallow it , but put the fear of god in her by holding her accountable , palin said .
as many of you have for years implored me to do , i m finally going to sue .
but the threat of a lawsuit has seemingly not deterred banks , who wrote wednesday that white people are running out of mental mind-f * ck tricks .
banks wrote ( emphasis hers ) : i m 100 % positive that the police killings , cultural appropriation , trump and palin etc .
represent the contempt that whitey shares for this intangible , uncontrollable new black mind that s been steeping for a while now .
the mind born of very intelligent and real conversations/confrontations around american racism .
and the detachment of the black mind from the mirage of a subpar existence and self-perceptions that crackers created for us long ago .
they feel exposed and out of control for once .
and our big black ideas and expression are threatening to further expose them , so they ll try to trivialize and minimize our blackness by stereotyping us .
blackness is frustrating crackers nowadays because it s threatening their sense of security and being , she added .
we longer care about what they think , so it s hard to control us .
f * ck whitey , the rapper concluded the post.the note came after banks continued to tweet about her spat with palin late tuesday into wednesday morning , with the rapper suggesting that the former gop vice presidential nominee was performing sexual favors for current gop presidential frontrunner donald trump : banks and palin exchanged open letters on tuesday , with palin calling for the rapper to join her to work together on something worthwhile like condemning racism , along with empowering young women to defend themselves against a most misogynist , degrading , devastating assault perpetrated by evil men rape .
banks apologized to palin in her own letter , opening by apologizing for any emotional distress or reputational scarring i may have caused you .
in my honest defense , i was completely kidding , the harlem-born slay-z rapper wrote .
i happen to have a really crass , new-york-city sense of humor , and regularly make silly jokes in attempts make light of situations which make me uncomfortable .
as the fabric of the american nation is embedded with racism , i merely made a racially driven joke to counter what i believed to be real , racist rhetoric [ sic ] .
via : breitbart news