supreme court justic sotomayor went on a racist rant about how law enforcement has targeted minorities and put fear in black and brown people : it is no secret that people of color are disproportionate victims of this type of scrutiny .
she s weighed in before in a racist manner : i would hope that a wise latina woman with the richness of her experiences would more often than not reach a better conclusion than a white male who hasn t lived that life supreme court justice sotomayorsotomayor once again brings her racist view to the court clouding her decisions on all americans : supreme court justice sonia sotomayor on monday issued a vehement dissent in a fourth amendment case writing that the majority s opinion sanctions police stops that corrode all our civil liberties and threaten all our lives .
the fiery objection came on case where a utah man challenged his arrest based on a stop that was later found to be unlawful .
the 5-3 majority opinion , sotomayor wrote , will have dramatic ramifications for law-abiding citizens targeted by police , especially minorities .
it is no secret that people of color are disproportionate victims of this type of scrutiny , she wrote .
for generations , black and brown parents have given their children the talk instructing them never to run down the street ; always keep your hands where they can be seen ; do not even think of talking back to a stranger all out of fear of how an officer with a gun will react to them .
by legitimizing the conduct that produces this double consciousness , this case tells everyone , white and black , guilty and innocent , that an officer can verify your legal status at any time , she added .
it says that your body is subject to invasion while courts excuse the violation of your rights .
it implies that you are not a citizen of a democracy but the subject of a carceral state , just waiting to be cataloged .
with four major decisions due in the next week , including cases on affirmative action , abortion and immigration , sotomayor s anger signals that what has been a quiet term since the death of justice antonin scalia could get increasingly contentious .
whether born from experience or inherent physiological or cultural differences , she said , for jurists who are women and nonwhite , our gender and national origins may and will make a difference in our judging .
via : cnn