san juan ( reuters ) - u.s. senate democrats , in a letter to majority leader mitch mcconnell , on wednesday called for congressional action on puerto rico , demanding that legislation to resolve the island ’ s financial crisis include tools to restructure debt .
“ restructuring legislation would not cost the federal government a single penny and would instead save u.s. taxpayers from the growing cost of inaction , ” said the letter to the senate ’ s republican leader , signed by all 46 democrats and independents .
the letter is a challenge to republicans who largely oppose letting the u.s. commonwealth restructure debt .
republican senators orrin hatch of utah , lisa murkowski of alaska and chuck grassley of iowa last month introduced a bill to bring puerto rico ’ s finances under federal oversight without providing for debt restructuring .
democrats have argued that federal oversight should be conditional on allowing puerto rico to be governed by federal bankruptcy or debt restructuring laws .
hatch , murkowski and grassley are cc ’ d on the letter .
“ puerto rico was included in chapter 9 of the u.s. bankruptcy code until 1984 , when congress inexplicably excluded it from the nationwide approach to resolving municipal insolvency , ” said the letter , a draft of which was first reported by reuters last week .
the letter ’ s broad support is key because , with 44 democrats and two independents on board , democrats could block bills that do not include a restructuring mechanism .
still , that is no guarantee that republicans , who control congress , will draft a bill that includes one .
a restructuring option would be a coup for the island ’ s governor , alejandro garcia padilla , who has long said puerto rico needs to cut its $ 70 billion in debt to grow its economy , a stance that has faced resistance from creditors .
aside from its debt load , puerto rico faces widespread economic strain , including a 45 percent poverty rate and a shrinking tax base , as a growing number of citizens jump to the u.s. mainland .
senate democratic leader harry reid , speaking on the senate floor on wednesday , said congress must do more than hold hearings or create a task force on puerto rico , stressing that the island needs “ to be treated as other american citizens and be able to file bankruptcy. ” the letter comes weeks after house speaker paul ryan demanded legislation by the end of march to address puerto rico .
“ we urge you to match his commitment to act ... by the end of the first quarter , ” said the letter to mcconnell .