trump s new un ambassador nikki haley just held her first press conference following the un security council s monthly meeting on middle east issues , and this was no ordinary press conference .
after watching this video , it s easy to see why president trump chose her to represent the us in hopes of redefining our support for democracy in the middle east , while identifying nations who support terrorism .
here s an excerpt of her speech to the press : the security council just finished its regular monthly meeting on middle east issues .
it s the first meeting like that that i ve attended , and i have to say it was a bit strange .
the security council is supposed to discuss how to maintain international peace and security .
but in our meeting on the middle east , the discussion was not about hezbollah s illegal build up of rockets in lebanon .
it was not about the money and weapons iran supplies to terrorists .
it was not about how we defeat isis .
it was not about how we hold bashar assad accountable for the slaughter of hundreds and thousands of civilians .
no , instead the meeting focused on criticizing israel , the one true democracy in the middle east .
i am new around here , but i understand that s how the council has operated month after month for decades .
i am here to say the united states will not turn a blind eye to this anymore .
i am here to underscore the iron-clad support of the united states for israel .
a star is born is our reaction to the first press briefing by president trump s new ambassador at the united nations .
the ex-governor of south carolina was ridiculed by the left when the president first sent her nomination up to the hill , owing to her alleged lack of foreign policy chops .
she certainly rang the wake up gong for that crowd this morning , after emerging from her first security council monthly meeting devoted to the middle east .
tough as nails but with a smile and a layer of southern charm.the ambassador had just come from the regular monthly security council on middle east issues .
she said it was her first such meeting , and it was a bit strange .
the security council , she said , is supposed to discuss how to maintain international peace and security .
but the meeting , she said , was not about hezbollah s illegal buildup of rockets in lebanon , it was not about the money and weapons iran provides to terrorists , it was not how we defeat isis , it was not how we hold beshar al-assad accountable for the slaughter of thousands of civilians .
no , she said , instead the meeting focused on criticizing israel , the one true democracy in the middle east .
i am new around here , but i understand that s how the council has operated month after month for decades .
i am here to say the united states will not turn a blind eye to this anymore .
i am here to underscore to the ironclad support of the united states for israel .
i am here to emphasize that the united states is determined to stand up to the u.n. s anti-israel bias .
the ambassador made clear that the trump administration will not support the kind of resolution from which the obama administration s ambassador samantha power shamefully abstained , though mrs. haley was too polite to name the humiliated ms. power .
the outrageously biased resolutions from the security council and the general assembly only make peace harder to attain by discouraging one of the parties from going to the negotiating table .
incredibly , mrs. haley said , the u.n. department of political affairs has an entire division devoted entirely to palestinian affairs .
imagine that .
there is no division devoted to illegal missile launches form north korea .
there is no division devoted to the world s number one state sponsor of terror , iran .
the prejudiced approach to israeli-palestinian issues does the peace process no favors , and it bears no relationship to the reality of the world around us .
the double standards are breathtaking .
the ambassador warned that it is the u.n. s anti-israel bias that is long overdue for change , and said america will not hesitate to speak out in defense of its friend in israel .
all this was going on while the press was questioning president trump on what he was going to do about anti-semitism .
if his ambassador to the world body is any example , the answer is plenty .
she has the principles of a daniel patrick moynihan , the grit of a john bolton , and the star power of a jeane kirkpatrick , and in her first press briefing she certainly made her point .
editorial of the new york sun