keith broomfield won t likely receive any recognition from the white house for his brave and selfless decision to stand side by side in defense of innocent kurds who are being slaughtered by obama s jv team .
who has time to address a plan to deal with isis ?
president obama and his lovely wife have more important things to deal with like white privilege , racist cops , and the pain of racism they still experience today while living out their second term in racist america s white house .
who has time to honor an american hero who lost his life fighting one of the most horrific enemies in world history .
there s no need for obama to address the conflict overseas he s got a race war to incite right here in america a volunteer fighter has become the first american to be killed while serving with the kurdish ypg in syria.keith broomfield , 36 , originally from the town of westminster near boston , massachusetts , joined the volunteer fighting group on february 24 and died on june 3 in a battle in the village of qentere.he died near the border town of kobani , said nasser haji , an official with the ypg .
state department spokesman jeff rathke confirmed bloomfield s death , but declined to provide any details about the circumstances .
he said the us was providing consular assistance to his family.broomfield s mother , donna , told nbc news from the family home in westminster that she learned from her other son that keith , who had been the production manager for the family s manufacturing firm , was dead.she said : he turned his life over to the lord and he decided this was god s will and god wanted him to do it .
mrs broomfield said her son had left to fight around four months ago and while there was a little bit of texting after he first arrived , lately she had heard nothing .she said : i didn t want him to go but i didn t have a choice in the matter .
i m waiting for his body to come back .
the people s protection unit ( ypg for short ) created a foreign brigade called the lions of rojava to allow volunteers from around the world to join the kurdish militia in their fight against isis .
those who put themselves forward are given a kurdish nom de guerre when they join and broomfield s was gelhat r met .
on the lions of rojava facebook page , he was described as a brave american warrior [ who ] came to kobane because he could not lean back and watch the atrocities which were committed by isis .
the post continued , he felt very connected to the kurdish people and was a very generous and freedom loving person .
so one day our brave warrior keith decided to make his way to rojava and to join the fight with the ypg .
he booked his flight from the united states and joined the cause .
keith s generosity could be seen in his visits to the refugee camp of suruc [ turkish town near the syrian border ] and his desire to help the poor children who are growing up in such a dangerous environment .
he was a warrior with the courage and the heart of a lion .
we want to thank his mother donna for giving birth and raising such a wonderful son .
our hearts go out to her , his family and the american people .
we thank you for your sacrifice and just want to let you know that we are crying with you .
but we also want to let you know that his death will be avenged .
we will let isis feel what it means to kill one of our brothers .
we will chase them from our land to the gates of hell .
there will be no mercy and no turning back .
the save kobani page added , first american ypg fighter , keith thomas broomfield ( gelhat r met ) from massachusetts , has been reported as martyred in clashes with isis close to the village of qenter in kobane region .
you were a friend of the kurdish people , a hero of justice and humanity .
may you rest in peace , you will forever stay alive in our hearts .
the fight against the islamic state group has attracted dozens of westerners , including a number of iraq war veterans who have made their way back to the middle east to join kurdish fighters , who have been most successful against the extremist group.many westerners are spurred on by kurdish social media campaigners and a sense of duty rooted in the 2003 us-led military invasion of iraq.and while the us and its coalition allies bomb the extremists from the air , kurds say they hope more westerners will join them on the ground to fight.backed by us-led coalition airstrikes , kurdish ypg fighters in syria have successfully pushed back islamic state group militants from kobani and scores of nearby villages.more recently , they have closed in on the islamic state-held town of tal abyad near the turkish border .
the town is the islamic state group s main access point to turkey from raqqa , the group s de facto capital in syria.via : uk daily mail