london ( reuters ) - britain will submit proposals on how to settle its divorce bill with the european union before an eu summit next month and is expected to negotiate hard , finance minister philip hammond said on sunday .
the eu told prime minister theresa may on friday that there was more work to be done to unlock the brexit talks , repeating its early december deadline for her to flesh out britain s opening offer on the financial settlement .
we will make our proposals to the european union in time for the council , hammond told the bbc , referring to the dec. 14-15 meeting of eu heads of government .
he was speaking three days before he sets out britain s budget plan , where he will have to find room within tight fiscal constraints to help may convince voters that the conservative government is tackling britain s domestic problems at the same time as negotiating its exit from the eu .
last week , may met fellow eu leaders to try to break a deadlock over how much britain will pay on leaving the bloc , an issue threatening to derail british hopes for a negotiated exit and an agreement on a new trading relationship by march 2019 .
may has signalled she would increase an initial offer that is estimated at some 20 billion euros ( $ 24 billion ) - about a third of what brussels wants .
but hammond , who has been criticised by supporters of brexit for being too conciliatory towards brussels and lobbying for a softer exit , said britain would take a tough stance about how much it owes .
there are some things that we re very clear we do owe under the treaties , other things where we dispute the amounts or even whether something should be included , hammond said in a separate interview with itv television .
of course we ll negotiate hard to get the very best deal for the british taxpayer .
asked about the prospect of brexit without a trade deal , hammond said he was increasingly confident that an agreement could be reached because it was in the interests of both parties .
despite scepticism in brussels over the tight timetable , may and her chief negotiator david davis have been clear they want to have a full post-brexit free trade deal sealed by the time britain leaves .
however , hammond set out a softer stance on the timing of the trade deal .
we hope that it will be agreed , certainly in principle , that the big elements of it will be agreed before march 2019 so that everybody knows where we are going , he told itv .