peshawar , pakistan ( reuters ) - a taliban spokesman denied on sunday accusations by a canadian man that one of his children had been murdered and his wife raped while they were being held captive by militants who kidnapped them in afghanistan in 2012 .
joshua boyle and his american wife , caitlan coleman , were held by the haqqani network , a semi-independent wing of the afghan taliban , before being rescued by pakistani troops in northwest pakistan , near the afghan border , last week .
boyle told reporters soon after he , his wife and their three children returned to canada on friday that their captors had murdered a fourth child had raped his wife .
taliban spokesman zabiullah mujahid rejected that as propaganda by the western governments that helped rescue the family .
we strongly reject these fake and fabricated allegations of this canadian family , now in the hands of the enemy , he said in a statement sent to media .
whatever statement the enemy wants to put in their mouth , the family is forced to make it .
boyle called on the taliban to provide my family with the justice we deserve .
mujahid said the couple was intentionally never separated in order to protect their safety .
he also denied that their child had been murdered , but acknowledged that one child became sick and died .
we were in a remote areas without access to a doctor and medications that led the loss of the child , he said .
three children , all born in captivity , were rescued along with boyle and coleman .
the u.s. government calls the haqqani network the most lethal and sophisticated insurgent group in afghanistan .
its operational chief , sirajuddin haqqani , was named deputy to the taliban s newly appointed leader mullah akhtar mohammad mansour in 2015 , cementing the ties between the groups .
the haqqanis previously held u.s. army sergeant bowe bergdahl , who was freed in a swap for taliban prisoners in 2014 , and are suspected of holding two professors , an american and an australian , who were kidnapped outside their university in kabul in 2016 .
a senior afghan government official told reuters that american and afghan special forces launched two unsuccessful raids to try to rescue the professors in afghanistan , but officials now believe the pair has been taken to haqqani hideouts over the border in pakistan .