manila ( reuters ) - police have been forced to stop conducting drug surveys and testing in the philippine capital s biggest and most populous area after a lawyers group representing residents filed a petition before a court , a police chief said on tuesday .
thousands of residents had been surveyed and a few hundred had been tested in a door-to-door anti-narcotics campaign in two communities in manila s quezon city from may this year , part of president rodrigo duterte s bloody war on drugs .
human rights groups and duterte s political opponents have said tests conducted by police amounted to harassment that could endanger the lives of those who tested positive .
activists say large numbers of users have been killed during the anti-drug campaign , often by mysterious gunmen .
community officials were still allowed to go around the city s 142 neighborhoods asking people to complete surveys about drug use and take voluntary urine tests , said guillermo eleazar , quezon city police chief .
the police will no longer have an active role in the anti-drug activities , eleazar told reuters , a day after he attended a court hearing on a petition to stop the police tests .
our uniformed personnel will now be limited to providing security and visibility upon the requests of our barangay ( community ) officials .
they will no longer take part in asking questions and taking urine samples , he said .
the decision comes as philippine police are under intense media scrutiny over their conduct in an anti-narcotics campaign that has killed thousands of filipinos over the past 15 months and alarmed human rights monitors .
activists and some opposition politicians have accused duterte of having a kill policy that aims to eliminate suspected drug dealers rather than take them into custody .
duterte and the police reject such accusations and say that those killed had resisted arrest violently .
eleazar said the drug tests police had conducted were voluntary and not coercive .
he said the court did not issue a restraining order because he assured the judge it was up to each community to decide its own programmes and police would play only a supporting role .
eleazar accepted some police officers were over-zealous in the conduct of house-to-house surveys and tests , but said petitioners were wrong to blame police , who were only trying to help .
the petitioners are barking up at the wrong tree , he said .
they should ask the court to stop the barangays from doing these anti-drug surveys and tests .
the national union of people s lawyers ( nupl ) said they expected police to shift blame .
no doubt this about-face by the police was due to public protests and the legal suit , the nupl said in a statement .