berlin ( reuters ) - a co-leader of germany s greens , a possible partner in chancellor angela merkel s next government , said on wednesday the next head of the eurogroup should support a shift away from austerity and toward investment and more fiscal solidarity .
the greens are set to start exploratory talks next week with merkel s conservatives on forming a coalition government that also includes the pro-business , fiscally hawkish free democrats ( fdp ) after an election in september .
unlike the fdp , who have cautioned against proposals by french president emmanuel macron for deeper fiscal integration in the single currency bloc , the greens support common tax collection and an investment pact within the 19-country euro zone .
in january , dutch finance minister jeroen dijsselbloem will step down as president of the eurogroup , an informal body that plays a key role in shaping the economic policy of the bloc .
the group will vote for a new chairman at a meeting in december .
the upcoming leadership switch at the eurogroup should be used as an opportunity for a new start in european fiscal and economic policy , greens co-chief simone peter said in a statement .
europe will gain from more solidarity .
europe s fiscal policy needs a shift away from austerity toward a common pact for tax collection and investments , which would trigger social and ecological innovations .
like his german counterpart wolfgang schaeuble , dijsselbloem opposes so-called transfers from richer euro zone states to poorer ones like greece .
it would be good for europe if the chairman of the eurogroup holds the position of european finance minister who reports to the european parliament , peter said .
french president macron has put good proposals on the table , which should be taken on by the next government and should not be torpedoed as former finance minister wolfgang schaeuble did to previous proposals .
schaeuble has agreed to step down after the sept. 24 election that weakened merkel s conservatives .
he will become president of the german parliament .
fdp leader christian lindner last week called for a tougher stance on fiscal and euro zone policy , without yet making a bid for control of the finance ministry .