new york ( reuters ) - new jersey ’ s republican lieutenant governor and a former investment banker running as a democrat will head to a november face-off to succeed two-term republican governor chris christie , primary election results showed on tuesday .
the front-runner in the democratic primary , former goldman sachs group inc executive and one-time diplomat phil murphy , declared victory about 90 minutes after polls closed .
unofficial results posted on njspotlight.com showed him with more than twice as many votes as his nearest rival , former u.s. treasury department official jim johnson , in a six-way race .
“ i humbly accept your nomination to be the democratic candidate for governor of the great state of new jersey , ” murphy said on twitter .
lieutenant governor kim guadagno , the republican favorite to succeed christie , also held a strong lead over four rivals in her party ’ s primary , earning nearly half of the votes cast .
election results showed guadagno with 47 percent of the republican vote , followed by state assemblyman jack ciattarelli in second place with 31 percent .
the two primary victors will face off in the general election in november to succeed christie , a once-rising republican star whose popularity has plunged in recent years .
new jersey and virginia are the only two states holding gubernatorial elections this year .
earlier indications were that voter interest in the new jersey gubernatorial primaries was low .
murphy , who served as u.s. ambassador to germany under former president barack obama , significantly out-spent his opponents , loaning $ 15 million to his own campaign .
he was also endorsed by former vice president joe biden and the state ’ s democratic party .
with christie frequently out on the stump for donald trump during the 2016 presidential campaign , guadagno has spent months as acting governor .
but she has also had to distance herself from the unpopular republican incumbent and has sparred with ciattarelli over her plan to raise taxes on millionaires .
while christie was re-elected with 60 percent of the vote in 2013 , his recent approval rating dropped to 20 percent following his frequent absences , the state ’ s 11 credit-rating downgrades and transportation problems .
christie has also been tarnished by the scandal in which two former aides were convicted for scheming to close down lanes at the george washington bridge in 2013 to punish a mayor for failing to endorse christie ’ s re-election campaign .