seoul ( reuters ) - north korea said on wednesday it had successfully tested a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) , called hwasong-15 , that could reach all of the u.s. mainland .
[ l1n1ny1rr ] in a broadcast on state tv , north korea said the newly developed hwasong-15 has much greater advantages in its tactical and technological specifications and technical characteristics than its hwasong-14 icbm , tested twice in july .
analysts and officials are awaiting the release of photos and video from the launch to identify what differences there may be between the hwasong-15 and previous north korean missiles .
the missile , the first test in 75 days , was fired on a steep trajectory and flew for 53 minutes , north korea said .
it reached an altitude of 4,475 km ( 2,780 miles ) and flew 950 km ( 590 miles ) , according to the north .
if ( today s ) numbers are correct , then if flown on a standard trajectory rather than this lofted trajectory , this missile would have a range of more than 13,000 km ( 8,100 miles ) , the u.s.-based union of concerned scientists said in a statement .
that would suggest that all of the continental united states including washington d.c. and new york could be theoretically within range of a north korean missile .
on july 4 , north korea launched its first icbm , hwasong-14 , which reached an altitude of 2,802 km ( 1,741 miles ) and a range of 933 km ( 580 miles ) during a flight of 39 minutes , north korea s state media reported .
a second test of the hwasong-14 on july 28 exhibited improved performance , with the missile flying for about 47 minutes to an altitude of 3,724 km ( 2,313 miles ) and a range of 998 km ( 620 miles ) , according to state media .
the second flight showed the missile has a range of more than 10,000 km ( 6,213 miles ) , potentially putting the u.s. west coast within range , analysts have said .
after wednesday s test , kim declared that with the hwasong-15 north korea had finally realized the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force .
international observers , however , said it remains unclear how heavy a payload the missile was carrying , and if it could carry a large nuclear warhead far enough to strike the united states .
it also remains unclear whether the north koreans have perfected a re-entry vehicle capable of protecting a nuclear warhead during its descent .
north korea launched the missile from pyongsong , south pyongan province , about 30 km ( 18 miles ) north of its capital , pyongyang , the first time a missile was fired from this location .
unlike many other tests that historically occur in the early mornings , wednesday s launch occurred in the middle of the night in korea , at around 2:28 a.m. north korea s local time ( 6:17 p.m. gmt ) .
the location and timing are likely a reflection of pyongyang s continuing efforts to test weapons from anywhere and at any time , providing more realistic tests and making it more difficult for other countries to predict and possibly intercept a launch .
the test is unusual in that it was conducted in the dead of night , perhaps reflecting north korean concerns about avoiding a u.s. ballistic missile defence intercept , the u.s.-based centre for strategic and international studies said .
the previous two icbm tests in july were launched from panghyon airfield in north pyongan province , and in mupyong-ni , chagang province , respectively .
other , shorter range missiles have been launched from a variety of locations as well , including at least two intermediate-range ballistic missiles that flew over japanese airspace in august and september .
the last of those missiles was launched at sunan , just north of pyongyang , from a transporter erector launcher , a road-mobile vehicle that can make it more difficult to track and target missiles before they are launched .