harare ( reuters ) - the leaders of zimbabwe s ruling zanu-pf party will meet on sunday to approve the dismissal of president robert mugabe , the only leader the southern african nation has known since independence 37 years ago , two party sources have said .
an extraordinary meeting of the party s central committee is expected to convene around 10:30 a.m. ( 0830 gmt ) to consider removing the 93-year-old , four days after a military seizure of power ostensibly aimed at criminals within his entourage .
separately , state television said mugabe would meet military commanders on sunday , quoting the catholic priest who has been mediating in negotiations with the president .
on saturday , hundreds of thousands of people flooded the streets of harare , singing , dancing and hugging soldiers in an outpouring of elation at mugabe s overthrow .
zanu-pf s central committee is also expected to reinstate emmerson mnangagwa as party vice-president , resurrecting the political career of the former security chief , nicknamed the crocodile , whose sacking this month triggered the military s intervention .
mugabe s wife , grace , will be fired as head of the zanu-pf women s league , the sources told reuters , completing the demise of a 52-year-old former government typist who just a week ago stood in pole position to succeed her husband after mnangagwa s dismissal .
the pair s stunning downfall is likely to send shockwaves across africa , where a number of entrenched strongmen , from uganda s yoweri museveni to democratic republic of congo s joseph kabila , are facing mounting pressure to step aside .
in scenes reminiscent of the downfall of romanian dictator nicolae ceausescu in 1989 , men , women and children ran alongside the armored cars and troops who stepped in this week to oust the man who has ruled since independence from britain in 1980 .
under house arrest in his lavish blue roof compound , mugabe has refused to stand down even as he has watched his support from party , security services and people evaporate in less than three days .
his nephew , patrick zhuwao , told reuters the elderly leader and his wife were ready to die for what is correct rather than step down in order to legitimize what he described as a coup .
but on harare s streets , few seemed to care about the legal niceties as they heralded a second liberation for the former british colony and spoke of their dreams for political and economic change after two decades of deepening repression and hardship .
these are tears of joy , said frank mutsindikwa , 34 , holding aloft the zimbabwean flag .
i ve been waiting all my life for this day .
free at last .
we are free at last .
the crowds in harare have so far given a quasi-democratic veneer to the army s intervention , backing its assertion that it is merely effecting a constitutional transfer of power , which would help it avoid the diplomatic backlash and opprobrium that normally follow a coup .
the united states , a long-time mugabe critic , said it was looking forward to a new era in zimbabwe , while president ian khama of neighboring botswana said mugabe had no diplomatic support in the region and should resign at once .
for a graphic on zimbabwe struggles , click