istanbul ( reuters ) - turkish police summoned a federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) official on wednesday over statements made in a u.s. court by a former turkish police investigator who fled the country last year , the state-run anadolu agency said .
anadolu said the fbi official was summoned following testimony given by huseyin korkmaz in the trial of a former executive at turkish state-run bank halkbank , who is charged with taking part in a scheme to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert confirmed that an fbi attache at the u.s. embassy had been brought in to the turkish ministry .
she provided no details .
the former bank executive , mehmet hakan atilla , has pleaded not guilty .
halkbank has denied involvement with any illegal transactions .
korkmaz told jurors in a new york court on monday that he fled turkey in 2016 out of fear of retaliation from the government after leading a corruption investigation involving high-ranking officials .
he said he took his evidence with him .
korkmaz said he had received $ 50,000 from the fbi and financial assistance from u.s. prosecutors for his rental payments .
the fbi declined to comment on wednesday .
turkish police said they could not immediately comment on the report that they had summoned an official from the u.s. agency .
a spokesman for the u.s. embassy in ankara said the embassy was aware of the report but had no immediate comment .
already strained ties between nato allies ankara and washington have deteriorated further over the court case , in which turkish-iranian gold trader reza zarrab , who is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors , has detailed a scheme to evade u.s. sanctions .
korkmaz is testifying for the prosecution at the trial .
he told the court this week that he began investigating zarrab in 2012 .
zarrab has implicated top turkish politicians , including erdogan .
zarrab said on thursday that when erdogan was prime minister he authorised a transaction to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
although he has not yet responded to the courtroom claims , erdogan has dismissed the case as a politically motivated attempt , led by u.s.-based cleric fethullah gulen , to bring down the turkish government .
the government blames gulen s network for last year s failed military coup in turkey .
gulen has denied any involvement .