the new york times and all other news outlets are reporting with glee that donald trump s campaign manager was fired .
the truth is that corey lewandowski had never run a national campaign before now so it s time to bring in experienced campaign workers to get the job done .
this is not to say that lewandowski was the perfect campaign manager he wasn t. the new york times brings up dirt on corey but it s more likely that trump was concerned he wasn t getting the job done soooo .you re fired ! fyi : reagan fired his campaign manager too ! donald j. trump has fired his contentious campaign manager , corey lewandowski , a move that comes as the presumptive republican nominee faces challenges as he heads into the general election.mr .
lewandowski could not immediately be reached for comment about his departure , which was announced by the campaign .
the donald j. trump campaign for president , which has set a historic record in the republican primary having received almost 14 million votes , has today announced that corey lewandowski will no longer be working with the campaign , the campaign spokeswoman , hope hicks , said in a statement : the campaign is grateful to corey for his hard work and dedication and we wish him the best in the future .
mr. trump had faced increasing concerns from allies and donors , as well as his children , about the next phase of the campaign as he pivots toward the november election.two people briefed on the move , who spoke on condition of anonymity , said that mr. lewandowski was fired.the campaign manager was seen as having a hostile relationship with many members of the national press corps who cover mr. trump , and many officials at the republican national committee had strained relationships with him.and mr. lewandowski was often at odds with mr. trump s chief strategist , paul manafort , who was brought on in march when the candidate seemed poised for a lengthy fight over delegates.mr .
lewandowski was said to have resisted certain moves that would have increased the staff , at times blocking mr. manafort from making hires or later undoing them.but the people briefed on mr. lewandowski s departure said that the circumstances went well beyond any particular incident or any particular relationship.one person stressed that the move had been in the works for many weeks , particularly since it became clear that mr. trump would be the nominee .
the person added said that the campaign is now focusing on bringing the party together , including hiring new staff members and adjusting to the race against hillary clinton .
and there had been a desire for many weeks to make changes ahead of the republican national convention , july 18-21 in cleveland.no one inside the campaign was given any advance warning about the dismissal of mr. lewandowski , who was on the campaign s daily 8:30 a.m. conference call on monday , according to a person briefed on the developments.read more : nyt