( reuters ) - a turkish-iranian gold trader on thursday told jurors in a new york federal court that turkish president recep tayyip erdogan authorized a transaction in a scheme to help iran evade u.s. sanctions .
reza zarrab is cooperating with u.s. prosecutors in the criminal trial of a turkish bank executive accused of helping to launder money for iran .
at the time of the alleged conspiracy , erdogan was turkey s prime minister .
zarrab said he had learned from zafer caglayan , who was turkey s economy minister , that erdogan and then-treasury minister ali babacan had authorized two turkish banks , ziraat bank and vakifbank , to move funds for iran .
both ziraat and vakifbank denied taking part in the scheme .
erdogan s spokesman , and an adviser to babacan could not immediately be contacted by reuters .
erdogan said earlier on thursday that turkey did not violate u.s. sanctions , cnn turk reported .
a spokesman for erdogan s government has called the case a plot against turkey .
the testimony came on the third day of the trial of mehmet hakan atilla , an executive at turkey s state-owned halkbank , who has pleaded not guilty in manhattan federal court .
u.s. prosecutors have charged nine people in the case with conspiring to help iran evade sanctions , although only zarrab , 34 , and atilla , 47 , have been arrested by u.s. authorities .
over two days of testimony , zarrab has told jurors that he helped iran use funds deposited at halkbank to buy gold , which was smuggled to dubai and sold for cash .
on thursday , he said that he had to stop the gold trades and start moving money through fake food purchases instead in 2013 , after u.s. sanctions changed .
zarrab has said that atilla helped design the gold transactions , along with halkbank s former general manager , suleyman aslan .
on thursday , zarrab discussed a 2013 phone call with atilla about his plan to switch from gold trades to fake food sales .
he said atilla did not understand at the time that no actual food would be sent to iran , and was reluctant to sign off on the plan .
zarrab said aslan ordered atilla to allow the transaction .
zarrab has testified that in the course of his scheme , he bribed aslan and former turkish economy minister zafer caglayan .
both caglayan and aslan were charged in the case .
reuters was not able to reach caglayan or aslan for comment .
turkey s government has previously said that caglayan acted lawfully , and halkbank has said it acted lawfully as well .
caglayan previously said that similar allegations in a 2013 corruption investigation in turkey that was later dismissed were unfounded claims .