palong khali , bangladesh ( reuters ) - hannah mckay was on her first foreign assignment , just three months after joining reuters , photographing rohingya muslims in refugee camps in bangladesh .
then she and other photographers heard around 5,000 more people were heading to the area , trying to find their way across the border from neighbouring myanmar .
here is her account of what happened next : we were standing , looking out over paddy fields and grasslands lots of water and one thin path leading to the border with myanmar .
in the distance we could see a huge group of people .
but they weren t moving .
it was 4 o clock in the afternoon with only two hours left of daylight .
so we decided to move towards them .
it took us about an hour along the muddy path , meeting border guards and persuading them to let us pass .
then we saw thousands of refugees just sitting there , with more bangladeshi border guards telling us to go back .
we could see something was going on behind the crowd .
so we waited for an opportunity to move closer , and that s when we saw them .
the crowd was sitting on a riverbank and behind them , about three meters below , in the river itself , there were just hundreds of refugees coming across every minute .
it was non-stop .
there was no end to the people .
people carrying babies .
elderly people being escorted through the water and mud , more than knee-deep .
and we were just photographing everyone coming towards us .
then this woman appeared .
she got to the point where she needed to get up to the footpath where we were .
but she was just exhausted .
she didn t have anything left to get herself up .
two refugee men on her level were trying to push her up , which was when we reached out to help .
another reuters photographer , adnan abidi , took a hand .
another photographer took another and i got her leg when she got within range .
it was a case of dragging her .
she lay there for a few minutes and then , i have no idea what happened to her .
there were so many people around and it was chaos .
we decided to get down into the river to get a different view .
and it was so difficult even for us who had some energy to spare .
all the people around us had been walking for days .
when i got back to the bank , i found i had nothing to hold onto , with two cameras weighing me down .
that s when two refugee men reached out with their hands and pulled me on to the bank .
i kept saying thank you , but they didn t understand .
it was overwhelming and made me think of the woman we had pulled out .
you are there trying to do your job with a camera in your hand .
and then your heart overrules your head .
i had been in the camps , where everything was quite settled .
but then i saw the real chaos and the refugees desperate situation .
you hear about it .
but seeing it is a completely different thing .
related photo at reut.rs/2yp96r4