phoenix ( reuters ) - phoenix ’ s mayor on wednesday urged a federal probe into the local county ’ s handling of voting in arizona ’ s presidential nominating contest , questioning whether minority voters were granted a fair chance to cast their ballots .
greg stanton asked the u.s. department of justice to investigate a decision by maricopa county officials to slash the number of polling locations in arizona ’ s most populous county and leave minority-heavy areas with seemingly fewer sites .
the democratic mayor called the vote “ a fiasco ” after voters had to wait in line for several hours on tuesday to cast their ballots .
donald trump won the state ’ s republican contest , while hillary clinton won on the democratic side .
“ because of the unacceptably disparate distribution of polling locations , i respectfully request the u.s. department of justice investigate what took place [ ... ] to ensure all voters are treated equally , ” stanton said in the letter to attorney general loretta lynch .
he said it was the latest in a series of moves by county and state officials that had created “ a culture of voter disenfranchisement. ” complaints of long waits at the polls – some as long as five hours - were common , with hundreds of voters still trying to vote long after the polls closed .
there also were reports of polling stations running out of ballots .
the county ’ s top election official took the blame on wednesday for making the cost-cutting decision to cut the number of polling sites to 60 , compared with the 200 in 2012 .
county recorder helen purcell said she underestimated the number of people who would vote , in part citing the rise in mail-in ballots .
“ if we had to do it all over again , we would have done it differently , but i take the blame for that , ” purcell told the county board of supervisors .
“ we were not prepared , that was our fault. ” arizona governor doug ducey a republican , said the long lines were unacceptable and called on election officials to evaluate what went wrong and what could be done to prevent a repeat .