washington ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president mike pence is postponing his trip to egypt and israel this week in order to stay in washington for a congressional vote on president donald trump s tax overhaul plan , white house officials said on monday .
pence had been scheduled to depart on tuesday night for cairo .
instead , the trip will be rescheduled for the week of jan. 14 , officials told reporters .
the vice president is committed to seeing the tax cut through to the finish line , said alyssa farah , a spokeswoman for pence .
the vice president looks forward to traveling to egypt and israel in january .
pence has been a key figure in the republican effort to overhaul u.s. tax law .
he could provide a tie-breaking vote in the senate if needed , though on monday it looked like bill has enough votes among senate republicans to pass .
pence was to have spent three days in the region with stops in cairo and jerusalem , the first high-level official to visit after trump reversed decades of u.s. policy and recognized jerusalem as the capital of israel .
that decision led to uproar and protest in the region .
the status of jerusalem , which holds muslim , jewish and christian holy sites , is one of the thorniest obstacles to a peace deal between israel and the palestinians , who were furious over trump s move and have declined to meet with pence .
the international community does not recognize israeli sovereignty over the full city .
white house officials said the delay was not related to the reaction in the region to trump s decision .
two senate republican holdouts agreed on monday to support the tax package .
republicans hold a 52-48 majority in the body .
the tax vote is still in very good shape , but we don t want to take any chances , a white house official said , adding there were several difference scenarios in which pence might be needed .
the timing of the vote made the trip tricky .
the house of representatives was due to vote first at around 1:30 p.m. ( 1830 gmt ) on tuesday , according to republican aides , while the senate vote is expected to follow either later on tuesday or on wednesday .
white house officials determined that if pence could not leave for his trip by tuesday evening , it would have pushed his meeting with egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi on wednesday to a very late hour and left little time to hold meetings with prime minister benjamin netanyahu and others in israel before friday at sunset , when shabbat , the jewish sabbath , begins .
we ran into time constraints to get it all done before shabbat , the official said .
even with the postponement to january , the trip will be overshadowed by trump s decision on jerusalem .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal capital , while palestinians want the capital of an independent state of theirs to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
pence , an evangelical christian who planned to highlight the plight of christian minorities during his trip , was not scheduled to meet with palestinian christians or with officials from the coptic christian church , who declined a meeting in response to the u.s. move .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas also refused a meeting with pence .