harare ( reuters ) - ousted zimbabwe finance minister ignatius chombo , charged with three counts of corruption for offences that allegedly took place two decades ago , was denied bail on monday and will be detained in custody until his case is heard on dec. 8 .
zimbabwe s new president emmerson mnangagwa named patrick chinamasa as acting finance minister to replace him .
chombo , who faces charges including trying to defraud the central bank , was detained after the military seized power in operation restore legacy , which it said was meant to remove criminals around former president robert mugabe .
his lawyer , lovemore madhuku , told reporters that he would appeal the magistrate s ruling in the high court on tuesday .
their decision was always made up that bail would not be granted here ... we are hopeful that the high court will show independence , madhuku said .
earlier , he told a packed courtroom that chombo , who sat impassively throughout the hearing , would deny the charges at his trial and had documentary evidence showing the allegations had no basis .
the magistrate who detained chombo said the former minister could abscond , influence state witnesses or be the target of a mob attack over the allegations that he abused his position when he was minister of local government over a decade ago .
chombo , who was appointed finance minister in october , was among members of the g40 political faction allied to mugabe and his wife , grace , who were also expelled from the ruling zanu-pf party .
two ousted zanu-pf youth league leaders , kudzanai chipanga and innocent hamandishe , who were both allied to g-40 , were also ordered to be detained until dec. 8 .
some mnangagwa supporters have called for unspecified action against g40 but the president has urged citizens not to undertake any form of vengeful retribution .
chombo told the court on saturday how he was abducted from his home on nov. 15 by armed men in soldiers uniform and kept blindfolded for nine days .
he was promoted to the finance portfolio from the interior ministry by mugabe in an october reshuffle , replacing chinamasa , who the chief secretary to the president and cabinet said will return to the role until a new cabinet has been appointed .
zimbabwe is struggling with a severe shortage of the u.s. dollars it uses instead of its own currency .
in his main act as finance minister , chombo told parliament on nov. 9 that zimbabwe s budget deficit would soar to $ 1.82 billion or 11.2 percent of gross domestic product this year from an initial target of $ 400 million .
mnangagwa , who served mugabe loyally for decades , was sworn in as president last friday after the 93-year-old former leader quit under pressure from the military .
he is expected to form a new cabinet this week .
zimbabweans are watching to see mnangagwa he breaks with the past and names a broad-based government or selects other figures from the mugabe era s old guard .