beirut ( reuters ) - with a sudden lunge through jihadist lines , the syrian army and its allies on monday came to within 3 km of relieving the euphrates city of deir al-zor , where islamic state has besieged 93,000 civilians and an army garrison for years .
the advance on the eastern city marks another stinging setback for the once-triumphant islamic state , fast retreating in both iraq and syria as its self-declared caliphate crumbles .
syrian troops were rapidly approaching the city , reaching a point 3 km ( 2 miles ) away , state television said .
dozens of trucks loaded with food stood ready to enter the enclave in the city once government forces break the siege , it said .
( for a graphic on battle for control in syria click tmsnrt.rs/2wyo0lw ) a military media unit run by hezbollah , a key ally of damascus , said the advancing forces were heading to the garrison s camp on the city outskirts .
deir al-zor s provincial governor told reuters he expected the army could reach the city within hours .
islamic state is in confusion .
there is no leadership or centralized control , said a commander in the military alliance supporting syrian president bashar al-assad .
hemmed in on all sides , islamic state , which ruled over millions of people in both iraq and syria at its peak in 2014 , is falling back on a last euphrates stronghold downstream of deir al-zor city in the towns of al-mayadin and al-bukamal , near the border with iraq .
but as it has lost its core territory - defeated in iraq s mosul now yielding street after street in syria s raqqa - the ultra-hardline group has still been able to launch attacks in the west and maintain a threat in other centers such as libya .
the fighters have been driven out of nearly all of their territory in iraq over the past two years by government forces backed by a u.s.-led coalition .
in syria , they are fighting against both assad s russian-backed government and a u.s.-backed arab and kurdish militia that has launched an assault on raqqa .
in the is-encircled pocket in deir al-zor , news of the army s approach prompted people to take to the streets to celebrate , governor mohammed ibrahim samra said by phone .
the city has been cut off since 2013 , after rebel groups rose up against assad during the first flush of syria s six-year war .
islamic state then overran rebel positions and encircled the army s enclave in the city in 2014 .
it was a major prize .
deir al-zor is the center of syria s oil industry , a source of wealth to the group and a serious loss to damascus .
as the army has pushed east in recent months , oil and gas fields have once more fallen to the government .
islamic state fighters stepped up efforts this year to seize the enclave before the army could arrive .
in january , they severed it from the city s military airbase and took over a nearby hill , further straining its links to the outside .
during the long siege , high-altitude air drops have supplied the city .
the united nations said in august it estimated there were 93,000 civilians in the government s deir al-zor pocket , where conditions were extremely difficult .
despite all this and despite the shelling and injured , things are running in the city , governor samra had said on sunday .
the institutions are running , the bakeries .
water is also pumped twice a week to our residents , aid is distributed daily .
for assad , the weekend s lightning advance caps months of steady progress after government forces turned from their victory over rebels in the northern commercial capital aleppo last december to push eastwards against islamic state .
the army has been advancing in a rapid and calculated way from all directions , a syrian military source said , referring to the months-long campaign across the desert .
with russian jets and an alliance of shi ite militias backed by iran , including lebanon s hezbollah , the army has captured swathes of the central and eastern deserts in parallel offensives from palmyra and al-resafa .
those offensives have accelerated since linking up last month , taking swathes of land from islamic state except for a small zone near the town of al-salamiya .
the militants still control much of deir al-zor province , including half the city .
heavy russian air cover has helped the syrian military and allied forces march toward the city , russia s defense ministry said in a statement on monday .
a resident of the city reached by telephone , who gave his name only as mohammad , said he could hear the sound of warplanes in the distance .
the army advances over the last two days had sparked indescribable joy among people in the enclave after years of siege , he said .
under attack , islamic state has pulled reinforcements from al-mayadin and relied on its usual tactics of booby traps , mines and sudden raids , the commander in the pro-assad alliance said .
the latest advance came after intense preparatory artillery , a multi-pronged assault and gains in high ground commanding nearby areas , the non-syrian commander said .
meanwhile , as the army and its allies have forced other militant pockets to surrender , including an islamic state enclave on syria s border with lebanon a week ago , they have been able to transfer more troops to the desert campaign .
it helped a lot to switch the military effort of the syrian army and the resistance to the eastern syrian desert , the commander said , adding that thousands of troops had arrived from the battle on the lebanon border .
islamic state fighters and their families evacuated from that enclave as part of a surrender deal were escorted by the syrian army and hezbollah to east syria , but have been stopped by a u.s.-led coalition from reaching deir al-zor .
ten of the original 17 buses are now stuck in no-man s land between pro-government forces and islamic state territory and six buses retreated back into government areas , the commander added .