beijing ( reuters ) - when kim jong un inherited power in north korea in late 2011 , then-chinese president hu jintao was outwardly supportive of the untested young leader , predicting that traditional friendly cooperation between the countries would strengthen .
two years later , kim ordered the execution of his uncle jang song thaek , the country s chief interlocutor with china and a relatively reform-minded official in the hermetic state .
since then , ties between the allies have deteriorated so sharply that some diplomats and experts fear beijing may become , like washington , a target of its neighbor s ire .
while the united states and its allies - and many people in china - believe beijing should do more to rein in pyongyang , the acceleration of north korea s nuclear and missile capabilities has coincided with a near-total breakdown of high-level diplomacy between the two .
before retiring this summer , china s long-time point man on north korea , wu dawei , had not visited the country for over a year .
his replacement , kong xuanyou , has yet to visit and is still carrying out duties from his previous asian role , traveling to pakistan in mid-august , diplomats say .
the notion that mighty china wields diplomatic control over impoverished north korea is mistaken , said jin canrong , an international relations professor at beijing s renmin university .
there has never existed a subordinate relationship between the two sides .
never .
especially after the end of the cold war , the north koreans fell into a difficult situation and could not get enough help from china , so they determined to help themselves .
a famine in the mid-1990s that claimed anywhere from 200,000 to three million north koreans was a turning point for the economy , forcing private trade on the collectivized state .
that allowed the north a degree of independence from outside aid and gave credence to the official juche ideology of self-reliance .
china fought alongside north korea during the 1950-53 korean war , in which chinese leader mao zedong lost his eldest son , and beijing has long been pyongyang s chief ally and primary trade partner .
while their relationship has always been clouded by suspicion and mistrust , china grudgingly tolerated north korea s provocations as preferable to the alternatives : chaotic collapse that spills across their border , and a korean peninsula under the domain of a u.s.-backed seoul government .
that is also the reason china is reluctant to exert its considerable economic clout , worried that measures as drastic as the energy embargo proposed this week by washington could lead to the north s collapse .
instead , china repeatedly calls for calm , restraint and a negotiated solution .
the north korean government does not provide foreign media with a contact point in pyongyang for comment by email , fax or phone .
the north korean embassy in beijing was not immediately available for comment .
china s foreign ministry did not respond to a faxed request for comment .
it has repeatedly spoken out against what it calls the china responsibility theory and insists the direct parties - north korea , south korea and the united states - hold the key to resolving tensions .
until his death in 2011 , north korean leader kim jong il made numerous entreaties to ensure china would back his preferred son as successor .
while then-president hu reciprocated , the younger kim , in his late 20s at the time , began to distance himself from his country s most powerful ally .
there s a lot of domestic politics in north korea where this young leader who isn t well-known , he s not proven yet , especially has to show that he s not in the pocket of beijing , said john delury of seoul s yonsei university .
i think he made the decision first to keep hu jintao and then ( current president ) xi jinping really at bay .
within months of coming to power , kim telegraphed north korea s intentions by amending its constitution to proclaim itself a nuclear state .
the execution of jang in 2013 sealed beijing s distrust of the young leader .
of course the chinese were not happy , said a foreign diplomat in beijing focused on north korea .
executing your uncle , that s from the feudal ages .
in an attempt to warm ties , xi sent high-ranking communist party official liu yunshan to attend the north s october 2015 military parade marking the 70th anniversary of the founding of the workers party of korea .
liu hand-delivered a letter from xi praising kim s leadership and including congratulations not just from the chinese communist party but xi s personal cordial wishes in a powerful show of respect .
xi s overture has been repaid with increasingly brazen actions by pyongyang , which many observers believe are timed for maximum embarrassment to beijing .
sunday s nuclear test , for example , took place as china hosted a brics summit , while in may , the north launched a long-range missile just hours before the belt and road forum , dedicated to xi s signature foreign policy initiative .
mao zedong s description of north korea s relationship with china is typically mischaracterised as being as close as lips and teeth .
his words are better translated as : if the lips are gone , the teeth will be cold , a reference to the strategic importance of the north as a geographical security buffer .
despite its resentment at the pressure north korea s actions have put it under , beijing refrains from taking too hard a line .
it said little when kim jong un s half-brother was assassinated in february at kuala lumpur s airport .
the half-brother , kim jong nam , had been seen as a potential rival for power in pyongyang and had lived for years in beijing , then macau .
an editorial in china s influential global times warned after pyongyang s latest nuclear test that cutting off north korea s oil would redirect the conflict to one between north korea and china .
zhao tong , a north korea expert at the carnegie-tsinghua center in beijing , said north korea was deeply unhappy with china s backing of earlier un sanctions .
if china supports more radical economic sanctions that directly threaten the stability of the regime , then it is possible that north korea becomes as hostile to china as to the united states .
( this story has been refiled to remove reference to uncle in paragraph 18 )