rome ( reuters ) - a court in sicily has suspended the results of an internal primary ballot by the anti-establishment 5-star movement , potentially disrupting its bid to win control of the island in an election in november .
the palermo court on tuesday accepted an appeal by a 5-star member who had been excluded from the online vote to pick its candidate for regional president , due to a dispute over 5-star s internal code of conduct .
the court will decide at a future hearing what action 5-star must take , but its ruling is a setback for the maverick movement which hopes a victory in sicily can pave the way to success at a national election due early next year .
a victory in sicily would give 5-star control of its first regional government , while a defeat would be the second blow this year after it fared badly in mayoral elections in june .
it is possible that 5-star will have to repeat the online primary it held in july , which selected giancarlo cancelleri as its candidate for sicilian president in the nov. 5 election .
it is not the first time court rulings have tripped up 5-star , which is still italy s most popular party , according to most opinion polls .
in a similar case in april , a court in genoa backed a 5-star member who had been excluded from a primary ahead of mayoral elections in the city .
that sparked a damaging split which contributed to a defeat in the home town of the party s founder , comedian beppe grillo .
5-star s mayor of rome , virginia raggi , has also been plagued by legal disputes involving her and her team since she was elected as the capital s first woman mayor in june 2016 .
5-star , which bases its appeal on a fight against corruption and cronyism among italy s mainstream parties , has invested enormous political capital in the sicily election .
its most prominent national figures spent the summer touring the island with cancelleri before the other parties had even picked their candidates .
according to opinion polls cancelleri is running neck-and-neck with a candidate backed by a center-right coalition , with the center left s candidate lagging behind .
a post on grillo s blog , the party s mouthpiece , said it would comply with whatever the court decided and its participation in the sicilian election was not in doubt .
on sept. 23 the party will announced its candidate for prime minister after another online vote of its members , with 31-year-old lower house deputy luigi di maio widely expected to win .