elie mystal , an editor and contributor to the law blog above the law , posted a december 7 article urging all black americans who end up on juries to engage in jury nullification by automatically voting to acquit all blacks accused of crimes , especially that of murder , against white victims and to do so no matter how much evidence is brought to bear against the suspect.mystal justified this lawlessness by claiming that african-americans live in a world where the police can murder us and get away with it .
there is no justice for black people .
and yet violently revolting against the system will get us nowhere , he added.this , mystal says , is reason enough to work against the legal system in all areas .
maybe it s time minorities got in the game ?
mystal added.mystal goes on to call whites who have had a crime committed against them or who have been murdered a purported victim and says blacks have no responsibility to help any white person achieve justice .
breitbart newsby the way , elie mystal of above the law is the same person who while told mike huckabee that while climate change is going to be incredibly expensive , you know what s going to be more expensive ?
retro-fitting everyone on the east coast with gills so we can breath under-water .
here are some tweets regarding mystal s controversial article : black juries treating white people the way white juries treat black people = rage hate against the white race ?
equality is a bitch i guess .
elie mystal ( @ elienyc ) december 9 , 2016this twitter user pointed out to mystal that his remarks are incredibly dangerous : mystal s not concerned about the law , he simply wants justice by any means necessary .
how is this person still allowed to practice law ?
what 's dangerous is thinking cops can murder people and get away with it , while poc wait patiently for the system to get over its issues .
https : //t.co/8wbvyueh6x elie mystal ( @ elienyc ) december 8 , 2016here is the article mystal posted to twitter from his above the law ( appropriately named ) legal blog : jury nullification is a way black people can protest the justice system , and make white people notice .
( by @ elienyc ) https : //t.co/djv4wn9bik above the law ( @ atlblog ) december 7 , 2016