washington ( reuters ) - a tiny basement in a house in suburban washington , d.c. reverberates with music from the spanish region of catalonia .
a heavy metal rendition of the catalonian national anthem els segadors , or the reapers has turned a virtually unknown virginia-based band , a sound of thunder , into celebrities in the politically sensitive region in northeastern spain .
within days of its release , the song racked up more than a million hits on youtube , making it the band s most popular single since they started in 2008 .
thousands of catalonians voted for independence from spain during a banned referendum in october that ended in violence and spurred a constitutional crisis in the euro zone s fourth-biggest economy .
back in manassas , virginia , nina osegueda , the band s lead singer , made a quick decision to release a video of the band s version of els segadors on youtube .
osegueda , whose mother is catalan , has strong ties to the region and originally recorded the anthem as a tribute to her mother .
the song was never intended to be released as a single , but instead was part of the band s new full-length album , it was metal , to be released in march 2018 .
the violence that surrounded the referendum vote changed all that .
we have a couple other singles that we were planning on releasing in advance to show people what the new album is going to sound like , she said .
but then the vote happened and 800 people were injured by the police trying to vote .
so i said we should try and just put the song out to show our support against police brutality .
suddenly it was spreading all over the place ... and then i noticed that someone shared us on twitter and it wound up actually being a catalan politician , osegueda said .
music stations in catalonia picked up the song and osegueda was interviewed on several radio shows .
the attention she has received has spread to her relatives as her catalonian uncle was interviewed on local radio .
on the band s youtube page , fans have left messages saying they prefer the metal version to the original and many have said the song has struck an emotional chord .
osegueda recorded some parts of the song in catalan .
she doesn t speak the language and singing with proper pronunciation was intimidating , but she says the enthusiasm and support from her new found fans has been humbling .
i think the biggest emotional response we ve gotten has been , it brought me to tears which is not normal for a heavy metal song .
so for us that was like a big deal , osegueda said .
you know , we re not on a label .
we do everything ourselves .
so when we see this many people responding it s like it s overwhelming .
the band , whose albums have been crowdfunded through various kickstarter campaigns , will tour catalonia for the first time in december , just days before regional elections on dec. 21 .
they have shows planned in barcelona , tarragona and other catalonian cities .
for osegueda , who has traveled to catalonia a number of times , the upcoming visit feels different .
i ve always enjoyed going there on vacation .
but now it s a lot deeper because there s so many people out there who saw our song as inspiration .
so i feel like i definitely have a deeper connection now , she said .