berlin ( reuters ) - more emphasis should be placed on the holocaust in integration courses for migrants , germany s justice minister said , reflecting heightened unease among leading politicians about a spate of anti-semitic acts including israeli flag burnings .
more than a million migrants have arrived in germany in the last three years , many of them fleeing conflict in the middle east , causing concern that anti-semitism could increase .
german police have reported protesters setting israeli flags ablaze and using anti-semitic slogans in berlin and other cities in demonstrations against u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
in a piece for weekly magazine der spiegel , justice minister heiko maas wrote that the holocaust , in which the nazis killed six million jews , and its significance needed to become an even more important part of integration courses and migrants should be tested on it in the examination at the end of their course .
the lessons from the holocaust need to be one of the guiding ideas in those lessons and not just some chapter of german history , he said .
racism has no place in germany , so everyone who wants to stay in germany for the long term needs to be clear that we fight the neonazis anti-semitism and we won t tolerate any imported anti-semitism from immigrants either , maas added .
jens spahn , a senior member of chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , told der spiegel he thought immigration from muslim countries was one of the causes of recent anti-semitic demonstrations in berlin .
spahn said incidents in recent days were related to immigration from a culture in which people are not prissy about how they deal with jews and homosexuals .
speaking at an event marking the 70th anniversary of the establishment of israel , german president frank-walter steinmeier said on friday germany needed to remember its historical responsibility , including the lessons of two world wars , the holocaust , ensuring israel s security and rejecting any form of racism and anti-semitism .
there s no end to this responsibility for people born afterwards and no exceptions for immigrants , he said , adding that those who burned israeli flags did not understand or respect what it meant to be german .
in an interview with the funke newspaper consortium , israel s ambassador in berlin jeremy issacharoff called for a ban on burning flags .
anyone who burns flags questions israel s right to exist , he said .
stephan kramer , the head of a state intelligence agency in the eastern region of thuringia , warned in der spiegel that anti-semitism was becoming ever more uninhibited and many jews were too scared to identify themselves as such .