washington ( reuters ) - if the u.s. supreme court endorses a key immigration initiative of president barack obama protecting more than 4 million illegal immigrants from deportation , his administration could face a surge of applicants and little time to process them before he leaves office in january 2017 .
obama announced the action in november 2014 but it has never gone into effect , being put on hold by a federal judge in texas in february 2015 .
the plan was designed to help illegal immigrant parents of children who are u.s. citizens or lawful permanent residents .
it would protect them from deportation and give them work authorization .
the supreme court on tuesday said it would decide whether obama acted lawfully in creating the program by executive order , bypassing a gridlocked congress .
if obama wins when the court rules by the end of june , his administration would have just seven months to implement the program .
obama ’ s victory could be short-lived because the next president , set to be elected in november , would have the final say on whether to keep the program in place .
democrats including presidential front-runner hillary clinton have embraced obama ’ s plan .
republican presidential candidates including businessman donald trump and texas senator ted cruz have assailed it .
cruz said on tuesday if elected he would rescind obama ’ s order on the first day of his presidency .
an earlier immigration program that gave similar relief to children of illegal immigrants who grew up in the united states showed that such policies take time to implement .
launched in june 2012 , it took two months to put in place .
after that , there were almost 408,000 applications in the first six months of the program , according to government numbers .
by january 2013 , only 154,000 applications had been approved .
more than 700,000 people have since benefited from the program .
the government has been able to do nothing to prepare while obama ’ s executive action has been on hold .
in the injunction that halted the plan , u.s. district judge andrew hanen specifically said the administration was barred from “ implementing any and all aspects or phases ” of the program .
a department of homeland security spokeswoman said the federal government is complying with the injunction .
immigration advocates said they are preparing for a new effort to educate potential applicants about the program .
they forecast much higher numbers than those who applied to the earlier 2012 program , largely because many more are eligible .
“ there is no way the administration can process the projected volume of people that would be eligible , ” said gregory chen , director of advocacy for the american immigration lawyers association .
the new program is likely to present additional bureaucratic problems , legal experts say , in part due to the larger pool of eligible people but also because of the specific nature of the applicants .
both programs require proof of continued residency in the united states .
for younger people , this is easier to prove as usually they can cite school records , immigration experts say .
for older people , who often do not speak english , it can be harder to provide necessary documentation .
women who do not work could find it especially difficult .
“ it ’ s going to be a little bit more tricky for some applicants , ” said adonia simpson , managing attorney for the esperanza center , an immigrant resource center run by catholic charities in baltimore .
in some cases , approval will be delayed while the government asks for additional evidence , she added .
criticism of obama ’ s actions by republican candidates could also deter some people from applying , simpson said .
in her group ’ s discussions with immigrants , “ we make it very clear that this is an executive action that could be changed , ” she said .