brussels ( reuters ) - here is a timeline of the coming few days that will determine whether britain avoids further costly delays in giving business assurances of a smooth exit from the european union and of free trade with its biggest market in the future : may wants the eu to open the second phase of brexit negotiations concerning relations after britain s withdrawal on march 30 , 2019 .
the eu will only do that if there is sufficient progress in agreeing divorce terms , notably on three key issues : a financial settlement , guaranteed rights for eu citizens in britain and a soft border with ireland .
a deal on money is effectively done , eu officials said last week .
there are indications of agreement on citizens rights .
but opposition from british prime minister theresa may s key allies in northern ireland to treating the province differently from the mainland in a bid to maintain an open eu land border with eu-member ireland scuppered a deal on monday .
as part of the choreography for a political deal , the eu set may an absolute deadline of monday to provide new offers in time for the other eu leaders to approve a move to phase 2 at a summit of the eu-27 on dec. 15 .
that is now pushed back till the end of the week , eu officials say .
may is pushing for a simultaneous , reciprocal guarantee from the eu of a soft transition and future trade deal , which she may use to show britons what her compromises have secured .
the eu wants to have firm british offers which the 27 can discuss before leaders commit .
the result is some complex dance steps : wednesday , dec. 6 ?
may is expected to return to brussels as soon as wednesday .
if european commission president jean-claude juncker and his brexit negotiator michel barnier emerge from the meeting to pronounce that sufficient progress has been made , summit chair donald tusk will then distribute draft guidelines for the eu negotiating position in trade talks to the other 27 governments .
monday , dec. 11 eu-27 sherpas meet to prepare the summit - a key moment for national leaders advisers to seek changes to guidelines .
tuesday , dec. 12 eu affairs ministers of eu-27 meet to prepare summit .
thursday , dec. 14 4 p.m. - may attends routine eu summit in brussels .
defense , social affairs , foreign affairs and migration are on the agenda .
friday , dec. 15 after may has left , eu-27 leaders hold brexit summit .
if they have had enough time , they could acknowledge sufficient progress and endorse the trade negotiating guidelines , including proposed terms for a two-year , status-quo transition period .
january - outline of eu transition offer , to be included in the 2019 withdrawal treaty may be ready .
under it , britain is likely to retain most rights except voting in the bloc , and meet all its obligations until the end of 2020 .
february - after fine-tuning their negotiating position , eu-27 may be ready to open talks with london on a free trade pact that brussels likens to one it has with canada .
the eu estimated at some 60 billion euros ( $ 71 billion ) what britain should pay to cover outstanding obligations on leaving .
eu officials say there is now agreement after britain offered to pay an agreed share of most of the items brussels wanted , especially for committed spending that will go on after 2020 .
both sides say there is no precise figure as much depends on future developments .
british newspaper reports that it would cost up to 55 billion euros sparked only muted criticism from may s hardline pro-brexit allies who once rejected big payments .
irish prime minister leo varadkar said on saturday that london would be paying the eu 60 billion euros on brexit .
barnier is still seeking a commitment that the rights of 3 million eu citizens who stay on in britain after brexit will be guaranteed by the european court of justice , not just by british judges .
may has said the ecj should play no more role in britain .
but the issue could be vital to ensure ratification of the withdrawal treaty by the european parliament .
eu officials say a compromise may be to let the luxembourg-based ecj oversee cases on citizens rights for only a few years after brexit .
irish prime minister leo varadkar said london agreed on monday that northern ireland , a british province , would remain in regulatory alignment with the eu , and hence the irish republic , to ensure there was no hard border with police and customs checks that could disrupt peace .
however , a hostile reaction from may s pro-brexit and pro-london allies in northern ireland , the democratic unionist party ( dup ) , on whom she depends for her slim parliamentary majority , caused her to hold off agreeing the package deal with juncker .
the dup and many in may s own party fear that means separating the province from the british mainland - or forcing eu rules onto the whole of the uk .
leaders of mainland regions scotland , wales and london leapt on the deal to demand similar freedom to perhaps remain in the eu customs union or single market , giving may a new headache .
varadkar said he is willing to see changes in the text - but not something that would change its actual meaning .