new delhi ( reuters ) - indian police arrested a christian priest and were questioning members of a seminary after a hardline hindu group accused them of trying to convert villagers to christianity by distributing bibles and singing carols , police said on saturday .
the priest was arrested on friday after a member of the bajrang dal , a powerful hindu group associated with prime minister narendra modi s ruling party , accused 50 members of a seminary of distributing the bible , photos of jesus christ and singing carols in a village in the central indian state of madhya pradesh .
our members have registered a criminal case because we have proof to show how christian priests were forcibly converting poor hindus , said abhay kumar dhar , a senior member of the bajrang dal in bhopal , the capital of madhya pradesh .
the bajrang dal has direct links with modi s ruling hindu-nationalist bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
madhya pradesh , governed by the bjp , has strict religious conversion laws .
people must give formal notice to local administrators in order to change religion .
we have arrested the priest but have not booked him under the anti-conversion law because the probe into the allegations is still on , said rajesh hingankar , the investigating official in satna district , where the incident occurred .
the catholic bishops conference of india said they were shocked , and pained at the unprovoked violence against catholic priests and seminarians .
we were only singing carols , but the hardline hindus attacked us and said we were on a mission to make india a christian nation ... that s not true , said anish emmanuel , a member of the st. ephrem s theological college in satna .
two senior police officials in bhopal said they had detained six members of the bajrang dal who had allegedly torched a car owned by a christian priest in satna , 480 km ( 300 miles ) northeast of bhopal .
religious conversion is a sensitive issue in india , with hindu groups often accusing christian missionaries of using cash , kind and marriage to lure poor villagers to convert to their faith .
modi s government has been criticized for failing to do enough to stop attacks on minority christians and muslims by hardline hindu groups .
the government rejects the allegation and denies any bias against christians or muslims .