cox s bazar/kutupalong , bangladesh ( reuters ) - rohingya refugee children from myanmar are working punishing hours for paltry pay in bangladesh , with some suffering beatings and sexual assault , the international organisation for migration ( iom ) has found .
independent reporting by reuters corroborated some of the findings .
the results of a probe by the iom into exploitation and trafficking in bangladesh s refugee camps , which reuters reviewed on an exclusive basis , also documented accounts of rohingya girls as young as 11 getting married , and parents saying the unions would provide protection and economic advancement .
about 450,000 children , or 55 percent of the refugee population , live in teeming settlements near the border with myanmar after fleeing the destruction of villages and alleged murder , looting and rape by security forces and buddhist mobs .
afjurul hoque tutul , additional superintendent of police in cox s bazar , near where the camps are based , said 11 checkpoints had been set up that would help prevent children from leaving .
if any rohingya child is found working , then the owners will be punished , he said .
most of the refugees have arrived in the past two and a half months after attacks on about 30 security posts by rohingya rebels met a ferocious response from myanmar s military .
described by the united nations human rights commissioner zeid ra ad al hussein as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing , myanmar s government counters that its actions are a proportionate response to attacks by rohingya terrorists .
the iom s findings , based on discussions with groups of long-term residents and recent arrivals , and separate interviews by reuters , show life in the refugee camps is hardly better than it is in myanmar for rohingya children .
the iom said children were targeted by labor agents and encouraged to work by their destitute parents amid widespread malnutrition and poverty in the camps .
education opportunities are limited for children beyond grade 3 .
rohingya boys and girls as young as seven years old were confirmed working outside the settlements , according to the findings .
boys work on farms , construction sites and fishing boats , as well as in tea shops and as rickshaw drivers , the iom and rohingya residents in the camp reported .
girls typically work as maids and nannies for bangladeshi families , either in the nearby resort town of cox s bazar or in chittagong , bangladesh s second-largest city , about 150 km ( 100 miles ) from the camps .
one rohingya parent , who asked not to be identified because she feared reprisals , told reuters her 14-year-old daughter had been working in chittagong as a maid but fled her employers .
when she returned to the camp , she was unable to walk , her mother said , adding that her daughter s bangladeshi employers had physically and sexually assaulted her .
the husband was an alcoholic and he would come to her bedroom at night and rape her .
he did it six or seven times , the mother said .
they gave us no money .
nothing .
the account could not be independently verified by reuters but was similar to others recorded by the iom .
most interviewees said female rohingya refugees experienced sexual harassment , rape and being forced to marry the person who raped her , the iom said .
across bangladesh s refugee settlements , reuters saw children wandering muddy lanes alone and aimlessly , or sitting listlessly outside tents .
many children begged along roadsides .
the inter sector coordination group , which oversees un agencies and charities , said this month it had documented 2,462 unaccompanied and separated children in the camps .
the actual number was likely to be far higher , it said .
a preliminary survey by the unhcr and bangladesh s refugee relief and repatriation commission has found that 5 percent of households - or 3,576 families - were headed by a child .
reuters interviewed seven families who sent their children to work .
all reported terrible working conditions , low wages or abuse .
muhammad zubair , dressed in a dirty football shirt , his small stature belying his stated age of 12 years old , said he was offered 250 taka per day but ended up with only 500 taka ( $ 6 ) for 38 days work building roads .
his mother said he was 14 years old .
it was hard work , laying bricks on the road , he said , squatting in the doorway of his mud hut in the kutupalong camp .
he said he was verbally abused by his employers when he asked for more money and was told to leave .
he declined to provide their identities .
zubair then took a job in a tea shop for a month , putting in two shifts per day from 6am to past midnight , broken by a four-hour rest period in the afternoon .
he said he wasn t allowed to leave the shop and was only permitted to speak to his parents by phone once .
when i wasn t paid , i escaped , he said .
i was frightened because i thought the owner , the master , would come here with other people and take me again .
many parents also pressure their daughters to marry early , for protection and for financial stability , according to the iom findings .
some child brides are as young as 11 , the iom said .
but many women only became second wives , the iom said .
second wives are frequently divorced quickly and abandoned without any further economic support .
kateryna ardanyan , an iom anti-trafficking specialist , said exploitation had become normalized in the camps .
human traffickers usually adapt faster to the situation than any other response mechanism can .
it s very important we try to do prevention .
ardanyan said .
funding dedicated to protecting rohingya men , women and children from exploitation and abuse is urgently needed .