gaza ( reuters ) - the west bank-based palestinian prime minister crossed into the gaza strip on monday in a move towards reconciliation between the mainstream fatah party and hamas , a decade after the islamist group seized the territory in a civil war .
rami al-hamdallah said at a welcome ceremony his unity government would begin assuming control of gaza s administrative affairs , as well as security responsibilities and responsibility for crossings and borders .
hamas , considered a terrorist group by israel and the west , made its dramatic step towards unity last month , disbanding its gaza shadow government , after egypt , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates imposed an economic boycott on its main donor , qatar , over alleged support of terrorism .
qatar denies the allegation .
under previous understandings , some 3,000 fatah security men would be integrated gradually into a gaza police force overseen by an interior ministry headed by hamdallah .
that deployment would still leave hamas s armed wing analysts say it has at least 25,000 well-equipped fighters the dominant power in the palestinian enclave of 2 million people .
we return to gaza in order to conclude reconciliation and national unity and end the painful impacts of divisions and to rebuild gaza brick by brick , said hamdallah , who is an independent .
forces loyal to palestinian president mahmoud abbas lost control of gaza in fighting with hamas in 2007 .
hamas s reversal is the most significant step towards palestinian reconciliation since the unity government was formed in 2014 .
it failed to function in gaza - where israel and hamas have fought three wars since 2008 - because of disputes between hamas and fatah over its responsibilities .
in his first comments after hamdallah and his entourage entered gaza , abbas told egyptian tv station cbc in an interview that his sanctions on the enclave would be lifted after the unity government takes control .
everything must be in the hands of the palestinian authority , it must be the one to control the crossing points ( in and out of gaza ) , he said , adding that there could be only one regime setting laws and enforcing them .
analysts said narrowing internal divisions could help western-backed abbas counter israel s argument that it has no negotiating partner for peace with the palestinians .
a hamas police honor guard and hundreds of palestinians , many of them waving palestinian flags , awaited hamdallah outside the hamas-controlled checkpoint , down the road from israel s erez border crossing through which the prime minister and his motorcade passed .
it is a day of eid , a national holiday , said abdel-majid ali , 46 .
we hope this time reconciliation is for real .
nickolay mladenov , the u.n. special coordinator for the middle east peace process , wrote on twitter : the road ahead will be long and hard , but momentum of reconciliation and peace should not be missed .
the unity drive also marked a return to prominence of exiled former gaza security chief mohammed dahlan , once one of hamas s fiercest enemies and now a leading figure in regional efforts to pull the territory back into the palestinian mainstream .
dahlan , based since 2011 in the united arab emirates , is behind an influx of cash to prop up gaza and detente between hamas and arab states including egypt , which hosted reconciliation talks .
michael oren , deputy minister for diplomacy in israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu s cabinet , said a key issue for israel was whether hamas , which is dedicated to israel s destruction , would retain its weapons .
if it does , then it s a non-starter for israel , he said .
the u.s. was watching developments closely with the aim of improving humanitarian conditions in gaza , jason greenblatt , u.s. president donald trump s middle east envoy , said on twitter , but insisted the new administration must abandon violence .
the united states stresses that any palestinian government must unambiguously and explicitly commit to nonviolence , recognition of the state of israel , acceptance of previous agreements and obligations between the parties , and peaceful negotiations , greenblatt wrote .
both israel and egypt maintain a partial blockade of gaza , citing security concerns .
in public remarks at a lunch with hamdallah , hamas leader ismail haniyeh appeared to be uncompromising about any accommodation with israel , calling for the establishment of a palestinian state on the full palestinian soil with jerusalem as its capital and the return of refugees to their lands and homes .
on tuesday , the palestinian unity cabinet will meet in gaza .
the agenda is crowded with ideas and projects , culture minister ehad bseisso said .
in addition to setting a date for holding presidential and parliamentary elections , rival factions will have to resolve the issue of the fate of the 40,000 to 50,000 civil and military staff hamas had hired since 2007 .