beijing ( reuters ) - a chinese court on tuesday jailed a prominent rights lawyer for two years , saying he incited subversion of state power , the most recent such verdict in a sweeping crackdown on activism .
jiang tianyong , 46 , developed notions of overthrowing china s political system after being influenced by training workshops held by anti-china foreign forces overseas , the court in the central city of changsha said .
he used social media to attack or defame government departments and incited others to gather and demonstrate in public , the changsha intermediate people s court said on its twitter-like weibo microblog .
however , jiang s wife , jin bianling , called the verdict unacceptable , adding that she believed he was being made an example of , in order to deter or repress other rights lawyers .
i do not acknowledge or accept this verdict , she told reuters in a telephone interview from the united states , where she lives .
jiang tianyong is innocent .
jiang s family was unable to appoint their own lawyers , jin said , and she had been unable to contact him in detention .
in geneva , the u.n. human rights office , which has denounced china s crackdown on defense lawyers since 2015 , called for his release .
we urge the chinese authorities to release jiang tianyong as well as lawyer wang quanzhang and other lawyers and activists who have remained in detention since august 2015 , u.n. human rights spokesman rupert colville told reuters .
the verdict came exactly a year after jiang disappeared last november while visiting the family of another detained rights lawyer .
he was held incommunicado for six months before being formally charged .
there were serious concerns regarding the lawfulness of the legal proceedings , said germany s ambassador to china , michael clauss , including the denial of access to lawyers of jiang s choice .
the circumstances and the lack of regard for the rights of the defendant certainly call into question the fairness of the verdict , clauss said in a statement .
jiang , who was disbarred in 2009 after taking on sensitive cases such as defending practitioners of the banned falun gong spiritual movement , had been an outspoken critic of the government crackdown on dissent .
since mid-2015 , hundreds of rights lawyers and activists have been sentenced or detained , drawing condemnation from foreign governments and international rights groups .
tuesday s ruling broadly followed the facts in jiang s confession at his trial in august , when the court released video images of him reading parts of a written statement .
china has videostreamed or liveblogged increasing numbers of court hearings in recent years , in a push for judicial transparency .
but in sensitive cases , say rights activists , only selected portions are made available , when the defendant has agreed to go along with a pre-prepared outcome .
rights group amnesty international called jiang s conviction baseless and his trial a total sham .
his so-called confession and apology , most likely extracted under duress , were nothing more than an act of political theater directed by the authorities , said william nee , a china researcher at amnesty .