if she doesn t wear a hijab , we hit her this is truly a shocking undercover film .
it exposes the wide network of muslim radicals and how they have no intention of assimilating with westerners .
the things that are said in this film should make every american and european question what really takes place in these neighborhood mosques .
marrying off a girl before puberty is permissible .
none of this has been stopped in britain by the government , who did not care to protect thousands of children raped , threatened , sold , drugged and many even killed by muslim men .
this mentality amongst muslims that the video shows , especially sunni muslims , will be common in virtually every single mosque not only in britain , but throughout europe , canada , australia , new zealand and the us.the muslim hatred continues to flourish throughout the country , all because of a weak and incompetent leadership and eu policies that protect hate preachers and terrorism .
the permission for islam to grow and exist a fascist ideology of the medieval ages is the root cause of growing terrorism growing and expanding into the west.it is not difficult to see what britain s future will be .
islam is a far greater threat than nazism .
but the nazi s did not infiltrate the country and was easier to battle.prime minister tony blair recently described tolerance as what makes britain britain but in this extensive investigation dispatches reveals how a message of hatred and segregation is being spread throughout the uk and examines how it is influenced by the religious establishment of saudi arabia.dispatches has investigated a number of mosques run by high profile national organisations that claim to be dedicated to moderation and dialogue with other faiths .
but an undercover reporter joined worshippers to find a message of religious bigotry and extremism being preached.he captures chilling sermons in which saudi-trained preachers proclaim the supremacy of islam , preach hatred for non-muslims and for muslims who do not follow their extreme beliefs and predict a coming jihad .
an army of muslims will arise , announces one preacher .
another preacher said british muslims must dismantle british democracy they must live like a state within a state until they are strong enough to take over .
the investigation reveals saudi arabian universities are recruiting young western muslims to train them in their extreme theology , then sending them back to the west to spread the word .
and the dispatches reporter discovers that british muslims can ask for fatwas , religious rulings , direct from the top religious leader in saudi arabia , the grand mufti.via : the muslim issue