hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong businessman and socialite david tang , known for founding the eponymous shanghai tang fashion brand , has died at the age of 63 .
tang , who split his time between the asian financial hub of hong kong and london , was well known for his satirical sense of humor as a weekly columnist in the financial times weekend edition .
lionel barber , editor of the financial times , tweeted : rip sir david tang , businessman , philanthropist , networker supreme .
he will be sorely missed as a friend and ft columnist .
media reported he had battled liver cancer for some time .
tang , the father of two children and husband of british-born lucy tang , moved to england at the age of 13 where he said he began boarding school without speaking a word of english .
he set up his high-end tailor in 1994 and turned it into a global brand before richemont took a controlling stake in 1998 .
hong kong-born tang aimed to fuse east and west through his business ventures such as the members-only china club in the former british colony and the china tang restaurant at the dorchester hotel in london .
tang , who was awarded a knight commander of the most excellent order of the british empire ( kbe ) , was the grandson of tang shiu kin , a famous philanthropist who founded the kowloon motor bus company .
friends with celebrities including kate moss , naomi campbell and the late princess diana , tang was a constant feature in society magazines , known for his lively parties and exotic holidays in places such as bhutan and the sahara desert .
an honorary consul of cuba and the sole distributor of cuban cigars in the asia-pacific , tang had been planning a big party with close friends at the dorchester after doctors gave him a month to live , british media reported in august .
it is not clear if the party took place .
the dorchester declined to comment .
tang said in an interview with the financial times in 2010 , that he would like to be remembered by a hilaire belloc quote : when i am dead , i hope it may be said : his sins were scarlet , but his books were read .