beijing ( reuters ) - a close ally of president xi jinping is expected to be promoted to vice chairman of china s central military commission , four sources said , as xi cements his control over the armed forces .
zhang youxia , 67 , one of just a few senior military officers with combat experience , is tipped to become one of at least two vice chairmen of the commission , the sources , including three with direct ties to the leadership , told reuters .
xi is chairman of the commission , which has overall control of the people s liberation army , as well as the nation s president and general secretary of the communist party of china .
zhang would replace fan changlong , who is expected to retire during the 19th communist party congress which begins on wednesday .
the other vice chairman , xu qiliang , is expected to stay on , the sources said .
both xi and zhang are from the northwestern province of shaanxi and both are children of former senior officials who fought together in the civil war in the 1940s .
china s defence ministry did not respond to a faxed request for comment .
the party has been studying a proposal to increase the number of vice chairmen on the military commission from two to four and reduce the number of other committee members , currently eight , some of the sources said .
xi has shaken up the commission and military since assuming power late in 2012 as he roots out corruption and streamlines the 2 million-strong armed forces , the world s largest .
some 300,000 troops have been laid off and advanced new equipment such as stealth fighters has been developed .
while china has not fought a war in decades , it is taking an increasingly assertive line in the disputed east china sea and south china sea , as well as over self-ruled taiwan , which is claimed by china .
two outgoing members of the commission are currently under investigation for suspected graft , sources have told reuters , though the government has yet to confirm this .
it isn t the first time the military has faced corruption issues .
a previous vice chairman , guo boxiong , was jailed for life for graft last year , while another former vice chairman , xu caihou , died of cancer in 2015 before he could face trial over alleged corruption .
zhang is currently the eighth-ranked member of the 11-man military commission .
zhang is also expected to be promoted to the communist party s 25-member politburo , one of its elite ruling bodies , three of the sources said .
one source with ties to the leadership said that the fathers of xi and zhang - xi zhongxun and zhang zongxun - had been close .
the two fathers fought together in the civil war that ended in 1949 with the communist victory and proclamation of the people s republic of china .
both men rose to senior positions in the government and military .
the second generation of the two families are also close , the source added , referring to xi and zhang .
born in beijing , zhang youxia joined the army in 1968 , rising through the ranks and joining the military commission in late 2012 .
he fought against vietnam in a brief border war in 1979 that china launched in punishment for vietnam invading cambodia the previous year and ousting the beijing-backed khmer rouge .
zhang was 26 when he was sent to the frontlines to fight the vietnamese , where he performed well and was quickly promoted , according to state media .
he also fought in another border clash with vietnam in 1984 .
during the battle , whether attacking or defending , zhang youxia performed excellently , the official china youth daily wrote in august in a piece entitled , these chinese generals have killed the enemy on the battlefield .
another officer recently promoted , li zuocheng , who was named chief of the joint staff department of the people s liberation army in august , also fought in the 1979 war .
li is also likely to become one of the commission s vice chairmen , but it was unclear if he will also join the politburo , the sources said .
one of the sources , who has ties to the military , said zhang had a reputation when he was based in northeastern china of walking around his base dressed in civilian clothes , prompting challenges from junior soldiers who didn t recognize him .
he doesn t put on airs and likes getting down in the dirt with ordinary soldiers , to know what their lives are like , how they are living and what they are eating , said the source , speaking on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the matter .