the u.s. is the great enemy of mankind !
raved ernesto che guevara in 1961 .
against those hyenas there is no option but extermination .
we will bring the war to the imperialist enemies very home , to his places of work and recreation .
the imperialist enemy must feel like a hunted animal wherever he moves .
thus we ll destroy him !
we must keep our hatred against them ( the u.s. ) alive and fan it to paroxysms !
-che guevara , head of cuba s foreign liberation department , nov. 17 , 1962we have a president who won t tie islamic terrorists to islam , has cut a one-sided deal with iran , as they continue to chant death to america , and has made an open alliance with a communist country who has a long history of hating america .
the same country obama is fighting to normalize relations with , would have committed an unspeakable act of terrorism against us , had our fbi not thwarted their plans .
why the rush to embrace so many nations and leaders who have a long history of wanting to harm us barry ?
on the morning of november 17th , 1962 , fbi headquarters in washington d.c. took on all the trappings of a military command post , according to historian william breuer .
the previous night an intelligence puzzle had finally come together .
the resulting picture staggered the fbi men .
and these had served at their posts during wwii and the height of the cold war .
they d seen plenty .
now they had mere days to foil a crime against their nation to rival hideki tojo s.the agents and officers were haggard and red-eyed but seriously wired .
like hawks on a perch they d been watching the plot unfold , sweating bullets the whole time .
it was nearing time to swoop down on fidel castro and che guevara s agents , busy with a terror plot that would have made isis drool decades later.alan belmont was second to j edgar hoover at the time .
raymond wannall headed the bureau s intelligence division .
that nerve-jangling morning both were in belmont s office just down the hall from hoover s. both were burning up the telephone lines to their agents in new york .
on one phone they had special agent john malone who ran the new york field office .
on other lines they talked with several carloads of fbi agents slinking around manhattan .
these were keeping a touch-and-go , but more or less constant , surveillance on the ringleaders of the cuban terror plot.castro s agents had targeted macy s , gimbels , bloomingdales , and manhattan s grand central station with a dozen incendiary devices and 500 kilos of tnt .
the holocaust was set for detonation the following week , on the day after thanksgiving.a little perspective : for their march 2004 madrid subway blasts , all 10 of them , that killed and maimed almost 2,000 people , al-qaeda used a grand total of 100 kilos of tnt .
castro and che s agents planned to set off five times that explosive power in the three biggest department stores on earth , all packed to suffocation and pulsing with holiday cheer on the year s biggest shopping day .
macy s get s 50,000 shoppers that one day .
thousands of new yorkers , including women and children actually , given the date and targets , probably mostly women and children were to be incinerated and entombed .
( we greeted each other as old friends , gushed jimmy carter when visiting fidel castro in 2002 .
) at the time , the fbi relied heavily on humint ( human intelligence . )
so they d expertly penetrated the plot .
one by one the ringleaders were ambushed .
the first was named roberto santiesteban and he was nabbed while walking down riverside drive .
as the agents closed in , santiesteban saw them and took off !
and as he ran , santiesteban was jamming paper in his mouth and chewing furiously.but six fbi agents were after him , all fleet of foot themselves .
finally they closed the ring and triangulated the suspect .
santiesteban fell , raging and cursing , flailing his arms and jabbing his elbows like a maniac .
they grabbed his arm and bent it behind his back just as he was reaching for his pistol.while this group got their man , another fbi squad arrested a couple named elsa montero and jose gomez-abad as they left their apartment on west 71st street .
the fbi speculated that as many as 30 others might have been in on the plot , but these were the head honchos .
had those detonators gone off , 9/11 might be remembered as the second deadliest terrorist attack on u.s. soil.some of these plotters belonged to the new york chapter of the fair play for cuba committee , an outfit that became much better known a year later on that very week .
incidentally , at the time of the manhattan terror plot , the fair play for cuba committee also included among its members , cbs correspondent robert taber ( an early version of dan rather , who conducted castro s first network television soft-soaping on aug. 30 , 1957 ) , along with the nation magazine co-owner alan sagner .
in 1996 president clinton appointed alan sagner head of the corporation for public broadcasting.terror-plotters roberto santiesteban , elsa montero and jose gomez-abad belonged to the castro-cuban mission to the u.n. and escaped prosecution by indignantly claiming diplomatic immunity .
via : townhallit s hard to imagine any american would ever consider che guevara to be a hero and then again , maybe it s not so hard to imagine : maria isabel is the campaign volunteer who hung this che guevara poster in the obama campaign office in houston , tx .
she s no low-level volunteer either .
she is a campaign precinct captain and the co-chair of the houston obama leadership team .