abuja ( reuters ) - more than 2,000 people have fled southern cameroon and entered nigeria over the past two weeks , fallout from renewed oppression of angolophone cameroonians in the predominantly french-speaking country , the united nations refugee agency said on thursday .
the united nations high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) is now preparing a very conservative contingency plan for as many as 40,000 people fleeing cameroon , antonio jose canhandula , the agency s representative to nigeria , told reuters in an interview in abuja .
a cycle of state repression fuelling separatism has raised concerns the majority french-speaking cameroon may face a prolonged period of violence , after soldiers shot dead at least eight people in the country s two english-speaking regions on oct 1 .
our fear is that the 40,000 might actually be an understatement in a situation where the conflict might continue , said canhandula .
cameroon s government has sent security forces into southern cameroon , he said , adding that the country has now closed its borders with nigeria .
demonstrations in cameroon s english-speaking regions began nearly a year ago when anglophone lawyers and teachers protested against having to work in french , saying it showed the wider marginalisation of the english-speaking minority .
one of cameroon s english-speaking regions in the country s west borders nigeria s southeastern state of cross rivers .
there , the unhcr has been registering refugees , some of whom say they are fleeing violence , according to canhandula .
but nigeria and cameroon are already grappling with one of the world s worst humanitarian crises , in the lake chad region , with over 2 million people displaced after more than eight years of conflict with islamist insurgency boko haram .
can you imagine having another refugee situation in a country where we are hardly coping with idps ( internally displaced persons ) ?
canhandula said .
every time you have a refugee situation you have it for several years ... cameroon really has to take the issues that create the feeling of exclusion very seriously , he said .
cameroon s linguistic divide is a legacy of world war one , when the league of nations divided the former german colony of kamerun between allied french and british victors .