cox s bazar , bangladesh/yangon ( reuters ) - thousands of rohingya muslims fleeing violence in myanmar are trying to cross the border with bangladesh , bangladeshi security officials said on saturday , as fresh fighting erupted in myanmar s northwestern rakhine state .
the death toll from widespread attacks staged by rohingya insurgents on friday has climbed to 96 , including nearly 80 insurgents and 12 members of the security forces , the government said , prompting it to evacuate staff and villagers from some areas .
the attacks marked a dramatic escalation of a conflict that has simmered since last october , when a similar offensive prompted a major military sweep beset by allegations of serious human rights abuses .
the treatment of approximately 1.1 million muslim rohingya in mainly buddhist myanmar has emerged as the biggest challenge for national leader aung san suu kyi , who late on friday condemned the morning raids - in which insurgents wielding guns , sticks and homemade bombs assaulted 30 police stations and an army base .
the nobel peace prize laureate has been accused by some western critics of not speaking out for the long-persecuted muslim minority , and of defending the army s counteroffensive after the october attacks .
some 3,000 rohingya arrived at the naf river separating myanmar and bangladesh on saturday , manzurul hassan khan , a bangladeshi border guard commander , told reuters .
about 500 rohingya , mostly women and children , spent the last night in a marshy area waiting to cross over , said khan .
we protected them the whole night .
today they went back .
reuters reporters saw hundreds of rohingya crossing into bangladesh near the border village of gumdhum as gun shots could be heard from the myanmar side .
they could be seen squatting in a marshy area , hiding in the bushes from border guards .
we managed to escape the shooting in myanmar and tried to enter bangladesh .
we waited all night after we were pushed backed by bangladesh border guards last night .
this morning , we managed to enter somehow , said hamid hossain , 42 , who crossed into bangladesh on saturday with a group of three families .
a 25-year-old man whose relatives said he had been shot by myanmar security forces on friday died as he was carried to bangladesh for treatment .
he was buried near a refugee camp close to the border on saturday , according to camp resident mohammed shafi , who said he witnessed the burial .
bangladesh s foreign ministry on saturday said it was concerned that thousands of unarmed myanmar nationals had assembled near the border to enter the country .
rohingya have been fleeing myanmar to bangladesh since the early 1990s and there are now around 400,000 in the country , where they are a source of tension between the two nations who both regard them as the other country s citizens .
in myanmar , the government said there had been several large clashes involving hundreds of rohingya across northwestern rakhine on saturday .
the fiercest fighting took place on the outskirts of the major town of maungdaw , near the alodaw pyae buddhist monastery .
maungdaw resident nay myo lin , 27 , told reuters by telephone that security forces opened fire on scores of what appeared to be muslim men with guns near the monastery .
police shot at them to break up the group and then the men shot back in the direction of the entrance gate of the city , said nay myo lin .
as the fighting went on throughout the day , i was stuck in the monastery and didn t dare to go out .
when the sound of gunshots stopped , i ran to my house , he said .
fearful rakhine buddhist residents in maungdaw town gathered in homes while men stood guard by the windows , said ohmar lin , a female resident of the town .
we don t go out of the house , but i am ready to fight - we are prepared with knives and sticks to protect ourselves if they come here , she said .
the united nations security team has sent an internal update to staff about the clashes , seen by reuters , saying that myanmar government officials had assured the u.n. about their readiness to provide troops to secure our compounds if it becomes necessary .
the government said in a statement that : extremist bengali terrorists are attacking using man-made mines ... swords , sticks , guns .
they also killed islamic religious people of their own faith who were village administrators .
the term bengali is seen as derogatory by many rohingya as it implies they are illegal immigrants from bangladesh , although many can trace family in myanmar for generations .
the myanmar army operation last year was heavily criticised internationally amid reports of civilian killings , rape and arson that a united nations investigation said probably constituted crimes against humanity .
suu kyi is blocking the u.n.-mandated probe into the allegations .
aid workers and monitors worry that the latest attacks , across a wider area than october s violence , will spark an even more aggressive army response and trigger communal clashes between muslims and buddhist ethnic rakhines .
nearly 200 people were killed and around 140,000 displaced in communal violence in the state in 2012 .
in a statement late on friday , suu kyi strongly condemned brutal attacks by terrorists on security forces in rakhine state .
i would like to commend the members of the police and security forces who have acted with great courage in the face of many challenges , she added .
the government said it had evacuated officials , teachers and hundreds of villagers to army bases and main police stations .
some will be evacuated by helicopters and some will be taken out by the security forces , a military source based in rakhine told reuters .
the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) which instigated the october attacks claimed responsibility for the offensive , presenting it as a defence against the myanmar army .
myanmar declared arsa , previously known as harakah al-yaqin , a terrorist organisation in the wake of the attacks .