our most pressing issue is border control and terrorism .
if you ve been paying attention to the border issues , you know we have basically had open borders during the obama presidency .
we ve become a global magnet for anyone to come across our border .
who knows how many terrorists and violent gang members have crossed our border .
the bottom line is that the american taxpayer should never have to pay for the people coming across and should not be put at risk .
this is a safety issue and a financial issue !
we need big changes and we need them fast .
the republican party and the republicans in charge now have done nothing to fix this problem .
does this tell you anything ?
we need to clean house and elect people who will put america first !
the nbpc has had a longstanding practice of not endorsing presidential candidates in the primaries .
via the national border patrol website : the national border patrol council is the official organization representing our nation s border patrol agents .
we represent 16,500 agents who selflessly serve this country in an environment where our own political leaders try to keep us from doing our jobs.the nbpc has had a longstanding practice of not endorsing presidential candidates in the primaries .
we will not , however , shy away from voicing our opinions as it pertains to border security and the men and women of the united states border patrol .
as such , we are breaking with our past practice and giving our first-ever endorsement in a presidential primary .
we think it is that important : if we do not secure our borders , american communities will continue to suffer at the hands of gangs , cartels and violent criminals preying on the innocent .
the lives and security of the american people are at stake , and the national border patrol council will not sit on the sidelines.as an organization we expect our elected officials to aggressively pursue the interests of the country .
america has already tried a young , articulate freshman senator who never created a job as an attorney and under whose watch criminal cartels have been given the freest border reign ever known.unlike his opponents , donald trump is not a career politician , he is an outsider who has created thousands of jobs , pledged to bring about aggressive pro-american change , and who is completely independent of special interests .
we don t need a person who has the perfect washington-approved tone , and certainly not another establishment politician in the w.h .
indeed , the fact that people are more upset about mr. trump s tone than about the destruction wrought by open borders tells us everything we need to know about the corruption in washington.we need a person in the white house who doesn t fear the media , who doesn t embrace political correctness , who doesn t need the money , who is familiar with success , who won t bow to foreign dictators , who is pro-military and values law enforcement , and who is angry for america and not subservient to the interests of other nations .
donald trump is such a man.mr .
trump is as bold and outspoken as other world leaders who put their country s interests ahead of all else .
americans deserve to benefit for once instead of always paying and apologizing .
our current political establishment has bled this country dry , sees their power evaporating , and isn t listening to voters who do all the heavy lifting .
trump is opposed by the established powers specifically because they know he is the only candidate who actually threatens the established powers that have betrayed this country.you can judge a man by his opponents : all the people responsible for the problems plaguing america today are opposing mr. trump .
it is those without political power the workers , the law enforcement officers , the everyday families and community members who are supporting mr. trump.via : gateway pundit