( reuters ) - a florida man pleaded guilty on monday to working with another man to illegally funnel $ 80,000 in foreign contributions to u.s. president barack obama ’ s joint fundraising committee in 2012 so that a foreign national could attend a campaign event .
william argeros , 57 , pleaded guilty in federal court in newark , new jersey , to charges that he knowingly and willfully made foreign contributions and donations and made a false declaration to a federal grand jury , prosecutors said .
u.s. law prohibits contributions from foreign nationals to candidates or fundraising committees in federal elections .
a lawyer for argeros did not respond to a request for comment .
the tampa , florida , resident is scheduled to be sentenced on nov. 9 .
the proceedings came a month after an earlier guilty plea in the case by bilal shehu , a new jersey limousine driver to whom prosecutors said argeros facilitated the transferring of $ 80,000 from a foreign source .
prosecutors said shehu , a paramus , new jersey resident , then provided the money to obama ’ s joint fundraising committee so that a foreign national could attend a campaign event on oct. 8 , 2012 , in san francisco .
in announcing both guilty pleas , prosecutors have not specifically identified the foreign source of the money or the foreign national .
but the cases came after a republican congressman in 2013 called for investigations into the purchases by shehu ’ s family of two $ 40,000 tickets for a san francisco fundraiser , one of which was used by now-albanian prime minister edi rama .
at the october 2012 event , rama , the albanian socialist party leader , was photographed with obama .
u.s. representative dana rohrabacher of california at the time contended the photo was then used for “ deceitful ” purposes by rama to imply a relationship with obama during albania ’ s own election , which brought him into leadership .
prosecutors have said that the foreign national in the case was denied entry to the campaign event but was allowed to be photographed with obama .
prosecutors said no one on the joint election committee has been accused of any wrongdoing and that it had cooperated fully in the investigation .