toronto ( reuters ) - a canadian judge on friday suspended part of a quebec law banning people from wearing full-face veils when giving or receiving public services , handing a provisional victory to civil liberties groups who argued that the law is unconstitutional and discriminates against muslim women .
judge babak barin suspended the portion of the act banning face coverings until the government enacts guidelines for how the law will be applied and how exemptions might be granted .
the government of the mainly french-speaking province of quebec now has a chance to clarify in detail how the law would be put into practice .
the law , passed in october , affects everyone from teachers and students to hospital employees , police officers , bus drivers and transit users .
while the law does not single out any religion by name , debate has focused on the niqab , a full-face veil worn by a small minority of muslim women .
the judge recognized the immediate harm the law was causing to the people it affects outweighed any theoretical public purpose of the law , lawyer catherine mckenzie , who is representing the people challenging the law , told reuters .
quebec s liberal government is defending the law in court , saying it does not discriminate against muslim women and is necessary for reasons of security , identification and communication .
the act s name refers to religious neutrality and accommodations on religious grounds .
i m not unsatisfied with the judgment because there s no mention that the law contravenes the charters ( of rights ) , quebec premier philippe couillard told reporters friday , as quoted by the canadian broadcasting corp .
the national council for canadian muslims welcomed the ruling as a successful first step , its executive director ihsaan gardee said .
opponents of the law say it targets a visible minority that has been subject to threats and violence .
quebec had about 243,000 muslims as of 2011 , according to statistics canada , out of a population of 8 million .
in january a gunman walked into a quebec city mosque and shot six people to death .
a french-canadian university student has been charged as the sole suspect .
france , belgium , the netherlands , bulgaria and the german state of bavaria have imposed restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils in public places .
denmark plans to institute its own ban .