helsinki ( reuters ) - finland will leave the european union and position itself as the switzerland of the north to protect its independence if laura huhtasaari , the presidential candidate of the eurosceptic finns party has her way .
she also told reuters in an interview she wants to tighten immigration rules .
huhtasaari dubbed finland s marine le pen after france s national front leader is a long-shot .
but she believes she has a real chance in the january election as her party has taken a fresh start following its removal from the coalition government in june .
the rise in europe of parties that are critical towards the eu and immigration is due to bad , unjust politics , she said .
the role for finland in the euro zone is the role of a loser and payer ...
i do not want finland to become a province of eu , finns must stand up for finland s interests .
the finns party , formerly called true finns , rose from obscurity during the euro zone debt crisis with an anti-eu platform , complicating the bloc s bailout talks with troubled states .
it expanded into the second-biggest parliamentary party in 2015 and joined the government , but then saw its support drop due to compromises in the three-party coalition .
this june , the party picked a new hard-line leadership and got kicked out of the government , while more than half of its lawmakers left the party and formed a new group to keep their government seats .
huhtasaari , 38 , who was picked as deputy party leader in june , said voters were still confused after the split-up but that the party would eventually bounce back .
the game is really brutal .
the biggest parties want us to disappear from the political map .
no-one is in politics looking for friends .
the finns party ranks fifth in polls with a support of 9 percent , down from 17.7 percent in 2015 parliamentary election , while the new blue reform group , which has five ministers , is backed by only 1-2 percent .
incumbent president sauli niinisto , who originally represented the centre-right ncp party , is widely expected to be elected for a second six-year term by a wide margin .
a poll by alma media last week showed 64 percent of voters supporting niinisto while 12 percent backed lawmaker pekka haavisto from the greens .
huhtasaari , a first term lawmaker , was backed by 3 percent of those polled .
things happen slowly when you re fighting against the hegemony ...
i still have time before the elections , she said .
huhtasaari , who supports u.s. president donald trump and britain s former uk independence party leader nigel farage , said the european eurosceptic movement was gradually strengthening despite a series of blows to anti-establishment parties .
france s national front and italy s 5-star movement failed in attempts to win legislative and civic elections while ukip won no seats in the british parliament , albeit that its goal of brexit won a referendum .
any change takes time , a step forward and step back ...
but the movement strengthens all the time , she said , noting austria s freedom party s strong performance in october elections .
markku jokisipila , the director at the center for parliamentary studies of the university of turku , said huhtasaari was unlikely to succeed in the jan 28 election .
around 70 percent of finns support eu membership and the centre-right government is committed to the euro .
there s no way around it , she is very inexperienced politically for this election , jokisipila said .
he added that the finns party had become more united after the june split-up , but that it was now too focused on its anti-immigration and anti-eu platforms to be able to increase support .
they will not disappear from the finnish politics .
the challenge is to broaden their profile ... but they have also proved that they do have surprise potential .