the number of law enforcement officials killed by gunfire is up 150 % this year .
in an effort to pander for the black vote , hillary says she would like our police officers to be retrained .
she ignores the fact that so many families of law enforcement officers have lost a father or mother , husband or wife to criminals .
hillary would like to instead , ensure the gangbangers who are likely using guns they obtained illegally are protected from our law enforcement .
hillary clinton spent her sunday in new york campaigning in front of black congregations during which she continued to reiterate her support for retraining police officers.clinton has made police reform a recurring theme in her bid for the democratic nomination .
she was endorsed sunday by nicole bell , wife of sean bell , a man who was killed by the nypd in 2005 .
no officers were found guilty of any wrongdoing in the incident .
today , i was endorsed by this beautiful young woman , nicole bell , whose fianc was killed by the police right before she was to be married .
when i was a senator , i tried to help .
i tried to stand up about what had happened , the former secretary of state said at the brown memorial baptist church in clinton hill , ny.clinton added , today she wrote an editorial in the daily news endorsing me and she said we have three common goals , she and i together , we have to end the epidemic of gun violence .
bell didn t write an op-ed sunday , but in an interview with the new york daily news she said , [ hillary s ] against racial profiling .
and she wants to make investments to improve training for police officers .
those issues hit home for me and my family .
hillary repeated these comments almost verbatim at her church visit saying , we have to end racial profiling and we have to retrain our police officers so they can do a job that doesn t require reaching for their gun when it is absolutely unnecessary .
here s the list of police officers killed by gunfire in 2016 ( so far ) : police officer thomas w. cottrell , jr. danville police department , oh eow : sunday , january 17 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireunified police department of greater salt lake , utah police officer douglas scott barney , ii .
unified police department of greater salt lake , ut eow : sunday , january 17 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireseaside police department , oregon sergeant jason goodding seaside police department , or eow : friday , february 5 , 2016 cause of death : gunfiremesa county sheriff s office , colorado deputy sheriff derek geer mesa county sheriff s office , co eow : wednesday , february 10 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireharford county sheriff s office , maryland senior deputy mark logsdon harford county sheriff s office , md eow : wednesday , february 10 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireharford county sheriff s office , maryland senior deputy patrick dailey harford county sheriff s office , md eow : wednesday , february 10 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireriverdale police department , georgia major gregory e. barney riverdale police department , ga eow : thursday , february 11 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirefargo police department , north dakota police officer jason moszer fargo police department , nd eow : thursday , february 11 , 2016 cause of death : gunfiremississippi department of public safety bureau of narcotics , mississippi special agent lee tartt mississippi department of public safety bureau of narcotics , ms eow : saturday , february 20 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirepark county sheriff s office , colorado corporal nate carrigan park county sheriff s office , co eow : wednesday , february 24 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireprince william county police department , virginia officer ashley marie guindon prince william county police department , va eow : saturday , february 27 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireeuless police department , texas police officer david stefan hofer euless police department , tx eow : tuesday , march 1 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireprince george s county police department , maryland police officer i jacai d. colson prince george s county police department , md eow : sunday , march 13 , 2016 cause of death : gunfire ( accidental ) greenville police department , south carolina police officer iii allen lee jacobs greenville police department , sc eow : friday , march 18 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirehoward county sheriff s office , indiana deputy sheriff carl a. koontz howard county sheriff s office , in eow : sunday , march 20 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirevirginia state police , virginiatrooper chad phillip dermyer virginia state police , va eow : thursday , march 31 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirecanton police department , ohio k9 jethro canton police department , oh eow : sunday , january 10 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirenorfolk police department , virginia k9 krijger norfolk police department , va eow : monday , january 11 , 2016 cause of death : gunfiresmith county constable s office precinct 5 , texas k9 ogar smith county constable s office precinct 5 , tx eow : tuesday , january 19 , 2016 cause of death : gunfireomaha police department , nebraska k9 kobus omaha police department , ne eow : saturday , january 23 , 2016 cause of death : gunfirelas vegas metropolitan police department , nevadak9 nicky las vegas metropolitan police department , nv eow : thursday , march 31 , 2016 cause of death : gunfire ( accidental ) regarding racial profiling , her website says she d support legislation to end racial profiling .
there are no details as to what that legislation would include .
she has in the past supported former attorney general eric holder s police reform efforts.via : daily caller