geneva ( reuters ) - the u.n refugee agency on friday accused australia of abandoning hundreds of refugees and asylum seekers on papua new guinea s manus island and said it must take responsibility for the mess it created with its offshore processing system .
about 800 refugees are still in a precarious situation on manus island , having been forcibly removed from a holding camp last month when australia decided to close it , unhcr spokeswoman cecile pouilly told a regular u.n. briefing in geneva .
we are talking here about people who have suffered tremendously , extreme trauma , and are now feeling so insecure in the places where they are staying .
there are many victims of torture , people who have been deeply traumatised , having no idea what is going to happen next to them , she said .
in light of the continued perilous situation on papua new guinea s manus island for refugees and asylum seekers abandoned by australia , unhcr has called again this week on the australian government to live up to its responsibility and urgently find humane and appropriate solutions .
conditions in the camp , and another on the tiny pacific island of nauru , have been widely criticised by the united nations and human rights groups .
the two camps have been cornerstones of australia s contentious immigration policy under which it refuses to allow asylum-seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores .
the policy , aimed at deterring people from making a perilous sea voyage to australia , has bipartisan political support .
the closure of the manus island camp , criticised by the united nations as shocking , caused chaos , with the men refusing to leave the compound for fear of being attacked by manus island residents .
[ nl3n1nt437 ] pouilly said that in the past four weeks , there had been at least five security incidents , including an attempt by three people armed with machetes and an axe to force their way into a site where 150 refugees and asylum seekers have been accommodated since the australian facility closed .
pouilly said that although papua new guinea now had to deal with the situation , the buck should stop with australia .
what we clearly are saying is that it s australia s responsibility in the first place , she said .
australia is the country that created the situation by putting in place this offshore processing facility .
so what we are asking is for australia to find solutions for these people .