sant pere de torello , spain ( reuters ) - as spanish police wielded batons and fired rubber bullets at crowds attempting to vote in catalonia s banned independence referendum on sunday , the region s own police force gave many voters a much gentler reception .
in catalonia s pro-independence heartland , among the farming towns of osona county north of barcelona , the catalan force made little attempt to remove people from polling stations despite being tasked with the same court order to shut them down .
local courts received several complaints on sunday against the catalan police accusing them of inactivity and failing to close polling stations , despite the court order , the region s high court said in a statement .
in sant pere and osona s capital of vic , crowds waited in orderly queues and cast their ballots in school halls , though the mood was jittery as photos of bloodied voters circulated via social media from the cities of barcelona and girona .
more than 840 people were injured during sunday s police crackdown , catalan officials said .
spain s prime minister mariano rajoy , however , praised the police for carrying out their duties and upholding the law .
in sant pere , children ran along the street playing tag , young people passed around barbecued kebabs and flagons of red wine , and pensioners at a retirement home nearby sat by windows and waved catalan flags .
if we don t win today , we will never be able to do it .
this is the opportunity , ramon jordana , a 92-year-old former taxi driver said as he dropped his vote into a ballot box that organizers had smuggled into the town in the dead of night .
at the polling station in sant pere , a town of some 2,500 people close to the pyrenees which symbolically declared independence from spain in 2012 , voters arrived before sunrise and jordana cast the first vote at 9 a.m. officers from catalonia s regional police , the mossos d esquadra , had tried to enter sant pere and vic s polling stations before voting began but crowds clustered around the entrances to stop them .
they withdrew to applause and cheers .
we won t use force to enter , but we ll stay outside all day in case at some point we can , one of the officers in sant pere told reuters afterwards .
he asked not to be identified .
the two officers in sant pere chatted casually with locals outside the polling station , and one of them posed with a child for a photo .
after a second attempt to enter the voting center , the crowd resisted and they retreated around a street corner .
in osona s overwhelmingly separatist-controlled municipalities , opinion polls show support for independence tops 80 percent on average , around double the overall support among catalonia s 7.5 million population .
the referendum has been declared illegal by rajoy s central government in madrid , which says the constitution states the country is indivisible , and it has dispatched police across catalonia to seize ballot boxes and prevent people voting .
however , national police and the mossos have taken very different approaches , despite spain s state prosecutor telling mossos recently that they had been put under a single chain of command reporting directly to the interior ministry in madrid .
the mossos are held in great affection by catalans , especially after they hunted down islamists accused of staging coordinated attacks in barcelona in august which killed 16 people .
in contrast , the civil guard national police were branded rajoy s thugs on twitter on sunday .
national police unions said officers had carried out an impeccable intervention to preserve the constitution and called the mossos inaction scandalous .
the national police are disappointed and indignant ...
the mossos presence has been insufficient , deliberately weak and embarrassingly neutral , the unions said in a statement .
in sant pere , before voting got underway , the town s mayor , jordi fabrega , asked a crowd of about 200 people to guard the booth s entrance all day and to resist peacefully any attempt by police to enter .
the moment we leave it unguarded , they will come , fabrega said .
the first count of sant pere s vote showed 80 percent turnout with 97 percent of voters supporting independence .
high turnout will be key to legitimizing a yes vote , which the catalan government says would lead to a declaration of independence from the regional parliament within 48 hours .
locals blocked streets with vans and construction trucks as word spread that national police , who have been drafted into catalonia in their thousands , were en route to raid the polling station .
if the police really want to get the ballot boxes , they will get them , said one sant pere voter , 66-year-old carles , who declined to give his surname as he was worried the spanish government would come after him .
in the end , no national police turned up .
organizers said it had been no easy task to get to this point .
joan vaque casas , sant pere s head coordinator , said he had received a text message at about 2 a.m. to meet at a secret location to pick up the ballot box and voting papers .