ankara ( reuters ) - the head of turkey s nationalist opposition said on thursday a planned independence referendum by kurds in northern iraq should be viewed by ankara as a reason for war if necessary .
turkey , which is battling a three-decade kurdish insurgency in its southeast , is concerned the referendum could further stoke separatist sentiment among the 15 million kurds in turkey .
on wednesday , foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu visited iraq , where he conveyed to iraqi kurdish leader massoud barzani ankara s concerns about the decision to hold the referendum , planned for sept. 25 .
nationalist movement party ( mhp ) leader devlet bahceli , who allied with the government in supporting the ruling ak party s campaign in april s referendum on boosting president tayyip erdogan s powers , called on ankara to oppose the vote .
a position must be taken to the end against barzani s preparation for an independence referendum which incorporates turkmen cities , bahceli told a news conference in ankara .
this is a rehearsal for kurdistan .
if necessary turkey should deem this referendum as a reason for war , he added .
bahceli does not set policy , though his ideas reflect those of a segment of turkish society fiercely opposed to the idea of an independent kurdistan and supportive of iraq s turkmen ethnic minority , which has historical and cultural ties to turkey .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east and left kurdish-populated territory split between modern-day turkey , iran , iraq and syria .
like turkey , iraq , iran and syria all oppose the idea of iraqi kurdish independence , fearing it may fuel separatism among their own kurdish populations .
the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) militant group , deemed a terrorist organization by ankara , the united states and european union , has waged a 33-year insurgency in southeast turkey in which more than 40,000 people have been killed .
the united states and other western nations fear september s vote could ignite a new conflict with baghdad and possibly neighboring countries , diverting attention from the war against islamic state militants in iraq and syria .