the breakfast club interview started out when one of the hosts , charlemagne tha god told his audience , let the record show , when she [ hillary ] walked in , i gave her a handshake and she did it the right way .
she bought it in , cuffed it and everything .
cackling ensued one of the tough questions hillary got during her interview was , do you believe in ghosts ?
she was also asked if her pants suits are inspired by game show host steve harvey .
instead of admitting that she might lose half of her voting base if they were to see her in a dress , she carries on forever about the ease of a pants suit .
between coughing fits , hillary was able to sneak in another ridiculous lie.democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton on monday said that she always keeps a bottle of hot sauce handy in her bag .
hot sauce , she said when asked what she constantly carries in her bag.the comments , first reported by tmz , came during an appearance on power 105.1 fm s the breakfast club .
really ?
are you getting in that formation right now ?
host charlamagne tha god asked before quoting beyonce s song formation .
hot sauce in my bag , swag ?
clinton said that she was indeed serious , leading the host to joke that clinton is angling for african american voters with a beyonce reference.here is the refrain from beyonc s anti-cop , racist formation song : y all haters corny with that lluminati mess paparazzi , catch my fly , and my cocky fresh i m so reckless when i rock my givenchy dress ( stylin ) i m so possessive so i rock his roc necklaces my daddy alabama , momma louisiana you mix that negro with that creole make a texas bama i like my baby heir with baby hair and afros i like my negro nose with jackson five nostrils earned all this money but they never take the country out me i got a hot sauce in my bag , swag i want you to know that people are going to see this and say , she s pandering to black people again , he told clinton .
ok is it working ?
the democratic presidential front-runner quipped .
seriously i ve been eating a lot of hot sauce and raw peppers .
via : the hillthe hot sauce comment can be seen at the 25 minute mark : excuse me , she said coughing , after speaking for about 20 minutes on the air .
allergy season , she said , as she continued coughing , reaching for her drink .
you all right ?
any mouth to mouth cpr ?
one of the hosts joked , trying to lighten the mood .
senator , you coughing like you have something medicinal , another host said .
yeah , i need some , she replied as the hosts laughed .
my voice is failing here , she said as she continued speaking in a faltering tone .
the interview went on for about three additional minutes before staffers ended it.clinton has had multiple coughing episodes during her campaign for president , awkwardly interrupting speeches or interviews as she struggles to regain her voice .
she also had a coughing episode during her testimony during the congressional benghazi hearings .
via : breitbart news