this is a good reminder of how important it is to prevent obama from anointing another radical on the supreme court .
it might also be a good time for every american to call their representatives in washington .
keeping another radical obama appointee off our supreme court could literally be the only thing standing between a free america and one that looks more like venezuela .
this is also a reminder for anyone in the republican party who considers themselves part of the never trump movement .
the democrat party has never been more serious about , or closer to , fundamentally changing america forever the obama administration is looking into whether it can challenge the supreme court s decision to block president barack obama s plan to spare millions of illegal immigrants from deportation , u.s. attorney general loretta lynch said tuesday .
we will be reviewing the case and seeing what , if anything else , we need to do in court , lynch told reuters in an interview.lynch did not say what legal options the obama administration may pursue following a split decision by the supreme court justices last week that left in place a block on the executive action by a lower court.she said any future executive actions obama may take on immigration would be left to the white house.in a wideranging interview on topics from gun control to the effect of the planned exit of britain from the european union , lynch identified espionage from foreign nationals on u.s. companies as a tremendous problem .
the federal bureau of investigation has reported a 53 percent increase in cases of economic espionage between 2014 and 2015 and the majority of cases involve chinese nationals as culprits.most recently , xu jiaqiang , 30 , was charged with economic espionage and theft of trade secrets , for stealing software source code from his u.s. employer with the intent of benefiting the chinese government .
it is a matter of priority for us , lynch said .
when companies or industries are preyed upon by others , be they individuals , be they state actors who literally steal the fruit of their intellectual labors , essentially they are stealing from future generations also .
via : yahoo news