goma , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - eleven congolese militia fighters were jailed for life on wednesday for raping dozens of girls as young as 18 months during ceremonies meant to give the men supernatural powers , rights groups observing the trial said .
human rights campaigners hailed the court s verdict as a landmark decision in a country where they say rape by armed groups is commonplace and often unpunished .
the fighters from djeshi ya yesu - the army of jesus - militia were accused of raping at least 37 girls near the village of kavumu in democratic republic of congo s south kivu province between 2013 and 2016 , the rights groups said .
according to the prosecution , the group s leader , provincial lawmaker frederic batumike , employed a spiritual adviser who told the fighters that raping very young children would give them mystical protection against their enemies .
militia members , including batumike , were also convicted of murder , membership in a rebel movement and illegal weapons possession .
the court ruled that the rapes and murders amounted to crimes against humanity , the rights groups said .
the crimes triggered an international outcry .
rights groups accused the government of a slow response .
this was necessary .
the victims have been waiting .
it s a strong signal to anyone who would contemplate this kind of offense , charles cubaka cicura , a lawyer for the victims , told reuters after the verdict was announced .
millions died in eastern congo in regional wars between 1996 and 2003 , most from hunger and disease .
dozens of armed groups continue to prey on local population and fight for control of the area s rich natural resources .
experts say congo has made some progress in combating sexual violence and several high-level militia and army commanders have been prosecuted in recent years , but the problem remains pervasive .
this trial demonstrated that justice can be served in the congo ... even when the accused wield significant power and are highly organised , said karen naimer of physicians for human rights , one of the groups supporting the victims .
the mobile court which set up in kavumu village allocated $ 5,000 in compensation to each rape victim and $ 15,000 to the families of men murdered by the militia , the groups said .