new york ( reuters ) - a former u.s. justice department official has become the latest lawyer to join special counsel robert mueller ’ s team investigating russia ’ s interference in the 2016 presidential election , a spokesman for the team confirmed .
greg andres started on tuesday , becoming the 16th lawyer on the team , said josh stueve , a spokesman for the special counsel .
most recently a white-collar criminal defense lawyer with new york law firm davis polk & wardwell , andres , 50 , served at the justice department from 2010 to 2012 .
he was deputy assistant attorney general in the criminal division , where he oversaw the fraud unit and managed the program that targeted illegal foreign bribery .
mueller , who was appointed special counsel in may , is looking into possible collusion between the trump campaign and russia during the election , among other matters .
congressional committees are also investigating the matter .
that mueller continues to expand his team means the probe is not going to end anytime soon , said robert ray , who succeeded kenneth starr as independent counsel for the whitewater investigation during the clinton administration .
“ it ’ s an indication that the investigation is going to extend well into 2018 , ” said ray .
“ whether it extends beyond 2018 is an open question. ” the special counsel last month asked the white house to preserve all of its communications about a june 2016 meeting that included the president ’ s eldest son , donald trump jr. , his son-in-law and adviser jared kushner , and russian lawyer natalia veselnitskaya .
russian officials have denied meddling in the u.s. election , and trump denies any collusion by his campaign .
among the cases andres oversaw at the justice department was the prosecution of texas financier robert allen stanford , who was convicted in 2012 for operating an $ 8 billion ponzi scheme .
before that , andres was a federal prosecutor in brooklyn for over a decade , eventually serving as chief of the criminal division in the u.s. attorney ’ s office there .
he prosecuted several members of the bonanno organized crime family , one of whom was accused of plotting to have andres killed .
a graduate of notre dame and university of chicago law school , andres was a peace corps volunteer in benin from 1989 to 1992 .
he is married to ronnie abrams , a u.s. district judge in manhattan nominated to the bench in 2011 by democratic president barack obama .
others on the special counsel team include andrew weissmann , chief of the justice department ’ s fraud section ; andrew goldstein , former head of the public corruption unit at the u.s. attorney ’ s office in manhattan ; and james quarles , who was an assistant special prosecutor in the watergate investigation that helped bring down president richard nixon .
( story refiles to correct typographical error in paragraph 11 to andres instead of andrews . )