brussels ( reuters ) - the european union handed prime minister theresa may a 10-day absolute deadline to improve her brexit divorce offer or face failure in persuading eu leaders to open trade talks with britain at a december summit .
without a deal next month , time will be very tight to agree arrangements before britain leaves the eu in march 2019 , adding to pressure on businesses to avoid potential losses and move investments .
we need to see progress from uk within 10 days on all issues , including on ireland , european council president donald tusk tweeted after meeting may in brussels for one hour following an eu summit .
a deal on the northern ireland border became suddenly trickier on friday as the dublin government looked set to fall .
tusk said it was still possible the other 27 eu leaders would conclude at a summit on dec. 14-15 that britain had made sufficient progress toward meeting three key conditions for them to approve the opening of trade talks in the new year .
but , added the former polish premier who chairs the bloc s summit meetings , that was still a huge challenge .
eu officials expect the crunch to come when may returns on monday , dec. 4 , to meet the eu chief executive , european commission president jean-claude juncker , and his chief brexit negotiator michel barnier .
tusk presented the timeline ... with december 4 as the absolute deadline for the uk to make additional efforts , allowing barnier to be in a position to recommend sufficient progress , an eu official said .
may agreed to this time frame .
the uk will need to give credible assurances as to how to avoid a hard border before december 4 , as it is still unclear how this can be done , the official added .
a further complication lay in ireland , where prime minister leo varadkar , who has warned of a veto without big british moves on the border issue , may call a snap election next week over a separate issue .
may told reporters after meeting tusk that the two sides were still making progress toward closing gaps on a financial settlement , rights for expatriates after brexit and how to avoid a hard border that may disrupt the peace in northern ireland .
but she added : there are still issues across the various matters that we are negotiating on to be resolved .
she repeated a line she first used in september that britain would honour our commitments .
but there was no sign of details that eu counterparts are demanding over payments before they accede to london s call for talks on a post-brexit trade pact .
on the irish border , may said : we and the irish government continue to talk about solutions for that .
we have the same desire .
we want to ensure that movement of people and trade across that border can carry on as now .
for months , the eu s demand for britain to pay something like 60 billion euros ( $ 72 billion ) has seemed the toughest nut to crack .
but eu negotiators have been encouraged by apparent leaks in the british media indicating that may has won backing from brexit hardliners in her cabinet to offer a large sum .
now , ireland could be a sticking point .
the irish issue is very worrying .
the chances of sufficient progress in december were only 50-50 .
now maybe less , an official handling brexit talks from one of the other 27 eu states told reuters on the sidelines of friday s summit .
barnier threw the union s weight behind ireland on friday , telling irish foreign minister simon coveney there was strong solidarity for ireland and irish issues are eu issues .
coveney , who accused the government s opponents of being irresponsible in calling a no-confidence motion for tuesday over an unrelated issue , said ireland would not agree to opening eu trade talks with britain if it was unhappy over the border .
may s northern irish , pro-brexit allies , on whom she depends for a slim parliamentary majority , accused dublin of trying to force northern ireland , or the whole of the united kingdom , to stay in a customs union with the eu , depriving it of the freedom to set its own commercial regulations .
eu officials say the best way to avoid a hard border is to keep regulations the same - whether just for northern ireland or across the uk .
britain has rejected the former because it would divide northern ireland from the british mainland .
brexit campaigners say britain should not have to follow eu rules .