beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s top court on friday sentenced habib shartouni to death for the 1982 assassination of president-elect bashir gemayel , an event that was a turning point in lebanon s 15-year civil war .
shartouni , a member of the syrian socialist nationalist party ( ssnp ) , admitted his part in the bombing in the 1980s and was tried in absentia after escaping from prison in 1990 following eight years in detention .
he was quoted in an interview in lebanon s al-akhbar newspaper on thursday saying the timing of the trial was political and that he had lived in syria between 1994 and 2004 .
he did not reveal his present location .
gemayel was killed less than a month after he was elected president and soon after he agreed to start discussing diplomatic ties with israel .
his assassination occurred during israel s 1982 invasion of lebanon , one of the bloodiest episodes in the civil war .
his death in a bombing that killed 32 other people on sept. 14 , 1982 , still resonates among many lebanese and triggered the massacre of palestinians in beirut s sabra and chatila refugee camps .
supporters of both shartouni and gemayel have protested outside the court during the hearings .
gemayel was head of the lebanese forces christian militia , locked in conflict with leftist , muslim and palestinian factions , and his candidacy was backed by israel .
its invasion was aimed at driving from lebanon the palestine liberation organisation ( plo ) , as well as the syrian army , which had entered in 1976 as part of a peace deal .
after his assassination , israel entered the capital beirut and allowed gemayel s militia , the lebanese forces , to access the sabra and chatila palestinian refugee camps , where their fighters killed hundreds of civilian refugees .
gemayel s family is still one of the most important in lebanese politics , heading the kataeb party that was founded by his father .
the lebanese forces militia later became a different political party headed by one of its commanders , samir geagea .