phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian prime minister hun sen challenged the united states on sunday to cut all aid after it announced it was ending funding for a general election next year in response to the dissolution of the main opposition party , media reported .
hun sen , the strongman who has ruled cambodia for more than three decades , has taken a strident anti-american line in an increasingly tense run-up to a 2018 election that has included a crackdown on critics , rights groups and independent media .
the united states announced on friday it was ending funding for the election , and promised more concrete steps , after the supreme court dissolved the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) at the request of the government , on the grounds it was plotting to seize power .
the party denied the accusation .
the pro-government fresh news website reported that hun sen said in a speech to garment workers that he welcomed the u.s. aid cut and urged it cut it all .
samdech techo hun sen confirmed that cutting u.s. aid won t kill the government but will only kill a group of people who serve american policies , fresh news reported , using hun sen s official title .
it did not identify the people suspected of serving u.s. policies but added : hun sen ... welcomes and encourages the u.s. to cut all aid .
the u.s. embassy in phnom penh did not respond to a request for comment .
in april , the u.s. embassy announced a $ 1.8 million grant to assist local elections this year and next year s general election .
the u.s. state department said on its website that u.s. assistance to cambodia for programs in health , education , governance , economic growth and clearing unexploded ordnance was worth more than $ 77.6 million in 2014 .
however , chinese support for big ticket projects has allowed hun sen to brush off western criticism of his crackdown on dissent .
china vastly outspends the united states in a country once destroyed by cold war superpower rivalry , and its money goes on highly visible infrastructure projects and with no demands for political reform .
in september , authorities arrested the cnrp leader , kem sokha , and charged him with treason over what they said was a plot to take power with u.s. help .
he denied any such plot .
the u.s. state department called on friday for cambodia to release him and reverse the decision to ban his party .
the court also banned 118 party members from politics for five years .
police have begun to take down cnrp signs from their offices across the country .
mu sochua , a senior cnrp member who moved abroad shortly before the party was banned , said hun sen was jeopardizing foreign investment .
foreign investors serious about investing in cambodia won t be coming and are , or will be , looking at an exit if they can t compete with china s monopoly in cambodia because hun sen needs to pay back favors to china , she said .
western countries , which for decades supported cambodia s emergence from war and isolation , have shown little appetite for sanctions in response to the crackdown , but the european union has raised the possibility of cambodia losing trade preferences .
tariff-free access to europe for cambodian garments - and similar trade preferences in the united states - have helped cambodia build a garment industry on low-cost labor .
eu and u.s. buyers take some 60 percent of cambodia s exports .