a longtime republican financial backer who attended a new york fundraiser held by chris christie for donald trump thursday tells the daily caller that most republican donors are on board with trump , yet house speaker paul ryan is hoping trump loses so he can run in four years.the source tells thedc that the reason ryan has not been coming out strongly for trump is because of his desire to run in four years .
former republican presidential nominee mitt romney , who has been fervently anti-trump , also wants to run in four years , according to the longtime republican backer .
romney will be 73 in 2020 .
daily calleron friday , the clinton campaign ( washington post ) released video of donald trump bragging about grabbing p * ssy in an off the record conversation with billy bush.the los angeles times reported hours after audio was released of donald trump making sexually suggestive comments about a woman , that house speaker paul d. ryan castigated trump and said he would no longer attend their scheduled event on saturday .
i am sickened by what i heard today , ryan said in a statement .
women are to be championed and revered , not objectified .
i hope mr. trump treats this situation with the seriousness it deserves and works to demonstrate to the country that he has greater respect for women than this clip suggests .
paul ryan was scheduled to campaign with trump for the first time on saturday .
it never happened.on sunday donald trump crushed hillary clinton in one of the most lopsided debates in political history .
it was a brilliant performance .
trump made everyone forget about the wapo tape.on monday paul ryan sabotaged donald trump again and changed the political narrative.ryan announced he will not campaign with or defend donald trump for the rest of the election cycle .
this was an odd statement considering paul ryan has not once defended donald trump this year .
he s only attacked trump , the record-setting republican primary winner.liberty university president jerry falwell , jr. suggested today that gop elites may have leaked the video .. @ dansenor writing about # billybush tapes , hearing your wife ( ex nbc ) got a hold of tapes and you pushed the story for your boss .
comment ?
mike cernovich ( @ cernovich ) october 11 , 2016https : //twitter.com/dansenor/status/785445216299978759here s paul ryan caught on tape cozying up to rapist bill clinton : now this there are rumors that paul ryan s close advisor # nevertrumper dan senor is behind the leaks.i spoke with a reporter tonight who believes the reports are true .
it was gop elites who released the audio to the washington post.dan senor has been pushing the wapo audio all day .
he is determined to keep the story alive .
and he s a republican ? https : //twitter.com/dansenor/status/785444757912838144 via : gateway pundit