while both of her parents travel around the country giving commencement speeches at colleges and universities about the oppression and discrimination they ve experienced throughout their miserable existence , their oldest daughter ( who attended one of the top private schools in america ) will be getting ready to attend her mother , father and grandfather s alma mater .
harvard university accepted 2,032 students for the class of 2016 , an acceptance rate of only 5.9 % .
lucky malia she will be part of that exclusive group of kids who are fortunate enough to attend such a prestigious university .
black privilege ? the white house confirmed on sunday that the president s eldest daughter will take a gap year after graduating from high school in june.the white house confirmed the story after student newspaper the tab posted a picture of malia wearing a harvard t-shirt.she will then begin her studies at the prestigious institution in massachusetts in 2017 , joining the class of 2021 .
the president and mrs. obama announced today that their daughter malia will attend harvard university in the fall of 2017 as a member of the class of 2021 , said a short statement issued sunday by first lady michelle obama s office .
malia will take a gap year before beginning school .
here is our racist first lady attempting to convince america she has been held down her entire life : and here is poor michelle again bemoaning her experiences with race and sex discrimination : it follows months of speculation on whether she would end up at an ivy league or pursue film at new york university.- daily mailwhite privilege ?
not so much how white and asian students are fighting back in court against affirmative action that provides special consideration for blacks and hispanics in the college admissions process : the death of supreme court justice antonin g. scalia could affect the court s upcoming decision in fisher v. texas , an affirmative action case that experts say may change the admissions processes of universities including harvard.harvard university waded into a supreme court battle over affirmative action in colleges and universities last week , with a full-throated defense of racial diversity .
the university submitted an amicus curiae brief to the court , which is preparing to consider the case of abigail fisher for the second time .
fisher has charged that she was not admitted to the university of texas at austin because she is white .
not only does diversity powerfully transform a student s educational experience , but the benefits also reach beyond the walls of our campus they go to the heart of our democracy , wrote lawyers representing harvard .
forbidding institutions of higher education from considering race in deciding whom to admit would represent a significant intrusion into the academic freedom of universities .
the fisher case could force colleges and universities to stop considering race as a factor in admissions .
a decision in fisher s favor could affect not just public universities like ut-austin , but any college that receives federal aid , including harvard .
the university is facing a separate lawsuit ( pdf ) alleging that it discriminated against asian american applicants because of its policy of considering race in deciding whom to admit to the school .
universities should not be compelled to ignore that students of different races and ethnic backgrounds often grow up separated and apart from one another , not exposed to others experiences , perspectives , and values , wrote lawyers for harvard in the fisher brief .
harvard s concern is misplaced .
no one is suggesting that all holistic admissions criteria at the university of texas or elsewhere should be eliminated only an applicant s race and ethnicity , said edward blum , who runs a legal defense group that helped propel fisher s case to the supreme court and is also behind the asian discrimination suit against harvard .
still , the university was adamant that it needs to look at the racial background of students who apply .
harvard s graduates can not be blind either to the challenges facing our increasingly pluralistic country or to the unresolved racial divisions that stubbornly persist .