a socialists dream !
now you can check your privilege at the door .
with the equipay app , you ll never have to walk away from a restaurant with friends wondering if you paid your fair share it s a huge dilemma for progressives : on the one hand , it s terribly patriarchal for a man to pay for a woman s dinner .
on the other hand , the gender pay gap of feminist mythology holds that women only make 77 cents for every dollar earned by a man .
so isn t the failure to pay just another contribution to structural sexism ? equipay , a new app for android and the iphone has a solution .
developed by san francisco-based comedian luna malbroux , the app divides bills between dinner guests according to their race and gender .
for example , black women , who allegedly make just 64 cents on the dollar compared to white men , would only pay 64 per cent of their share of the bill.according to the app s website , equipay helps you avoid the entrenched discrimination that exists in our society .
it doesn t split the bill equally it splits it equitably .
you pay what you should to balance out the wage gap .
the app is free to use unless you re a member of a high-privilege group .
then there s a surcharge .
as the site explains : when dining out with a high privilege group , equipay automatically adds an equipayitback surcharge .
this fee subsidizes meals for others and funds equipay s charitable arm .
thanks !
last but not least , the app allows users to let their followers know whenever they ve used the app to smash the patriarchy at the dinner table .
in a live presentation of the app , melbroux described how a user , graham shares his equipay-powered purchase on social media to show that he is a social justice ally .
of course , having informed the world of his use of equipay , it remains to be seen if graham will ever be invited out for a meal again.the app won first prize at san francisco s comedy hack day , which brings comedians , developers , and designers together .
however , melbroux insists that the app isn t a joke .
in an interview with care2 , she expressed hopes that the app would start a serious conversation : i hope that this , more than anything , starts a discussion and helps people to start thinking a little bit differently about how we can use more technology and more innovation to address inequality and wage inequality .
for the rest of us , the app s social media sharing function will give us a useful list of people to never invite out for dinner .
via : breitbart