washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump is expected to rescind an obama administration policy that protects from deportation nearly 800,000 immigrants who as children entered the country illegally , setting the stage for a fight with u.s. business leaders and lawmakers over tough immigration policy .
a senior administration official told reuters on thursday that the plan could be announced as early as friday and that trump would let the so-called dreamers stay until their work permits expire .
trump has promised to crack down on illegal immigration to give more jobs to americans .
but business leaders say the dreamers make important economic contributions and that ending the program will hit economic growth and tax revenue .
the technology industry quickly mobilized opposition , as it did to trump ’ s travel ban in january for visitors from muslim-majority countries .
microsoft corp president brad smith said the country can not afford to “ lose the tremendous talent of these individuals. ” on capitol hill , democratic lawmakers and a handful of republicans urged trump not to scrap the deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) , or “ dreamers ” program .
“ @ potus must uphold pledge 2 treat # dreamers with “ great heart ” + give these young folks certainty 2 stay in us , the only country they know , ” u.s. representative ileana ros-lehtinen , a florida republican who is cuban-american , said on twitter .
trump , a republican , had pledged on the election campaign trail to scrap all of democratic former president barack obama ’ s executive orders on immigration .
what to do about the so-called dreamers has been actively debated within the white house and trump administration .
one senior administration official described the debate as a “ tug of war ” between factions in favor of the move and those opposed .
officials , believing the daca program to be ultimately unconstitutional , want congress to impose a legislative fix for the dreamers , two officials said .
white house spokeswoman sarah sanders told reporters that trump and his senior advisers were still reviewing the daca program and that the president not made a final decision on how to proceed .
asked whether trump still stood by a comment in february about treating dreamers “ with heart , ” sanders said : “ absolutely , the president stands by his statement. ” the overwhelming majority of the dreamer immigrants came from mexico and other latin american countries .
over 200,000 of them live in california , while 100,000 are in texas , which is struggling to recover from hurricane harvey .
new york , illinois and florida also have large numbers of daca recipients .
microsoft ’ s smith said in a blog post on thursday that the company knows of 27 employees who are daca beneficiaries , including software engineers , finance professionals and sales associates .
“ these employees , along with other dreamers , should continue to have the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to our country ’ s strength and prosperity , ” smith wrote .
in addition , a letter being circulated among tech companies obtained by reuters expressed concern over the threatened demise of daca , calling dreamers vital to the economy .
executives from microsoft , lyft , uber and other prominent firms have signed onto the letter , a source familiar with the situation said .
“ with them , we grow and create jobs , ” the letter said .
“ they are part of why we will continue to have a global competitive advantage. ” u.s. representative mike coffman , a colorado republican who is a centrist , announced on twitter that he will attempt to force a vote on bipartisan legislation that would protect from deportation immigrants who entered the country illegally as children .
“ # daca participants grew up here , went to school here , and should be allowed to stay here .
the time has come to take action , ” coffman wrote on twitter .
coffman introduced his bill earlier this year , along with democratic representative luis gutierrez .
it is a companion bill to legislation introduced in the senate by the chamber ’ s number two democrat , dick durbin , and republican lindsey graham .
ten republican state attorneys general in june urged the trump administration to rescind the daca program , while noting that the government did not have to revoke permits that had already been issued .
if the federal government did not withdraw daca by sept. 5 , the attorneys general said they would file a legal challenge to the program in a texas federal court .
the effort was led by texas and joined by state attorneys general in alabama , arkansas , idaho , kansas , louisiana , nebraska , south carolina , tennessee and west virginia .
kayleigh lovvorn , a spokeswoman for texas attorney general , on thursday said her office has no plans to push back the sept. 5 date .
a larger coalition of 26 republican attorneys general had challenged the obama-era policy covering illegal immigrant parents , known as dapa , that had been blocked by the courts before it took effect .
the department of homeland security rescinded that policy earlier this year .
immigrants who entered the country illegally as children have been able to qualify for daca if they were under the age of 31 when the program began on june 15 , 2012 .
they would have to have entered the united states before they turned 16 , however , and to have lived continuously in the country since june 15 , 2007 .
“ daca allowed me to reach my goal of a bachelor ’ s degree in sociology but i still have dreams of getting my master ’ s degree and even a doctorate , ” said 25-year-old diana , who immigrated with her parents from mexico when she was a one year old .
she asked that her family name not be used .
“ so i ’ m going to continue moving forward ” she added , “ and i ’ m going to keep fighting for my community because it doesn ’ t end here . ”