this is just another example of a big free-for-all for anyone and everyone connected to a government program .
where did this money go ?
we ll never know because of the lack of oversight but i ll bet it went into some pockets .
it spent nearly $ 24,000 per person on the website !
this is your hard earned money !
unreal !
in total , hhs provided nearly $ 4.5 billion to hawaii and other state exchanges , with little federal oversight and virtually no strings attached .
despite over $ 205 million in federal taxpayer funding , hawaii s obamacare exchange website will soon shut down .
since its implementation , the exchange has somehow failed to become financially viable because of lower than expected obamacare enrollment figures .
with the state legislature rejecting a $ 28 million bailout , the website will now be unable to operate past this year.according to the honolulu star-advertiser the hawaii health connector will stop taking new enrollees on friday and plans to begin migrating to the federally run healthcare.gov .
outreach services will end by may 31 , all technology will be transferred to the state by september 30 , and its workforce will be eliminated by february 28.while the exchange has struggled since its creation , it is not for lack of funding .
since 2011 hawaii has received a total of $ 205,342,270 in federal grant money from the department of health and human services ( hhs ) .
in total , hhs provided nearly $ 4.5 billion to hawaii and other state exchanges , with little federal oversight and virtually no strings attached.despite this generous funding , the exchange has underperformed from day one .
in its first year , hawaii enrolled only 8,592 individuals meaning it spent almost $ 23,899 on its website for each individual enrolled .
currently over 37,000 individuals are enrolled in hawaii s exchange well below the estimated 70,000 enrollees that is required to make the website financially viable .
unfortunately , taxpayers will have to hand out an additional $ 30 million so that hawaii can migrate to the federal system.this is not the first time that a state exchange has failed , and taken millions of dollars in federal funds down with it .
earlier this year , oregon s state exchange was officially abolished at an estimated cost of $ 41 million.read more : americans for tax reform