st. petersburg , fla. ( reuters ) - gawker founder nick denton read out a graphic account of the acts shown in a sex tape featuring wrestling celebrity hulk hogan in a florida courtroom on tuesday , saying his company ’ s 2012 online publication “ stands up to the test of time. ” gawker was sued for $ 100 million by hogan , who says the release violated his privacy .
the new york-based media company could be forced out of business by an unfavorable verdict in a civil trial testing the limits of freedom of the press .
hogan ’ s attorneys asked denton , a high-profile figure in the world of web publishing , to read aloud a very explicit article accompanying the video , which he did in an even tone .
the lawsuit centers on the one-minute , 41-seconds of video that gawker excerpted from the sex tape of unknown origin .
it has not yet been shown to the jury in st. petersburg , florida , near hogan ’ s home .
the clip shows hogan ’ s tryst with the wife of his then-best friend , radio “ shock jock ” personality bubba the love sponge .
hogan says their consensual encounter was recorded without his knowledge five years before gawker ’ s posting .
denton said he had not watched the video , nor read the article before publication .
he described his role as broadly overseeing the portfolio of websites under gawker media .
still , he stood by the piece as in keeping with gawker ’ s mission to produce “ true and interesting ” journalism .
“ the piece had value .
it was true .
it was a story honestly told and it was interesting to millions of people , ” denton said .
the hogan sex tape piece was one of more than 10,000 posts in 2012 on the gawker website , a former company executive testified later on tuesday .
the video alone was viewed 2.5 million times , with 57 percent watching the entire clip .
denton ’ s testimony , spread out over two days , highlighted his approach to websites run by the gawker company , which include technology-oriented gizmodo and women-focused jezebel .
pressed on his views on privacy rights during cross-examination , denton said celebrities have “ a smaller zone. ” jurors had questions for denton , too .
one of them asked if the sex in the video would be protected speech under the first amendment of the u.s. constitution if it was gratuitous .
“ no , ” he replied .
he had previously said that he did not think the sexual content overreached .
hogan ’ s attorney , david houston , issued a statement suggesting the jury question “ perhaps sets the tone for deliberations . ”