islamabad ( reuters ) - two young boys kneel over small white tables , intently studying the koran at a madrassa in pakistan .
the al-nadwa madrassa in the hill station of murree , 30 kilometers ( 19 miles ) from the capital , islamabad , is part of an established alternative system of education in the south asian nation .
private schools , charitable institutions and religious seminaries are stepping in to supplement government-run schools to help meet the education needs of an estimated 50 million school-age children .
despite 220,000 schools nationwide , more than 20 million children are not in school , the government said in a 2016 report .
the government has pumped money into schooling , with the education budget swelling by 15 percent every year since 2010 , according to education consultancy alif ailaan .
the united nations estimates pakistan s current education budget at 2.65 percent of gdp , roughly $ 8 billion , or around $ 150 per student .
private educators say the country s education problems are not only due to a lack of funds but also inadequate teaching .
it s not the number of schools , it s the quality , the attitude , said zeba hussain , founder of the mashal schools which teaches children displaced by war in the country s north .
hussain started the charitable mashal schools after she met a group of refugee children while visiting the hill areas surrounding islamabad .
federal education director tariq masood said blaming teachers was unfair .
he said population growth and funding were the biggest challenges faced by government schools .
masood said government schools adhered to a nationwide curriculum that was being constantly reworked and improved .
no one who is underqualified can enter the government system .
there are fewer checks in the private system , he said .
the country s poor often send their children to one of the thousands of religious madrassas ( the arabic word for school ) where students live and receive islamic instruction .
most operate without government oversight and some madrassas have been criticized for their hardline teachings of islam .
the madrassas say they provide shelter , three full meals , and a good education to young people whose families are unable to make ends meet .
in certain cases people send their kids because they can t even afford to feed them , said irfan sher from the al-nadwa madrassa .
he said pakistan s future hinged on education for its youth .
the overall policy should be changed ... they should understand that if they want to change the country the only way is to spread quality education , he said .