thank goodness for judicial watch !
over and over they have filed freedom of information requests on obama and his minions .
at least they re trying to get to the bottom of the corruption but the stonewalling continues everyone s focused on hillary clinton s testimony before the fbi about the e-mail scandal .
but that s not the only fbi interview of a top obama official that s starting to get attention.there was another interview with barack obama himself that now is the subject of a freedom of information act lawsuit because the government is withholding details from the public .
this lawsuit highlights the personal corruption issues of barack obama , said judicial watch president tom fitton .
barack obama and his closest aides were interviewed by the fbi in a criminal investigation and his administration doesn t want americans to have the details .
the chicago way shouldn t trump the american people s right to know , he said.the fbi interview with obama , which reportedly lasted two hours , was at the time when former illinois gov .
rod blagojevich was facing charges for trying to sell obama s u.s. senate seat.judicial watch said thursday it has filed a lawsuit against the department of justice in washington to obtain the fbi interview records of obama , who at the time was leaving the senate as president-elect.obama , top aide valerie jarrett and his former chief of staff rahm emanuel , now mayor of chicago , were interviewed , judicial watch said.blagojevich eventually was convicted on multiple counts and is serving a prison sentence.judicial watch filed its foia request in 2011 for records of fbi interviews with obama , emanuel and jarrett concerning or relating to blagojevich.the washington watchdog group reported that in 2012 , the fbi denied the foia request , claiming the records were exempt.at the time , record/information dissemination section chief david m. hardy said , i have determined that the records responsive to your request are law enforcement records ; that there is a pending or prospective law enforcement proceeding relevant to these requests ; and that the release of the information contained in these responsive records could reasonably be expected to interfere with the enforcement proceedings .
read more : wnd