crepurizao , brazil ( reuters ) - informal mining in brazil is seen by many as a scourge polluting the amazon rainforest , poisoning indigenous tribes and robbing the nation of its wealth .
for others it is a way of life .
brazilian garimpos , or wildcat mines , are operated by small crews of men , often caked in red-brown mud and working with rudimentary pans , shovels and sluice boxes that have been used for centuries .
more sophisticated operations use water cannons and boats sucking mud from the bottoms of rivers .
regardless of the method , searching for gold and other minerals like cassiterite and niobium is dirty , dangerous and often illegal .
looking for gold is like playing in a casino , said a 48-year-old miner .
miners asked not to be named , saying they feared the police as much of their work is illegal .
he started in the wildcat mines as a teenager in the area around crepurizao a ramshackle frontier town of 5,000 with a dirt landing strip that is a gateway for informal mining in the region .
garimpos are in the spotlight as brazil debates opening an area known as renca in the northern amazon forest to mining , which has met with stiff resistance from environmentalists .
mines and energy minister fernando coelho filho argues that licensed mining will be an improvement over the estimated 1,000 people currently mining in the reserve illegally .
crepurizao lies hundreds of miles south of renca , but gives a window into life in the garimpos caught up in the debate .
living in makeshift homes of wood and plastic , miners in the area ship some 60 kilograms ( 132 lbs ) of gold per month , according to traders .
that much pure gold is worth millions of dollars on the global market , but high costs and layers of traders in the local market leave most miners living on the brink of poverty .
basic staples can cost four or five times the price in the nearest city , an eight-hour bus ride away .
fuel stations , a general store , a bar , an evangelical church and prostitutes vie for the income and attention of the miners , known as garimpeiros , when they aren t working or lazing in hammocks .
there are 2,113 licensed garimpo sites in brazil , according to ministry data , but environmental experts and two government officials , who asked not to be named , said far more small-scale mines skip the licensing and ignore regulations altogether .
in crepurizao , where mines often cluster close together , it was unclear which operations were licensed .
the total area worked by garimpeiros in brazil is thought to be small .
but chemicals like mercury , which miners in crepurizao dump to separate gold from grit , can leave a large footprint of contamination .
in march last year , a government-backed study of indigenous villages in the northern state of roraima revealed alarming levels of mercury .
one group of villagers had more than double the level of mercury considered to be a serious health risk - such as damage to the central nervous system , kidneys , heart and reproductive process - detected in their hair .
the mining and energy ministry said a new oversight agency created in a decree by president michel temer , now pending congressional approval , would allow more effective government coordination and inspections to restrict illegal mining .
congressman leonardo quintao , who sits on the committee considering the new agency , said it will be able to raise more funding for oversight .
he said the regulations target licensed miners , while illegal mining remains a matter for the police .
still , one ibama enforcement officer , who was not authorized to speak to the media , said the government had left miners like those in crepurizao in a precarious limbo .
you can t just pull them out of the garimpos and the cities that are living off gold .
and the government does not offer them structure and decent conditions , said the officer .
so they re stranded there without the minimum conditions for survival .
( click on reut.rs/2f6e5c2 for related photo essay )