dr. christopher driscoll , an africana studies program affiliate , is a perfect example of how academia uses religion to divide students along racial lines , which ironically only promotes division and hate a hip hop symposium recently inspired a professor at lehigh university to develop a list of cracka commandments intended to help white people accommodate the imminent black spring .
christopher driscoll , a visiting assistant professor of religious studies at the private university in bethlehem , penn. , posted the list of commandments last friday following a lecture on the white appropriation of rap.according to driscoll , his lecture led to a discussion about how white people fit into the # blacklivesmatter movement and prompted a collaboration between himself , lehigh theater professor kashi johnson , and hip hop artist asheru .
together , we came up with these , the ten cracka commandments for 2015 , driscoll wrote on his personal blog , shades of white.driscoll says the first commandment is : that all lives won t matter until # blacklivesmatter which he describes as both a litmus test and the greatest commandment .
the nine other commandments read as follows:1 .
always remember that white privilege is real , even if you do not understand it .
use it to convince other people that black lives , including black women s lives , matter.2 .
show up for protests , write letters to representatives , and start discussions with other white people about black lives mattering.3 .
always remember that ignorance is real , and is a product of privilege .
treat the ignorant with compassion , but hold them accountable .
4 .
never think that the critique does not apply to you .
just because you were at barack s inauguration and your dad was a freedom rider , or because you are the head of your local chapter of gladd , that does not mean you do not have more work to do on yourself , your family , and your community .
5 .
always remember that it is never a question of if violence , but whose violence are you going to defend .
unjust state-sanctioned and racist violence , or justified resistance ; the choice is yours , the choice is ours .
6 .
never tolerate racism from your friends or family .
whether it is coming from your eighteen-year-old friend , your thirty-one-year-old cousin , or your eighty-year-old grandmother , confront it always .
confronting racism does not mean you will lose your friend or family .
it means you will help to make them act and think in less racist ways .
7 .
you can not love cultural products without also loving the people who make those products .
if you like black art or athletics , that appreciation is an entryway into recognizing that black lives matter .
8 .
never quote black leaders like dr. king in order to criticize protesters and activists .
9 .
always embrace uncertainty .
life is uncertain ; death is certain .
uncertainty promotes life ; certainty produces death and destruction .
10 .
never put white fragility ahead of justice .
if you are more concerned to argue that you aren t racist than you are with racism or with people dying , you re priorities are skewed .
do you want justice or comfort ?
in addition to teaching , driscoll recently penned the book white lies : race and uncertainty in the twilight of american religion , which addresses the instabilities central to a white religion .
driscoll describes his personal website as designated for the progressive anti-racist ally and curious and frustrated , alike .
shades of white is a space for whites to clumsily , openly , and actively wrestle with a host of social issues that impact us , driscoll states , adding that it is about time white folks come to terms with a problematic social arrangement that has seen them disproportionately advantaged for far too long .
according to driscoll , left-wing blogs do a good job of criticizing white folks on our failings albeit without offering concrete responses to meet the civic and social demands of everyone else .
at the same time , driscoll says right-wing blogs feel good , make us proud to be an american , but are often actively racist and sexist and sometimes , downright dumb .
watch video featuring dr. christopher driscoll s views on racism here : dr. christopher driscoll from lehigh imrc on vimeo.in an email to campus reform , lehigh s director of media relations , jordan reese , said the university is committed to strongly supporting faculty academic freedom and the free exchange of ideas , theories and philosophies on campus .
lehigh believes diversity of thought fuels a healthy exchange of ideas , discussion and debate , contributing to a vibrant intellectual environment in which our students can grow and learn , reese said.via : campus reform