valletta ( reuters ) - a second magistrate in less than a week has recused herself from hearing court evidence in malta against three men accused of the murder of anti-corruption blogger daphne caruana galizia .
the double abstention has jeopardized the launch of judicial proceedings against the three men and underscored the interwoven nature of public life on the mediterranean island of malta - the smallest nation in the european union .
the initial magistrate assigned to the case stood down last thursday after defense lawyers complained that she knew one of caruana galizia s sisters and had sent her condolences following the oct. 16 killing .
on monday , a replacement magistrate , charmaine galea , said she was also withdrawing from the case because the blogger had written about her and her alleged connections to the government .
she said that justice had to be done and be seen to be done .
a new magistrate was subsequently assigned to the suit and the preliminary hearing was scheduled to resume on tuesday .
under maltese law , the compilation of evidence must be presented within a 30-day time frame and a lawyer for caruana galizia s family warned the delays could sink the case .
the trio were charged on dec. 4 , giving the court until jan. 4 to hear the evidence and decide whether to call a trial .
the three suspects , brothers alfred and george degiorgio , and vince muscat have denied any wrongdoing .
the three were known to local police and had never been the target of any of caruana galizia s often fierce blogs .
caruana galizia was killed instantly when the car she was driving was blown up .
according to maltese media , the three suspects were arrested on the basis of phone intercepts and analysis of triangulation data showing their locations at the time of the murder .
the reports said one of the suspects had to call a local telecom company shortly before the bomb went off to top up the credit on the mobile phone that was used to detonate the explosives - a error that led police straight to the trio .
the government has announced a one-million-euro ( $ 1.2-million ) reward to anyone giving enough information for convictions .
caruana galizia s family have denounced the handling of the case and expressed fears that those behind the murder will never be brought to justice .
( $ 1 = 0.8482 euros )