yesterday , speaker paul ryan tweeted a video of himself on the mexican border flying in a helicopter and traveling on horseback with us border agents .
rt if you agree it is time for the wall .
pic.twitter.com/s5mo8sg7sl paul ryan ( @ speakerryan ) august 1 , 2017it makes for great theater to see republican speaker ryan pleading the case for a border wall , but how sincere are the gop about building the border wall ?
even after posting a video that appears to show ryan s support for the wall , he still seems unsure of himself .
it s almost as though he s testing the political winds when he asks twitter users to retweet if they agree that we need to start building the wall .
how committed is the ( formerly ? )
anti-trump paul ryan to building the border wall that would fulfill one of president trump s most popular campaign promises to the american people ?
does he have the what it takes to defy the wishes of corporate donors and the us chamber of commerce , and do the right thing for the national security and well-being of our nation ? the last refuge- republicans are in control of the house of representatives , republicans are in control of the senate , a republican president is in the white house , and somehow there s negotiations on how to fund the # 1 campaign promise of president donald trump , the border wall.here s the rub.here s what pundits never discuss.the republican party doesn t need a single democrat to fund the border wall.a single spending bill could come from the house of representatives that fully funds 100 % of the border wall .
the spending bill then goes to the senate , where again , it doesn t need a single democrat vote because spending legislation is specifically what reconciliation was designed to facilitate .
that house bill can pass the senate with 51 votes and proceed directly to the president s desk for signature.so , ask yourself : why is this even a point of discussion ? the honest answer , for those who are no longer suffering from battered conservative syndrome , is that republicans don t want to fund or build an actual physical barrier known as the southern border wall.it really is that simple.if one didn t know better , they d almost think speaker ryan was attempting to emulate the man he clearly despised during the 2016 presidential campaign .
yesterday , ryan tweeted : make america the best once again ?
hmmm interesting choice of words paul .
ryan wouldn t want anyone to think he was backing our president in his quest to make america great again !
or as it gets closer to ryan s bid for re-election , maybe he s starting to warm up to the very popular president trump ?
it s time to bring jobs back home , cut taxes , and grow our economy .
it s time to make america the best once again .
paul ryan ( @ speakerryan ) august 1 , 2017