clark freeport zone , philippines ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said he would talk with asian allies about north korea and the crisis caused by pyongyang s reckless provocations , as he kicked off a week-long trip to the region on monday to meet defense chiefs in the philippines .
mattis trip to asia , which will also include stops in thailand and south korea , comes just weeks before president donald trump s first visit to asia .
trump has been locked in a war of words with north korean leader kim jong un , calling him a rocket man on a suicide mission for openly pursuing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the united states .
trump , in a speech last month at the united nations , threatened to destroy north korea if necessary to defend the united states and its allies .
kim has blasted trump as mentally deranged .
mattis , who has emphasized diplomacy , was expected to meet both his japanese and south korean counterparts on monday before meeting with all three of them together .
he will attend a meeting from monday to wednesday of defense ministers from the association of southeast asian nations , known as asean , in the philippines .
he will go to seoul later in the week for more defense talks .
i will talk with my counterparts , discussing the regional security crisis caused by the reckless dprk north korea provocations but also discuss our respect for shared values like sovereignty of the states , their territorial integrity , freedom of navigation through historically international waters , and fair and reciprocal trade , mattis told reporters .
a u.s. navy destroyer sailed near islands claimed by china in the south china sea last week , seeking to promote freedom of navigation .
the maneuver prompted anger in beijing .
trump s trip next month will include a visit to china , which he has been pressuring to do more to rein in north korea s missile and nuclear programs .
china is north korea s neighbor and biggest trading partner .
mattis , while in the philippines , said he would commend the military for defeating insurgents in marawi city on the island of mindanao .
some experts see the siege as a prelude to a more ambitious bid by islamic state loyalists to exploit mindanao s poverty and use its jungles and mountains as a base to train , recruit and launch attacks in the region .
it was a tough fight , mattis said , adding he thought the philippines had sent a very necessary message to the terrorists .
on thursday , mattis will lead the u.s. delegation in thailand for the cremation rites for the late king bhumibol adulyadej .