we can t say enough great things about this dad !
he confronted his child s school board to speak against the school teaching islam .
we ned more dads like this one to speak up against the very active push to teach islam in schools.this is disturbing for all parents .
cair has taken it upon themselves to claim that they need to fight islamophobia .
they see this as a problem but we see this as a shady way to have islam taught in schools .
we see what they re doing but the bleeding heart liberals in san diego are just passively accepting this propaganda : janet levy of american thinker : if allowed to stand , the sdusd anti-bullying program geared specifically to the cair-identified needs of muslim students could mark a dangerous departure from treasured constitutional principles and first amendment protections .
this case warrants serious attention , as it has grave implications for the direction of education and the supremacy of islam in the nation .
there s a huge problem on so many levels with this .
the most obvious one is that a christian would be hammered for even remotely trying to push christianity on the kids .
so why should we accept teaching islam to our kids ?
the answer is we shouldn t !
dad christopher wyrick , finds out school is forcing # islam # religionbeliefs down his son s throat ! his # patriotic reply goes viral ! # bansharia pic.twitter.com/8ykcfvoirk trump anomaly ( @ anomaly1 ) may 4 , 2017watch for this in your school ! american thinker reported : with a decade-long history of yielding to islamic demands and recent , more alarming submissions , san diego city schools appear to be ground zero for islamic indoctrination within american public schools .
the current capitulation includes an islam-centric curriculum with input and resources from a muslim brotherhood-affiliated organization , which raises first amendment issues as well as serious concerns of favoritism toward muslims students over students of other faiths.this past week , sdusd , in collaboration with the council on american islam relations ( cair ) , instituted an anti-bullying campaign aimed specifically at protecting muslims students .
in launching the initiative , sdusd cited an unsubstantiated study by cair claiming that 55 % of american muslim students surveyed in california said they were bullied because of their religion .
the new program will include adding lessons on islam to the social studies curriculum that emphasize prominent muslims in history , creating muslim-only safe spaces , adding muslim holidays to the school calendar , and providing support and resources for muslim students during ramadan.according to stan anjan , sdusd s executive director of family and community engagement , the new program will focus on promoting a positive image of islam .
special disciplinary measures will also be created for the so-called bullying of muslims cited by cair .
instead of detention , the school plans a restorative justice program in which students dialogue with each other about perceived bullying words or actions .
educational materials on islam and resource listings will be provided to parents and school personnel as well.cair , a radical fundamentalist front group for hamas , according to terrorism expert steve emerson , was named as an unindicted co-conspirator in a hamas terror-funding case brought by the justice department in 2007 .
cair operatives have repeatedly refused to denounce terrorist groups hamas and hezb allah , and several cair executives have been successfully prosecuted and incarcerated for terrorist activities .
cair was designated as a terrorist group by the uae in 2014.in 2015 , kevin beiser and michael mcquary , two members of the sdusd board of education , issued a formal proclamation in support and recognition of cair san diego , citing ten years of constructive civic engagement in san diego and imperial counties .
they praised the organization s work to promote not only religious and cultural tolerance and understanding but also justice and equality for all who live in the united states .
cair director hanif mohebi was specifically complimented for his commitment to promoting equitable educational opportunity for all students and preparing them to succeed in a culturally diverse society .
the trustees recognized a community partnership with cair in mediating school situations involving discrimination and other behavioral issue [ s ] and announced cair s upcoming tenth anniversary banquet , centered on the theme strengthening our voices , advancing together .
cair , billing itself as a benign muslim civil rights organization , has long been at the forefront in pressuring schools and businesses to accommodate the special needs of muslims .
in 2009 , cair complained of favoritism when christian students in roseville , a detroit suburb , were given permission slips to attend off-site bible study classes .
yet cair pushed in 2012 for dearborn public schools to accommodate muslim prayer on school grounds and early friday dismissals for jumu ah prayers .
the organization has pressured schools to have a say on textbook selection and to feature its own lecturers for school assemblies .
when a public school teacher in concrete , washington referenced the taliban and hamas while citing examples of the use of violence to bully people , cair cried racism and called for a federal investigation , saying the teacher had veered off topic to make anti-muslim statements .
the school district responded that the teacher s comments were taken out of context.mohebi , the head of cair san diego , has been pushing the anti-islamophobia program .
he recently tried to prevent the san diego police department from attending a training session on islamic terrorism featuring ryan mauro , national security analyst for the clarion project , a nonprofit dedicated to exposing the dangers of islamic extremism .
mohebi said officers would be learning conspiracy theories from mauro .
further , mohebi importuned that no taxpayer dollars should pay for the training and that the sdpd should not confer continuing education credits for attendance .
in a further attempt to control police training on islam , mohebi requested the ability to monitor police training to vouch for its accuracy and to provide clarifications throughout the session.cair s recent activity and its incursion into the san diego schools curriculum has been criticized by charles limandri , president and chief counsel of the freedom of conscience defense fund ( fcdf ) .
limandri said the san diego program represents a wholesale realignment of school curricula and the students learning environment to the recommendations of a religious organization whose stated mission is to enhance the understanding of islam and empower american muslims .
the fcdf maintains that the first amendment prohibits a government agency from attempting to effect a secular goal by the propagation of religious concepts .
limandri points out the litigious pitfalls of a curriculum which could easily be construed as a governmental endorsement of a religion .
he also cautions that cair s interpretation of the term bullying could extend to the stifling of criticism of islam , further impinging on first amendment protections.citizens for quality education san diego , a non-partisan group of citizens concerned about public education , voiced their opposition to the new islamic-friendly curriculum and characterized it as an attempt to implement at local schools anti-american sharia law , incompatible with the u.s. constitution .
the group criticized the blatant singling out of the muslim religion for special accommodations and demanded that the policy be rescinded .
despite widespread community outcry , the district seems to be moving ahead.disturbing !