washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama and canadian prime minister justin trudeau are set to discuss new ideas for curbing climate change and expanding trade during an oval office meeting this week , white house officials said during a preview on tuesday .
trudeau , who pledged to repair frayed ties with the united states when he took office in november , will meet with obama on thursday ahead of a star-studded state dinner .
the white house , which sees a natural partner in trudeau , hopes the two countries can commit to cut methane emissions from the energy sector by 40 percent to 45 percent from 2012 levels by 2025 , and endorse an initiative to stop routine flaring from oil and gas fields , said todd stern , the u.s. climate envoy .
“ the commitment of both leaders to addressing this global challenge is clear and i expect under their leadership north america will make significant progress this year , ” stern told reporters .
stern said the two countries also are looking at ways to make carbon emissions from the aviation sector “ neutral , ” starting in 2020 through the montreal-based international civil aviation organization .
the united states also hopes to accelerate the timetable to phase out hfcs , industrial gases that have far more potential to trap the earth ’ s heat than carbon dioxide , through an amendment to the montreal protocol , stern said .
on trade , a hot-button issue for both democrats and republicans in the race to succeed obama in the nov. 8 presidential election , the leaders are likely to discuss two longstanding irritants , softwood lumber and meat labeling .
a deal governing canadian softwood lumber exports expired last year , and the two nations are talking about a new arrangement , said mark feierstein , the white house national security council ’ s senior director for the western hemisphere .
“ we ’ re open to exploring all options with canada at this point , ” feierstein said , declining to put timelines on when a deal may be reached .
the white house also hopes canada will formally end its world trade organization case against a u.s. labeling law that the wto ruled hurt canadian beef and pork exports , he said .
the united states repealed the law in december .