washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. justice department has given immunity from prosecution to a state department employee who helped set up and manage the private email server hillary clinton used for her work as secretary of state , the washington post reported on wednesday .
a senior u.s. law enforcement official said the federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) had secured the cooperation of bryan pagliano , who worked on clinton 's 2008 presidential campaign before joining the state department with her and setting up the server in her new york home in 2009 , the newspaper reported .
( wapo.st/1rqkik2 ) the post described the investigation as a criminal inquiry , a label clinton and her staff have resisted as they seek to reassure voters that the frontrunner to become the democratic party ’ s nominee in november ’ s presidential election is not in legal jeopardy .
clinton has said she did nothing wrong and that she believes the u.s. government will vindicate her .
she has also apologized for what she said was poor judgment .
in 2014 , clinton returned about 30,000 emails to the state department , but said she “ chose not to keep ” thousands of others her staff deemed not to be work-related .
her staff have acknowledged that other work emails were not handed over , without explaining why .
more than 2,000 of clinton ’ s work emails contain classified information that could harm national security if exposed , according the state department , including 22 classified as ‘ top secret ’ , the highest level .
the government forbids sending or storing classified emails through unsecured , non-government channels , and has prosecuted people for breaches .
brian fallon , a clinton spokesman , said in a statement that clinton ’ s campaign was “ pleased ” that pagliano was cooperating .
the justice department and fbi declined to comment on whether pagliano had been granted immunity , and his lawyer did not respond to questions .
last month , a federal judge overseeing a civil lawsuit against the state department ruled that department officials and aides to clinton could be questioned under oath about whether her use of a private email system was an effort to skirt open records laws .
the fbi is likely to ask clinton and her aides in coming months how the server was set up and whether they knew they were sending classified information in emails , the post reported .
pagliano has declined to testify to lawmakers , citing a constitutional right against self-incrimination .
republicans have called for clinton ’ s prosecution .
“ this terrible error in judgment coupled with clinton ’ s arrogant and dishonest claims shows she can ’ t be trusted with the presidency , ” reince priebus , the republican national committee ’ s chairman , said in a statement .
( reporting by eric walsh and mark hosenball in washington and jonathan allen in new york ; editing by sandra maler and richard borsuk ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .