because you can t take a chance that a sailor in uniform might offend an anti-military patron manhattan s swanky standard hotel has issued an apology after a navy officer wearing her iconic white uniform was turned away by a bouncer during fleet week.the sailor was blocked at the elevator to the top of the standard lounge around 8 p.m. saturday when she arrived with three others who wore cocktail attire , one member of the spurned group told the daily news on monday .
we walked in , went to the elevator and were stopped by a doorman who said , hey man , there s a dress code , said ryan o connor , the husband of the sailor s cousin .
i said , wait , are you rejecting us because someone is in a service uniform ?
he kind of rolled his eyes and wouldn t budge .
i was wearing a $ 400 blazer and dress shoes .
we were all dressed nice .
the only person sticking out was the navy officer , he said .
the sailor requested anonymity.o connor , a 32-year-old tech consultant , said he asked someone at the hotel s front desk to intervene on his group s behalf and was told the decision was up to the lounge s discretion .
we were all shocked and upset , he said .
this was memorial day weekend and walking distance from ground zero .
this should have been a no-brainer .
the rhode island sailor stationed in virginia declined to give an interview monday , but her relatives spoke out and sent an email to the standard s management expressing their outrage at her treatment .
a general manager responded to the family by email sunday and invited the sailor back .
we most certainly do appreciate and take a lot of pride ( in ) all the young people giving their lives to defend our nation , manager nayara branco wrote to the family .
as per regular protocol , our team at the top of the standard is instructed to enforce a dress code which obviously should not apply to military uniforms .
once again , our sincere apologies for the miscommunication at our end , the issue has been brought to all of our team s attention and it will certainly not repeat itself , the manager at top of the standard & le bain said .
it would be a great honor to host her and her fellow colleagues at some point in the future , she wrote.via : nydaily news