( in dec. 21 item , corrects spelling of jonathon sherman s first name ) by anna mehler paperny and matt scuffham toronto ( reuters ) - tearful family members paid tribute to canadian pharmaceutical billionaires and philanthropists barry and honey sherman before thousands of people on thursday , less than a week after news of the couple s mysterious deaths shocked the nation .
the shermans were found hanging by belts around their necks from a railing beside a pool in the basement of their toronto mansion , a friend of the family told reuters .
canadian prime minister justin trudeau attended the memorial service in toronto , as did hundreds of apotex inc employees wearing blue , the official color of barry sherman s company .
the sherman s son jonathon began an emotional eulogy by saying the family was frustrated with the way toronto police have handled the case , referencing canadian media reports that said investigators were working on the theory that barry sherman , 75 , had killed his 70-year-old wife and then himself .
we ve had to navigate through a terrifying maze of non-information and unfounded speculation , jonathon sherman said .
i kept expecting my parents to walk through the front door and say , everything will be fine .
we ve taken control of the situation .
police have confirmed that the shermans died of ligature strangulation and that there were no signs of forced entry to the couple s home .
homicide detectives are leading the investigation , but the deaths have not been declared a homicide .
police have not detained any suspects and have not said if they are looking for any .
family , friends , colleagues and political leaders remembered barry sherman as a brilliant man .
they described the graduate of the prestigious massachusetts institute of technology as an accomplished executive who worked around the clock to build apotex into one of the world s biggest generic drugmakers .
several speakers mentioned his penchant for chiding people over grammatical mistakes .
he pretty well thought he was smarter than anyone else , said jack kaye , an apotex executive who worked alongside sherman for decades .
and he wasn t wrong about that .
honey sherman was described as vivacious and dedicated , a philanthropist who worked hard to keep her extended family close .
she was my best friend and my other half , said her sister mary schechtman .
we completed each other s sentences and never went anywhere without each other .