nanmoku , japan ( reuters ) - chikara imai , 73 , is quick to dismiss the new parties in sunday s national election in japan , saying old ties with prime minister shinzo abe s liberal democratic party is what the country s most elderly village needs for survival .
nanmoku , 107 km ( 67 miles ) northwest of tokyo , is at the forefront of japan s battle against an aging and shrinking population .
its population has halved over the past 20 years to 1,963 , and with a median age of 70.6 , nanmoku is now japan s oldest municipality .
nanmoku and places like it across japan are a key support base for the ldp , which has been in power for most of the past six decades .
rural japan is no tokyo .
those people may say something ideal in tokyo , something like let s change japan .
but here , it won t strike home , imai said .
sunday s lower house election pits abe s ldp-led coalition against two brand new parties : the party of hope headed by popular tokyo governor yuriko koike ; and the center-left constitutional democratic party of japan , which emerged from a breakup of the traditional opposition democratic party .
but koike s reformist , conservative challenge doesn t resonate much in nanmoku .
most municipalities are shrinking in japan , so far the only important developed country with a declining population .
they look to tokyo for a lifeline .
for back country dwellers , strong ties with the central government come in handy when we need to ask for help in such times as a natural disaster .
this village has no option but to support them , the 73-year-old imai said .
gunma prefecture , where nanmoku is located , has long been an ldp stronghold and has produced four prime ministers , including keizo obuchi , premier from 1998-2000 .
on sunday , the nanmoku municipality will provide transportation to elderly villagers who would otherwise have difficulty getting to the polls .
mountains account for 90 percent of nanmoku s total land area , leaving little space for farming and housing .
some of the houses , built along a river running through the village , look abandoned .
few customers come by the several general shops that remain open .
the village s sole remaining elementary school has just 24 students this year , down from a high of 1,632 in 1959 , when nanmoku operated three grade schools .
farms that used to grow devil s tongue , a starchy potato-like plant , have yielded to large-scale operations in other municipalities blessed with ample farm land .
until this day , we have not found a substitute ( industry ) , nanmoku mayor saijo hasegawa told reuters .
with independent revenue sources covering less than 20 percent of the village s budget , hasegawa sees a continuity in government support for nanmoku as essential , and is wary of a change in government .
there s no such thing as one-year plan to fight population decline .
it takes 20 , 30 years for any measures to take effect , hasegawa said .
in a change of government , politicians tend to deny everything about the former government , which is scary .
japan s demographic challenge is one of the biggest facing the new government after sunday s elections .
people aged 65 or older account for 27.2 percent of the total population , the highest on record , while the population is forecast to fall by nearly a third by 2065 when almost 40 percent will be 65 or older .
japan s government has earmarked a record 32.5 trillion yen ( $ 289.76 billion ) this fiscal year to pay for social security services , the bulk of which is spent on the elderly .
social security outlays account for roughly a third of this year s national budget .
recruiting city-dwellers as part of a drive to tackle japan s demographic time-bomb , the government in 2009 started a program to financially help local municipalities recruit urbanites to work in agriculture and other sectors for eventual settlement .
yohka tanaka , who grew up in tokyo and went to college in the united states , moved to nanmoku two years ago through the program .
he is now working on natural farming , which uses no pesticides or fertilisers .
tanaka , 26 , aims to prove the viability of such farming so environmentally-conscious young people will follow in his foot steps .
this place is perfect for natural farming ... as long as i stick around , the village won t disappear .
for shigeyuki kaneta , a comparatively young resident at 46 who owns a confectionary shop , escalating tensions over north korea does raise that distinct possibility .
north korea has launched two ballistic missiles that flew over japan in recent months .
it s a dangerous world , said kaneta , who believes the ldp is better equipped to handle security matters .
strange objects are flying around .
if they fell ( on japanese soil ) , we wouldn t ( just ) be discussing population decline .