xiamen , china ( reuters ) - the leaders of the five emerging market brics powers have for the first time named militant groups based in pakistan as a regional security concern and called for their patrons to be held to account .
india welcomed the move which came at a summit in the chinese city of xiamen as an important step forward in the fight against militant attacks , of which it has been a target .
brazil , russia , india , china and south africa make up the brics grouping .
china has generally been supportive of its ally pakistan in the past .
the group called for an immediate end to violence in afghanistan .
we , in this regard , express concern on the security situation in the region and violence caused by the taliban , ( islamic state ) ... , al-qaeda and its affiliates including eastern turkistan islamic movement , islamic movement of uzbekistan , the haqqani network , lashkar-e-taiba , jaish-e-mohammad , ttp and hizb ut-tahrir , the leaders said in the declaration .
lashkar-e-taiba is a militant group based in pakistan which india blames for cross-border attacks including the 2008 assault in its financial capital mumbai in which 166 people were killed .
jaish-e-mohammad , another anti-india group based in pakistan , was blamed for a 2001 attack on parliament .
india has long demanded that pakistan take action against these groups .
islamabad denies any involvement in attacks in india including in the disputed region of kashmir and said it is itself a victim of attacks .
indian foreign ministry official preeti saran told reporters on the sidelines of the summit that wording in the communiqu was a very important development and that there was recognition that the world can not have double standards when dealing with militant attacks .
you can not have good and bad terrorists , and it is a collective action .
members of the brics countries have themselves been victims of terrorism , and i would say that what has come of today acknowledges the fact that we must work collectively in handling this .
china is a close ally of pakistan and has in the past sprung to its defense , especially when india tried to isolate its arch rival in international fora .
india s local media said naming the pakistan-based groups in the brics resolution was an important win for prime minister narendra modi s administration which at last year s summit called pakistan the mother ship of terrorism .
there was no immediate comment from pakistan on the brics resolution .
china , though , has repeatedly blocked india s attempt to get the head of jaish-e-mohammad added to a u.n. blacklist of groups linked to al qaeda .