( reuters ) - democratic senators in missouri were in the 20th hour of filibuster on tuesday , trying to block a republican-proposed amendment to the state constitution that would prohibit penalties on religious groups that discriminate against same-sex couples .
the democratic caucus began the filibuster at 4 p.m. on monday and members said they planned to continue until wednesday .
a filibuster is a prolonged debate - often around the clock - aimed at blocking progress of an initiative .
the proposed amendment in missouri is the latest in a series of measures introduced around the country by conservatives in reaction to last year ’ s u.s. supreme court legalization of same-sex marriage .
the measures seek to protect religious groups and companies from being fined or punished if they decline to provide services such as wedding cakes or flowers to same-sex couples .
“ the most offensive thing is that it would put discriminatory language into the constitution of the state .
but it would also put general revenue of the state at risk , ” senate minority leader joe keaveny , a democrat , told reuters .
he pointed to a similar religious freedom restoration act in indiana that led to groups threatening to cancel conventions in indianapolis .
if the resolution to amend the constitution , sjr 39 , passes the senate , it would go to the state ’ s house of representatives and then to missouri voters for approval .
republicans dominate both houses of missouri ’ s general assembly , with 24 of 34 senate seats and 116 of 163 house seats .
keaveny said republicans could respond to the filibuster by forcing a vote on the resolution to amend the constitution , but said that would be an unusual step .
they could withdraw the resolution , or put it on an informal calendar to debate at a later date .
republican senator bob onder , who sponsored the resolution , said the resolution does not discriminate , but protects vulnerable religious institutions .
“ we are fighting for fairness and the right for people to freely live out their faith while not infringing on the rights of others , ” he said .
the language of the proposed amendment says it “ prohibits the state from imposing a penalty on a religious organization who acts in accordance with a sincere religious belief concerning same sex marriage , which includes the refusal to perform a same sex marriage ceremony or allow a same sex wedding ceremony to be performed on the religious organization ’ s property. ” although the amendment does not mention companies , keaveny said democrats believe it would allow businesses to claim religious belief as a defense for refusing service to same-sex couples .