this is fantastic !
mike rowe tells a fan why trump won nails it !
here is rowe s post from his facebook page : hey mike .
you ve been very quiet .
everything ok ?
i just wanted you to know that i voted for you .
i was also hoping you might explain what the hell happened on tuesday , and say something to make me feel better about my fellow man .
thanks , carol savoywell , mike answered carol and he did so in a very thorough fashion.hi carollast friday , my dog posted a video that featured a man licking a cat with the aid of a device that s designed for the specific purpose of making it easier for people to lick their cats.i ve been silent ever since , because frankly , i couldn t think of a better way metaphorical or otherwise to express my feelings about this election cycle .
the entire country it seems , has been preoccupied with finding a way to lick a cat without actually putting their tongue on it.too oblique ?
too weird ?
ok , how about this analysis : back in 2003 , a very unusual tv pilot called dirty jobs , forrest-gumped its way onto the discovery channel and found an audience a big one .
for discovery , this was a problem .
you see , dirty jobs didn t look like anything else on their channel .
it wasn t pretty or careful .
it took place in sewers and septic tanks , and featured a subversive host in close contact with his 8-year old inner child who refused to do second takes .
everyone agreed that dirty jobs was totally off-brand and completely inappropriate for discovery .
everyone but the viewers .
the ratings were just too big to ignore , so the pilot got a green-light , and yours truly finally got a steady gig.but here s the thing dirty jobs didn t resonate because the host was incredibly charming .
it wasn t a hit because it was gross , or irreverent , or funny , or silly , or smart , or terribly clever .
dirty jobs succeeded because it was authentic .
it spoke directly and candidly to a big chunk of the country that non-fiction networks had been completely ignoring .
in a very simple way , dirty jobs said hey we can see you , to millions of regular people who had started to feel invisible .
ultimately , that s why dirty jobs ran for eight seasons .
and today , that s also why donald trump is the president of the united states.i know people are freaked out , carol .
i get it .
i m worried too .
but not because of who we elected .
we ve survived 44 presidents , and we ll survive this one too .
i m worried because millions of people now seem to believe that trump supporters are racist , xenophobic , and uneducated misogynists .
i m worried because despising our candidates publicly is very different than despising the people who vote for them.for what it s worth , carol , i don t think donald trump won by tapping into america s racist underbelly , and i don t think hillary lost because she s a woman .
i think a majority of people who voted in this election did so in spite of their many misgivings about the character of both candidates .
that s why it s very dangerous to argue that clinton supporters condone lying under oath and obstructing justice .
just as it s equally dangerous to suggest a trump supporter condones gross generalizations about foreigners and women.these two candidates were the choices we gave ourselves , and each came with a heaping helping of vulgarity and impropriety .
yeah , it was dirty job for sure , but the winner was not decided by a racist and craven nation it was decided by millions of disgusted americans desperate for real change .
the people did not want a politician .
the people wanted to be seen .
donald trump convinced those people that he could see them .
hillary clinton did not.as for me , i m flattered by your support , but grateful that your vote was not enough to push me over the top .
however , when the dust settles , and the white house gets a new tenant , i ll make the same offer to president trump that i did to president obama to assist as best i can in any attempt to reinvigorate the skilled trades , and shine a light on millions of good jobs that no one seems excited about pursuing.like those 3 million shovel ready jobs we heard so much about eight years ago , the kind of recovery that donald trump is promising will require a workforce that s properly trained and sufficiently enthused about the opportunities at hand .
at the moment , we do not have that work force in place .
what we do have , are tens of millions of capable people who have simply stopped looking for work , and millions of available jobs that no one aspires to do .
that s the skills gap , and it s got ta close .
if mikeroweworks can help , we re standing by.if not , i suppose we ll just have to find another way to lick the cat.mikebe sure to check out mike s facebook page .