united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council is due to vote on monday on a draft resolution calling for the withdrawal of u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel , diplomats said , a move likely to face a washington veto .
the one-page egyptian-drafted text , seen by reuters , does not specifically mention the united states or trump .
diplomats say it has broad support among the 15-member council , and while it is unlikely to be adopted , the vote will further isolate trump on the issue .
to pass , a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , france , britain , russia or china .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley has praised trump s decision as the just and right thing to do .
the u.s. mission to the united nations was not immediately available to comment on sunday .
arab foreign ministers agreed to seek a u.n. security council resolution on the issue .
the draft u.n. text expresses deep regret at recent decisions concerning the status of jerusalem .
it affirms that any decisions and actions which purport to have altered , the character , status or demographic composition of the holy city of jerusalem have no legal effect , are null and void and must be rescinded in compliance with relevant resolutions of the security council .
the draft also calls upon all countries to refrain from establishing diplomatic missions in jerusalem .
israel considers the city its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
no vote or debate will change the clear reality that jerusalem is the capital of israel , danny danon , israel s ambassador to the united nations , said in a statement on saturday .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the draft council resolution demands that all states comply with security council resolutions regarding the holy city of jerusalem , and not to recognize any actions or measures contrary to those resolutions .
a u.n. security council resolution adopted in december 2016 underlines that it will not recognize any changes to the 4 june 1967 lines , including with regard to jerusalem , other than those agreed by the parties through negotiations .
that resolution was approved with 14 votes in favor and an abstention by former u.s. president barack obama s administration , which defied heavy pressure from longtime ally israel and trump , who was then president-elect , for washington to wield its veto .