kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia has asked interpol to try to locate a malaysian financier for questioning over his suspected involvement in a multi-billion dollar scandal at state fund 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) , the deputy prime minister said on monday .
the u.s. justice department is seeking to seize $ 1.7 billion in assets that it said were bought with misappropriated funds from 1mdb , according to dozens of civil lawsuits filed by the department in the past two years .
the assets include a private jet , a hotel and real estate in new york , and a $ 107 million interest in emi music publishing bought by low taek jho , also known as jho low , the lawsuits said .
low , whose whereabouts are unknown , has not been charged with any crime .
but u.s. authorities have said they are pursuing a criminal probe into 1mdb-linked transactions .
we are confident interpol will act professionally , but the police have yet to receive any detailed information ( on low s whereabouts ) , deputy prime minister ahmad zahid hamidi said in parliament .
a spokesman for low could not be reached for comment .
low has previously denied any wrongdoing , saying that the u.s. justice department s actions were a further example of global overreach in pursuit of a deeply flawed case .
interpol did not immediately respond to an emailed request for comment .
1mdb , founded by prime minister najib razak , is facing money laundering probes in at least six countries including the united states , switzerland and singapore .
a total of $ 4.5 billion was misappropriated from 1mdb by high-level officials of the fund and their associates , according to the u.s. lawsuits .
low is accused in the lawsuits of using 1mdb-linked funds to buy hollywood actor leonardo dicaprio a $ 3.2 million picasso painting , and giving about $ 9 million in jewelry to australian model miranda kerr .
dicaprio and kerr have turned over the items to u.s. authorities and promised to cooperate in the 1mdb probe .
the lawsuits also said $ 681 million from 1mdb was transferred to the account of malaysian official 1 , which u.s. and malaysian sources have previously identified as najib .
najib has denied any wrongdoing and a malaysian government investigation has also cleared him of any wrongdoing .
a malaysian police probe into 1mdb is under way .