manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte said on friday he has terminated intermittent peace talks with maoist-led rebels and would consider them terrorists because hostilities had continued during negotiations .
ending the nearly half-century long conflict with the communists , in which more than 40,000 people have been killed , was among duterte s priorities when he took office in june last year .
duterte said he would consider the political arm of the maoists a terrorist group and was demanding that dozens of rebel leaders he freed last year in order to restart talks turn themselves in .
i am ordering those i have released temporarily to surrender or face again punitive action , duterte in a speech to soldiers .
let it not be said that i did not try to reach out to them , he said .
duterte on thursday signed a proclamation ending the peace talks , which started in august last year and were brokered by norway .
talks have been intermittent since 1986 .
we find it unfortunate that their members have failed to show their sincerity and commitment in pursuing genuine and meaningful peaceful negotiations , duterte s spokesman , harry roque , said in a statement late on thursday .
in may , government negotiators canceled a round of formal talks with the maoist-led rebels in the netherlands as the guerrillas stepped up attacks in the countryside .
the rebels had no choice but to intensify guerrilla warfare in rural areas , jose maria sison , chief political consultant of the national democratic front of the philippines ( ndf ) , said in a statement .
the ndf , the political arm of the maoist guerrillas , said it regretted the unilateral cancellation of talks on such vital social and economic reforms .
government troops were advised to stay alert on the movements of the estimated 3,800 leftist guerrillas , said military spokesman major-general restituto padilla .
government forces are also battling islamist fighters in the south of the largely christian country , some of whom recently occupied a town for several months in the biggest battle in the philippines since world war two .