lima ( reuters ) - neither of peru s two vice presidents would open the door to new elections by resigning if president pedro pablo kuczynski was forced from office , second vice president mercedes araoz told reuters late on sunday .
araoz said she was confident kuczynski was innocent of wrongdoing regarding recently-disclosed links he once had with odebrecht , a brazilian construction company at the center of latin america s biggest graft scandal .
if kuczynski is as expected unseated by the opposition-run congress in a vote on thursday , first vice president martin vizcarra would immediately replace him .
new national elections would only be called if both vizcarra - a former governor of a copper-rich mining region and peru s current ambassador to canada - and araoz resigned or left office before the scheduled end of kuczynski s term in 2021 .
but araoz ruled out that scenario .
we re going to ensure that this government continues in power .
peru elected the three of us and both of us vice presidents are going to defend our mandate , araoz said in a brief phone interview .
araoz remarks were the first explicit assurance by kuczynski s center-right government that it would not abandon the presidency , and will likely soothe investor fears about the prospect of elections that could sweep anti-establishment candidates to power as the graft scandal roils the country .
odebrecht has sent shockwaves through latin american politics since admitting a year ago that it had won lucrative public work contracts in peru and nine countries in the region through a network of bribes and kickback schemes .
the scandal has landed elites in jail from colombia to the dominican republic , but has hit particularly hard in peru , where odebrecht once had an outsized presence .
with kuczynski , a 79-year-old former wall street banker , and two former presidents engulfed in the scandal and several opposition leaders under investigation , a majority of peruvians want kuczynski and lawmakers in congress to leave office and prefer new elections to be called , a poll by ipsos showed on sunday .
but araoz said that would risk derailing progress peru has made since its return to democracy at the turn of the century .
we want our economy to keep growing , we want to maintain democracy , we want to avoid dictatorial actions , araoz said in a veiled swipe at the opposition .
congress is controlled by a right-wing opposition party headed by media-shy keiko fujimori , the daughter of former authoritarian leader alberto fujimori , who is in prison for graft and human rights violations .
over the past year , fujimori s foes have alleged that her party would use its majority in congress to unseat kuczynski in retribution for unexpectedly defeating her in the 2016 election - warnings that kuczynski was now seizing on .
there s an attack on democratic order , kuczynski said late on sunday in a televised interview with a group of local journalists .
we have to defend democracy because it s the only tool that guarantees us a path to prosperity ...
i implore all to continue our trajectory .
fujimori s surrogates have denied she has sought to unseat kuczynski for political reasons and describe a motion passed on friday to start presidential vacancy proceedings as part of her party s fight against corruption .
kuczynski once denied having any links to odebrecht .
but last week odebrecht sent congress a requested report that detailed $ 4.8 million in deposits it made over a decade-long period starting in 2004 to companies owned by kuczynski or a close business associate of his .
the payments include about $ 600,000 in financial services kuczynski provided for an odebrecht project as a private citizen and about $ 800,000 transferred to a company owned by him during and shortly after holding senior government posts .
kuczynski apologized to peruvians for not having explained his links to odebrecht properly .
he denied taking bribes or anything improper about the business transactions .
i m absolutely sure .
there was no corruption here , kuczynski said .