vienna ( reuters ) - the united states is pushing u.n. nuclear inspectors to check military sites in iran to verify it is not breaching its nuclear deal with world powers .
but for this to happen , inspectors must believe such checks are necessary and so far they do not , officials say .
last week , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley visited the international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) , which is scrutinizing compliance with the 2015 agreement , as part of a review of the pact by the administration of president donald trump .
he has called it the worst deal ever negotiated .
after her talks with officials of the u.n. nuclear watchdog , haley said : there are ... numerous undeclared sites that have not been inspected .
that is a problem .
iran dismissed her demands as merely a dream .
the iaea has the authority to request access to facilities in iran , including military ones , if there are new and credible indications of banned nuclear activities there , according to officials from the agency and signatories to the deal .
but they said washington has not provided such indications to back up its pressure on the iaea to make such a request .
we re not going to visit a military site like parchin just to send a political signal , an iaea official said , mentioning a military site often cited by opponents of the deal including iran s arch-adversary israel and many u.s. republicans .
the deal was struck under trump s democratic predecessor barack obama .
iaea director-general yukiya amano frequently describes his vienna-based agency as a technical rather than a political one , underscoring the need for its work to be based on facts alone .
the accord restricts iran s atomic activities with a view to keeping the islamic republic a year s work away from having enough enriched uranium or plutonium for a nuclear bomb , should it pull out of the accord and sprint towards making a weapon .
the deal also allows the iaea to request access to facilities other than the nuclear installations iran has already declared if it has concerns about banned materials or activities there .
but it must present a basis for those concerns .
those terms are widely understood by officials from the iaea and member states to mean there must be credible information that arouses suspicion , and iaea officials have made clear they will not take it at face value .
we have to be able to vet this information , a second iaea official said , asking not to be identified because inspections are sensitive and the agency rarely discusses them publicly .
despite haley s public comments , she neither asked the iaea to visit specific sites nor offered new intelligence on any site , officials who attended her meetings said .
a u.s. state department spokesman confirmed this .
she conveyed that the iaea will need to continue to robustly exercise its authorities to verify iran s declaration and monitor the joint comprehensive plan of action , the spokesman added , using the deal s official name .
under u.s. law , the state department must notify congress every 90 days of iran s compliance with the deal .
the next deadline is october .
trump has said he thinks by then washington will declare iran to be non-compliant - a stance at odds with that of other five world powers including u.s. allies in europe .
an iaea report published in 2015 as part of the deal formally drew a line under whether iran pursued nuclear weapons in the past , which is why new information is needed to trigger a request for access .
the iaea has not visited an iranian military facility since the agreement was implemented because it has had no reason to ask for access , the second agency official said .
the deal s access section lays out a process that begins with an iaea request and , if the u.n. watchdog s concerns are not resolved , can lead to a vote by the eight members of the deal s decision-making body - the united states , iran , russia , china , france , britain , germany and the european union .
five votes are needed for a majority , which could comprise the united states and its western allies .
such a majority decision would advise on the necessary means to resolve the iaea s concerns and iran would implement the necessary means , the deal s access section says .
that process and wording have yet to be put to the test .
iran has reiterated commitment to the terms of the deal despite trump s stance , but has also said its military sites are off limits , raising the risk of a stand-off if a request for access were put to a vote .
that adds to the pressure to be clear on the grounds for an initial request .
if they want to bring down the deal , they will , the first iaea official said , referring to the trump administration .
we just don t want to give them an excuse to .
during its decade-long impasse with world powers over its nuclear program , iran repeatedly refused iaea visits to military sites , saying they had nothing to do with nuclear activity and so were beyond the iaea s purview .
shortly after the 2015 deal , iran allowed inspectors to check its parchin military complex , where western security services believe tehran carried out tests relevant to nuclear bomb detonations more than a decade ago .
iran has denied this .