trump bashes china so much and blames them for american problems so often , that if he wasn t such a racist you could arguably say it s the central theme of his presidential campaign .
with that in mind , you have to wonder if trump has some kind of multiple personality disorder .
on one hand , he completely savages them with rhetoric every chance he gets .
on the other , practically every aspect of his business is dependent on them to survive.as if it wasn t embarrassing enough for him to be busted on live tv for producing his overpriced and gaudy clothing in china , now it turns out that the crown jewel of his empire that being real estate development is also dependent on chinese money to survive.a trump-branded luxury apartment building called trump bay street is being built in new jersey .
the project is receiving substantial funds from chinese investors .
bloomberg reported that the investors were sold on the idea via a sopranos style video campaign filmed from a moving car with the work up this morning theme song from the show playing in the background .
i didn t know the sopranos were so big in china.if the fact he pandered out to chinese investors wasn t hypocritical enough , this next part really takes the cake.the project was also funded to the tune of $ 50 million by a controversial visa program that essentially sells legal us residency for immigrants who can front a huge wad of cash .
the program is called eb-5 , and it allows foreigners who invest at least $ 500,000 in an american project that will create at least 10 jobs to receive a 2-year visa.the program is intensely popular as a capital source for real estate developers and has ballooned from 5 visas in 2005 to 10,692 in 2014 .
approximately 1,200 chinese millionaires essentially bought a visa while millions of regular immigrants wait patiently to come here legally.the eb-5 program has come under a lot of fire as well , for its ability to be easily exploited by unsavory individuals.in addition to reaching wealthy foreign investors , the program has become a magnet for those seeking to sidestep the scrutiny of the traditional immigration process .
in one case , immigration officials pushed through a visa application from chinese investor in a las vegas hotel project despite an internal review that found the investor had previously been turned back at the border , and much of his visa application had likely been fabricated , immigration records show.a feb. 1 , 2013 homeland security internal review obtained by abc news also lays out in stark detail the breadth of the troubles afflicting some of the roughly 600 so-called regional centers private sector entities certified by homeland security to recruit foreign investors for specific business ventures that will qualify for eb-5 visas .
the document summarizes 41 investigations , some open and some now closed , into allegations ranging from espionage to fraud to drug trafficking involving investors in various eb-5 investment projects.source : gawkertrump has been pissing and moaning about china for literally years now and explained how he will mercilessly beat them up in the name of america if elected president .
meanwhile , he s literally receiving a government handout from them , via a shady visa program that sells a spot in the u.s. for an obscene amount of money.i guess the question is , can he even afford to be tough on china , or will it bankrupt him ? featured image via youtube