albany , new york ( reuters ) - a new york judge on thursday withheld judgment until monday morning on a challenge from two new york residents seeking to remove senator ted cruz from the state ’ s primary ballot for the presidential primary because of his birth in canada .
the plaintiffs objected to cruz ’ s inclusion in the ballot for the state ’ s april 19 primary election for the republican party ’ s presidential nomination , claiming the senator from texas is constitutionally ineligible to assume the white house .
new york supreme court judge david weinstein promised to decide if the case will proceed by monday .
he said the objectors , barry korman , 81 , of manhattan , and william gallo , 85 , of manhasset , long island , could argue the merits later next week if he decides they have standing .
republican front-runner donald trump has repeatedly questioned cruz ’ s eligibility for the white house , and residents in alabama , pennsylvania and texas have filed legal challenges to block him from appearing on the ballot .
an illinois judge dismissed a similar challenge there this week on a technicality .
some legal experts say it is unlikely any judge in the u.s. will block cruz ’ s presidential run .
in their feb. 19 petition , the two new york residents attached a birth certificate for cruz , showing he was born in december 1970 in calgary , alberta , in canada , and arguing he was not “ naturally born ” in the united states as the constitution dictates for any u.s. president .
cruz has said he is eligible to run because of his mother ’ s u.s. citizenship .
his father is a cuban immigrant .
lawyer grant lally , appearing for cruz in albany , said the judge should dismiss the case because the objectors missed a deadline to file their petition , and added the matter is a federal , not a state , issue .
roger j. bernstein , a lawyer for the objectors , said the challenge needed a judge ’ s attention .
“ the voters of the republican party need clarity , ” he said .
( editing by richard valdmanis and leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .