berlin ( reuters ) - frank-walter steinmeier was hardly chancellor angela merkel s first choice for the largely ceremonial job of german president , but the lifelong social democrat may be her best hope of holding onto power amid an unprecedented political crisis .
steinmeier , 61 , a two-time foreign minister , met on tuesday with political leaders from the greens and pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) after merkel s bid to forge a three-way coalition with those parties collapsed .
on wednesday , he will meet with horst seehofer , head of the bavarian sister party of merkel s conservatives .
on thursday , he will meet martin schulz , head of the social democratic party ( sdp ) , the second largest in the bundestag lower house of parliament , to urge him to reconsider his party s rejection of another grand coalition with merkel s conservatives for the good of the country .
some 30 of the spd s 153 parliamentary members questioned the rejection of such a coalition this week , the bild newspaper reported on wednesday .
it said foreign minister sigmar gabriel also favored resuming the coalition that has ruled for the past four years .
merkel favors new elections over a minority government , but steinmeier is pressing political leaders to avoid a new poll that experts say would further strengthen the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) after it moved into parliament with nearly 13 percent of the vote on sept. 24 .
the german president , who is now as powerful as seldom seen in german constitutional history , holds the reins , the rheinische post newspaper wrote on tuesday .
this is the first time a german president has had to get actively involved in trying to forge a new coalition government .
the architects of the german constitution devised a complicated process to prevent the frequent elections that weakened the weimar republic in the 1920s and facilitated the rise of adolf hitler .
but new elections are likely around april if steinmeier can not bring merkel s conservatives , the greens and fdp back to the negotiating table , or persuade his former spd colleagues to return to government .
the spd wants a spell in opposition to rebuild after its worst election result since the 1930s .
steinmeier , following the tradition of all previous german presidents , gave up his party membership upon taking office .
but he could wield some influence with top spd players after years in leadership roles .
his first months as president were lackluster , with some commentators skeptical that the veteran political operator could emulate the success of his predecessor joachim gauck , a former east german pastor , in serving as germany s moral compass .
but last month steinmeier delivered a powerful address on the anniversary of german reunification and then went to russia to try to repair strained ties with president vladimir putin - the first german head of state to visit moscow since 2010 .
a carpenter s son from the west german state of north-rhine westphalia , steinmeier is a long-time confidante of former chancellor gerhard schroeder .
steinmeier failed to win election as chancellor in 2009 , but later won plaudits from the german public for donating a kidney to his seriously ill wife .
he has long experience of working with merkel after serving as foreign minister in the first grand coalition between the spd and conservatives in 2005-09 and then resuming that role in 2013-17 , when the two parties allied again .
he and merkel worked closely together on the minsk peace agreement aimed at ending fighting in eastern ukraine - a complex deal that required hours of negotiations with putin and ukrainian leaders .
i thought minsk was his biggest accomplishment , but it may pale in comparison with the effort involved in building a functioning government in his own country , said olaf boehnke of the rasmussen global consultancy .
merkel and steinmeier actually have a good working relationship .
and now he s in the driver s seat , boehnke said .