seoul ( reuters ) - the north korean soldier critically wounded when making a dash to the south last month may have cheated death , but even as his health improves , he is months if not years away from finding a normal life in south korea , officials and other defectors say .
the transition to life in the democratic and prosperous south can be difficult for any defector from the isolated and impoverished north , let alone for a soldier from an elite border unit with potentially actionable military intelligence and a high profile that may complicate efforts to blend in .
the 24-year-old soldier , identified only by his surname oh , has been released from intensive care after being shot five times during his daring defection , but is still battling a hepatitis b infection which could delay his transfer to a military hospital for some time , doctors said .
as active duty soldier defectors have up-to-date information , the intelligence agencies would question the soldiers and see if anything needs to be addressed in our military s operation and combat plans , a current south korean government official involved in resettling north korean refugees told reuters .
oh will likely be under the protection of south korea s spy agency , the national intelligence service ( nis ) , and then be offered work such as code cracking in the military or related agencies , a former senior south korean government official said .
the decision would be made after a comprehensive assessment on what he means to national security , the level of information he has , and whether he would be capable of mingling with other defectors at the resettlement center , the former official said .
defections by active-duty soldiers are extremely rare , once a year or less .
intelligence agencies are keen to question oh , who was stationed in the joint security area near the heavily fortified border , according to south korean lawmakers briefed by the nis .
doctors have asked that officials wait until oh is fully recovered both physically and emotionally before they begin questioning .
given his high-profile escape and status as a member from an elite border unit , oh will likely be given more personalized assistance , away from other north korean defectors at the hanawon resettlement center , the former south korean official said .
most defectors undergo security questioning by the national intelligence service for a few days up to several months in extreme cases , before being moved to the hanawon resettlement center .
there they receive mandatory three-month education on life in the capitalist south , from taking public transportation to opening a bank account to creating an email address .
it s where you would get to see the outside world for the first time , as they take you out to meet people on the streets and learn how to access the social service network .
these days , you can also do a homestay with an ordinary south korean family , said ji seong-ho , a 35-year-old defector who heads now , action and unity for human rights ( nauh ) , a group that rescues and resettles north korean refugees .
such training can be more useful for some people than others , said kim jin-soo , a 29-year-old former member of the north korean secret police who defected to the south in 2011 .
looking back , it would ve been really useful if they taught more realistic things even though it might discourage people , like how to prepare for a job fair and find a suitable workplace and why it s important to lose the north korean accent , he said .
fresh off hanawon , you re like a one-year-old baby .
but those are the things that would pose a real obstacle when you actually go out there on your own , said kim , who now works at a advertising firm in seoul .
after leaving hanawon , central and local governments provide defectors 7 million won ( $ 6,450 ) in cash over a year - barely a fifth of south korea s annual average income - as well as support in housing , education and job training .
police officers are assigned to each of the defectors to ensure their security .
oh may have potential value to the south korean government or organizations that try to highlight conditions in north korea , but it will be up to him whether he wants to live a life in the limelight , said sokeel park , country director for liberty in north korea , which helps north korean refugees .
if he has any mind to get involved in that kind of stuff then there will be all kinds of media or non-governmental organizations who would fall over themselves to give him that platform , said park .
but if he makes a good recovery and he chooses to blend it , then he s just another young guy with a vague back story .
graphic : defector braves hail of bullets reut.rs/2zaudrn