since when did future democrat voters take precedent over enforcing the law ?
family members suspect jealousy may have led to the gruesome slayings of an othello teen and her 3-year-old son found shot and severely burned in a remote part of franklin county.maria g. cruiz-calvillo , 18 , and luis f. lopez-cruz were identified monday as the bodies found last week inside a vehicle that was set on fire in a ravine near the intersection of scootney and ridge roads.luis likely was still alive when the car went up in flames , according to dan blasdel , franklin county coroner.luis would have turned four years old on thursday .
she was a really good person .
she was always smiling , said karen rodriguez , a sister-in-law of cruiz-calvillo who spoke for the family .
he was a happy kid .
he was really playful and loved to be outside .
prudencio juan fragos-ramirez , 25 , of connell , reportedly had recently started dating cruiz-calvillo and is suspected of killing the pair.fragos-ramirez was arrested hours into the investigation at his home less than a mile from where the bodies were found .
he appeared monday in franklin county superior court , where judge carrie runge set bail at $ 1 million.runge ordered fragos-ramirez , who has previous convictions for dui and driving while suspended , held for up to 72 hours while prosecutors determine what charges to file .
prosecutors say fragos-ramirez was deported in 2014 and got back into the country illegally.https : //youtu.be/lsbozqgq1fcthe sheriff s office initially spelled his name flagos-ramirez , but court records show it s spelled fragos-ramirez.family members had never met fragos-ramirez , though cruiz-calvillo talked to her mother about a guy she was seeing , whom she apparently referred to by the nickname loco , rodriguez said .
( the family ) thinks she never wanted a serious relationship with him , rodriguez said .
it s jealousy .
cruiz-calvillo and luis had gunshot wounds , blasdel said .
tests to confirm whether they were still alive when the fire started have been requested.firefighters found the bodies july 2 as they battled the car fire near a large orchard , court documents said .
franklin county deputies discovered the license plates were registered to an othello man , who told investigators his niece , cruiz-calvillo , drove the vehicle.family members last saw cruiz-calvillo the afternoon of her death as she was leaving othello with luis for pasco to make a car payment , court documents said .
she routinely went to pasco to make car payments .
we checked with the bank , rodriguez said .
she made the payment at 3:43 ( p.m. ) .
two neighbors saw cruiz-calvillo and luis arrive at fragos-ramirez s home about 4:40 p.m. , court documents said .
the neighbors recognized the mother and son because they frequent the house on hogback road.between 10 and 20 minutes later , the neighbors saw the pair and fragos-ramirez walking towards cruiz-calvillo s car , court documents said .
they didn t see fragos-ramirez return to the house and didn t see him again until about 7 p.m.smoke was spotted coming from the ravine where the bodies were found about 20 to 30 minutes after the trio was seen leaving the home .
it took detectives eight minutes to drive from the home to the spot where the bodies were found.detectives were able to track down fragos-ramirez for an interview after cruiz-calvillo s brother , arturo calvillo , remembered meeting a man who matched the description of fragos-ramirez while at a house on church business , court documents said .
calvillo took detective jason nunez to the house , and nunez contacted a woman there.the woman told nunez she had a brother who was at the house when calvillo came over , court documents said .
she called fragos-ramirez and handed the phone to nunez , who then set up an interview.via : tri city herald