tokyo ( reuters ) - a u.s. navy transport plane carrying 11 people crashed in the philippine sea south of japan on wednesday as it flew to the aircraft carrier ronald reagan and three people were missing , in the latest navy accident in the region .
eight other people were rescued and transferred to the carrier where they were in good condition , the u.s .
seventh fleet said .
search and rescue efforts for three personnel continue with u.s. navy and japan maritime self-defense force ( jmsdf ) ships and aircraft on scene , the u.s .
seventh fleet said in a news release .
the incident will be investigated , it added .
the plane was conducting a routine transport flight carrying passengers and cargo from marine corps air station iwakuni to the carrier , which was operating in the philippine sea as part of an exercise with japanese forces , it said .
u.s. president donald trump was briefed on the crash at his mar-a-lago retreat in florida , where he is spending the u.s. thanksgiving holiday , said white house spokeswoman lindsay walters .
the @ usnavy is conducting search and rescue following aircraft crash .
we are monitoring the situation .
prayers for all involved , trump wrote in a twitter post .
japanese minister of defence itsunori onodera told reporters the u.s. navy informed him that the crash may have been a result of engine trouble .
the propeller-powered transport plane , a c-2 greyhound , carries personnel , mail and other cargo from mainland bases to carriers operating at sea .
c-2 aircraft have been in operation for more than five decades and are due to be replaced by the long-range tilt-rotor osprey aircraft .
two crashes in the asia pacific region involving u.s. navy warships and commercial vessels this year have raised questions about navy training and the pace of operations in the region , prompted a congressional hearing and the removal of a number of officers .
the guided missile destroyer fitzgerald almost sank off the coast of japan after colliding with a philippine container ship on june 17 .
the bodies of seven u.s. sailors were found in a flooded berthing area after that collision .
in a separate incident in august , 10 sailors were killed when the guided missile destroyer john s. mccain collided with an oil tanker .
the navy has dismissed a number of officers , including the commander of the seventh fleet , as a result of the collisions involving its warships in asia .