( the 18 october 2016 story was refiled to correct the typo in the last sentence to read likely “ voters ” ) by scott malone boston ( reuters ) - young americans are so dissatisfied with their choices in this presidential election that nearly one in four told an opinion poll they would rather have a giant meteor destroy the earth than see donald trump or hillary clinton in the white house .
the tongue-in-cheek question was intended to gauge young americans ’ level of unhappiness about their choices in the nov. 8 election , said joshua dyck , co-director of umass lowell ’ s center for public opinion , which conducted the poll alongside odyssey , a social media platform .
the choice alluded to the twitter hashtag “ # giantmeteor2016 , ” a reference to an imaginary presidential candidate used to express frustration about this year ’ s election choices .
some 53 percent of the 1,247 people aged 18 to 35 said they would prefer to see a meteor destroy the world than have republican new york real estate developer trump in the oval office , with some 34 percent preferring planetary annihilation to seeing the democratic former secretary of state win .
some 39 percent said they would prefer that u.s. president barack obama declare himself president for life than hand over power to clinton or trump , with 26 percent saying the nation would do better to select its next leader in a random lottery .
some 23 percent , nearly one in four , preferred the giant meteor outcome to either trump or clinton .
“ obviously we don ’ t think that they ’ re serious , ” dyck said in a phone interview on tuesday .
“ the fact that one in four of our young people pick ‘ giant meteor ’ tells you something about the political disaffection that is being shown by american youth. ” that contrasts with the surge of participation by young voters that helped propel obama into the white house for his first term in the 2008 election .
when asked to choose between the actual candidates , clinton easily led trump with 54 percent of respondents to 21 percent in a two-way race .
in a four-way race also including libertarian gary johnson and green party candidate jill stein , clinton led with 48 percent support , to trump ’ s 20 percent , johnson ’ s 10 percent and stein ’ s 4 percent .
in national polls surveying the whole population , clinton is leading trump , but not by nearly as much .
the poll , conducted oct. 10-13 , intentionally included a large number of people seen as unlikely to vote , with just 680 described as likely voters .
it had a margin of error of 3.2 percent .