manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte has ordered police to halt activities in his deadly war on drugs and leave all operations to the drug enforcement agency , amid unprecedented scrutiny of police conduct .
duterte s office on wednesday made public a memorandum telling police , the military and other state bodies to leave to the philippine drug enforcement agency ( pdea ) as sole agency the conduct of all campaigns and operations .
it was unclear why duterte had ordered the change in the role of the police , who have been responsible for the vast majority of arrests and killings in the 15-month-old campaign .
neither the presidential spokesman nor the communications secretary immediately responded to reuters requests for comment .
the order could blunt the intensity of the crackdown , since the drug enforcement agency has only a fraction of the manpower of the 190,000-strong police .
but it was not the first time the mercurial leader has decreed that the agency lead the drugs war .
duterte suspended police anti-drugs operations in late january , to cleanse a force he called corrupt to the core , but lifted that ban five weeks later , saying drugs were flooding back to the streets and the gains of the war were being lost .
the memorandum , signed on tuesday , ordered the police force at all times to maintain police visibility , as a deterrent to illegal activities , while restricting operations to the drug agency .
its aim was to bring order to the operation or campaign against illegal drugs , thus pinpointing precise accountability , the document said .
more than 3,900 filipinos have been killed in what the police called self-defense after armed suspects resisted arrest .
critics dispute that and say executions are taking place , with zero accountability , allegations the police reject .
police and drug enforcement agency spokesman said the two agencies would follow the president s decision , but did not elaborate .
duterte s move follows the august killing of a teenager by police that sparked rare public outrage after a security camera showed the victim in custody , contrary to a police report that he was a drug dealer who tried to shoot them .
it also follows a protest against duterte last month by thousands of people in manila , and a series of opinion polls highlighting doubts among many filipinos about official police accounts , and whether those killed were all drug dealers .
a poll released on sunday showed a sharp decline in public opinion about duterte s performance and personality , though sentiment about him remained positive overall .
rights lawyers on wednesday approached the supreme court to try and stop the war on drugs , saying it was illegal and allowed the police to circumvent legal procedure .