wellington ( reuters ) - veteran protectionist politician winston peters was appointed new zealand s new deputy prime minister and foreign minister on wednesday , saying he would seek a greater voice in international affairs , including north korea .
peters visited north korea when he was foreign minister in a previous new zealand government in 2005 .
new zealand first party leader peters delivered government to the labour party through a coalition deal after a closely fought election on sept. 23 failed to result in a majority for the governing national or labour parties .
peters and labour prime minister-designate jacinda ardern have found common ground in fortress new zealand -type policies .
both are looking to curb immigration , renegotiate certain trade deals and adjust the role of the central bank .
ardern also wants to ban overseas buyers from purchasing existing homes as prices grow more unaffordable for local residents .
a bill to ban such purchases will be introduced by christmas , ardern told a workers conference on wednesday .
but trade and foreign ownership restrictions could hurt new zealand s reputation as an open economy and antagonize the likes of china .
trade between the two countries has grown to more than nz $ 20 billion ( $ 14.4 billion ) a year , and chinese president xi jinping called the relationship unprecedented in its depth .
while peters was expected to be offered the deputy role after obtaining the balance of power , his appointment as both deputy prime minister and foreign minister was unexpected .
richard shaw , politics professor at massey university , said peters was a conservative economic nationalist .
one of the things we ve seen from him over the last couple of weeks is the concern with the extent that relatively unbridled free trade has on his constituents , said shaw .
many of labour and new zealand first s policies during the campaign drew on voters concerns that immigration and foreign buyers of local homes were putting too much pressure on infrastructure and house prices .
peters said he wanted to forge stronger ties with australia , after tensions have increased recently .
labour s finance spokesman grant robertson will become finance minister in the incoming government , placing him at the center of plans to overhaul monetary policy .
robertson , a political adviser under former labour prime minister helen clark , will appoint a new central bank governor .
the labour-led government plans to reform the reserve bank act to possibly include employment , alongside inflation , as a dual target .
rather than just focusing on inflation , labour wants the reserve bank to have a full employment goal when devising policy settings , bringing it into line with the united states and australia .