canton , ohio ( reuters ) - if donald trump wins the republican party nomination , his path to the white house will run through this working-class city with a knack for picking presidents .
no republican has ever won the white house without ohio .
and nowhere better reflects the challenges and opportunities trump faces in his 2016 presidential quest than canton , a once-booming industrial city that , like ohio and the rest of america ’ s rust belt , is going through profound economic and demographic change .
canton , a gritty northeastern ohio city where the once-dominant steel industry has been in decline for 20 years , is the heart of stark county , a political bellwether that , save twice , has picked every winning presidential candidate since 1964 .
the real-estate mogul ’ s primary wins in michigan and in mississippi on tuesday , in the face of blistering attacks from the party ’ s establishment , expanded his lead in the white house nominating race and demonstrated his broad appeal across many demographic groups in the republican party .
but here , in predominately white canton , the birthplace of professional american football , he will need to show cross-over appeal in the general election and win over not just republicans but working-class democrats and some independents , to beat a democrat , illustrating the challenge he will face in ohio and potentially other midwestern “ rust belt ” states .
a more immediate test looms next week in the state ’ s republican primary , where polls show trump narrowly leads ohio governor john kasich , who casts himself as a pragmatic , statesman-like alternative to trump .
if trump wins ohio and florida — states rich in the delegates who select their party ’ s nominee at july ’ s republican national convention - he would almost certainly lock up his party ’ s nomination .
sitting in a steel workers ’ meeting at their canton union hall , curtis green , the chapter ’ s vice president , described trump ’ s support among a growing number of members as their “ dirty little secret. ” “ i view him as a radical and a racist and i don ’ t want to be affiliated with that , ” green said .
“ but if you say what you mean , a lot of guys see that in trump and they respect that .
he doesn ’ t dance around the issues , he takes them head on .
there are a fair amount of our members who do support donald trump. ” if trump just wins the states that republican nominee mitt romney won in 2012 , he would have only 206 electoral college votes , short of the 270 needed to win the white house .
the fight over electoral college votes has turned recent elections into pitched battles over a dozen or so states .
ohio is often at the center .
the state , which has not voted for the loser in a presidential election since 1960 , is seen as a microcosm of american swing voters — from culturally conservative “ reagan democrats ” who defected from their party to support republican ronald reagan in the 1980s to suburban soccer moms and upwardly mobile hispanics .
to offset the growing proportion of blacks and hispanics in the voting age population , trump must turn white voters out in greater numbers than romney in cities such as canton .
his performance in primary states where democrats and independent can vote , as well as republicans , suggests trump could attract large numbers of these voters in a general election .
reuters interviews here with more than two dozen voters show why .
in this city of 72,500 people , trump ’ s denunciation of free trade , political correctness and illegal immigrants is resonating among some traditionally democratic blue-collar steel workers .
“ the labor unions , who usually support the democrats , a lot of our members , and a lot of their families , are supporting trump , ” said keith strobelt , a political director for the united steelworkers local union in canton .
strobelt does not support trump .
canton ’ s local united steelworkers union has 1,800 members - down from 6,700 at its peak 30 years ago .
its leadership has not officially endorsed a candidate , thought it has praised democrat senator bernie sanders .
some rank-and-file members , however , say they better identify with trump ’ s broadsides against illegal immigration and tirades against trade with china and mexico .
“ it could be that several hundred of our members will back trump , ” strobelt said .
“ a lot find him refreshing .
he says a lot of things they say around their dinner tables. ” but in a general election , trump faces formidable odds in canton , as he does across ohio and the midwest .
canton and the region is changing in ways that favor democrats , reflecting the republican party ’ s broader problems with a u.s. electorate that is becoming less white and less culturally conservative .
in 2000 , canton was nearly 75 percent white , with an african american population of 20 percent , and an hispanic population of just over 1 percent .
its biggest employer was the timken company , a giant ball bearing and high custom steel manufacturer that was the dominant economic force in canton for much of the 20th century .
by 2010 , according to census data , canton was 69 percent white .
its black population had increased by 3 percent , its hispanic residents to nearly 3 percent .
tuesday ’ s primary in neighboring michigan showed how volatile this election has become , with trump ’ s potent appeal among disaffected whites stretching beyond the south .
in the democratic race , sanders won most of the state ’ s white working-class countryside and small towns in an upset over front-runner hillary clinton .
in canton , like elsewhere in the “ rust belt ” heartlands stretching from the midwest to the great lakes region and parts of the northeast , manufacturing has been hollowed out since the 1970s , due in part to foreign competition .
in 1990 , ohio had over 1 million manufacturing jobs ; today , just 680,000 , according to the u.s. bureau of labor statistics .
ohio has shed nearly 200,000 manufacturing jobs since the 2007-2009 great recession .
a different type of worker , more white collar and upscale , has moved into the canton area .
the top two employers are now the aultman hospital and mercy medical center , highly competitive health care providers .
“ while trump might pick up blue collar democrats , and older folks who are disillusioned with the political process , the flip side is he could lose more upper-status voters in ohio , ” said john green , a political science professor at the university of akron , close to canton .
“ republican party leaders in ohio are wringing their hands .
there is a perception that trump helps among blue collar voters - but could alienate white collar voters. ” jane timken , the vice-chair of the stark county republican party and the wife of timkensteel ’ s chief executive , said the local party was encountering people who had never voted republican before but were supporting trump .
but , she said , there was concern trump might turn off other voters , especially independents who account for one fifth of ohio ’ s voters .
there is no polling to predict which way canton and stark county will vote in november ’ s general election .
but after a long era of mixed local government , the city council , after elections last year , is now made up of entirely democratic party members , although the current mayor , a former democrat , won office as an independent .
in canton , there are nearly 6,000 voters registered as democrats , compared to just over 1,100 republicans according to the stark county board of elections .
in 2006 , there were 12,000 registered democrats and 4,400 republicans .
democratic strategists say that despite the demographic changes , trump could still prevail .
mary anne marsh , a democratic strategist , cites trump ’ s dominant performance in the republican primary in massachusetts on march 1 .
although not a rust belt state , trump won big in heavily blue collar , union cities .
“ trump put together a coalition in massachusetts that elects democratic governors .
he won among catholics , a week after picking a fight with the pope .
i absolutely think he can put the rust belt into play , ” she said .