caracas/san cristobal , venezuela ( reuters ) - early last year , leandro colmenares sold his car and his apartment and fled venezuela s profound economic crisis , joining a wave of emigration to other latin american countries .
colmenares , a medical equipment repairman , first set up in panama with $ 7,000 in hand .
when he could not get a visa and struggled to find work , he ended up with odd jobs like painting houses and doing electrical wiring for $ 25 a day .
in venezuela , i was rubbing shoulders with doctors .
months later i was mopping the floor in a panama furniture shop , said colmenares , who has two sons , including one who is disabled .
he then tried his luck in colombia , where he again took odd jobs , mostly cooking .
he opened a small cafe with other venezuelans but it failed .
it was bad , i was going hungry .
on weekends i ate once , he said .
and once again , he could not get a visa .
crushed and having run out of money , colmenares decided in february he had no choice but return to venezuela empty-handed and by bus - one of an apparently growing number of venezuelan emigrants forced to go home after failing to start a new life elsewhere in latin america .
these recent migrants are often poor , hopping on buses to latin american capitals with as little as a few hundred dollars and scant prospect of finding a decent job .
the country i left was bad .
when i came back it was worse , said colmenares , noting steep prices and ever less food on store shelves .
he spends his days in his home in poor central caracas , scraping out a living making dough for corn patties .
for decades after world war ii , venezuela s flourishing oil economy made it a destination for mass immigration from southern europe , with portuguese bakeries and spanish bars a common sight across caracas .
but during 18 years of socialist rule , an increase in crime , economic decay and political protests have prompted emigration to miami , madrid , and the rest of latin america .
sociologist tomas paez estimates over 2 million venezuelans have left the country of 30 million , accelerating in the last two years as the opec member s recession has worsened , leading to shortages of vital medicines and food , runaway inflation and lack of formal jobs .
while the early diaspora was mostly a middle-class phenomenon , recent migrants are more likely to be poor , heightening the chances that they will struggle .
there is no data on returnees but reuters interviewed 10 venezuelans who had emigrated after president nicolas maduro took office in 2013 only to return .
for miguel blanco , a caracas-based sociologist , the degree of poverty among people now leaving the country has led to more of them returning .
when migration is triggered by push factors , it can lead the migrant to fail because of lack of money , said blanco .
pockets of venezuelan economic migrants , once a relatively rare sight in south america , have sprung up in cities from bogota to santiago de chile .
they are often seen hawking traditional corn patties on the streets or offering door-to-door beauty treatments .
panama s head of migration said in august that some 2,000 venezuelans were setting up there every week , compared with about 500 to 600 before august , when maduro s government created a legislative superbody that was widely condemned by the opposition and other countries as a power grab .
with about 60,000 venezuelans already in panama , the government has implemented visas as an entry requirement .
peru has estimated that in the first half of 2017 some 40,000 venezuelans entered the country .
venezuelan government supporters have said the extent of emigration has been exaggerated .
maduro s administration scoffs at those who leave as selfish and unpatriotic .
the information ministry did not respond to a request for data .
colombia , which shares a porous border of some 2,219 kilometers with venezuela , has estimated that about 36,000 venezuelans enter daily , and that some 2,000 do not immediately return to their country .
gerson lopez , a 30-year-old graphic designer , said he was paid less by a colombian beauty product company because he did not have legal documents .
informal work there is very exploitative , said lopez .
venezuelans are doing the work colombians don t want to do .
lopez was broke when he returned to venezuela in late january after being unable to find good work in bogota .
you have to think very hard if you re going to leave , he said , adding bitterly , ( but ) here you don t have any opportunities .
all you do is survive .