san juan/washington ( reuters ) - democratic u.s. senators have drafted a letter to republican senate majority leader mitch mcconnell insisting legislation designed to solve puerto rico ’ s debt crisis should include a mechanism for the island to restructure its debt , according to a draft of the letter seen by reuters .
the move is a challenge to republicans pushing bills in congress to bring puerto rico ’ s finances under federal oversight , who are generally opposed to letting the u.s. commonwealth restructure its debt .
democrats have argued that any such oversight should be conditional on allowing puerto rico to be governed by federal bankruptcy or debt restructuring laws .
a congressional source familiar with the letter said senate democrats plan to make it public on tuesday ahead of a hearing on puerto rico by the house committee on natural resources , but timing remains uncertain .
a solution “ must allow puerto rico to restructure a meaningful portion of its debt , ” according to the draft of the letter , which noted that “ puerto rico was included in chapter 9 of the u.s. bankruptcy code until 1984 , when congress inexplicably excluded it from the nationwide approach to resolving municipal insolvency. ” letters such as this are generally aimed at demonstrating party unity and are typically circulated to collect as many signatures as possible to show strength on a given issue .
the congressional source said this letter ’ s authors are expecting signatures from all 44 democratic senators and 2 independent senators .
if such broad support were achieved , it would allow democrats to block any legislation that did not include a restructuring mechanism - although that is no guarantee that republicans , who control congress , would draft a bill that includes one .
a restructuring option would be a coup for the island ’ s governor , alejandro garcia padilla , who has long said puerto rico needs to cut its $ 70 billion in debt to grow its economy , a stance that has faced resistance from creditors .
aside from its debt load , puerto rico faces widespread economic strain , including a 45-percent poverty rate and a shrinking tax base , as a growing number of citizens jump to the mainland united states .
the island has begun skipping some debt payments in recent months in order to make others , and now faces lawsuits from insurers of some bonds .
the letter comes weeks after house speaker paul ryan demanded legislation by the end of march to address puerto rico ’ s debt .
“ we urge you to match his commitment to act on a responsible solution by the end of the first quarter , ” the draft letter says , addressing mcconnell .