jay dyer 21st century wireas the recent events ( and subsequent incoherent media narratives ) in dallas continue to unravel , familiar patterns have already emerged that once again paint a now familiar picture of large-scale planning .
we are now expected to believe this highly coordinated , professional sniper operation , whose numbers and details have now significantly changed , were conducted by the likes of a former vet and unknown accomplices for the purposes of targeting white people , and in particular , police.the new judge dredd-style execution by robot !
doesn t this all sound like a scripted move ? immediately given the symbolic title michael x to affiliate the suspect with malcolm x , the entire scenario , from the revised proclamation of cell terrorist to lone wolf , now smells of sub-par hollywood script-writing especially the ludicrous climax of hidden ieds followed by police deploying a bomb-carrying robocop r2d2-like executioner as the only rational means of finally halting the crazed assassin.as we will see , the event also echoes prior known false flags and staged scenarios , as well as fitting a general pattern of soros-style color revolutions and agitation propaganda , on top of the fact that the evolving official story is preposterous.while it may appear contradictory at first glance , the notion that such an event could fit the progressive mold of a color revolution is not far-fetched.consortium news details numerous soros-funded groups that have called for soft-power coups and regime changes through numerous fronts that include social justice causes , as well as right-wing groups like right sektor in the ukraine .
21stcenturywire comments : amazingly , by late last night and early this morning , police chief david brown reported that at least 3 of suspected snipers were already in custody.brown stated early on that he believed the four suspects were working as a unit , using long-range rifles , triangulated at elevated positions at difference places in the downtown area .
the fourth suspect , micah xavier johnson ( the media referred to him as micah x to intentionally prompt a malcolm x tone to the event ) a military-trained marksman and us army veteran was said to be caught in a shoot-out with police from the second floor of the el centro parking garage .
he was upset about black lives matter , the recent police shootings , he was upset at white people .
he wanted to kill white people , especially police officers , brown said .
( ny post ) bizarrely , according to police , johnson ( photo , above ) was finally summarily executed by police after an unprecedented risk assessment by the dallas police who deployed a robot carrying a bomb .
chief brown claimed that his officers had no choice but to use the bomb to kill the suspect : other options would have exposed our officers to grave danger .
the political ripple effects of this unlikely and highly improbable event were felt immediately , as the mainstream media siege was underway , and the politicians began lining up to weigh-in and jockey for political position on any number of issue ranging from gun control , to race relations , and police brutality , but also debating the whether or not public marches and demonstrations are indeed safe for the public to attend in the face of this latest security threat .
on the police side of this dialectic , law enforcement are also queuing up to decry the violence against police and calls are omnipresent for increased police powers and security measure in order to combat the rising threat of domestic extremism .
coincidentally , yesterday s event just happened to all on july 7th , or 7/7 ala london 7/7 .
following on that theme , the media and law enforcement began floating the term terrorist attack and cnn leading the pack by claiming that dallas 7/7 was the police s worst loss since 9/11 ( sept 11 , 2001 ) .
so one can see how the spin is already being applied to this media event .
hollywood dramas that go live ! ukraine is of particular significance given the similarities between the false flag scenario of the maidan sniper and the 7/7 purported racially-motivated event in dallas .
for both right sektor s ukrainian nationalists and black lives matter s alinsky-style revolutionary there is a similar modus operandi of background financing and manipulation .
in a piece i authored last year , i compared these similar tactics and discussed the think tank and soft power meta-strategy involved in geopolitical re-engineering , both domestically and abroad.keep in mind that according to even mainstream fixture the new york times most terror plots are hatched and aided by the fbi .
the soros-style ngo and soft power approach has seen the aiding of both far left and far right with the overall intent of duping progressives into war .
i wrote concerning ngos and think tanks identity politics and radicalization , an international operation for change being engineered out of new york : in the case of black youth , the occupy-style thug culture of hip hop and rap easily combines with the radical jihadism of intelligence agency creations like isis .
both groups share a similar sense of being oppressed minorities , and both are utilized as foolish dupes of the same western establishment , dancing according to the whims of their foundation puppeteer masters.in case you were wondering , this is how the foundations and think tanks provoke minority groups with similar , but rebranded ideologies of invented revolution , particularly through the mainstream ( and alternative ) news cycle s scientifically precise emotionally manipulative stories that are intentionally chosen , crafted , cropped and created for the foundation/think tank revolutionary agenda.patsies and provocateurs.this same technique is now being used for gender as a whole , as feminism , women s rights , gender rights , equality , etc. , now make up a large portion of the total news feed .
increasingly taking on a clickbait style , the endless gender oppression articles are another technology for social re-engineering under the guise of appealing to the female populace.females are undeniably more susceptible to emotional appeals and advertising deception , the same marketing styles of ad campaigns for endless hygiene products now mirrors the mindless , gender-based stories of oppressed trans teens and eternally victimized and oppressed western women ( who have the highest living standards in the world ) .
while western women conduct their war on the patriarchal power by sharing these retarded stories on their ipads , they are just as much the dupes of the same foundation/think tank techniques as the low iq isis recruits and the ghetto mobs.on the other side of the dialectic are the equally duped right wingers who still champion the bush dynasty and so-called american freedoms , the great envy of all the world that must be protected at all costs from an absolutely impossible , fabricated foreign invasion by isis .
constituting the new boogey-man in the patriot/tea party mythos , the invasion of the western intelligence created and backed isis is the phony bad man parallels the phony bad man of the thugs ( the 1 % , which is actually anyone middle class ) , and the bad man of the narcissistic american female , the patriarchy.all of these bad men are invented bad men , manufactured and created by the foundations and think tanks to manipulate your specific population niche .
the establishment has recruited and used dumb , low iq , prison-convert , muslim mind-controlled bots for decades , just as the system has used dumb , low iq females as poster children for gender revolution .
the sniper effect unknown snipers are a classic tactic of western-influenced regime changes , including romania in 1989 in regard to ceaucescu , which is particularly relevant to our situation , as the coup there involved a revolt against police .
sniper death squads in romania aided by western intelligence would thus be a perfect parallel to anti-police engineered sniping in dallas.other events where snipers were involved in regime change and staged agitprop include the arab spring , yeltsin s counter-government in 1993 , venezuela in 2002 , thailand in 2010 , and more recently , kyrgyzstan , egypt , libya and syria .
supposed unknown snipers , like terrorists , provide a useful function for existing regimes or foreign powers to conveniently concoct and steer events by pinning blame on patsies.same strategy of controlled , radical opposition in a game of obvious dialectics.like operation gladio where from the 50s to the 80s , left-wing radicals were blamed for euro-terror completely engineered and staged by a covert branch of nato intelligence and p-2 affiliated masonry lodge , similar patterns are seen in today s terror cells and lone wolf shooters .
some wondered why i originally mentioned the masonic apparel in the original post , but this is because gladio used p-2 and secret societies can function as networks for organizing and arranging provocateurs , much like the muslim brotherhood or isis .
in short , sniping events , just like false flags , are run by and advantageous to the state , not lone wolves and terror cells.indeed , it is the same pattern mentioned above domestically , with the fbi-hatched terror plots .
terror in these instances functions to exacerbate a strategy of tension to smear opposition , promote undue fear , and cajole the populace into accepting more surveillance and security theater .
dallas saw a similarly implausible story last year of conspiracy theorist james boulware , a lone wolf shooter who purportedly shot at police after incoherent online ramblings ( which are quite clearly manufactured ) , and now we are told micah x has a manifesto a must have for your daily shooter starter pack.highly dubious james boulware dallas shooting fusion drillsas noted in my original video , at least two large-scale , multi-agency dhs supervised fusion drills in the dallas-ft. worth area preceded the 7/7 event by only a week .
one drill even included three shooters and bombs , a narrative now fed into the mainstream media concerning the dallas sniping event .
given every major terror event of recent recollection has been preceded by a drill of the same scenario , it should be obvious to question the dallas event , as it fits the same patterns as prior terror .
the familiar narrative of dallas now includes ieds hidden in mysterious locales , a dubious claim inserted into the narrative of james holmes booby-trapped apartment , for example .
the date and locale for the event is also suspicious , being in the vicinity of the jfk assassination as well as on the anniversary of the london 7/7 bombing , another staged event.we are supposed to believe micah x learned his sniping and ied skills in the military and subsequently coordinated a professional hit man operation to target random white police over the shootings of philando castile and alton sterling that occurred that day !
mass media claimed the supposed shooter was angry about events that transpired that day , and subsequently had time to perform reconnaissance and establish sniper spots for that day s black lives matter protest.lunacy does not end there , as the standoff with police then involved the preposterous claim of utilizing and bomb-bot to blow the suspect up , as he supposedly refused to cooperate .
are bomb-bots now standard procedure ?
were the mainstream narrative of this event true ( and it certainly is not ) , wouldn t law enforcement choose to gas the subject or subdue him , to gather information about his so-called terror cell ?
instead , the public was fed a fantastical robocop storyline to add tabloid juice to this manufactured event , as we have seen in so many.patsies , dupes and provocateurs .
black power groups are notorious for being infiltrated by federal agents and provocateurs , and the new black panther party is a shining example .
allowed to consistently call for the death of all whites ( which is illegal ) , this fake front group is allowed to continue to agitate and play on public fears , like other terror groups and racial identity movements .
like the kkk or elohim city and mcveigh , the black power and nation of islam movements have been exposed as phony government fronts many times , often identified by their outlandish and outrageous calls for violence.most famously , this was seen in the cointelpro operation , with fbi informant richard aoki arming the black panthers to make them appear distastefully radical.photo-op .
patty hearst and the theatrical sla abduction .
the saul alinsky-style approach of manufacturing radicals for self-destructive social change that marks this event also has precedent in two other previously contrived terror attacks : the alinsky-inspired bill ayers weather underground event , and patty hearst sla staging .
both events were manufactured operations that served to solidify mass opinion against anti-war movements , while the sla event ( in which reportedly 6 died , while patty hearst was not even in the building ) became the basis for america s adoption of swat teams the hearst soap opera kidnapping was even followed by a television show called swat that aided in the rise of america s acceptance of the warrior cop .
this fact , as well as the long-term federalization of local police refutes the faux right-wing narrative that obama and company are anti-cop .
seen in this light , the dallas event is ably summed up in its effectiveness for the establishment by patrick henningsen : the dallas shooting is significant on a number of levels.firstly , dallas will further accentuate the artificial divide between what americans perceive as the left or liberal wing of political society , and the what is sold as america s right or conservative wing .
in this dialectic , democrat is set against republican , young against old , black is pitted against white , wealthy against poor , upper class against middle class , and even middle class against lower class .
in the run-up to the presidential election in november , this division will be important in order to polarize america along a prefabricated dialectical line and thus keeping the national discourse down at a base , or emotional level and through this binary process avoid any real examination of america s fundamental issues , policy flaws and the federal government s unsustainable bloated borrow & spend habit effectively kicking the can down the road another 4 years ( which seems to be the norm ) .
ultimately , this serves the state , its bureaucratic stakeholders and the power structure as a whole .
secondly , this event can be used to nudge the left-wing and democrat party s own gun control agenda , which is being aggressively pursued at the moment .
this wing of the political establishment has already demonstrated that it has no qualms about using a national incident or tragedy , like the orlando shooting , as warm pr leverage to push their emergency legislative agenda .
ironically , left-wing and black activists will be blamed for this latest act of political violence and will be used in this case to further advance the political left s own bespoke gun control agenda much to the dismay of conservative america .
as a result of this staged event carried out by agent provocateurs , anti-police or anti-government african-american militant , or black power activists will be painted a poor light , and effectively marginalized .
once this process is complete , the state can then move in to extend that marginalization to any anti-government protests further neutering any real grass-roots opposition for what is obviously a rapidly growing police state in the us.thirdly , this event is being used to increase tension between the public and law enforcement .
note the differences between the short and the long-term narratives at play here .
in the short-term , this dallas sniper event is originally designed as a reaction to us police killing poor unarmed black men on the streets of america , but in the long-term the pendulum will swing back to the state in order to restore law and order , thus further consolidating power into a more concentrated police state .
this is evidenced already by us law enforcement are already rallying in solidarity , in an us against them dialectic by placing the nation s police as the protagonist and the public as the antagonist .
pop culture promotion of supposed anti-establishment agitation and revolution .
in reality , it is top-down social engineering and psychological warfare.given the government admission that much of modern history has been manipulated and contrived through false flags and staged events , is it sensible to take the dallas event at face value ?
we are constantly reminded in every terror event to never forget 9/11 , but a much more apt recollection would be to never forget the admissions and examples of fake and staged news , as well as individuals who supposedly die in three separate terror events being still alive show the lunacy of the fact there is no law or regulation upon the government and private infotainment news agencies barring them from manufacturing events .
rather , the pattern 21wire recognized and exposed in the recent andrews air force base s phony live shooter drill-gone-live scenario serves as the exemplary form of how these events are engineered especially given the drills preceding the 7/7 dallas event.naturally , the alt right will seize upon the event as proof of a racial attack , but this simply plays into the establishment s desire for a helter skelter race war and a summer of chaos , all of which was prepared for symbolically through beyonc s militant black panther super bowl halftime show back in february .
the race war is not fought with bats and maces in the streets , but through the toxic culture itself with its insidious programming for each racial group.as we have seen in past events , gun control is once again the unanimous cacophony , while the labeling of black lives matter as a terrorist group only serves to set further precedence for anyone critical of the establishment as an extremist or terrorist .
to hear jay s full podcasts , see more information and learn how you can become a subscriber to jaysanalysis.jay dyer is the author of the forthcoming title , esoteric hollywood : sex , cults and symbols in film from trine day .
focusing on film , philosophy , geopolitics and all things esoteric , jaysanalysis and his podcast , esoteric hollywood , investigates the deeper meanings between the headlines , exploring the hidden aspects of our sinister synthetic mass media matrix.read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter filessupport our work by subscribing and becoming a member at 21wire.tv