( reuters ) - president donald trump told congress on tuesday that more needs to be done to bring down “ artificially high ” prices for prescription drugs , while at the same time praising a drug that turns out to cost $ 300,000 per year .
during the televised address , trump acknowledged in the audience megan crowley , a college student who has pompe disease - a rare muscle disorder that can be treated with an expensive enzyme replacement therapy .
“ but our slow and burdensome approval process at the food and drug administration keeps too many advances , like the one that saved megan ’ s life , from reaching those in need , ” the president said .
“ if we slash the restraints , not just at the fda but across our government , then we will be blessed with far more miracles like megan. ” trump has in the past excoriated drugmakers for charging “ astronomical ” prices , while acknowledging how “ complicated ” the nation ’ s healthcare system is .
representatives of the trump administration could not immediately be reached for comment on wednesday on whether the president believes the treatment price for pompe disease is fair .
trump ’ s comments on tuesday night highlight an issue central to the industry and investors - the potential for deregulation of the fda , the agency charged with approving pharmaceutical products .
“ i think trump used this example somewhat cynically as a way of trying to advance the deregulatory agenda , ” said dr. aaron kesselheim , a researcher at harvard medical school .
“ the fda ’ s standards actually promote innovation because patients don ’ t want just any old drug - they want drugs that work. ” megan ’ s father , john crowley , now chief executive at amicus therapeutics inc , started a biotech company in 1998 to seek a treatment for pompe disease .
in 2006 , the fda - after a nine-month review - approved infused enzyme replacement therapy myozyme for patients born with the condition .
a similar drug , lumizyme , was approved in 2010 for late-onset pompe disease and is now used regardless of a patient ’ s age .
the average annual cost of treatment is $ 298,000 , according to paris-based sanofi sa , which now owns the drugs .
under the orphan drug act of 1983 , drugs for rare diseases - defined as those that treat fewer than 200,000 patients - are given a range of incentives including seven years of marketing exclusivity .
“ pharmaceutical companies know they get a free pass for very expensive drugs for orphan diseases , whereas they don ’ t for mainstream diseases , ” said joel hay , professor of pharmaceutical economics and policy at the university of southern california .
the national organization for rare disorders ( nord ) applauded trump ’ s recognition , but disagreed with the idea that the regulatory process needs an overhaul .
“ our patients deserve the same quality therapies as everyone else , and to weaken the standards will only threaten our population with unsafe , ineffective therapies , ” nord said in a statement on wednesday .
pompe disease , affecting 5,000 to 10,000 people worldwide , prevents the body from making enough of an enzyme used by heart and muscle cells to convert a form of sugar called glycogen into energy .
when glycogen builds up in these cells it can lead to disability and death .
nord estimates that around 30 million americans suffer from 7,000 rare diseases .