we re not gon na go away , we re not gon na quit .
cuz if you re willing to kill me , who else are you gon na kill ?
an aurora police officer wants this person ( or people ) threatening cops to know they are only strengthening his resolve to be a police officer because it s people like this creep who they re protecting others from .
the aurora police dept .
has released audio of an alarming 911 call over the weekend , when an anonymous caller threatened to shoot any officer found alone in the streets .
it s a credible threat , police said one that they wanted the community to be aware of.according to 9news , the menacing call came in about 5:45 p.m sunday via a disconnected cricket cell phone .
the male caller heard on the audio recording appears to be disguising his voice and possibly using a recording , several local news stations reported.police announced over the holiday weekend , and following the call , that they will always have two people to a car , to ensure the safety of their officers .
the threat involved shooting down officers in both denver and aurora , colorado.fox31 denver obtained the audio recording , in which the caller says in part : it s time that you guys know we are no longer playing around with the police departments .
aurora and denver , we are about to start striking fear shooting down all cops that we see by their selves .
both aurora and denver police say they are not scared away by this , it s only making them stronger .
it s going on nationally .
it s going to come here .
there s nobody that s immune to it .
nobody in law enforcement , denver police det .
nick rogers said .
via : leo affairsaccording to a warning sent to law enforcement monday , a caller contacted aurora 911 dispatch around 5:45 p.m sunday via a disconnected cricket cell phone .
the male caller sounded as if he was attempting to disguise his voice , or was possibly using a recording , the warning said.the call lasted 37 seconds , and the caller reportedly said it s time you guys know that we are no longer playing around with the police departments .
aurora and denver we are about to start striking fear , shooting down all cops that we see by their selves .
the caller went on to say , you guys are evicting innocent people .
let us catch you by yourself and it s shots fired .
approximately four hours later , aurora police officers were fired upon while responding to a call , the warning said .
it is unclear if the shooting was an ambush situation .
via : 9 news