seoul ( reuters ) - south korean test-takers expressed confusion and dejection on thursday as the country s highly competitive annual university entrance exam , called a life assignment exam by some , was postponed a week for the first time ever due to safety concerns .
south korea postponed the exam after a rare earthquake rattled the country on wednesday , causing damage to buildings including some schools .
the exam is life-defining for many high school seniors , as a prestigious university on one s resume is seen a minimum for securing a place in limited corporate jobs in asia s fourth-largest economy , which is dominated by conglomerates .
because the wrong answer to a single question in the roughly 200-question exam can mean dropping in the national ranking and failure to enter one s choice of university , tensions ran high .
it s a bit hellish thinking i have to do this for one more week , said 20-year-old cho hyun-lee , studying at one of seoul s largest cram schools to take the test again after last year .
people are dispirited , lying with their faces down .
some scrambled to recover books they d thrown away yesterday or buy new ones , two test-takers told reuters , while others gave up , uploading pictures of classmates sleeping or reading online comics on social media .
still others agonized over missing concerts of their favorite singers or south korea s largest online game exhibition this week .
meanwhile , south korean society , geared for the exam s smooth progress , prepared to do it all again next thursday .
airplanes , barred from taking off or landing for 35 minutes on thursday morning to prevent their noise from interfering with the exam s listening section , were allowed to land or take off , the transport ministry said .
but the stock market and banks still opened an hour late on thursday a device to help keep roads clear for students getting to test sites .
the defense ministry allowed extra leave for soldiers in mandatory military service who had taken personal leave to sit the exam .
four police officers were stationed on double shifts at each of the 85 locations exam questions are kept and police patrolled the premises every two hours to prevent their leaking .
as fainter aftershocks continued on wednesday and thursday , many koreans said they support the postponement but some were inconsolable .
it feels like i was turning the handle on the exit door from hell then returned to square one , said lee yoon-mi , a high school senior in incheon .
if you re not a test-taker , you could never understand .