mexico city ( reuters ) - the bullet-riddled body of a news photographer was found in central mexico on friday , state officials , putting 2017 on track to become the deadliest year yet for journalists in the notoriously violent country .
edgar daniel esqueda , 23 , who worked with metropoli san luis and vox populi slp in the state of san luis potosi , was found in the state capital with at least three bullet wounds in the back of his neck , authorities said .
the news outlets where esqueda worked reported had reported his abduction from his home by gunmen on thursday morning .
san luis potosi s governor , manuel carreras , told a press conference an investigation was underway .
he did not say whether esqueda s murder was linked to his work as a journalist .
with esqueda s killing , 2017 could become the bloodiest year yet for reporters in mexico , according to press freedom and journalists advocacy group articulo 19 .
the photo journalist was the 11th reporter killed so far this year , the group said .
that matched the total in 2016 , which was the highest number on record in a country torn by runaway levels of criminal and drug-related bloodletting .
over the past 17 years , 111 journalists have been killed in mexico , 38 of them under the current government of president enrique pena nieto .
reporters without borders and the committee for the protection of journalists ( cpj ) both rank mexico among the deadliest countries in the world for reporters .
activists have repeatedly criticized mexican prosecutors for failing to fully investigate many journalists murders , allowing the killers to operate with impunity .
mexico s human rights commission has asked state authorities to provide protection for esqueda s family members , who were at home with the photographer when he was taken by force , according to articulo 19 .
witnesses who spoke with the group said esqueda asked his kidnappers for their identity when they broke into the home where he was asleep with his wife , and they responded that they were police officers .
the state police force said via twitter that there has not been any police action against a reporter in the capital .
criminals , sometimes connected with state actors , know that they can get away with killing journalists in mexico because of chronic impunity for these crimes .
until that changes , the violence will continue , alexandra ellerbeck , the cpj s program coordinator for north america , said in a statement .
esqueda had reported threats months ago to a government-run human rights group in san luis potosi , one of his colleagues told reuters .