on friday , it was revealed that former milwaukee sheriff david clarke , who was being considered for homeland security secretary in donald trump s administration , has an email scandal of his own.in january , there was a brief run-in on a plane between clarke and fellow passenger dan black , who he later had detained by the police for no reason whatsoever , except that maybe his feelings were hurt .
clarke messaged the police to stop black after he deplaned , and now , a search warrant has been executed by the fbi to see the exchanges.clarke is calling it fake news even though copies of the search warrant are on the internet .
i am unintimidated by lib media attempts to smear and discredit me with their fake news reports designed to silence me , the former sheriff tweeted .
i will continue to poke them in the eye with a sharp stick and bitch slap these scum bags til they get it .
i have been attacked by better people than them # maga i am unintimidated by lib media attempts to smear and discredit me with their fake news reports designed to silence me .
i will continue to poke them in the eye with a sharp stick and bitch slap these scum bags til they get it .
i have been attacked by better people than them # maga pic.twitter.com/xtzw5pdu2b david a. clarke , jr. ( @ sheriffclarke ) december 30 , 2017he didn t stop there.breaking news !
when lying lib media makes up fake news to smear me , the antidote is go right at them .
punch them in the nose & make them taste their own blood .
nothing gets a bully like lying lib media s attention better than to give them a taste of their own blood # neverbackdown pic.twitter.com/t2ny2pshcr david a. clarke , jr. ( @ sheriffclarke ) december 30 , 2017the internet called him out.this is your local newspaper and that search warrant isn t fake , and just because the chose not to file charges at the time doesn t mean they won t !
especially if you continue to lie .
months after decision not to charge clarke , email search warrant filed https : //t.co/zcbyc4wp5b keithleblanc ( @ keithleblanc63 ) december 30 , 2017i just hope the rest of the village people aren t implicated .
kirk ketchum ( @ kirkketchum ) december 30 , 2017slaw , baked potatoes , or french fries ?
pic.twitter.com/fwfxszupxy alt- immigration ( @ alt_uscis ) december 30 , 2017pic.twitter.com/ymsobljfxu pendulum swinger ( @ pendulumswngr ) december 30 , 2017you called your police friends to stand up for you when someone made fun of your hat chris jackson ( @ chriscjackson ) december 30 , 2017is it me , with this masterful pshop of your hat , which i seem to never tire of .
i think it s the steely resolve in your one visible eye pic.twitter.com/dwr5k8zezv chris mohney ( @ chrismohney ) december 30 , 2017are you indicating with your fingers how many people died in your jail ?
i think you re a few fingers short , dipshit ike barinholtz ( @ ikebarinholtz ) december 30 , 2017rofl .
internet tough guy with fake flair .
pic.twitter.com/ulcfddhkdy kellmecrazy ( @ kel_moonface ) december 30 , 2017you re so edgy , buddy .
mrs. smh ( @ mrssmh2 ) december 30 , 2017is his break over at applebees ?
aaron ( @ feltrrr2 ) december 30 , 2017are you trying to earn your still relevant badge ?
circusrebel ( @ circusdrew ) december 30 , 2017make sure to hydrate , drink lots of water .
it s rumored that prisoners can be denied water by prison officials .
robert klinc ( @ robertklinc1 ) december 30 , 2017terrill thomas , the 38-year-old black man who died of thirst in clarke s milwaukee county jail cell this april , was a victim of homicide .
we just thought we should point that out .
it can t be repeated enough.photo by spencer platt/getty images .