baton rouge , la .
( reuters ) - president barack obama said on thursday that he will focus his final-year legislative efforts on criminal justice reform , an expansion of a tax credit for the working poor , and a push to find medical research breakthroughs .
the three areas are relatively rare areas of common ground between obama and the republican-controlled congress , obama said during a town hall , part of a push to promote his priorities as attention turns to the race to replace him in the november presidential election .
obama told a crowd of about 1,000 people at a high school that “ i ’ ve got a whole bunch of stuff to do between now and next year ” when his second and final term in office ends .
obama has tasked his vice president , joe biden , with marshalling scientists to “ double down ” on research into a cure for cancer .
“ it ’ s a good story and it ’ s not as politically controversial as some issues , ” obama said .
“ it probably won ’ t be cured in my life time , but it might be cured in yours , ” he told a 10-year-old girl at the town hall .
the research push will need a “ big investment , ” he said .
details could come in his feb. 9 budget proposal .
obama also said he would like to expand the earned income tax credit , a tax break for poor families , to also help single people - an idea for which republican speaker paul ryan has expressed support .
he told the crowd that he thinks there is enough bipartisan support to reform mandatory minimum sentences for non-violent offenders .
obama said he will use his authority to take action where he can - an approach that has enraged republicans on issues like immigration , environmental regulations , and gun control .
giving another example of where he wants to use his executive authority in the year ahead , obama talked about the need to modernize ancient government computer systems .
“ that ’ s what we can do without congress , ” he said .
obama praised louisiana ’ s newly sworn in democratic governor john bel edwards , who made expanding medicaid coverage for low-income people his first order of business .
in his feb. 9 budget , obama will propose to give the 19 state governments that passed up an earlier offer to expand medicaid a second chance to opt in , with aid from the federal government , the white house said .
“ we ’ re hoping to encourage more states to do the right thing , ” obama said .
medicaid expansion was part of the affordable care act , obama ’ s signature health care reform law better known as obamacare .
but some republican governors opposed expansion as costly and unnecessary .