the obama administration is pushing folks off of trans fats i should say nudge because that s the favorite term of the liberals .
we all know it s really a shove to do what they mandate .
it s doubtful trans fats in small quantities will be devastating to anyone .
the taste and texture of foods like donuts will change .
will be start to have underground donut shops that are made with banned trans fats ?
the food police are making damn sure you conform to their mandate but isn t palm oil just as bad ?
the obama administration is expected to all but ban trans fat in a final ruling that could drop as soon as next week , killing most uses of an ingredient that has been put in everything from frozen pizza to reese s pieces but since deemed harmful to human health.the agency may create some very limited exemptions , but the ruling could force food companies to cut trans fat use beyond the 85 percent reduction already achieved over the past decade a key piece of the obama administration s broader agenda to nudge americans toward a healthier diet.the food industry believes low-levels of trans fats are safe .
industry leaders have banded together behind-the-scenes to craft a food additive petition that will ask fda to allow some uses of partially hydrogenated oils , such as in the sprinkles on cupcakes , cookies and ice cream .
the industry hasn t shared details , but officials maintain the uses will represent very limited amounts .
for more than 60 years , partially hydrogenated oils have been used in food products under the status generally recognized as safe , which does not require fda s approval .
but since the 1990s , reams of studies have linked trans fat consumption to cardiovascular disease , causing somewhere between 30,000 and 100,000 premature deaths before the industry started phasing it out.in late 2013 the obama administration issued a tentative determination that partially hydrogenated oils are not generally recognized as safe .
the move sent shock waves through the food industry , which has already brought down average consumption from more than 4 grams per day to about 1 gram per day an exodus largely fueled by mandatory labeling imposed a decade ago .
scores of popular products , including oreos and cheetos , have quietly dropped partially hydrogenated oils over the years , but it remains an ingredient in many products , including pop secret microwave popcorn , pillsbury grands !
cinnamon rolls and sara lee cheesecake , as well as some restaurant fryers and commercial bakery goods .
if fda sticks to its guns in its final determination and most in food policy circles assume it will the agency will be taking a firm step toward pushing out more of the remaining uses of trans fat .
read more : politico