ankara ( reuters ) - turkish authorities have issued an arrest warrant for a former officer of the u.s. central intelligence agency ( cia ) over suspected links to last year s failed coup , the hurriyet daily said on friday , in a further blow to troubled u.s.-turkey ties .
the istanbul prosecutor s office is seeking the detention of graham fuller , former vice chairman of the national intelligence council and cia officer in turkey , on suspicion that he helped to plan the july 2016 coup attempt , hurriyet said .
it said prosecutors had also issued an arrest warrant for henri barkey , a prominent turkey scholar based in the united states , on suspicion of involvement in planning the coup .
the istanbul prosecutor s office declined to comment on the matter .
neither fuller nor barkey could immediately be reached for comment .
the arrest warrants , if confirmed , will put further strain on relations between nato allies turkey and the united states , already at loggerheads over a wide range of issues .
hurriyet said turkish authorities believed fuller had left turkey after the abortive coup , in which rogue soldiers commandeered tanks and helicopters in an attempt to oust president tayyip erdogan and his government .
it said the warrant marked the first time that turkish authorities have been able to confirm fuller s whereabouts before and after the putsch .
erdogan accuses u.s.-based muslim cleric fethullah gulen and his supporters of organizing the coup , in which more than 250 people were killed .
gulen , a former ally of erdogan , has condemned the coup and denies any involvement .
turkey has asked the united states to extradite gulen for trial but u.s. officials say it has failed to provide sufficient evidence to justify such a move , infuriating erdogan .
turkish authorities have shut down businesses , media outlets and schools belonging to gulen and have sacked or suspended some 150,000 people including soldiers , journalists , academics and judges over their possible links to his network .
nearly 50,000 people suspected of involvement in the coup have been jailed .
human rights groups and some western politicians have accused erdogan of using the crackdown to muzzle dissent in turkey , but the government says the purges are necessary due to the gravity of the security threats it faces .