a woman let it all hang out when she ranted like crazy at congresswoman maxine waters during a protest .
everything this wonderful woman said is so true !
the black community has been hurt by illegal immigration and waters is a hateful racist .
all true !
we reported on this protest in congresswoman water s district in california ( see videos below ) black trump supporter goes absolutely nuclear on maxine waters , accusing the congresswoman of destroying black communities across the u.s. pic.twitter.com/glqrm5kmog josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 25 , 2017 this woman is awesome !
she screamed out : people are tired with your hate and your racism !
all the jobs went to illegals !
you have destroyed the black community !
you are a black racist !
you hate blacks !
all the jobs went to illegals !
you gave our jobs to illegals !
we want you out !
maxine waters destroyed the black community .
she s got ta go !
she s paid taxpayer money to discriminate against american citizens , and we re not going to have it !
she s been in office too long doing nothing !
she lied to the black community saying she was going to bring us jobs .
she gave those jobs to illegal criminals !
we want her out !
she s been in office for too long !
she s already showing signs of dementia !
she s a hater !
the video of the woman above is all part of the protest at the maxine waters town hall : this is great !
trump supporters did everything right but ironically were turned away at a maxine waters town hall because they don t live in her district well , she doesn t live in her district ! these americans are awesome !
they re showing up and protesting bravo ! we know that waters keeps close tabs on who is in attendance at the town halls a previous report on one of the town halls showed people getting tossed : the video below begins with a hispanic man telling the videographer to go back to europe .
he continues n his rant ending with what he must consider a derogatory term pilgrim !
.
this is california and this is the attitude of many hispanics .
notice how the t-shirts some of the hispanics are wearing say , stolen lands .
maxine waters represents inglewood , california where free speech is apparently just for those against president trump .
anyone in the audience who is even perceived to be against waters is yelled at and tossed out.free speech ?
notice how maxine waters claims that those who oppose her must not realize where they are inglewood !
isn t she doing exactly what martin luther king , jr. fought against ?
she s refusing to allow anyone who disagrees with her to even be in the same room !
the people who were tossed out for absolutely no reason ! watch maxine lie through her teeth to the people of inglewood about trump s tax plan and healthcare bill .
she pulls the class warfare card when describing the tax bill .
fear mongering is her forte as you ll see in the video below : the street artist sabo plastered these awesome posters all over inglewood : impeach maxine waters & impeach trump signs side by side .
only one is taken seriously .
pic.twitter.com/b1fjkmifx2 corryn mobley ( @ corrynmb ) may 14 , 2017