wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand could become the first country in the asia-pacific region to legalize cannabis for personal use after an unlikely alliance of populist , centrist and leftist parties put drug policy immediately on the agenda of the incoming government .
recreational marijuana use is legal in several u.s. states and european nations including the netherlands and spain , but countries in the asia-pacific tend to have strict prohibitions .
australia recently introduced laws freeing up access to cannabis for medicinal use , but does not allow recreational use .
labour s prime minister-designate jacinda ardern said on tuesday she agreed with a greens proposal for a referendum to legalize use of recreational cannabis .
we agreed that what we are doing now simply isn t working , so we have said yes to having that referendum , ardern told reporters in wellington .
there is no timeframe for possible legalization , which would represent the first major reform of drug laws since the 1970s , but would depend on the public first voting to back reforms .
anything that helps shift new zealand drug laws out of the dinosaur age is going to be a good thing , ross bell , executive director of the charitable nz drug foundation , told reuters .
arguably it is better for the sustainability of the reform to have a broad church like we ve got with this government , so that it is not just seen as some sort of fringe liberal policy , bell said in a telephone interview .
drug law reforms figured in talks to form new zealand s new government after a sept. 23 election failed to yield a majority for either the governing national party or opposition labour , although neither major party had such a campaign plank .
the center-left labour will govern with support from its new junior coalition member , the populist nz first , which supports holding referendums on controversial issues .
the greens have offered confidence and supply and the diverse group of parties is already starting to deliver a melange of policies , from potential relaxation of drug laws to tighter immigration controls .
new zealand s drug use ranks among the world s highest , a study by the nz drug foundation shows .
too much money is spent on enforcement and convictions , rather than on health policies , says the body , which gets government and private funding .