watch juan williams make several attempts to shame fox five host , kimberly guilfoyle for speaking out against obama s black lives matter race war in america .
once he realizes he s losing the argument , he attempts to berate her , telling her she is uncomfortable about being a racist .
his horrible accusation is followed up brilliantly when guilfoyle responds by asking , why would i be uncomfortable about it [ racism ] as a puerto rican woman ?
a heated exchange on the subject of identity politics took place on the five between , kim guilfoyle accused co-host juan williams of becoming infamous and also ridiculous because you put words in people s mouths .
guilfoyle , praising a commencement speech by supreme court justice clarence thomas , said , i like his emphasis on faith and belief .
because in my personal opinion , the past eight years , we have seen under the obama administration , they have used class warfare and race and envy to divide the nation .
they have , and communities when you see ferguson and other places oh , i see .
president obama did ferguson ?
williams interjected.https : //youtu.be/3brrdyacnp0 their exchange continued : kg : i didn t say that , juan .
and you re really become infamous and also ridiculous because you jw : because that was a ridiculous statement.kg : you put words in people s mouth and you paraphrase jw : i didn t say you said president obama , ferguson .kg : i didn t say that .
i said the administration.jw : okaykg : and it s true .
under eric holder and the injustice department.jw : whoo.kg : this is part and parcel for what happened across this country .
we did not come closer together as a country .
we became more divided .
and there was more loss of life and destruction of property from that race and identity politicsjw : i see , because people speak out against injustice , you don t like it and it makes you uncomfortable.kg : well , it s no it doesn t make me uncomfortable.jw : you have to deal with reality.kg : no .
i do deal with reality .
the bottom line is they fostered an environment that was violence and that was not something that brought people together .
instead of using the opportunity as president to bring people together and blur race and gender lines it was more about divisiveness jw : oh , i see you want to blur race and gender when it makes you uncomfortable , kimberlykg : i m not uncomfortable by it at all .
i m not uncomfortable by it at all.jw : people in this country who have to live with police aggression kg : why would i be uncomfortable with that as a puerto rican woman ?
the only way to blur race and gender is with alcohol !
greg gutfeld burst in , bringing the heated exchange to a landing .
everybody just go out and get drunk .
via : mediatate youtube