this one sentence should scare every taxpaying american to death : i know we can afford it because we re gon na make the wealthy pay for it .
- hrclast night s debate for the candidates running for president on the democrat side proved to be a fluff fest as if santa himself was in the room .
free college , free this and free that could someone please tell these people we re 18 trillion dollars in debt ! here s the transcript from rush today that speaks to this santa syndrome in the democrat party : rush : first up is a montage here from the debate last night .
bernie sanders , hillary , lincoln chafee , and they re all talking about all the free stuff .
college and health care and whatever you want .
if you re an illegal immigrant , it s all yours .
all you have to do is show up.sanders : make every public college and university in this country tuition-free.hillary : anyone to go to a public college or university tuition-free.sanders : we re all gon na have medical and family paid leave.hillary : make sure every child gets health care , including undocumented children and others.chafee : funding education , funding infrastructure , funding health care.hillary : enhance the benefits for the poorest recipients of social security.sanders : we should be putting money into education .
i want wall street now to help kids in this country go to college , public colleges and universities.hillary : i know we can afford it because we re gon na make the wealthy pay for it.rush : ( laughing ) we can afford it cause we re gon na make the wealthy pay .
we are $ 18 trillion in debt .
now , you can afford anything if you ignore that , and if you don t think that s a problem and if that number is irrelevant , the money never has to even be serviced or paid back , then of course you can afford anything .
but the truth is , we can t afford anything .
we can afford maybe , what , what s the number that we drag in by tax revenue every year ?
the numbers are confusing , but $ 3 trillion whatever we can afford every year , but we so exceed that .
we have exceeded it for so long .
we re already paying for things we can t afford .
and these people just want to lap more and more on top of it.via : rush limbaugh