khartoum ( reuters ) - sudanese president omar al-bashir visited the war-torn darfur region on tuesday in an effort to show his country is ready to have 20-year-old sanctions lifted by the united states just weeks before washington is expected to issue a decision .
in july the trump administration postponed for three months the decision to permanently lift sanctions , setting oct. 12 as a deadline for sudan to meet conditions , including resolving conflicts and stepping up its humanitarian efforts .
conflict in darfur began in 2003 when mainly non-arab tribes took up arms against sudan s arab-led government .
a joint african union-u.n. peacekeeping operation , known as unamid , has been on the ground for the past decade .
fighting between the army and rebels in the southern kordofan and blue nile regions also broke out again in 2011 , when south sudan declared independence .
sudan had announced short-term truces in these regions in june and october 2016 , after which fighting eased in blue nile and kordofan but carried on in darfur .
bashir has extended a ceasefire in response to the u.s. moves .
after security and stability , comes development , bashir said in a speech .
he said darfur s security has begun recovering and insisted that arms will only be in the hands of state forces .
just before leaving office , former u.s. president barack obama temporarily eased penalties against sudan , suspending a trade embargo , unfreezing assets and removing sanctions .
his decision was delayed for six months to allow sudan time to meet the conditions which also included cooperating with the u.s. to fight terrorism and improving its rights record .
gabriel belal , the spokesman of the justice and equality movement , one of the main rebel groups in darfur , criticized bashir s two-day visit , saying it aimed to give a wrong image to the international community that the war was over .
bashir s visit is not welcomed by the people of darfur because he personally issued direct orders for ethnic cleansing , belal said .
security , humanitarian and political conditions are tense in darfur and there s no prospect for a political resolution .