beyond the pale abc reporter matthew dowd compared president donald trump with n. korea s kim jong un on good morning america wednesday when having discussion with former clinton white house communications director anchor george stephanopoulos.as for the objectivity and credibility of clinton foundation mega-donor george stephanopoulos , prior to the 2016 presidential election , his wife , ali wentworth , claimed the couple would leave the country should donald trump become president of the united states .
of course they didn t leave the country .
george stephanopoulos chose instead , to remain in the us as a prominent voice on tv railing against our sitting president.the comments came following a report about n. korea s intercontinental ballistic missile test and a discussion on the upcoming g20 summit where trump will meet with russian president vladimir putin .
well , george , i think there s real tension , dowd replied .
you take vladimir putin on one , but there s real tension with a lot of members of the g20 .
if you look at the recent polling in the international community , donald trump is not believed by most of the people in the european community to be trusted to do the right thing , and you take with that with vladimir putin , and now with what s happened in north korea .
the european community is worried about unpredictable erratic leaders , not only one in north korea but one in the united states of america .
mrctvwatch : george stephanopoulos has been initiating attacks on donald trump since he became a serious contender in the presidential race .
the video below shows a heated exchange between george stephanopoulos and president trump s former senior campaign advisor kellyanne conway only one month after trump crushed hillary in the election .
( notice how abc starts out the interview between stephanopoulos and conway by flashing a screen shot of hillary s popular vote numbers compared to trump s when they have nothing to do with the context of the conversation .
this is called subliminal messaging , proving the mainstream media has mastered the art of manipulation . )
watch the interview here :