zurich ( reuters ) - a swiss federal court has dismissed the asylum appeal of a woman convicted in spain of supporting the basque separatist group eta , but said she was now free to remain in switzerland after madrid dropped her sentence .
the case of nekane txapartegi , who said she was tortured while in custody in spain before fleeing in 2007 , has drawn considerable attention in switzerland , with members of a free nekane movement staging rallies in zurich and other cities .
the united nations special rapporteur on torture and amnesty international had also urged swiss authorities not to extradite txapartegi to spain .
on friday the swiss court said the asylum issue was no longer relevant because spain s high court had ruled that her sentence - initially 11 years in jail , later reduced to 3-1/2 years - had reached its statute of limitations .
as with every european citizen , ms. txapartegi may stay in switzerland within the rules of free movement , a spokesman for the state secretariat for migration said .
switzerland is not in the european union but eu citizens can settle there provided they are in gainful employment or can prove they have sufficient funds to support themselves .
swiss authorities arrested txapartegi in zurich in april 2016 after they discovered she had been living under an assumed name in switzerland since 2009 .
they agreed in march this year to extradite her but freed her in september after the spanish decision to drop her jail sentence .
txapartegi had told swiss authorities she was tortured into confessing support for eta while in spanish custody .
the swiss federal office of justice said at the time she could not credibly show that she was actually tortured .
on friday the swiss court said that , given the conditions prevailing in spain at the time of her arrest , she may well have been subjected to physical and psychological abuse , but said it no longer needed to evaluate her claims .
eta , which killed more than 850 people in a decades-long campaign to carve out a separate state , effectively ended its armed resistance this year when it surrendered its weapons .