baghdad ( reuters ) - three suicide attacks claimed by islamic state killed at least 60 people in southern iraq on thursday , a health official and police sources said , suggesting a shift in the ultra-hardline group s tactics since it lost control of its stronghold in mosul .
iraqi and kurdish security officials say the sunni militants are likely to wage a guerrilla war in iraq after their self-proclaimed caliphate in mosul collapsed .
islamic state is also under siege in the syrian city of raqqa , its operational base for attacks in the middle east and the west .
security officials described thursday s attacks as an attempt to send a message to islamic state followers that the group is still strong and can operate in other parts of iraq following its territorial losses .
after losing the war in iraq and the shrinking of its power , daesh returned back to its old style of an insurgency , by carrying out suicide attacks , which is a clear sign that the terrorist group is retreating , said police intelligence colonel murtatha al-yassiri .
is activity is usually concentrated in western and northern iraq .
bomb attacks in the mostly shi ite south , where the bulk of the country s oil is produced and security forces hold a tighter grip , have so far been relatively rare .
like its predecessor in iraq , al qaeda , islamic state seeks to create sectarian tensions as a way to destabilize the opec oil producer .
we expect more alike terrorist operations in future .
daesh is trying to desperately pretend among followers that it s still strong , al-yassiri said .
daesh is an arabic acronym for islamic state , which is also known as isis .
wearing security force uniforms and driving stolen army vehicles , the attackers targeted a police checkpoint and two restaurants on a highway near the city of nassiriya , using car bombs and suicide vests , the sources said .
at least 100 people were injured , the police said in a statement .
islamic state claimed responsibility in a statement on its amaq news agency .
the group said it had killed dozens of shi ites .
the head of nassiriya s health directorate , jassim al-khalidi , said the city s hospital had received 50 bodies and the death toll could rise because some of the wounded were in critical condition .
hospital sources said at least 10 iranian pilgrims , who were visiting holy shi ite shrines , were among the dead .
the deadliest attack was at a restaurant west of nassiriya .
one attacker blew up his suicide vest inside the crowded restaurant while a group of other gunmen started to throw grenades and fire at diners , said police colonel ali abdul hussain .
police sources said some police officers had died in the checkpoint attack , but the toll from that incident remained unclear .
security sources said forces were placed on alert in most of the southern provinces , including the oil city of basra , in case of similar attacks .