the big question this year for the white house easter egg roll is whether white house press scretary will show up as the easter bunny .
a little known fact and tradition has been that spicer is the easter bunny !
what a guy !
who knew that the guy who dressed in the bunny costume would one day be the 45th president s press secretary 15 surprising facts about the white house easter egg roll : while the long-established custom of rolling eggs on the historic grounds has practically become a rite of passage for those who observe easter , this time-honored tradition has come a long way since it was officially established by president rutherford b. hayes in 1878 .
in fact , the fun in washington on capitol hill almost didn t become the grandstanding institution as we now know it today.here , we look back at the white house easter egg roll s 138-year history to highlight 15 of the most surprising and memorable moments associated with the most sought-after ticket in d.c.1 .
according to the white house historical association , some historians note that it was first lady dolley madison who originally proposed the idea of a public egg roll around 1810 .
presidents abraham lincoln and andrew johnson s young children held their own informal egg roll for their own amusement in the 1860s.2 .
taking advantage of a day off from school , more than 10,000 children were said to have gathered near the cast-iron dome of the u.s. capitol in 1876 .
baskets in tow , filled with dyed easter eggs , they set about to carry on the holiday tradition of rolling eggs down the hills to see how far they d go without breaking.3 .
uh oh , here comes the fun police .
the unusual sport of rolling and racing after hard-cooked eggs apparently did a lot of damage to the grounds of the capitol .
so in 1876 , members of congress approved the turf protection act , signed by president ulysses s. grant , which prevented the capitol s grounds from being used as a playground .
the law was supposed to take effect in 1877 , but inclement weather prevented any easter activities from occurring that year anyway .
however , the egg rollers who showed up in 1878 were turned away and forced to play elsewhere.4 .
president hayes and his wife , lucy , brought the holiday tradition back later in 1878 for the first official white house easter egg roll .
every year thereafter , with a few notable exceptions , presidents have hosted the celebration on the south lawn.5 .
by the late 1800s , games such as egg picking , egg ball , toss and catch , and egg croquet were added to the easter festivities.6 .
the treasured tradition was cancelled due to world war i and suspended during the second world war in 1942 .
when the white house underwent renovations in that same year , it was hosted by congress and held at other locations.7 .
after a 12-year hiatus , president dwight d. eisenhower brought the egg-stravaganza back in 1953.8 .
in 1969 , the white house easter bunny went hoppin down the government trail for the first time .
the bunny was actually a staffer for first lady pat nixon .
while we know that the easter bunny is always part of the current administration s staff , the rules forbid the bunny from revealing his or her identity , until now that is.9 .
ursula meese , wife of president reagan s attorney general edwin meese iii , was quite the peter rabbit of her time , as she performed as the white house bunny for six seasons .
it earned her the nickname the meester bunny .
and thanks to this unofficial twitter account , we know just who was under the fleece costume during the george w. bush administration as well .
today , he s traded in the long bunny ears for a suit and a podium , but there s no word yet if current press secretary sean spicer will be making a furry-tailed appearance again for this year s celebration.10 .
enter the sacred spoon in 1974 .
organizers were tasked with finding silverware for the first egg-rolling races , where children used spoons to push their eggs through the grass , down marked-off lanes.11 .
step right up : the circus came to town in 1977 .
president jimmy carter introduced a three-ring circus and menagerie , including a 1,200-pound steer named big red .
12 .
president ronald reagan , a superstar in his own right , brought a little hollywood to the white house event in 1981 .
not only did he and wife , nancy , present broadway show performances and the egg hunt pits , but they also had balloons from the macy s thanksgiving day parade floating in mid-air.13 .
the reagans were also the first to use wooden eggs at the easter egg hunt , which were signed by hollywood s elite , widely-recognized athletes , and notable politicians .
ever since , wooden eggs imprinted with the president and first lady s signatures are handed out as a small memento to children under 13 years old.14 .
by 2009 , the easter egg roll had become the hottest ticket in d.c .
so much so , an online lottery for tickets was established to give children from all around the country the opportunity to attend .
the lottery is held in march each year for three days only.15 .
sean spicer is the easter bunny ! what a guy ! via : southern living