pristina ( reuters ) - any move by kosovo to scrap a war crimes court linked to its independence struggle would seriously undermine relations with friendly western nations , its main backer the united states said on friday .
lawmakers from the governing coalition , who hold a majority , are pressing for a vote to abolish the court .
the vote was scheduled for later in the day but it failed twice due to opposition from other parties .
parliament speaker kadri veseli said parliament would continue to attempt to vote on the issue in the coming days .
isa mustafa , kosovo s former prime minister and an opposition leader , said the proposal was devastating for our state and very damaging for justice .
the specialist chamber was established in the hague in 2015 to bring to justice kosovo liberation army ( kla ) guerrillas alleged to have committed atrocities during the 1998-99 war that led to the country s secession from serbia .
it has yet to hear any cases .
prime minister ramush haradinaj , president hashim thaci and parliamentary speaker veseli are former kla commanders .
the court s judges and prosecutors are foreign but it has been set up under kosovan law , giving pristina jurisdiction over it .
calling for the parliamentary vote to be halted , u.s. ambassador greg delawie said it would have extraordinarily negative implications for kosovo .
it is just a disgrace , he told reporters in pristina .
this will be considered by the u.s. as stab in the back .
kosovo will be choosing isolation instead of cooperation .
there was no immediate response from kosovo officials to delawie s comments .
washington has been kosovo s leading political and financial backer since it declared independence in 2008 .
nataliya apostolova , the eu representative in pristina , called the attempt to scrap the court appalling and extremely damaging .
the court was set up following u.s. and european pressure on the government to confront alleged kla crimes against ethnic serbs .
according to kosovo media , the court could indict or call as witnesses some of current government officials .
it was set up in the netherlands to minimize the risk of witness intimidation and judicial corruption .
kosovo s war veterans association last week launched an initiative to hold a parliamentary debate to abolish the law that established the court .
they gathered 15,000 signatures , kosovo media reported .
nato air strikes on serbia forced belgrade to withdraw its troops from kosovo in 1999 , having killed around 10,000 albanian civilians .
nato has around 5,000 troops stationed in kosovo to keep a still fragile peace .
kosovo , which is 90 percent ethnic albanian and 5 percent serbian , is recognized by more than 110 mainly by western countries but not by serbia s key ally russia or china .