havana ( reuters ) - saul berenthal has waited for decades for a chance to do business in cuba .
despite the astonishing breakthroughs in u.s.-cuban relations under president barack obama , he must wait some more .
berenthal and business partner horace clemmons of alabama are close to becoming the first u.s. businessmen to manufacture in cuba with a plan to build low-cost tractors designed for cuban farms , largely run by private cooperatives .
their project has u.s. approval and cuba ’ s communist government has given positive signals about the proposed plant but has yet to bestow permission .
“ it ’ s a little bit of a test of loyalty .
are we willing to go through obstacles to achieve what we believe is a good thing for the cubans and ourselves ? ” said berenthal , who was born in cuba in 1944 and left for the united states as a student in 1960 , a year after fidel castro ’ s revolution .
after more than half a century of antagonism between the two countries , obama has redefined relations with cuba in the last 15 months , and cuba is changing .
but its leaders are wary of moving too quickly .
“ what is perceived on the outside as slow progress is really the way of cubans assuring themselves of the trust that is necessary to be built , ” berenthal said .
obama arrives in havana on sunday for a historic visit that seals a rapprochement he and cuban president raul castro agreed in december 2014 after 18 months of secret negotiations .
since then , havana has changed noticeably .
the number of u.s. visitors soared 77 percent in 2015 , swarming hotels and restaurants that have been booked to capacity .
obama this week issued sweeping regulations to promote even more u.s. travel and trade to cuba .
it was the fifth time he has used executive powers to boost ties with cuba , sidestepping the republican-controlled congress which has refused to lift a 54-year-old economic embargo against the island .
cuba ’ s government has yet to fully reciprocate .
cuba did agree to roaming deals with u.s. telecommunications operators and restoring scheduled commercial airline service , two deals that bring more revenue to the government .
when it comes to obama ’ s overtures to the cuba ’ s small but growing private sector , however , the government has been more deliberate .
it has yet to accept u.s. sales of farming equipment and construction materials to private businesses , which were authorized by obama .
market-style reforms , introduced by raul castro in 2011 to “ update ” cuba ’ s socialist model , have been implemented haltingly , even reversed in some areas .
the government recently attempted restoring price controls on fresh food markets in havana .
many traits of communism remain .
political dissent is repressed , commercial property can not be bought and sold and the government still controls imports and exports .
there is no wholesale market for most private enterprises , forcing shopkeepers to buy inventory at state retail prices or resort to trickery or the black market .
“ cuba has already changed , but needs more , ” said niuris higueras , owner of the atelier restaurant , one of the trendiest spots in havana ’ s dining scene .
she said business grew 50 percent over the past year .
“ we need to link up with the u.s. market , ” higueras said .
“ there needs to be more access to u.s. products here in cuba .
we need home depot , a walmart , a costco .
a restaurant depot would be fabulous. ” while the ice has been broken on commerce , castro insists there will be no change to one-party rule .
u.s.-backed dissidents are still detained for attempting unauthorized political demonstrations and opponents of obama ’ s opening to cuba say he has rewarded castro without receiving concessions in return .
the white house counters that helping stimulate a vibrant private sector is good for ordinary cubans and offers a more promising path toward political change than the decades-old policy of isolation .
while the date of dec. 17 , 2014 , marks the most significant turning point in u.s.-cuban relations , the obama policy that has so far had most impact on the lives of ordinary cubans was implemented in 2009 , just three months into his presidency .
it was then he ordered the lifting of travel restrictions on cuban-americans visiting relatives in cuba and the removal of limits on remittances to relatives on the island .
cuban-americans can now come and go freely and send as much money as they want to their families .
that has financed a boom in small businesses and home repairs and jolted the nascent real estate market .
castro ’ s own reforms have also helped grow the private sector .
today some 500,000 cubans , or 10 percent of the workforce , are registered to work in private businesses , including restaurants , car repair workshops , homes rented out to tourists , beauty parlors and english language schools .
some 70 percent of the 1-million-strong agricultural workforce is private with many cubans working on state farms that have converted into cooperatives and owning equal stakes in the business .
john kavulich , president of the u.s.-cuba trade and economic council , which has been tracking cuba for more than 20 years , says the changes have lifted expectations , especially inside the budding middle-class .
“ there is now additional pressure from within for structural changes to the ideological foundation of the country .
cuba must do more than reform the commercial and economic sectors of the country .
it must aggressively redefine the revolution , ” kavulich said .
while cuban dissidents and obama ’ s critics at home prioritize the issue of human rights , others are more concerned about economic growth and better living conditions .
“ no one is talking about the visit in terms of democracy , human rights or the opposition .
there is still no culture around freedom of expression , ” anaida gonzalez , a retired nurse in central camaguey province , said in a telephone interview .
“ people have too many problems in their daily lives .
what they want is for their lives to improve and they associate that with the embargo , ” she said .
most cubans live on state salaries that average $ 25 a month plus a monthly ration card that provides about a week ’ s worth of food and household supplies .
“ it would be a mistake to assume most cubans prioritize political questions and are scared to express themselves , ” said carlos alzugaray , a retired cuban diplomat and professor specializing in u.s.-cuban relations .
“ they hope to live better .
change , political and economic , is coming to cuba anyway , but on our own terms . ”