jeb bush just unofficially placed himself on team democrat potential gop presidential candidate jeb bush is calling on congress to confirm attorney general nominee loretta lynch , whose confirmation hearings took place in front of the senate judiciary committee in january .
in february , lynch was voted out of the committee and approved 12-8 .
due to the legislative schedule and fighting over bills already in motion , a full senate vote on her confirmation has not yet taken place .
more from politico : i think presidents have the right to pick their team , bush said , according to reports of his stop at the politics and pie forum in concord , new hampshire , on thursday night.a senate fight over a sex-trafficking bill that includes a controversial abortion provision has held up lynch s nomination for 160 days since obama announced his choice last nov. 8 , but minority leader sen. harry reid ( d-nev. ) is threatening to break protocol and force a vote on the senate floor .
if someone is supportive of the president s policies , whether you agree with them or not , there should be some deference to the executive , bush told reporters .
it should not always be partisan .
the attorney general isn t supposed to be supportive of the president s policies .
the attorney general is supposed to advise the president on constitutional matters and is responsible for ensuring the balance between the executive and legislative branches in maintained.during her confirmation hearings , lynch expressed support for president obama s executive amnesty and argued that anybody who is inside the united states , regardless of how they got here or what their legal status is , has a right to work .
i think the right and obligation to work is one that is shared by everyone in this country regardless of how they came here and certainly if someone is here , regardless of status , i would prefer that they be participating in the work place than not be participating , lynch said.https : //youtu.be/fbjsvejxlgosorry loretta , but we beg to differ : via : townhall