new york ( reuters ) - argentina will not increase defense spending , despite the loss of a submarine with 44 crew aboard that has sparked criticism of the state of its armed forces , a close ally of president mauricio macri said on friday .
argentina has given up hope of rescuing the crew of the ara san juan , which disappeared over two weeks ago in the south atlantic .
the tragedy underscored what some critics have described as the parlous state of the country s military , which has faced dwindling resources for years .
there were no plans to provide extra funding for the armed forces , said esteban bullrich , a former education minister under macri who is now a senator representing argentina s powerful buenos aires province .
we have to work within the constraints of our ( budget ) policy in general , we re not going to go out of our plan because of this incident , bullrich told reuters in an interview in new york .
there will be no change in argentina s 2018 budget allocation for defense , he said .
defense spending in the budget is lower than in the previous year in real terms .
it is the lowest in the region compared to gross domestic product , and the government has limited room for maneuver .
since macri took power in 2015 , the country has returned to international debt markets but investment has been slower than the government had hoped .
bullrich was in new york to attend a united nations event and meet with investors , as part of the government s charm offensive to convince them that argentina is open for business after over a decade of protectionist rule .
october s congressional elections - which saw sweeping victories for macri allies like bullrich - were a sign to investors that argentines want change , he said .
the vote was widely seen as a referendum on macri s government .
his market-oriented changes have not all been popular .
but government supporters say they are starting to benefit latin america s third largest economy .
although macri s coalition does not have a congressional majority , bullrich said he believed that opposition politicians were ready to work with the government .
we can pass ( reforms ) even with a minority , because senators realize this , we had huge support from argentinians in general , he said .
bullrich expressed confidence that key macri legislation on pensions , tax , and capital markets - as well as the 2018 budget - could be voted on before the end of 2017 .
yes it is ( tight ) .
but the thing is a lot of these reforms have been discussed in advance , and we re very open to changes , he said .