moscow ( reuters ) - russian opposition leader alexei navalny held a political rally on sunday , hours after being released from jail and pledged to continue his presidential campaign despite the authorities saying he is ineligible to stand .
navalny , a fierce critic of president vladimir putin , was detained by police in late september and sentenced to 20 days in jail on charges of repeatedly violating laws by organizing public meeting and rallies .
it was the third time he had been jailed this year , part of what he says is a pattern of kremlin harassment designed to thwart his political ambitions .
russia s central election commission has declared him ineligible to run for president next year due to a suspended prison sentence , which he says was politically-motivated .
shrugging off that ban , the 41-year-old lawyer held a campaign rally in the provincial town of astrakhan in southern russia on sunday evening , hours after walking free from jail .
he said after the rally he would continue to campaign and had the right to take part in next year s election .
we have more right to take part in the elections than all the other candidates combined , navalny wrote on his website .
putin , 65 , has for months declined to say whether he will run for what would be his fourth stint in the kremlin , but is widely expected to do so .
opinion polls suggest he would comfortably win .
one candidate who has declared her hand is tv personality ksenia sobchak who said last week she planned to run , offering liberal voters unhappy with putin s rule someone to back , though she has little prospect of winning .
some opposition activists fret she is a kremlin project designed to split the opposition , something she denies .
last month , commenting on rumors that sobchak would run , navalny complained she was being used by the kremlin as a safe lightning conductor for voters dissatisfaction .
but he struck a more conciliatory note on sunday with tv rain citing him as saying that everyone , including sobchak , had the right to take part in the march election .