nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s supreme court on monday upheld the re-election of president uhuru kenyatta in last month s repeat presidential vote , paving the way for him to be sworn in next week .
chief justice david maraga said all six judges dismissed the two legal challenges to the vote .
the opposition coalition nasa insisted the government was illegitimate .
kenyatta s main challenger , nasa s raila odinga , said via his adviser salim lone that the ruling did not come as a surprise and said it was a decision taken under duress .
we in nasa had repeatedly declared before this supreme court ruling today that we consider this government to be illegitimate and do not recognise it .
this position has not been changed by the court ruling , the statement said .
it referred to security concerns raised by the opposition about the judges after one of their bodyguards was shot the day before the court was to rule on a request to delay the vote .
the chief justice said at the time police had enhanced security after the shooting .
the court could not immediately be reached on monday to comment on nasa s allegation .
monday s ruling clears the way for kenyatta s swearing-in on nov. 28 , but it is unlikely to end the worst political crisis in east africa s most developed economy in a decade .
sporadic clashes erupted in pro-opposition areas after the ruling .
odinga had called for a national resistance movement after kenyatta s victory last month .
kenyatta had said he would not engage in dialogue with the opposition until constitutional options had been exhausted .
the prolonged election process has disrupted the economy and forced the government to cut its growth forecast .
rights groups say at least 66 people have died in bloodshed surrounding the votes in august and october .
the petitioners had argued that the outcome should be voided because the election board did not seek fresh nominations after the aug. 8 poll was invalidated , and because the vote was not held in each of the 291 constituencies .
the supreme court ordered the oct. 26 election after nullifying the results of the august election , citing irregularities in the tallying of votes - an unprecedented move on the continent .
the opposition boycotted the poll , which kenyatta won with 98 percent of the vote .
some opposition supporters mobilised to prevent polls from opening in the west of the country .
the court has unanimously determined that the petitions are not merited , chief justice maraga said .
as a consequence , the presidential election of 26th of october is hereby upheld .
the court did not detail its reasons .
it said it would issue a full judgment within 21 days .
the decision was met with applause in the courtroom from lawyers for the election commission and kenyatta .
the commission said the ruling affirmed its resolve and deliberate efforts to conduct free , fair and credible elections .
there was no immediate reaction from kenyatta .
kenya , a u.s. ally in the fight against islamists and a trade gateway to east africa , has a history of disputed elections .
a row over the 2007 poll , which odinga challenged after being declared loser , was followed by weeks of ethnic bloodshed that killed more than 1,200 people .
police said on sunday at least four people were killed overnight in a nairobi opposition stronghold .
[ l8n1np07p ] odinga accused the government of being behind the killings , which followed at least five deaths on friday as police tried to disperse opposition supporters .
deputy president william ruto said action would be taken against those inciting violence .
odinga put the death toll in violence since he returned to nairobi on friday from an overseas trip far higher , at 31 .
the police tally over the same period was nine .
in several areas of the capital , riots broke out on sunday in response to the deaths , as residents set cars and buses on fire and police responded with teargas .
outside the nairobi court , kenyatta supporters waved kenyan flags and danced , and celebrations broke out in the central city of nyeri , a ruling party stronghold , and other cities .
in the western , pro-opposition city of migori , protesters said one person was killed in skirmishes with the police after the court ruling .
migori county police commander joseph nthenge denied the report .
there were no deaths reported from kisumu , the largest city in western kenya and a hotbed of opposition support , although police and protesters also briefly clashed there too .
in the nairobi slum of kibera , residents said three people were killed on monday , including a 67-year-old woman and a young man , but there were conflicting reports of who was responsible for the violence .
police spokesman charles owino told reuters that he had no reports of deaths in the capital on monday .
in downtown nairobi , elvis kinyanjui , a vendor selling socks and watches , said he hoped next year business would be back to normal .
everyone is holding on to their shilling not knowing what tomorrow will be like , he said .
shares headed higher and the currency strengthened against the dollar after the ruling , traders said .
[ l8n1nq1ow ] the markets dropped sharply when the court nullified august s vote .