geneva ( reuters ) - a u.n. human rights investigator called on iran on thursday to resolve a prolonged hunger strike by prisoners protesting against their conditions of detention and abrupt transfer to a high-security section .
u.n. special rapporteur asma jahangir voiced concern about 53 prisoners , including 15 followers of the baha i faith , who have been transferred to a high-security section of rajai-shahr prison in karaj , west of tehran , over the past few weeks .
the bahai faith was founded in iran in the 19th century and activists say more than 300,000 adherents live in iran today .
iran s shi ite government considers the faith a heretical offshoot of islam .
i am deeply alarmed by reports about the deteriorating medical conditions of the prisoners on hunger strike , and that their torture and ill-treatment have continued since their transfer , jahangir said in a statement .
at least 18 of the 53 were known to be on the hunger strike , her office said .
iranian foreign ministry declined to comment .
exiled bahai leaders say hundreds of followers have been jailed and executed since the 1979 islamic revolution .
the iranian government denies it has detained or executed people for their religion .
jahangir said the prisoners were not allowed to take their belongings , including medicines , amid reports that they have also been deprived of adequate clothing , medical care and food .
depriving prisoners of having family contact , lawyers and adequate medical care is contrary to international law , she added .
i urge the government of iran to look for a prompt solution to the extreme situation created by the hunger strike through good faith dialogue about the grievances and underlying human rights violations , ensuring full respect for their dignity and autonomy , jahangir said .
the baha i international community , in a statement on aug. 16 , denounced the transfer as a harsh move .
not only are these baha is unjustly imprisoned because of their beliefs , they are now also subjected to added pressures and ill treatment without any justification but also in contradiction with iran s own laws , said diane ala i , the group s representative to the united nations in geneva .
about 95 baha is are imprisoned in iran , all of whom it said had been arrested solely because of their religious beliefs .