beijing ( reuters ) - president xi jinping of china is expected to place trusted allies in the communist party s key decision-making politburo during a leadership reshuffle at the 19th party congress this autumn , according to multiple chinese sources and foreign diplomats .
a key measure of xi s power will be how many of his allies are installed on the 25-member committee .
at least 10 politburo members are slated to retire due to an unwritten rule that politicians step down if they are 68 or older when they take on a new five-year term .
and the youngest politburo member , sun zhengcai , 53 , is out of the running .
he served as chongqing party boss before being put under investigation in july for disciplinary violations , communist party jargon for corruption .
the fate of the top corruption watchdog , wang qishan , 69 , is also the subject of widespread conjecture .
it is unclear if he will retain his seat in the elite seven-member politburo standing committee , despite his age , and therefore his spot on the wider politburo .
the state council information office , which doubles as the spokesman s office for the cabinet and party , declined to comment on politburo candidates when reached by telephone and fax .
possible newcomers to the politburo among xi s allies ( surnames in alphabetical order ) : cai qi , 61 , has enjoyed a meteoric rise under xi and is considered a shoo-in after he was named party boss of beijing in may , despite not being a full or alternate member of the wider central committee .
since 1987 , whoever holds the office of beijing party chief has also been a politburo member .
cai overlapped with xi during the future president s 17-year stint in the southeastern province of fujian , and in the eastern coastal province of zhejiang , where xi was party boss from 2002 to 2007 .
cai is a native of fujian .
chen miner , 56 , was seen to have performed strongly as the leader of guizhou province before being named party boss of the southwestern metropolis of chongqing on july 15 , replacing sun .
chen , a native of zhejiang , is also virtually assured of a seat in the politburo given his position in chongqing , the sources said .
chen is a dark horse candidate to catapult straight onto the standing committee .
chen quanguo , 61 , was promoted to party chief of the restive far-western region of xinjiang , bringing along with him the tough ethnic management policies he implemented at his previous post in tibet .
chen has never worked closely with xi .
chen xi , 64 this month , a native of fujian , is tipped to be promoted to minister of the party s organization department , overseeing the promotion and deployment of party officials .
he is currently vice-minister at the department .
chen shared a dormitory with xi when the two attended the prestigious tsinghua university in the late 1970s .
ding xuexiang , 55 this month , is likely to become director of the general office of the central committee .
he is currently no 2 in the general office , which oversees day-to-day operations of the politburo .
ding worked for xi when the latter was party boss in shanghai .
he lifeng , 62 , chairman of the cabinet s national development and reform commission , is a strong candidate to become one of five state councillors , a rank above cabinet minister but below vice premier .
if he is named one of four vice premiers next march , he would be a favorite for the politburo .
he worked in fujian from 1984 to 2009 , overlapping with xi , who was governor from 2000 to 2002 .
huang kunming , 60 , a native of fujian , is the front-runner to become the party s propaganda minister .
he is currently no 1 vice-minister .
he followed xi from fujian to zhejiang .
li hongzhong , 61 , is party secretary of the northern port city of tianjin .
he never worked under xi previously , but has been an ardent supporter of xi s policies .
li qiang , 58 , a native of zhejiang , is currently party boss of the eastern coastal province of jiangsu .
li was xi s right-hand man when xi was party boss of zhejiang .
li xi , 60 , currently party chief of the northeastern province of liaoning , is seen to be in line for promotion to head a bigger province .
he once worked in xi s home province , shaanxi , in china s northwest .
liu he , 65 , is xi s key economic advisor and a strong candidate to become a state councilor or vice premier .
when then-u.s. national security adviser tom donilon visited beijing in 2013 , xi introduced liu as very important to me , according to the wall street journal .
liu holds a master s degree in public administration from harvard university s kennedy school of government .
ma xingrui , 57 , was once the chief engineer of china s lunar program .
now the governor of guangdong province , he is one of two candidates for party secretary , the top post , in the booming southern region .
if successful , he would be assured of a politburo seat .
wang xiaohong , 60 , is a candidate to lead either the police or the national security apparatus .
he is currently a vice minister of public security and a vice mayor of beijing .
wang cut his teeth in his home province fujian , overlapping with xi .
xia baolong , 64 , once touted to take over as security tsar , stepped down as party boss of zhejiang province in april .
in a surprise move , he was sidelined to the no 2 position in parliament s environmental protection and resources conservation committee , which may hurt his chances to join the politburo .
xia , who ordered the tearing down of hundreds of church crosses in wenzhou city in 2015 , was xi s deputy in zhejiang .
ying yong , 59 , a native of zhejiang , is currently mayor of shanghai and a candidate to become party boss of the country s financial capital .
he worked under xi in zhejiang as deputy police chief , the no 2 corruption watchdog and an appeals court acting chief judge .
you quan , 63 , has been the communist party secretary of coastal fujian province since december 2012 .
a native of hebei province with a background in economics , he is a former chairman of the state electricity regulatory commission .
( in entry on cai qi , makes clear that since 1987 the beijing party chief office-holder , not cai himself , has also had a seat on the politburo )