21st century wire says on a recent episode of the sunday wire with patrick henningsen , guest basil valentine asked patrick for his analysis on the bernie sanders vs. hillary clinton primary race , and what ensued was a poignant discussion about a deeper issue voter and election fraud.ph : it s a tight race .
hillary has the edge on the super delegates , which is the most corrupt , un-democratic aspect of the democratic party .
bv : i m not sure it s it s very un-democratic and corrupt , i agree .
but i don t think it s the most corrupt .
the most corrupt is the vote fraud .
basil cites a new report about the recent michigan presidential primary , where its findings suggest that bernie sanders actually did better than the recorded vote share indicates.the author of the report , richard charnin , provides context not only for michigan primary results but for massachusetts results as well : this analysis indicates that sanders did much better than his recorded vote in the michigan primary .
sanders had 590,386 votes ( 49.8 % ) and clinton 570,948 ( 48.3 % ) .
sanders won in 73 of 83 mi counties with 56 % of the vote .
he won the preliminary exit poll by 52.1-45.9 % , a 97 % win probability .
clinton won urban counties wayne and oakland with approximately 55 % of the vote.clinton won the massachusetts primary by just 1.4 % , but she did well in urban areas .
sanders won hand-counted precincts by 57-40 % in 68 towns ( 32,360 votes , 2.7 % of votes cast ) .
sanders also had 52.1 % in the preliminary exit poll which he won by 52.1-45.7 % .
his win probability was also 97 % .
( see charnin s full report and statistical analysis here , including a breakdown of voting machine totals .
) charnin explains there are three key indicators to track in determining whether election fraud has occurred : cumulative vote shares , preliminary exit poll , absentee vote anomalies of course , you will not hear much about election fraud from the media their coverage focuses solely on the recorded vote at the end of the night , and the usual poli-tricks and propaganda mess with voters minds during their televised election coverage.will we see these same election fraud indicators in the florida , ohio , illinois , missouri and north carolina primaries ? read more 2016 news at : 21st century wire 2016 election files