this news should be enough to end hillary s obsession with becoming our next president .
the democrats may be willing to ignore all of her criminal and immoral activities , but are they willing to accept hillary and bill turning our white house into an assisted living facility ?
is hillary clinton fit to be president ? putting aside her various scandals and shoddy record as secretary of state , what about her health ?
is she physically up to the job ? in my new book , unlikeable : the problem with hillary , i devote five pages to hillary s health .
as far as i can tell , however , i am the only journalist who is interested in this important subject.given the immense stress and strain of being president , hillary s health is an issue that demands a thorough exploration.last july , hillary s longtime personal physician , dr. lisa bardack , released a short , two-page letter that appeared to give hillary a clean bill of health .
she does not smoke and drinks alcohol occasionally , bardack wrote .
she does not use illicit drugs or tobacco products .
she eats a diet rich in lean protein , vegetables and fruits .
she exercises regularly , including yoga , swimming , walking and weight training .
according to dr. bardack , hillary had completely recovered from the fainting spell , concussion and blood clot in her brain that she suffered while she was secretary of state.but dr. bardack s letter was hardly a detailed medical history .
according to sources close to bill and hillary clinton , the letter wasn t the full story then and it s not the full story now.to this day , hillary still suffers from many of the troubling symptoms that i wrote about in unlikeable : blinding headaches , exhaustion , insomnia , and a tremor in her hands .
as a precaution against the spectacle of fainting in public , which could easily doom her candidacy , hillary now travels with a personal physician on all her major campaign trips.there have been several incidents in which she has nearly collapsed .
for example , after her 11-hour testimony before the trey gowdy benghazi committee , hillary swooned as she walked to a waiting car .
she had to be supported in the arms of her aides and helped into the back seat.tension headaches continue to plague her and often make it hard for her to maintain her grueling schedule .
huma abedin , deputy chief of staff and her closest adviser , frequently orders campaign aides to alter hillary s schedule at the last moment so the candidate can catch her breath and take out time for naps .
this may explain why hillary is often as much as two hours late for a campaign appearance .
she no longer has the stamina for 18-hour campaign days that she was once capable of doing , said a source close to hillary.via : newsmax we all know that getting hillary to release her full medical records to the public is about as likely as hillary telling the truth about what happened in benghazi