washington ( reuters ) - the united states on thursday imposed sanctions on seven north korean individuals and three entities for flagrant human rights abuses , including killings , torture , forced labor and the hunting down of asylum seekers abroad .
today s sanctions target the north korean military and regime officials , u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said in a statement .
we also are targeting north korean financial facilitators who attempt to keep the regime afloat with foreign currency earned through forced labor operations .
among those sanctioned were the director and the deputy director of the military security command , the first vice minister of the ministry of people s security and the labor minister .
north korea s consul general in shenyang , china , and a diplomat at its embassy in vietnam were also sanctioned .
we are especially concerned with the north korean military , which operates as secret police , punishing all forms of dissent , the statement said .
further , the military operates outside of north korea to hunt down asylum seekers , and brutally detains and forcibly returns north korean citizens .
the treasury statement charged that ku sung sop , the consul general in shenyang , and kim min chol , the diplomat in vietnam , had participated in the forced repatriation of north korean asylum seekers .
scott busby , the u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state for democracy , human rights and labor , told a news briefing that ku s case had been raised with china .
he said it was up to china how to react , but the range of possibilities included expelling him from the country .
speaking in beijing , chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said china does not approve of countries using their own domestic law to enact unilateral sanctions outside of the united nations framework .
we will maintain normal exchanges and cooperation with north korea on the basis of complying with u.n. resolutions , he told a daily news briefing , without elaborating .
busby said north korean government violations included extrajudicial killings , torture , rape and forced abortions and the aim of the sanctions was to send a message , especially to prison camp managers and mid-level officials , that individuals would be held accountable .
the u.s. administration has sought to restrict the income north korea receives from its export of labor as part of efforts to choke off funds helping to finance the country s nuclear and missile programs , which pyongyang says are aimed at developing weapons capable of hitting the united states .
north korea routinely denies widespread allegations of rights abuses .
the treasury statement said the ch olhyo n overseas construction company , which was sanctioned along with the military security command and the external construction bureau , had operated in algeria and was reported to earn foreign currency for north korea .
employees of ch olhyo n are kept in slave-like conditions , including having salaries and passports withheld by ( north korean ) security officials assigned as site supervisors , meager food rations , poor living conditions , and severe restrictions on their freedom of movement , the treasury statement said .
it said the external construction bureau had operated in kuwait , oman , qatar , and the united arab emirates .