berlin ( reuters ) - turkey s decision to release a german human rights activist is a sign of improving relations between the two nato allies , foreign minister sigmar gabriel said on thursday , adding that germany wanted all its citizens detained in turkish prisons freed .
peter steudtner , who was released on wednesday night , was one of about a dozen german or turkish-german citizens arrested in turkey in recent months , souring relations that had deteriorated over german criticism of mass arrests in turkey after a failed coup last year .
steudtner arrived back in berlin on thursday evening and was escorted off the plane by german police , fellow passengers told reuters .
this is the first sign of a thaw , as turkey has fulfilled all its commitments ( in the case of steudtner ) , gabriel told der spiegel magazine , adding that former chancellor gerhard schroeder had mediated to secure his release .
spiegel had reported that schroeder flew to turkey on sept. 25 to discuss the issue of german detainees with president tayyip erdogan .
now we have to work on the release of the other detainees , gabriel added .
eleven german citizens are still in detention in turkey , including four with turkish-german dual citizenship .
relations between the two allies deteriorated after erdogan launched a crackdown on political opponents after a failed coup last year .
germany has criticized mass arrests and refused to extradite people turkey says were involved in the plot .
relations with turkey are a contentious issue in talks on forming a coalition government that chancellor angela merkel s conservative bloc is holding with two other parties after she lost support in an election last month .
in a televised debate with her main opponent before the election , merkel said she would seek an end to turkey s accession talks with the european union .
this hard position is backed by the christian social union ( csu ) , the bavarian sister party of her christian democrats ( cdu ) , but opposed by the greens , who along with liberal free democrats are seeking a coalition with the conservatives .