perhaps if one of her children or a close relative was sexually abused by a pedophile , she may not be so generous with her assessment of these criminals margo kaplan is not very popular today .
in the monday edition of the new york times , the rutgers-camden law professor , an nyu and harvard graduate , takes to the op-ed pages to argue that we ve got it all wrong when it comes to pedophilia .
she writes that pedophiles don t necessarily turn out to be child molesters and that pedophilia is not a choice , i.e .
a pedophile might be born that way .
we reached her in her office in camden to discuss.you really lit up the comments section of the op-ed page today .
yes , but i have to be honest .
i am getting more emails of support than i ever expected .
i m shocked .
i expected to get maybe 95 % negative emails , but i ve gotten so many positive ones .
the online comments , though , are pretty uniformly negative , and a lot of people haven t even read the article.i know your pain .
who are you getting these positive emails from ? a lot of people i don t even know .
there s a former prosecutor , a judge , a nurse .
individuals with family members who have pedophilia.how much of the population has pedophilia ? we re not entirely sure , but the estimates are around one-percent of the male population , and those in the female population are assumed to be much smaller .
as far as the number of people with pedophilia who do sex offend and who do not , there are a lot of assumptions but very little data , because we have very little treatment , very little information.why is that ? there is so much stigma .
there is very little reason to come forth and identify as a pedophile .
there are no large scale studies , no large treatment programs , no big research studies on this .
i contacted the national institutes of health , and they don t spend any money on pedophilia.but you are basically saying , hey , let s take it easy on pedophiles .
well , but i am not saying that about sex offenders .
i say that they remain responsible for their conduct .
we need to treat pedophiles before they offend .
people see the word pedophile and think sex offender .
people choose to sex offend children .
they do not choose to be pedophiles.since you say there are so many misconceptions , why don t you tell us what a pedophile really is.a person with an intense and recurrent sexual attraction to prepubescent children , children who have not yet entered any form of puberty .
and according to the dsm [ diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders ] , it constitutes a mental disorder when you act on it , but not just that .
it also constitutes a mental disorder if it causes marked distress or interpersonal difficulty , and , as you can imagine , pedophilia will cause this.in your article , you open by saying that as a pedophile s numerical age increases into teenage years and then adulthood , the numerical age of those he is attracted to does not .
are most pedophiles really starting that young ? for many individuals , it is really an onset in adolescence , similar to how many sexual attractions happen .
individuals who are heterosexual , you realize you are attracted to the opposite sex when you are a kid .
for a pedophile , you get older , but you keep being attracted to little kids , and many people start to realize this during adolescence .
so imagine trying to deal with that during adolescence in addition to the other confusing feelings that you re having.if america is totally off course on this issue , is there any country that is getting it right ?
we re not that unique .
but germany is ahead of the curve .
they have a large scale treatment program called prevention project dunkenfeld , which is probably the first large scale treatment project that also includes non-offenders .
they have billboards everywhere : do you have attraction to children in ways that you shouldn t ?
you are not responsible for your attraction , but you are responsible for your behavior .
ok , so as a guy with two young kids , how do i protect them ?
there s no easy answer to that , but you want to protect them from sex offenders .
most people who offend are not actually pedophiles .
it s interesting : when you talk about pedophiles , people think about the children .
and they re right .
but what about the children who are struggling with this disorder ?
we need to help them , too.but you can understand if maybe i ll just try to keep them away from pedophiles anyway .
i can understand that .
we need to prevent pedophiles from sexually offending and to do that , we need to refocus on early intervention , treatment and prevention .
it s not always going to work .
no treatment of any mental disorder will always work .
depression treatment , schizophrenia treatment they don t always work .
but we don t throw our hands into the air and wait until the consequences of those conditions become bad before we do something .
with pedophiles , we ve already thrown our hands into the air .
we should not be taking this tactic .
the dire consequences only make it more important that we reach out and treat early.via : phillymag.com