cnn anchor carol costello acts like she s never heard about the lying that came from hillary clinton when clinton told patricia smith that she d get to the bottom of what happened to mrs. smith s son in benghazi .
was ms. costello unaware or was she playing dumb ?
we ll probably never know but the press has been covering for the obama administration on benghazi since day one .
the cover-up is real and it s happening from the press on up to the white house .
the bottom line is that mrs. smith is correct and screaming it from the rooftops as any mom would for their child .
it s so shameful and sad that once again politics comes before doing the right thing with obama and clinton .
both scumbags who left americans to die in benghazi cnn newsroom host carol costello was taken aback when patricia smith revealed in conversation that she actually didn t know much about what happened to her son despite the fact that the benghazi attack occurred three years ago .
smith responded in kind , claiming that although clinton promised to get back to her following her son s funeral ceremony in washington , d.c. , no one had since contacted her on the matter .
she has not called me .
she has not contacted me .
she has not given me any information , she said , except to tell me that i am not a member of the immediate family and i do not need to know .
they told you that ?
an obviously surprised costello asked.as alarming at smith s claims were , however , she really let her feelings be known when costello played a clip from clinton s testimony in january 2013 .
at the time , clinton said that it was their job to figure out what happened and do everything [ they could ] to prevent it from happening again .
smith s response ?
she s lying !
she s absolutely lying !
the frustrated , bereaved mother of sean smith went on to repeat her claim that despite being the mother of the fallen diplomat she wasn t told anything after the funeral ceremony because they didn t consider her a member of the immediate family .
i saw on tv the bloody fingerprints on the walls over there .
i asked specifically , are those my son s fingerprints crawling down the walls ?
she cried .
somebody s got to tell me !
clinton previously spoke with smith during a town hall event in june 2014 .
despite the direct address , however , the grieving mother later expressed her frustration with clinton and demanded the truth.via : mediate