dublin ( reuters ) - ireland will not threaten to use a veto on brexit talks at this stage over the lack of progress on the irish border as dublin is in a very strong position with all eu member states behind it , prime minister leo varadkar said on sunday .
brussels wants three issues broadly solved before it decides in december whether talks can move on to a second phase about trade : the exit bill , safeguarding expatriate rights and the border between ireland and northern ireland , which will be the uk s only land frontier with the eu after its departure .
after the latest round of negotiations this week , ireland said there was still a way to go between the two teams on the border before moving on to trade , raising the possibility that dublin could block the sides advancing if it is not satisfied .
the question is very much a hypothetical one , we don t know if ireland will be the only outstanding issue in december .
what i m not going to do at this stage , i m not going to make ultimatums or threaten to use a veto , varadkar told irish national broadcaster rte .
the one thing we ve managed to do in the 18 months since the ( brexit ) referendum is to totally align ourselves with all 27 member states .
from berlin to bucharest , they re all behind us , and that puts us in a very strong position .
the irish government has called on britain to do more than simply promise that a hard border will not return between it and northern ireland , which until a 1998 peace deal was separated by military checkpoints due to 30 years of sectarian violence in the british province .
varadkar said on friday that the best way to achieve this was by maintaining the same regulations on both sides of the border , adding that this did not amount to a demand that any part of the uk remain in the eu customs union .
varadkar had sounded a positive note earlier in the week when he said it was likely enough progress would be made by the december 14-15 summit of eu leaders to give a green light .
i think the december deadline can be met , i think it is possible to move on to phase two of the talks .
we want to do that , he told ireland s newstalk radio station in a separate interview on sunday .
but we can t do that until we ve sorted out the phase one issues that are particular to ireland and if we can t sort it out by december , so be it , we ll go into the new year .