beirut ( reuters ) - a lebanese taxi driver with a previous arrest for drug use has confessed to killing a british woman who worked at the british embassy in beirut , a senior lebanese security official said on monday .
a second security source said preliminary investigations into the murder of rebecca dykes showed the motive was purely criminal , not political .
the suspect , who worked for the uber [ uber.ul ] taxi service , had immediately confessed to the crime , which took place early on saturday , the source said .
the senior security official said the suspect was 41 years old and had been arrested on drug-related charges in the period 2015-17 , which the official said might not show up on his judicial record .
the second security source said the suspect had a criminal record but gave no details .
lebanon s state news agency nna identified the suspect by the first name tariq and the initial h , and said he had picked dykes up in his taxi in beirut s gemmayzeh district on friday evening before assaulting and killing her .
uber declined to confirm the suspect s name or how long he had been driving for the service .
the incident was the latest to highlight the issue of safety at uber in various countries around the world .
we are horrified by this senseless act of violence .
our hearts are with the victim and her family , said uber spokesman harry porter .
we are working with authorities to assist their investigation in any way we can .
porter said the company uses commercially licensed taxi drivers in lebanon , and the government carries out background checks and grants licenses .
only drivers that have clean background checks and clean judicial records are licensed , he said .
the suspect s background check did not show any convictions , or he would not have been licensed , porter said .
police traced the suspect s car through highway surveillance cameras , they said .
police only said they had arrested a suspect and that it was not a political crime .
dykes , who was strangled , was found by a main highway outside beirut , a security source said on sunday .
she worked at the british embassy for the department for international development .
the whole embassy is deeply shocked , saddened by this news , britain s ambassador to lebanon , hugo shorter , said on sunday .
we are devastated by the loss of our beloved rebecca , dykes family said in a statement .
we are doing all we can to understand what happened .
in september , san francisco-based uber was stripped of its operating license in london over concerns about its approach to reporting serious criminal offences and background checks on drivers .
in india , the company was sued twice by a woman who was raped in 2014 by an uber driver , first for failing to maintain basic safety procedures and again alleging executives improperly obtained her medical records .
the uber driver was convicted of the rape and sentenced in 2015 to life in prison .
uber settled the first lawsuit and has agreed to settle the second .
in brazil , a company policy of accepting cash payments for rides made drivers the target of robbery and murder .
following a reuters investigation , uber in february rolled out new safety requirements , including requiring new cash users to register with a social security number .
and in houston , texas , a 2016 city investigation found that uber s background checks were so insufficient the company cleared drivers with criminal histories including murder , assault and 17 other crimes .
uber is facing a host of problems , including allegations of sexual harassment , data privacy violations and a lawsuit and criminal investigation over alleged trade-secrets theft .
new chief executive officer dara khosrowshahi , who replaced co-founder travis kalanick in august , has been critical of past practices and vowed a new era of compliance .
the company is in the midst of a stock sale in which softbank group will take a stake in the company ahead of an anticipated 2019 initial public offering .