sevnica , slovenia ( reuters ) - if melania trump succeeds michelle obama as first lady , she may trace her road to the white house back to 1987 and a chance encounter in the capital of her native slovenia .
“ i was leaving a fashion show in ljubljana and saw her in front of the building .
she was probably waiting for a friend , ” said slovenian photographer stane jerko .
“ she was tall and slim so she caught my eye and i approached her and suggested that she come in for a trial photo shoot. ” jerko says the resulting black-and-white pictures of the 17-year-old known then as melanija knavs – round face , bare feet , hair in a ponytail – launched a career that would take her to milan and the united states , where she met donald trump at a party in new york in 1998 .
though not quite a tale of rags to riches , the lifestyle she leads as the third wife of the billionaire businessman is a far cry from her roots in slovenia , a tiny former yugoslav republic of 2 million people comparable in size to new jersey and nestled below the julian alps between italy , croatia , austria and hungary .
residents of the small town of sevnica in southeastern slovenia , where melania grew up on the banks of the river sava , say her father sold car parts and that her mother worked for a factory that made children ’ s clothing .
she was often seen sewing late into the evening at home .
some media reports have said her father was a member of the then ruling communist party , like many other people in socialist yugoslavia , but reuters could not independently confirm this .
the trump campaign team offered reuters a different account of her childhood and career , saying melania began modelling at the age of five , that her mother was a fashion designer and her father a manager in a car company .
“ her father was never a member of the communist party , ” a spokesperson said .
since taking a gilded escalator with her husband at his fifth avenue trump tower skyscraper in june last year when he announced his decision to run for president , melania has adopted a low profile in his campaign for the republican party nomination .
she does not appear at his rallies , where trump occasionally brings out his children instead , though he rarely fails to mention her .
“ when i saw whom she married i noticed a number of similarities between donald trump and melanija ’ s father , ” said mirjana jelancic , who said she was a childhood friend of melania .
“ they have similar features and behaviour and are both hard workers .
i think she met a soul mate in him , someone she can feel safe with. ” the knavs family lived in an apartment block , moving when melania was a teenager to a modest two-storey house above the sava on the outskirts of sevnica , where a well-maintained medieval castle sits on a hill overlooking the town of some 4,500 people .
melania ’ s parents still live in the house , which has a small garden and a few fruit trees , though they spent a lot of time in the united states , where melania ’ s sister ines also lives .
the house was empty when reuters reporters visited and repeated phone calls went unanswered .
jelancic recalled melania as a model student keen on the arts , geography and history .
“ she loved reading .
she always carried books with her , ” said jelancic .
“ i also remember she had wall bars at home and trained regularly to keep her body in shape. ” “ melanija liked beautiful clothes and knew how to wear them , ” said jelancic , now headmistress at melania ’ s former elementary school .
“ she liked to give them a personal touch by redesigning them and was very good at upgrading old things .
it was clear she would work in fashion though she never said that she wanted to be a model. ” “ i remember her telling me how she can not wait to go to ljubljana where she attended a high school for design .
she had a wish to see the world. ” it was in ljubljana that she was discovered and began modelling full-time , coming second place in a 1992 national beauty pageant the year after slovenia declared independence from yugoslavia and fought a ten-day war to strike out alone .
“ she was shy at first but learnt quickly and showed great interest in every detail of the shoot , ” said jerko .
“ she was like a sleeping chrysalis that transformed into a glamorous butterfly , ” he gushed .
the future mrs trump did not look back , changing her name to the more easily pronounceable melania knauss .
no one in sevnica spoken to by reuters recalled having seen her there in recent years .
she did , however , donate an ambulance to the local health clinic to celebrate the birth of her son , barron , in 2006 , a year after marrying trump , 24 years her senior .
some speculated that the town might receive another donation or more publicity if trump wins the presidency .
those reuters spoke to would not be drawn on his politics , which are stridently anti-immigration .
jerko , a youthful 78 years-old with short grey hair and beard , still keeps a file with melania ’ s pictures and measurements .
“ i ’ m sure she would be happy if her husband became u.s. president .
i think she is very proud of his achievements and i believe i had something to do with where she is today . ”