new delhi ( reuters ) - a dozen arab ambassadors have asked india to clarify its position on the u.s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , diplomatic sources said , after new delhi s muted response suggested a shift in support for the palestinian cause .
u.s. president donald trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
countries around the world , including u.s. allies britain and france , criticized trump s decision , but india did not take sides .
instead , the indian foreign ministry in a brief statement , said india s position was consistent and independent of any third party .
the bland statement made no reference to jerusalem and prompted criticism at home that it was insufficient , vague and anti-palestinian .
israel maintains that all of jerusalem is its capital .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a future independent state and say trump s move has left them marginalized and jeopardized any hopes of a two-state solution .
last week , envoys from arab states including saudi arabia , egypt and kuwait based in new delhi met indian junior foreign minister m.j. akbar to brief the government about an arab league meeting on dec. 9 condemning the u.s. decision , a diplomatic and an indian government source said .
the envoys also sought a more forthright indian response , the sources said .
but akbar gave no assurance and the indian source said the government had no plans for a further articulation on jerusalem , which is at the heart of the israeli-palestinian conflict .
akbar did not promise anything , the diplomatic source briefed on the meeting said , speaking on the condition of anonymity because of diplomatic sensitivities .
india was one of the earliest and vocal champions of the palestinian cause during the days it was leading the non-aligned movement while it quietly pursued ties with israel .
but under prime minister narendra modi , new delhi has moved to a more open relationship with israel , lifting the curtain on thriving military ties and also homeland security cooperation .
modi s hindu nationalist ruling group views israel and india as bound together in a common fight against islamist militancy and long called for a public embrace of israel .
modi in july made a first trip to israel by an indian prime minister and did not go to ramallah , the headquarters of the palestinian authority and a customary stop for leaders trying to maintain a balance in political ties .
p.r .
kumaraswamy , a leading indian expert on ties with israel at new delhi s jawaharlal nehru university , said a major shift on india s policy had been evident since early this year when palestinian president mahmoud abbas visited new delhi .
with the palestinian president standing by his side , prime minister modi reiterated india s support for palestinian statehood but carefully avoided any direct reference to east jerusalem , he said .
for decades , india s support for a palestinian state was accompanied by an explicit reference to east jerusalem being the palestinian capital .
but delhi has moved to a more balanced position , refusing to take sides in an explosive dispute , he said .
during the meeting last week , the ambassadors of saudi arabia , egypt , somalia and the palestinian authority spoke , the diplomatic source said .
besides the dozen envoys there were charges d affaires from several other countries in the region .
they were expecting more from india , perhaps to denounce israel and the u.s. said former indian ambassador to jordan and anil trigunayat .
but would it really make a difference , adding one more voice ?