new york ( reuters ) - florida attorney general pam bondi said on thursday her office had received 45 complaints of inflated prices at chevron corp branded gasoline stations in the southern part of the state , as shortages worsened ahead of hurricane irma s expected u.s. landfall this weekend .
more than 1,800 gas stations - more than a quarter of the state s total - were without fuel late thursday , up from 1,200 wednesday , ahead of irma , which is battering the caribbean with winds at speeds of around 185 miles per hour ( 300 km per hour ) .
the storm is expected to hit florida on sunday .
gasoline prices in florida have risen sharply in the last week , with the average cost of a regular gallon of gas hitting $ 2.725 on thursday , according to motorists advocacy group aaa .
suppliers and terminal operators said demand has soared as motorists in coastal areas flee .
shortages were more acute in southern florida , according to gasbuddy.com .
more than 40 percent of stations in the miami-fort lauderdale area were without fuel and around 30 percent were empty in the west palm beach-fort pierce areas , said patrick dehaan of gasbuddy.com .
so chevron , if you re watching me right now , you need to call us and tell us why your prices are inflated in south florida , bondi said on fox news .
chevron has said several times this week it has no tolerance for price gouging at its stations .
no retail outlets in florida are directly owned by the company .
the company reiterated that on thursday , saying consumers should report price gouging to bondi s office .
our fuel supply agreements with independently owned chevron and texaco stations in the state and elsewhere require them to comply with all laws , spokesman braden reddall said in a statement .
port everglades , the major point of fuel delivery for south florida , is set to close friday evening .
at tampa bay , three ships made deliveries thursday morning , unloading 1.2 million gallons each , said samara sodos , a spokeswoman for the port , adding that the port received five deliveries on wednesday .
one terminal operator , speaking on condition of anonymity , said his terminal typically loaded 25,000 to 30,000 barrels a day onto trucks every day , and expected to hit 40,000 to 45,000 on thursday .
concerns about shortages spread beyond florida as caribbean fuel terminals closed and residents began evacuating other coastal u.s. states , including georgia , south carolina and north carolina .
georgia said on thursday it will close its ports friday night because of irma .