jerusalem ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu said on sunday that a draft bill that sets limits on police investigators should be revised so it does not apply to criminal probes in which he is a suspect .
the proposed legislation , which has sparked protests in israel , would prohibit the police from publicizing whether they have found sufficient grounds to charge a suspect .
critics say the bill is an attempt to protect netanyahu and keep the public in the dark regarding ongoing investigations in which he is a suspect , but its supporters said it is intended to protect suspects legal rights and reputations .
some 20,000 israelis demonstrated against the bill in tel aviv on saturday and , as public pressure mounted , support among coalition members for the bill began to wane on sunday , a day before parliament was expected to ratify it .
for the debate on the bill to be topical and not be used for political propaganda , i have asked ... that ( it ) be worded so that it does not cover the ongoing investigations in my matters , netanyahu wrote on his facebook page .
with ratification of the legislation delayed , he said he had told the bill s proponent , david amsalem , a lawmaker from his own right-wing likud party , that it had become a political battering ram against the government .
but in justifying the legislation , netanyahu said : the bill is intended to prevent publication of police recommendations which would leave a cloud over innocent people , something that happens every day .
netanyahu is a suspect in two cases .
in one , he is alleged to have meddled in the media industry and the other concerns gifts he received from wealthy businessmen .
he denies any wrongdoing .
but , if charged , he would come under heavy pressure to resign or he could call an election to test whether he still has a mandate to govern .
netanyahu has in the past said he had no interest in promoting personal legislation but he also did not order the bill s sponsors , amsalem , and david bitan , another likud confidant , to withdraw it .
netanyahu has described himself as a victim of a political witch hunt and said he will be cleared .
there will be nothing because there is nothing , he has said repeatedly .
( this story removes extraneous text from first paragraph )