washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama nominated veteran appellate court judge merrick garland to the supreme court on wednesday , setting up political showdown with senate republicans who have vowed to block any obama nominee .
following is a selection of reaction to the decision : “ the american people may well elect a president who decides to nominate judge garland for senate consideration .
the next president may also nominate someone very different .
either way , our view is this : give the people a voice in the filling of this vacancy. ” “ if merrick garland can ’ t get bipartisan support no one can .
... we hope the saner heads in the republican party will prevail on ( u.s .
senator ) chuck grassley and ( senate majority leader ) mitch mcconnell to do their job and hold hearings so america can make its own judgment as to whether merrick garland belongs on the court. ” paul ryan , house of representatives speaker , the top elected u.s. republican : “ this has never been about who the nominee is .
it is about a basic principle .
under our constitution , the president has every right to make this nomination , and the senate has every right not to confirm a nominee. ” orrin hatch , republican u.s .
senator of utah : “ everybody i know who works with him thinks highly of him , but i do think it ought to be put off .
this is a toxic environment right now .
it ’ s terrible .
and i ’ ve been through enough of these where i ’ m sick of the way the court is treated .
and this would be just another one. ” susan collins , republican u.s .
senator of maine : “ judge garland is a capable and accomplished jurist .
the white house has requested that i meet with him , and i look forward to doing so , as has been my practice with all supreme court nominees. ” “ evaluating and confirming a justice to sit on this nation ’ s highest court should not be an exercise in political brinkmanship and partisan posturing .
it is a serious obligation ... that obligation does not depend on the party affiliation of a sitting president , nor does the constitution make an exception to that duty in an election year. ” “ judge garland has the experience and the legal acumen to serve on the highest court in the land .
...
the american people expect judge merrick garland to be given a fair hearing and a timely vote. ” “ when americans head to the polls in a few short months , they will have a unique opportunity to determine the direction of the court – president obama is doing a disservice to voters with this attempt to tip the balance of the court with a liberal justice in the eleventh hour of his presidency. ” “ we are in the midst of a highly-charged presidential election that is less than eight months away , and this lifetime appointment could reshape the supreme court for generations .
i believe the best thing for the country is to trust the american people and allow them to weigh in on this issue. ” “ his ( garland ’ s ) impeccable credentials , steadfast fidelity to the law and firm devotion to the public interest make him an outstanding choice to sit on our nation ’ s highest court , where i am certain he will serve with integrity and wisdom. ” “ the senate ’ s constitutionally defined role to provide advice and consent is as important as the president ’ s role in proposing a nominee , and i will assess judge merrick garland based on his record and qualifications. ” “ i look forward to evaluating merrick garland ’ s qualifications to be a justice on the supreme court .
senators have a constitutional obligation to advise and consent on a nominee to fill this supreme court vacancy and , simply put , we have a responsibility to do our jobs as elected officials .
“ should merrick garland be nominated again by the next president , i would be happy to carefully consider his nomination. ” debbie wasserman-schultz , democratic national committee chairwoman : “ justice garland has earned the support of republicans and democrats alike since 1997 .
i urge senate republican leader mitch mcconnell and senate judiciary chairman chuck grassley to fulfill their constitutional duties , hold hearings , and quickly bring this nominee up for a vote , the exact same thing called for in 2008 when president bush nominated judges that were then confirmed by a democratic senate . ”