new york ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton courted the critical black vote on tuesday as she met with civil rights leaders in new york and promised in a speech to tackle “ very real barriers ” confronting african-americans .
clinton is seeking to maintain her lead among black voters over u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , her rival for the democratic nomination for the nov. 8 election to succeed democrat barack obama , the first black u.s. president .
the clinton campaign said last week : “ it will be very difficult , if not impossible , for a democrat to win the nomination without strong levels of support among african-american and hispanic voters. ” clinton ’ s status as the democratic front-runner was jolted this month when the former secretary of state beat sanders by less than a percentage point in iowa ’ s caucuses and lost to him by more than 20 points in the new hampshire primary .
more than 90 percent of people in those states are white .
clinton met for more than two hours on tuesday with a half-dozen civil rights leaders at the new york headquarters of the national urban league .
“ i thought that the secretary demonstrated an ease and familiarity with many of the issues we discussed this morning , ” national urban league president marc morial said afterward .
the rev .
al sharpton joked with clinton in the corridors afterward , suggesting to reporters he had told her which candidate he would endorse .
“ my lips are sealed ! ” clinton , who did not take any media questions , replied with a smile .
at a news conference later , sharpton said clinton was “ candid and open , ” but he added he had yet to decide who to support and that no candidate should take the support of black voters for granted .
“ we are not a monolithic people , ” he said .
clinton ’ s campaign team has argued that sanders ’ growing support among democrats will likely falter as voting for a party nominee moves to more racially diverse states in the coming weeks .
both clinton and her husband , former president bill clinton , have traditionally had solid support from blacks , a key component of the democratic electorate .
opinion polls show clinton with a strong lead over sanders in south carolina , where blacks are likely to make up more than half the voters in the state ’ s democratic primary on feb. 27 .
sanders has said clinton ’ s polling lead among blacks is partly a result of her being more famous than he is .
he believes many non-white voters will be drawn to his message of fighting economic inequality as they get to know him .
he is scheduled to meet with civil rights leaders in washington on thursday .
later on tuesday , clinton , a former u.s. senator from new york , gave a speech in the historically black new york city neighborhood of harlem on breaking down the barriers that black families face .
she was joined onstage before her remarks by new york democratic governor andrew cuomo , new york city mayor bill de blasio and eric holder , the first black u.s. attorney general .
“ there are still very real barriers holding back african-americans from fully participating in our economy and our society , ” clinton said , citing disparities between blacks and whites in earnings , health and criminal sentencing .
she said that if elected , she would spend $ 2 billion to encourage public school districts with a high number of troubled students to hire social workers and other experts to help young people before they get entangled in the criminal justice system .
sanders , who frequently decries the country ’ s high incarceration rate , also met with sharpton earlier this month , and was endorsed by benjamin jealous , former president of the national association for the advancement of colored people , who said he could not support clinton in part because of her support of the death penalty .
clinton was endorsed last week by the congressional black caucus political action committee , which said clinton had a long history of working on issues that affect black americans .
( reporting by jonathan allen ; editing by frances kerry and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .