london/bratislava ( reuters ) - britain is accelerating preparations for all eventualities when it leaves the european union , but both sides are hopeful an agreement on stepping up talks to unravel more than 40 years of partnership will be sealed soon .
with only 17 months remaining until britain s expected departure , the slow pace of talks has increased the possibility of it leaving without a deal , alarming business leaders who say time is running out for them to make investment decisions .
british and eu negotiators met in brussels on tuesday and agreed to hold further divorce talks on nov.9-10 .
the pressure has spurred the british government to step up its brexit plans , employing thousands more workers and spending millions to make sure customs posts , laws and systems work on day one of brexit , even without a deal on a future relationship .
at a meeting with her ministers on tuesday , prime minister theresa may was updated on plans for the tax and customs authority to add a further 3,000-5,000 workers next year and for spending of 500 million pounds ( $ 660.45 million ) for brexit .
alongside the negotiations in brussels , it is crucial that we are putting our own domestic preparations in place so that we are ready at the point that we leave the eu , may s spokesman told reporters .
the preparatory work has seen a significant acceleration in recent months .
departments are preparing detailed delivery plans for each of the around 300 programs underway across government .
may wants to silence critics in her ruling conservative party who are pressing her to walk away from talks , which have faltered over how much britain should pay to leave the bloc , and also to step up the negotiations .
brexit campaigners are demanding that britain leave with no deal if the talks do not move on beyond a discussion of the divorce settlement on a so-called brexit bill , eu citizens rights and the border with eu member ireland by december .
brexit minister david davis said on tuesday he believed britain would agree some kind of basic deal with the european union , even in the very improbable eventuality that they failed to agree a trade deal .
eu chief negotiator michel barnier reaffirmed his message in the slovak capital bratislava that he was ready to speed up negotiations .
we have clearly proposed three ( different dates ) for new rounds .
in the next few hours or days we ll be working with british delegations to find the right dates because we need to work in a very intense way to find this agreement before december , barnier told reporters , in comments that supported sterling .
the agenda for the new round of negotiations will be fixed within hours or days .
may s government has also long said it would welcome an acceleration in the talks .
after a top-level meeting in brussels on oct.19-20 , barnier has proposed three more negotiating rounds before the end of the year .
london prefers continued negotiations .
what does continuous negotiations mean , we don t know exactly .
we are ready to accelerate but we must have something to talk about .
we are very happy to increase the number of times we meet , said an eu official .
before leaving the eu , may faces a struggle to get parliamentary support for a law to sever political , financial and legal ties with the bloc - the eu withdrawal bill , for which lawmakers have proposed hundreds of amendments .
asked whether may was preparing to offer a concession over a final vote on any deal struck with the eu , her spokesman said there was lots of speculation in relation to brexit .
we ve always said that we ll do whatever is necessary , he said .