beirut ( reuters ) - syria s army and its allies , spearheaded by lebanon s hezbollah , captured islamic state s last stronghold in syria on wednesday , a commander in the alliance said , bringing the self-declared caliphate close to complete downfall .
the last stronghold of daesh ( islamic state ) , albu kamal , is free of the daesh organization , said the commander in the military alliance supporting syrian president bashar al-assad .
islamic state has been all but destroyed over the past two years .
at the height of its power in 2015 , it ruled an expanse of iraq and syria , eradicating the border , printing money , imposing draconian laws and plotting attacks across the world .
on wednesday , after a months-long advance through central and eastern syria , the syrian army and allied shi ite militias encircled and attacked albu kamal .
hezbollah was the foundation in the battle of albu kamal , said the commander , adding that hundreds of the elite forces of the iran-backed shi ite group took part in the battle .
syrian state television declared albu kamal is liberated .
but a war monitor , the britain-based syrian observatory for human rights , said it was not true that albu kamal was taken and there was still fighting in the area .
albu kamal is located on the border with iraq on the bank of the euphrates .
during the battle , hezbollah forces entered iraq and the iraqi popular mobilisation forces crossed into syria to help capture the town , the commander said .
islamic state retains control over some areas of desert and villages nearby , as well as a town and some other villages in adjacent areas of iraq , and in scattered pockets elsewhere in both countries .
despite its losses , islamic state still has a territorial presence in libya and elsewhere , and many governments expect it to remain a threat even after it loses the caliphate it declared from mosul , iraq , in 2014 .
it has already carried out guerrilla operations in both iraq and in syria , and has continued to inspire lone militants to attack civilian targets in the west .
in syria , the end of major operations against islamic state may only prefigure a new phase of the war , as the rival forces which have seized territory from the jihadists square off .
the syrian army , alongside hezbollah and other shi ite militias , and backed by iran and russia , have seized swathes of central and eastern syria in the advance against islamic state this year .
russian official media have in recent weeks reported a surge of strategic bombing and cruise missile strikes on islamic state targets in eastern syria as the army advanced .
a u.s.-backed coalition has supported a rival campaign by the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias that have pushed islamic state from much of the country s north and east .
the syrian government has sworn to recapture territory held by the sdf , including islamic state s former capital raqqa and oil and gas fields east of the euphrates .
in areas controlled by the sdf in northern syria , kurdish-led groups have established autonomy , announcing elections and setting internal policies .
on tuesday , bouthaina shaaban , a senior adviser to assad , described the u.s. forces aiding the sdf as illegal invaders .
washington has not spelled out how its military support for the sdf would evolve after islamic state s defeat .
shaaban also pointed , in a television interview , to the example of iraq , where the government retaliated against an autonomous kurdish region after it held an independence referendum .
iraqi military officials say small groups of islamic state militants are still entrenched in the town of rawa and the border desert strip with syria .
scattered villages near al-qaim , close to albu kamal , are still under militant control in an area called rummana .
the iraqi popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , an alliance of militias , earlier on wednesday denied it had crossed the syrian border and was attacking albu kamal .
our movements are carried out under orders from the commander in chief of the armed forces and our key objective is to liberate iraq s territories from daesh .
we have no orders to cross the borders , pmf spokesman ahmed al-asadi said .