nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s education minister said on monday that arson was to blame for a weekend blaze that killed nine pupils at a girls boarding school , part of a rising trend of deliberate school fires .
it was not an accident , it was arson , minister fred matiang i said of the fire on saturday at moi girls school in nairobi .
the kenya red cross said on its twitter feed there had been three other school fires reported in different parts of the country on monday .
many of the fires were set by students protesting harsh discipline , poor teaching and corruption , said canadian elizabeth cooper , assistant professor of international studies at simon fraser university , who spent four years researching the subject .
students she interviewed complained about poor food , scarce teaching materials , harsh teachers , and management that ignored their concerns .
many compared their schools to prison and said they destroyed their schools so they could go home .
in one case , boys had drained water tanks and cut phone lines before setting fire to their principal s car and pushing it into his home .
they were angry that he had been collecting money from their parents for three years for a school bus , but had not bought it .
if a pupil needed hospital treatment , the principal drove them himself and charged the family , she said .
in another case , girls smeared butter on their curtains and beds before setting them alight , cooper said .
fires peak just before exams and mock exams .
the students always say , no one listens to our concerns .
around 350 kenyan schools caught fire from 2015 to 2016 , according to the government .
this compared , according to one academic source , with 76 fires from 2011 to 2013 .
it was not clear how many fires were deliberate .
numbers for 2014 were not available .
cooper said some schools set on fire have dismissed their principals afterward .
there have been few successful prosecutions .
kenya frequently sees deadly protests , including after the presidential elections held last month .
cooper said students sometimes cited violent protests by slum residents or university students that successfully publicized their causes , and sought to emulate them .
students learn that authorities don t respond until they present a threat , she said .
it s one way for voiceless citizens to be heard .
but matiang i said some arson attacks were also related to fights over staff appointments in schools , where senior positions can bring financial rewards .
some of the fires we have faced before in the sector are related to that kind of thing , politicization of school headship , politicization of responsibility in the education sector .
it is not right , he said in a televised press conference .
kenya is east africa s largest economy but unemployment is high and corruption is rife , making life difficult for many ordinary people .
control of a school can mean not just a government salary but an opportunity to extort extra money from students and parents in fees or other charges .