amman ( reuters ) - a state security court in jordan on monday sentenced one syrian militant to death and handed life sentences to three others for their role in a suicide bombing attack on a jordanian military border post that killed seven guards last year .
military judge colonel mohammad al-afif said the men , in their early twenties , were involved in helping the islamic state militant group stage the suicide bombing that shook the kingdom in june last year .
afif said the four had provided photos and intelligence about the jordanian military post to an islamic state leader in the former de facto capital of the militants , raqqa in syria .
the islamic state leader then sent the suicide bomber .
the military outpost was located a few hundred meters away from rukban camp in a no-man s land where thousands of syrian refugees were stranded and near where the frontiers of iraq , syria and jordan meet .
the court found the four , who were residents of the camp , guilty of abetting terrorist acts that led to the death of human beings and other charges of committing terrorist acts using automatic weapons .
a fifth defendant was acquitted .
they had all pleaded not guilty when the trial began last march .
officials said at the time the suicide bomber drove an explosive laden car at full speed from behind a berm and evaded troops to reach the jordanian post and detonate his car .
the blast , for which islamic state claimed responsibility a few days later , also left 15 soldiers wounded , officials said .
the area was later declared a closed military zone and the incident disrupted aid to tens of thousands of syrian refugees .
jordan , which has kept tight control of its frontier with syria since the outbreak of war in its neighbor , is a partner in a u.s.-led coalition fighting militants in syria and iraq , and has been the target of attacks before .
tens of thousands of syrian refugees fleeing violence and russian air strikes in the eastern homs desert had sought shelter at rukban , a remote desert camp .
king abdullah had said there were militants among them and jordan refused to allow them to enter on security grounds .