athens ( reuters ) - a greek court on monday ordered the detention of nine turkish citizens pending trial for terrorism-related offences , including links to a banned militant group behind a series of suicide bombings in turkey .
greek police arrested the eight men and one woman in dawn raids in central athens last week .
officials say there is no link between the arrests and a planned state visit by president tayyip erdogan to greece , the first by a turkish head of state in 65 years , on dec. 7-8 .
greek police are investigating the suspects alleged links to the leftist dhkp/c , a far-left group blamed for a string of attacks and suicide bombings in turkey since 1990 .
the nine suspects have been charged with setting up and belonging to a criminal organization , terrorist-related acts of supplying explosive materials , and with illegal possession of firearms , smoke bombs and fire crackers , court officials said .
they said the suspects had denied the charges in a statement that also read : solidarity with people who are fighting for their rights and freedom is not terrorism .
their lawyers said the defendants had not been fully briefed on the case against them and that the charges were vague .
police have released the names and photographs of the suspects , who are aged between 20 and 64 .
one of the detainees had been wanted by greek police in connection with an arms and explosives haul off the greek island of chios , close to the turkish coast , in 2013 .
under greek law , individuals can be held pending trial for up to 18 months .
some of the defendants will apply for asylum in the meantime , their lawyers said .
based on greek legal practice , an investigating magistrate will now take over the investigation and a judicial council will finally decide if there is enough evidence to proceed to trial .
greece and turkey , though nato allies , have often been at loggerheads over issues including aegean territorial rights and the ethnically divided island of cyprus .