london ( reuters ) - two of britain s most senior officers said the pressure on the police forces was not sustainable after last week s attack on a packed london train became the fifth major attack this year .
fewer officers could make it harder to prevent future attacks and it will force difficult choices about where to put police resources , they said .
a homemade bomb engulfed a train carriage in flames at parsons green underground station in west london last friday injuring 30 .
cressida dick , london s police commissioner , said it could have been much worse .
britain had previously faced four deadly incidents since march which killed a total of 36 people .
in the long run , if we continue with this level of threat , which is what people are predicting ... this is not sustainable for my police service , dick said in an interview on lbc radio .
six men have been arrested and four remain in custody since the parsons green attack .
that was a very very dangerous bomb .
it partially detonated , it had a large quantity of explosive and it was packed with shrapnel .
so it could have been so much worse , dick said .
while the bombing at parsons green was not deadly , the aftermath of the attack still saw extra police on the streets and the threat level raised a notch to critical .
interior minister amber rudd has announced an extra 24 million pounds ( $ 32.55 million ) of funding for counter-terrorism policing following the bombing , in addition to 707 million previously announced support for 2017/2018 .
but while the government has committed to increase the overall spend on counter-terrorism by 3 billion pounds , sara thornton , head of national police chiefs council ( npcc ) , said that not enough of the budget would support frontline officers .
there are about 20,000 fewer officers than there were when prime minister theresa may s conservatives came to power in 2010 and thornton said numbers were at levels last seen in 1985 despite a 10 percent rise in crime last year .
every time there s a terror attack , we mobilize specialist officers and staff to respond but the majority of the officers and staff responding come from mainstream policing , she wrote in a blog post on the npcc website .
this puts extra strain on an already stretched service .