sandringham , england ( reuters ) - britain s queen elizabeth praised the resilience of london and manchester after appalling attacks , in a christmas message that also paid tribute to her husband , prince philip , who retired from regular royal duties this year .
the powerful identities of the capital and the northern english city had shone through after militant attacks as well as a devastating fire that destroyed the residential tower block grenfell tower in london , the queen said .
the 91 year-old monarch , whose televised address is an essential part of a traditional christmas in britain , said it had been a privilege to visit victims of the bomb attack at a pop concert in manchester , as she was able to witness the bravery and resilience of survivors first-hand .
on the 60th anniversary of her first televised christmas address , elizabeth said her reflections on the year had made her grateful for the blessings of home and family , and praised her husband and his unique sense of humor .
the 96-year-old prince , also known as the duke of edinburgh , has been at the queen s side throughout her 65 years on the throne , and has often grabbed the headlines with his off-color comments .
elizabeth , the world s longest reigning monarch , celebrated her platinum wedding anniversary in november .
philip retired from regular royal duties over the summer having carried out more than 22,000 solo engagements .
i don t know that anyone had invented the term platinum for a 70th wedding anniversary when i was born .
you weren t expected to be around that long , she said .
even prince philip has decided it s time to slow down a little having , as he economically put it , done his bit .
but i know his support and unique sense of humor will remain as strong as ever .
philip has continued to make occasional appearances , and joined other members of the royal family at a christmas day church service on their country estate in sandringham .
also joining them for the service was prince harry s fiancee meghan markle who is spending christmas with the royals .
the american actress wore a distinctive brown hat as she arrived alongside the queen s grandson harry , his elder brother william and his wife kate .
as they left , both couples briefly chatted to some well-wishers who had gathered to glimpse the royals on christmas morning .
the queen , who missed last year s service with a heavy cold , said in her address that she was looking forward to welcoming new members into the royal family next year .
as well as markle , who will marry harry in may , kate is expecting a third child .
the royal christmas broadcast dates back to king george v in 1932 when it was on the radio .
it was first televised in 1957 .