here s just one of many discussions of assassinating trump ontwitter : here s a sweet little girl on twitter who appears to be hispanic with a vile anti-trump message , showing a picture of a bloodied and body-less trump head that appears to be sitting on a bed : even this writer , who allegedly works for the guardian was openly calling for trump s assassination : here s a touching story about an 11 year old boy who was beaten by his classmates after he admitted to voting for trump in a mock-election at school : https : //twitter.com/pamela_moore13/status/796883706950676480and unbelievably , the media weighs in on the fear that pro-hillary americans are feeling right now.that 's strange , harry reid , because all i 've seen over the last 48 hours is trump supporters being violently attacked .
pic.twitter.com/gdrp9gptca paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 11 , 2016in his victory speech early wednesday morning , donald trump pledged that he will be president for all americans , and he asked those who did not support him for your guidance and your help so that we can work together and unify our great country .
here s some guidance right off the bat , mr. president-elect : those sentiments will have more force if you immediately and unequivocally repudiate the outpouring of racist , sexist , xenophobic , anti-semitic and homophobic insults , threats and attacks being associated with your name .
do this in a personal plea to people who supported your candidacy .
tell them this is not what you stand for , nor is it what your new administration will tolerate.explicit expressions of bigotry and hatred by trump supporters were common throughout the campaign , and they have become even more intense since his election .
on a department-store window in philadelphia , vandals spray-painted sieg heil 2016 and mr. trump s name written with a swastika .
in a minnesota high-school bathroom , vandals scrawled the trump campaign slogan , make america great again , and next to it , go back to africa .
there are many more reports pouring in of verbal and physical harassment of muslims , latinos and other members of minorities .
though not all are verifiable , the atmosphere of intimidation and fear is unquestionably real and will keep growing .
mr. trump may not be able to stop it by himself , but he must do everything he can.the problem , of course , is that mr. trump s campaign was based on appeals some explicit , some coded to racial and ethnic resentment and division .
his followers heard it starting with his speech declaring his candidacy , warning of mexican immigrant rapists , continuing to a rally last weekend where he promised to bar all syrian refugees because they will import generations of terrorism , extremism and radicalism into your schools and throughout your communities .
these statements emboldened and even encouraged those who have been looking for a license to lash out against immigrants , refugees , minorities and anyone else they find threatening .
they take his victory as vindication of their feelings.here are paid protesters and anarchists destroying public property and fighting with each other .
men are openly punching women as other women beg them to stop .
but this is probably trump s fault .
he should just come out and denounce the hate against him and they ll all go home to their parents basements .right ? smashing an electrical box with a baseball bat while dozens of people stand nearby.the alt-left in action .
# trumpriot pic.twitter.com/gx2pwsewgw paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) november 11 , 2016and finally , from the nyt s : as a candidate , mr. trump could get away with ignoring racist and sexist abuse by his supporters .
but as the president-elect , he has the moral duty to reject it in the most aggressive terms .
there should be no space in american political discourse for violent or abusive behavior .
and that includes , of course , acts of vandalism and other violence by anti-trump demonstrators .