don t believe the polls .
they are created in such a way ( many by hillary operatives or supporters ) to discourage voters from turning out to vote on nov. 8th .
if america is to defeat the massive voter fraud by democrats that we ve been witnessing on undercover videos and reading in newspapers , we need to win by a large margin .
it s not enough for us to get to the polls and vote , we need to encourage everyone we know to do the same .
hillary will have no problem accepting a win in the upcoming election whether or not the result is legal or legitimate is of no concern to crooked hillary ann coulter warned in her book slander in 2003 that the far left main stream media always uses polls to push their agenda .
polls can be skewed by selecting an unreasonable sample size , by asking lead up questions or by selecting more of a sample population of one side of an issue to achieve a desired result.main stream media skews polls to discourage potential voters from voting and has done it for years.a good example of the media trying to shape a vote was in 1980 .
in a gallup poll released on october 26th in 1980 , two weeks before the election , jimmy carter was leading ronald reagan 47 39 .
two weeks later reagan won in such a landslide that carter conceded before california was closed.another example of mainstream liberal media bias was in 1988 .
a gallup poll from july 26 showed michael s. dukakis leading george h. w. bush by 17 points .
of course bush went on to thump dukakis in the general election.this past week a number of polls show hillary clinton leading donald trump by various margins .
one poll last week reported by nbc/wsj showed hillary ahead by 11 .
however , 100percentfedup.com pointed out that nbc/wsj didn t mention that the poll was created by a hillary super pac.it s also well known that the monmouth university poll is run by a hillary huckster who recently was caught manipulating a poll and then lied about it.realclearpolitics.com takes an average of these distorted polls to come up with their analysis of the current race .
their efforts are a great example of the phrase garbage in garbage out .expert analysiswith all the liberal distortions and dishonesty we decided to have a small team of actuarial and statistics professionals take a look at a couple of the recent polls to get their take on the reliability of these polls .
they selected the recent fox poll from october 14 showing hillary up by 7 and the wsj/nbc poll from october 16 showing hillary with an 11 point lead.the first observation is that both polls are heavily skewed towards democrats .
at a high level , the fox poll consists of 43 dems to 36 reps to 21 other while the nbc poll shows 44 dems to 37 reps to 19 other.by selecting more dems the polls are designed to provide a dem result.our experts next analyzed the data and calculated results using the same data from the two surveys on a split of 40 dems , 40 reps and 20 other .
the results show that using either sets of data trump comes out ahead with a larger margin of victory using the fox data.clearly the polls using data that is heavily weighted towards democrat voters is incorrectly skewed.this year republicans crushed their previous record in the primaries for number of votes by 150 % .
their old record was 20 million and this year 31 million voted in the primaries.the democrats on the other hand had 7 million votes less than their record year in 2008 with 30 million this year compared to 37 million in 2008.also , the primaries were heavily contested on both sides resulting in factions from each party vowing not to vote for the party candidate .
the impact of these two groups is difficult to judge .
the percentage of these voters that change parties is probably limited .
if anything , the sanders people will probably be more likely to vote for trump since he is an outsider and many of them will never vote for crooked hillary.finally , it is difficult to determine what the independent voters will do but many independent voters partook in the primaries to vote for trump .
therefore it is more likely that independent voters vote for trump as well.if more democratic voters vote for trump than republicans vote for hillary and more independents vote for trump than hillary , both scenarios which are highly likely , then the results of the general election will likely be a trump landslide.via : gateway pundit