paris ( reuters ) - france won t let the official base of the european union s parliament be moved from strasbourg to brussels , the country s european affairs minister nathalie loiseau said on sunday .
strasbourg must remain the seat of european democracy .
it s also the symbol of franco-german reconciliation , she said on france 3 television .
it is often said that europe comes down to the brussels bubble .
europe needs to be closer to its regions , she added .
members of the european parliament ( meps ) convene in strasbourg for one week every month and in brussels for the remainder .
the monthly upheaval costs the bloc 114 million euros ( $ 124 million ) a year , eu auditors say .
critics have long called for the arrangement to be scrapped , but it has stayed in place largely because france would have vetoed any attempt to make the required amendment to the eu treaty .
some lawmakers had hoped the election victory of pro-eu president emmanuel macron could help plans to close the base in the french city .
on brexit negotiations , loiseau said there were positive noises ahead of a summit in brussels set to decide whether enough progress has been made on the first phase of negotiations to move on to talks about a post-brexit trade relationship .
but she said france remained vigilant on the issue of the land border with ireland .
it s a red line which was drawn by the 27 member states and by the united kingdom , accepted by them , she said .
loiseau also said france was waiting for conclusions from the eurostat statistics agency on whether the reimbursements it is due to make to companies after a dividend tax was canceled by courts should be all included in its 2017 accounts .
that would scupper the french government s plans to bring its budget deficit below the eu-mandated 3 percent in 2017 .
in all logic , there is no reason to attribute the whole 10 billion euros to 2017 .
that s what we explained , we are waiting for eurostat answers , she said .
loiseau , a career diplomat , also said she was disappointed by germany s decision to vote in favor of clearing the use of weedkiller glyphosate for the next five years earlier this week .