bangkok/cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - rohingya insurgents declared a month-long unilateral ceasefire , starting on sunday , to enable aid groups to help ease a humanitarian crisis in northwest myanmar .
nearly 300,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh and 30,000 non-muslim civilians have been displaced inside myanmar after the military launched a counter-offensive following attacks by the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) insurgents on 30 police posts and an army base on aug. 25 .
arsa strongly encourages all concerned humanitarian actors resume their humanitarian assistance to all victims of the humanitarian crisis , irrespective of ethnic or religious background during the ceasefire period , arsa said in a statement .
the impact of the move is unclear .
the group does not appear to have been able to put up significant resistance against the military force unleashed in myanmar s northwestern rakhine state .
in the last two weeks , thousands of homes have been burned down , dozens of villages uprooted and thousands of people are still on the move toward the border with bangladesh .
the wave of hungry and traumatized refugees pouring into bangladesh has strained aid agencies and local communities already helping hundreds of thousands displaced by previous waves of violence in myanmar .
in its statement , arsa called on the military to also lay down arms and allow humanitarian aid to all affected people .
myanmar says its security forces are carrying out clearance operations to defend against arsa , which the government has declared a terrorist organization .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and rakhine buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
on friday , the united nations in bangladesh found tens of thousands of refugees who had not been counted before , raising the count to 270,000 from some 164,000 the day before .
on saturday , that jumped by another 20,000 to 290,000 .
on saturday , thousands of rohingya were milling on the road near the camp of kutapalong , carrying bamboo and tarpaulin to build shacks .
children and women flocked to every stopping vehicle , begging .
aid workers say a serious humanitarian crisis is also unfolding on the myanmar side of the border .
red cross organizations are scaling up their operations in rakhine after the united nations had to suspend activities there following government suggestions that its agency had supported the insurgents .
the united nations evacuated non-critical staff from the area .
thousands of displaced people in rakhine have been stranded or left without food for weeks .
many are still trying to cross mountains , dense bush and rice fields to reach bangladesh .
the u.n. and ingos have not been very welcome in rakhine and ... they are not able to operate and ensure the safety and security of their staff and volunteers , said joy singhal of the international federation of red cross and red crescent societies ( ifrc ) .
the government had invited the red cross to assist them , he said .
aid workers worry many rohingya had been left without food since mid-july , when the world food programme ( wfp ) , which had been providing food and cash assistance , was unable to operate .
the government said it would set up camps for internally displaced people in rakhine but the move could draw opposition from u.n. humanitarian experts .
( this story corrects to change she to he in 14th paragraph )