nairobi ( reuters ) - a french it company that supplied the electronic system used in kenya s nullified election last month has told the election commission its technology will not be ready to use again by the oct. 17 date set for a re-run of the vote .
the statement presents a hurdle for the commission .
it could threaten the timing of the election that president uhuru kenyatta , whose win on aug. 8 win was canceled by the supreme court , will contest against opposition leader raila odinga .
when the supreme court nullified the results of the presidential election citing irregularities , it ordered a new poll within 60 days .
the commission then declared oct. 17 as the date for the re-run .
in a letter from paris-based ot-morpho to the election commission , the company said the two electronic systems it supplied for the vote would have to be reinstalled for the re-run .
this represents a very significant amount of work , which can not be secured by october 17 , said the letter dated sept. 18 and seen by reuters .
ot-morpho provided 45,000 tablets for identifying voters using biometric technology and the system used to transmit results counted at polling stations as well as a photograph of the paper sheet from each station .
delays in transmission of the tally sheets was an irregularity raised by the opposition in its petition to the supreme court .
the court has not released its full verdict but has said it will do so by thursday .
a spokesman for the company confirmed the letter was accurate .
andrew limo , a spokesman for the election board , said he was aware of the letter and the board met on monday to discuss it .
earlier in the day , he told reuters that changing the date ( of the election re-run ) is a last resort strategy .
the date of the new poll has been a source of tension between kenyatta and odinga .
kenyatta and his ruling jubilee party have said the re-run should be held on oct. 17 as scheduled by the commission , while the opposition is threatening to boycott the new poll if its demands for the sacking of key election officials are not met .