nothing like political cronyism to make your stomach churn .
especially since it s for a scumbag like teddy who rode the coattails of the american taxpayers his entire life .
could they not raise the funds from private donors ?
i guess not it s a shame for all the hardworking taxpayers out there who ponied up without even having a choice in the matter.over half of the funding for the edward m. kennedy institute for the united states senate came from taxpayer dollars , half of that from defense budget.it was supposed to be all private money but alas even in death teddy kennedy has found a way to take from the american taxpayer .
that the money is going to his own self aggrandizement would have pleased him .
that the money came from defense would have pleased him even more.the new york times writes : here s an unstated lesson : it pays to have friends running the appropriations committee .
more than $ 18 million of the $ 38 million in public funds for the center was funneled through the defense appropriations subcommittee , a powerful panel once run by other senate powerhouses who have died in recent years : senators daniel k. inouye , democrat of hawaii , and ted stevens , republican of alaska but one would think people would be lining up to throw cash at the project given how great kennedy was .
couldn t the kennedy clan pony up the dough ?
or maybe just house the memorial in the basement of the hyannis port estate ?
but why have the family or friends of the kennedys pay for teddy s monument when one can get the taxpayers to do it ? and this from newsmax : president obama , vice president biden , secretary of state john kerry and sen. elizabeth warren will all gather to praise the edward m. kennedy institute for the united states senate .
much will be said about kennedy s 46-year record in the u.s. senate , nothing about various scandals that ranged from chappaquiddick to his attempts to have the soviets intervene in the 1984 presidential election against ronald reagan .
boston herald columnist howie carr points out that the insititute was supposed to be paid for exclusively with private donations .
but it should come as no surprise that the gorgeous 40,000-square-foot building that will house kennedy s papers and memorabilia as well as a recreation of his personal office and the senate chamber was financed with a generous $ 38 million congressional earmark .
the state of massachusetts chipped in with another $ 5 million for education infrastructure.read more : newsmax