geneva ( reuters ) - more than 33,000 migrants have died at sea trying to reach european shores since 2000 , making the mediterranean by far the world s deadliest border , the united nations migration agency said on friday .
after record arrivals from 2014 to 2016 , the european union s deal with turkey to stop arrivals to greece and blocks on migrants inside libya and off its coast have greatly reduced the flow , the international organization for migration ( iom ) said .
professor philippe fargues of the european university institute in florence , author of the report , said the figures probably underestimated the actual scale of the human tragedy .
the report states that at least 33,761 migrants were reported to have died or gone missing in the mediterranean between the year 2000 to 2017 .
this number is as of june 30 , iom s jorge galindo told a geneva news briefing .
it concludes that europe s mediterranean border is by far the world s deadliest , he said .
so far this year some 161,000 migrants and refugees have arrived in europe by sea , about 75 percent of them landing in italy with the rest in greece , cyprus and spain , according to iom figures .
nearly 3,000 others are dead or missing , it said .
shutting the shorter and less dangerous routes can open longer and more dangerous routes , thus increasing the likelihood of dying at sea , fargues said .
the report said : cooperation with turkey to stem irregular flows is now being replicated with libya , the main country of departure of migrants smuggled along the central route ; however , such an approach is not only morally reprehensible but likely to be unsuccessful , given the context of extremely poor governance , instability and political fragmentation in libya .
though sea arrivals to italy are down almost a third this year , this week there was a surge in rescues and attempted crossings .
on friday , libya s eu-backed coastguard intercepted more than 600 mainly sub-saharan african migrants , including many women and children , from a total of five boats that had left from the coast east of the libyan capital , tripoli , coast guard officials said .
on wednesday and thursday , italy s coast guard said some 1,600 migrants were rescued from nearly 20 vessels in the central mediterranean .
libya s u.n.-backed government said on thursday it was investigating reports of african migrants being sold as slaves and promised to bring the perpetrators to justice .
footage broadcast by cnn appearing to show african migrants being traded in libya sparked an international outcry and protests in europe and africa .