caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela systematically abused anti-government protesters this year , two rights groups said on wednesday , including through beatings , firing tear gas canisters in closed areas and forcing detainees to eat food tainted with excrement .
unpopular leftist president nicolas maduro faced four months of near-daily protests asking for early elections , humanitarian aid to combat food and medicine shortages , respect for the opposition-led congress , and freedom for jailed activists .
demonstrators say heavy-handed national guard soldiers clamped down on their right to protest , while maduro says his administration faced a u.s.-backed armed insurgency .
more than 120 people died in the unrest , with victims including demonstrators , government supporters , security officials , and bystanders .
in a joint report , new york-based human rights watch and venezuela-based penal forum documented 88 cases between april and september , from excessive use of force during marches to protest against arbitrary detentions .
around 5,400 people were detained , with at least 757 prosecuted in military courts , the report said .
the widespread vicious abuses against government opponents in venezuela , including egregious cases of torture , and the absolute impunity for the attackers suggests government responsibility at the highest levels , said chilean lawyer jose miguel vivanco , americas director at human rights watch .
venezuela s information ministry did not respond to a request for comment .
in one case cited , intelligence agents allegedly hanged a 34-year-old government critic from the ceiling and gave him electric shocks as they interrogated him .
the man , whose name was not revealed , was ultimately released and left venezuela .
in another case , a 32-year-old detained during a protest in carabobo state was allegedly beaten for hours by national guard soldiers who also threatened to rape his daughter .
he said officials also fired tear gas into his cell .
others interviewed recounted being handcuffed to a metal bench , hit with sticks , and witnessing a man being raped with a broomstick .
at least 15 detainees in carabobo said officials forced them to eat human excrement mixed in with uncooked pasta .
the government failed to acknowledge such violations , the report said , adding that instead officials often downplayed the abuses or issued implausible , blanket denials .
maduro s government says human rights watch is in league with a washington-funded conspiracy to sabotage socialism in latin america .
rights activists are in league with the opposition and compliant foreign media , officials say , and downplay opposition violence , including setting a man on fire during a demonstration and targeting police with explosives .
the two rights groups said there were cases of protesters hurling rocks and molotov cocktails at security forces , but that abuses by authorities went far beyond attempts to quell unrest .