if we had a real president who wasn t spending all of his time acting as the behind-the-scenes leader of the black lives matter movement , encouraging his members to keep up the fight , this nightmare would not be happening a kansas city , kansas police captain has been shot and reported killed tuesday afternoon.according to police , officers responded to a shots fired call at 1:33 p.m. at second and edgerton.the caller said multiple people were shooting at him from a vehicle .
officers arrived at the scene at 1:37 p.m. , and the suspects fled from the vehicle .
an officer took one person into custody .
as melton pursued the other suspects and made contact with one of them at 1:57 p.m. , multiple shots were fired , and melton was hit.melton was taken to a hospital at 2:22 p.m. and was pronounced dead at 2:55 p.m.authorities said he was wearing a bullet-resistant vest .
kctv5police continue to search for the other suspects .
via : kshbupdate : police are searching the area for others who were involved .
one person is in custody.police have blocked off 18th street north of parallel until 24th street in their search for suspects.police swarmed the area with dozens of officers , some with rifles .
several police were taking cover behind cars at 16th and quindaro by 2:30 p.m. a woman at a house there came out of a home with her hands up .
several officers were kneeling down in the street with their guns drawn toward the home .
it was unknown what connection the house has to the shooting.the woman who came out walked up to an officer who was holding a ballistic shield .
she stood and talked with the officers .
then she walked away from the officers about 10 feet away toward the home and appeared to be yelling to someone in the house .
she told police an 8-year-old and 3-year-old in the home.about 45 minutes later , two small children came out of the house and went to the woman .
police moved them out of the way.next door to the house , just to the south side of quindaro just east of 16th street , is a vacant lot .
a dozen officers were clustered at the first house next to the lot .
officers were still crouched behind car in front of the and there were officers stationed at building to the west of the house.about 3:08 , a swat team approached the house behind ballistic shields .
they entered the house .
about 3:34 p.m. the officers left the house without anyone .
a car was towed from the scene.read more here : kansascity.com