rancho mirage , calif. ( reuters ) - following is the full text of remarks from president barack obama on saturday on the death of u.s. supreme court justice antonin scalia .
the president : good evening , everybody .
for almost 30 years , justice antonin ‘ nino ’ scalia was a larger-than-life presence on the bench - a brilliant legal mind with an energetic style , incisive wit , and colorful opinions .
he influenced a generation of judges , lawyers , and students , and profoundly shaped the legal landscape .
he will no doubt be remembered as one of the most consequential judges and thinkers to serve on the supreme court .
justice scalia dedicated his life to the cornerstone of our democracy : the rule of law .
tonight , we honor his extraordinary service to our nation and remember one of the towering legal figures of our time .
antonin scalia was born in trenton , new jersey to an italian immigrant family .
after graduating from georgetown university and harvard law school , he worked at a law firm and taught law before entering a life of public service .
he rose from assistant attorney general for the office of legal counsel to judge on the d.c .
circuit court , to associate justice of the supreme court .
a devout catholic , he was the proud father of nine children and grandfather to many loving grandchildren .
justice scalia was both an avid hunter and an opera lover - a passion for music that he shared with his dear colleague and friend , justice ruth bader ginsberg .
michelle and i were proud to welcome him to the white house , including in 2012 for a state dinner for prime minister david cameron .
and tonight , we join his fellow justices in mourning this remarkable man .
obviously , today is a time to remember justice scalia ’ s legacy .
i plan to fulfill my constitutional responsibilities to nominate a successor in due time .
there will be plenty of time for me to do so , and for the senate to fulfill its responsibility to give that person a fair hearing and a timely vote .
these are responsibilities that i take seriously , as should everyone .
they ’ re bigger than any one party .
they are about our democracy .
they ’ re about the institution to which justice scalia dedicated his professional life , and making sure it continues to function as the beacon of justice that our founders envisioned .
but at this moment , we most of all want to think about his family , and michelle and i join the nation in sending our deepest sympathies to justice scalia ’ s wife , maureen , and their loving family - a beautiful symbol of a life well lived .
we thank them for sharing justice scalia with our country .
god bless them all , and god bless the united states of america .