chicago/washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump said on friday he was sending federal help to fight crime in chicago that has reached “ epidemic ” proportions .
the government is sending federal agents to chicago and plans to prosecute firearms cases aggressively , attorney general jeff sessions told fox news when asked about trump ’ s statement about the plan in an early-morning twitter post .
“ crime and killings in chicago have reached such epidemic proportions that i am sending in federal help .
1714 shootings in chicago this year ! ” trump wrote on twitter .
the president has regularly singled out chicago ’ s violent crime problem and in january decried the high crime rate in the third-most populous u.s. city as “ carnage. ” in 2016 , the number of murders in chicago exceeded 760 , a jump of nearly 60 percent , and was more than new york and los angeles combined .
there were more than 4,300 shooting victims in the city last year , according to police .
the number of murders , shootings and shooting victims have all decreased slightly this year in the city of 2.7 million .
there have been 320 murders , down from 322 over the same period last year .
there have been 1,703 shooting victims , down from 1,935 , according to police figures .
sessions said the anti-crime policies in chicago have not worked and police “ have been demoralized in many ways. ” the federal assistance will come in the form of the chicago crime gun strike force , a collaboration between the police and the department of justice ’ s bureau of alcohol , tobacco , firearms and explosives ( atf ) .
the group , including police officers , federal agents and intelligence analysts , will work to impede the flow of illegal guns throughout chicago and target repeat gun offenders .
“ the trump administration will not let the bloodshed go on ; we can not accept these levels of violence , ” sessions said in a statement on friday afternoon .
the group became operational on june 1 , sessions said .
it will “ significantly help our police officers stem the flow of illegal guns and create a culture of accountability ” for the gangs that drive violence in the city , police superintendent eddie johnson said in a statement .
on monday , the chicago police announced that the atf ’ s mobile ballistics lab had arrived in the city to help process shooting scenes .
“ six months ago we made it clear that we would welcome additional federal support , and six months later we appreciate the 20 new atf agents that are now arriving , ” adam collins , a spokesman for chicago mayor rahm emanuel , said .
“ but the progress cpd ( chicago police department ) has made this year has happened without any of the new resources from the federal government we requested. ” chicago is also in the midst of reforming its police department after a federal investigation found officers routinely violated the civil rights of people , citing excessive force and racially discriminatory conduct .
joseph ferguson , the city ’ s inspector general , called on chicago officials to agree to a consent decree to oversee changes to the department at a committee meeting on tuesday – splitting with the mayor , who has said a court-enforced settlement is not necessary for reform .
in response to questions about ferguson ’ s comments , emanuel told reporters on wednesday that the justice department has “ walked away ” from doing consent decrees , and so the city has sought a different strategy .
“ there are multiple roads that allow you to make sure you make the changes and reform , ” he said .