chicago ( reuters ) - president barack obama on thursday defended his pick of a white man to fill a u.s. supreme court vacancy against criticism he could have chosen someone from a more diverse background , saying merrick garland was “ indisputably qualified ” for the post .
obama was speaking at a town hall-style event at the university of chicago law school , where he once taught , as part of a white house campaign to pressure the republican-led senate to approve garland , a centrist appellate court judge .
responding to a question from a student about what kind of “ diversity ” garland brought to the job , obama joked that he came from skokie , illinois , a suburb of chicago .
“ at no point did i say : ‘ oh , i need a black lesbian from skokie in that slot ... can you find me one ? ’ that ’ s just not how i ’ ve approached it , ” obama said , noting he had transformed the federal court with diverse picks .
“ yeah , he ’ s a white guy , but he ’ s a really outstanding jurist .
sorry , ” obama said of garland , 63 , calling him “ indisputably qualified to serve on the highest court in the land. ” obama ’ s first two supreme court picks were women , including sonia sotomayor , the court ’ s first hispanic justice .
some groups had hoped obama would this time nominate appeals court judge sri srinivasan to be the court ’ s first indian-american member .
garland faces an uphill fight being confirmed in the face of republican opposition .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell has insisted the next president , who will take office on jan. 20 after the nov. 8 election , should fill the vacancy created by the feb. 13 death of conservative justice antonin scalia .
before the event , mcconnell dismissed obama ’ s chicago event as political theater .
“ i ’ m sure he ’ ll gloss over the fact that the decision about filling this pivotal seat could impact our country for decades , that it could dramatically affect our most cherished constitutional rights like those contained in the first and second amendments , ” mcconnell said in a senate floor speech , referring to gun rights and freedom of speech and religion .
the high court is now split 4-4 between conservatives and liberals .
garland , if confirmed , could tilt the court to the left for the first time in decades .
obama told the law school audience that the partisan fight over the nomination threatened to erode the “ institutional integrity ” of the courts .
“ we are going to see the kinds of sharp partisan polarization that have come to characterize our electoral politics seeping entirely into the judicial system , and the courts will be just an extension of our legislatures and our elections and our politics , ” obama said .
“ at that point , people lose confidence in the ability of the courts to fairly adjudicate cases and controversies , ” he said .
most republican senators have backed mcconnell ’ s stance .
only two of the 54 republicans in the 100-seat senate have said garland deserves hearings and a vote .
some others have said they will meet with garland privately for a “ courtesy visit. ” that includes judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley , who is set to have breakfast with garland next tuesday , but only to explain why he will not consider his nomination .
on thursday , senator lindsey graham , a south carolina republican , announced he would have a courtesy meeting with garland .
but graham ’ s spokesman said the senator had not changed his opposition to holding hearings and a vote on the nomination .