vienna ( reuters ) - austrian chancellor sebastian kurz said on wednesday his new coalition would focus on fighting anti-semitism , after israel made it clear it would not work directly with any ministers from the far-right party now back in government .
kurz , a 31-year-old conservative , was sworn in with the rest of his government on monday after reaching a coalition deal that handed control of much of austria s security apparatus to the anti-islam freedom party ( fpo ) .
the fpo came third in october s parliamentary election with 26 percent of the vote .
israel reacted to the inauguration by saying it would do business only with the operational echelons of government departments headed by an fpo minister .
the fpo now controls the foreign , interior and defence ministries , though foreign minister karin kneissl is not officially a member of the party .
anti-semitism has no place in austria or europe .
we will fight all forms of anti-semitism with full determination , both those that still exist and those that have been newly imported , said in a speech outlining the government s goals to parliament .
that will be one of our government s significant tasks .
the fpo , which was founded by former nazis in the 1950s , says it has left its anti-semitic past behind it , though it has still had to expel members each year for anti-semitic or neo-nazi comments .
it now openly courts jewish voters , with limited success .
its leader , heinz-christian strache , has also visited the yad vashem holocaust memorial in jerusalem .
israel wishes to underline its total commitment to fighting anti-semitism and commemorating the holocaust , the israeli foreign ministry said in a short statement on monday in response to the austrian government s swearing in .
the european jewish congress has called on the new government to take concrete steps against anti-semitism while taking a generally more inclusive approach .
the freedom party can not use the jewish community as a fig leaf and must show tolerance and acceptance towards all communities and minorities , it said on monday .
austria , where adolf hitler was born , was annexed by nazi germany in march 1938 .
next year will mark the 80th anniversary of that takeover as well as the 100th anniversary of the end of world war one , which led to the break-up of the austro-hungarian empire .
kurz said the events of 1938 were shameful and sad .
his people s party ( ovp ) and the fpo published a 180-page coalition manifesto over the weekend , which includes plans to cut public spending , taxes and benefits for refugees .
the ovp won october s election with a hard line on immigration that often overlapped with the fpo s. the issue dominated the campaign after austria took in large numbers of asylum seekers during europe s migration crisis , many of them from muslim countries .
austria s jewish community of just over 10,000 is tiny relative to the more than half a million muslims who live in the nation of almost 9 million , many of whom are turkish or of turkish origin .
both kurz and strache have warned of muslim parallel societies they say are emerging in austria , despite there being few obvious signs of sectarian tension .
kurz flew to brussels on tuesday to dispel concerns that his alliance with the far right will undermine the european union .
in their speeches to parliament , both he and strache said they opposed turkey joining the european union a position that polls show a majority of austrians support .
turkey is moving in the wrong direction , which means turkey will certainly have no future in the european union , said kurz , who has criticised ankara s clampdown on dissent since a failed coup last year .
on tuesday night during his first foreign visit as chancellor , to brussels , kurz told broadcaster orf he would soon meet israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu .
i hope we will succeed in dispelling the concerns that exist regarding the fpo government members , kurz said .
it would be in the interest of both our countries .