johannesburg/nairobi ( reuters ) - on june 29 , maman sidikou , head of the u.n. peacekeeping mission in congo , received a cable from headquarters in new york in which his bosses laid out in no uncertain terms that the world s largest peacekeeping mission had to make cuts , and fast .
facing an eight percent , or $ 93 million , budget cut for 2017/18 , sidikou was told to revise staffing , slash fuel costs by 10 percent and streamline aircraft use - all without compromising the mission s mandate , according to the cable seen by reuters .
the mission in democratic republic of congo , known as monusco , must work out how to juggle those demands with the need to respond to a growing political and humanitarian crisis in the central african giant - and it is not alone .
belt-tightening at monusco , which has about 18,000 uniformed personnel , is part of a broader push by the united states , the biggest u.n. contributor , to cut costs .
in june , the 193 u.n. member states agreed to a total $ 600 million in cuts to more than a dozen missions for the year ending june 30 , 2018 .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said at the time : we re only getting started .
on wednesday the 15-member u.n. security council will discuss peacekeeping reform during the annual gathering of world leaders .
diplomats said the council was due to adopt a resolution pushing for improved accountability , transparency and effectiveness and to make peacekeepers more flexible .
critics worry that harsh cuts could harm operations in volatile african states .
my intention is to do everything to preserve the integrity of the peacekeeping missions , but , of course , to do also everything possible to make it in the most effective and cost-effective way , u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres told reporters last week .
the united nations , which has spent $ 18 billion on peacekeeping in congo since the mission began in 1999 , says reforms are bearing fruit .
but analysts and some u.n. insiders say progress is hampered by administrators in new york dodging thorny issues like confusion over the mission s priorities and a culture that appears to protect senior , well-paid officials at all costs .
in july , for example , safia boly became deputy head of the monusco division administering the mission s downsizing , despite the fact that a year earlier , a u.n. tribunal ruled she had abused her authority and disregarded rules at an office in uganda where she served as operations manager .
put very simply , and in other words , who was protecting ms. boly and why ?
the tribunal wrote in its judgment .
boly did not respond to an emailed request for comment .
u.n. spokesman farhan haq said the affair was closed and that it was not appropriate to comment on a confidential internal process .
this sends a signal that u.n. headquarters is not really interested in reform and cleaning up the system , said a western diplomat about boly s case .
in another case , members of an engineering unit in goma allegedly demanded hundreds of dollars from locals in return for help to be recruited for temporary work , according to a u.n. document seen by reuters .
u.s. president donald trump wants to cap the u.s. share of the $ 7.3 billion peacekeeping bill at 25 percent , down from 28.5 percent , a level he says is unfair .
at a meeting on u.n. reform on monday , trump said the world body was hamstrung by bureaucracy and mismanagement .
a peacekeeping mission in ivory coast has closed and troop levels in sudan s darfur region are due to be halved , but u.n. officials say they need more , not fewer , blue helmets in hot spots like mali , central african republic and south sudan .
peacekeeping reform is essential , and the u.s. should lead in demanding better performance and accountability .
but that will not be achieved by crippling the ability of u.n. troops and civilian personnel to operate where they re needed most , said matt wells , senior crisis adviser at amnesty international .
monusco s military leaders want to replace underperforming units , long accused of passivity in protecting civilians , with more capable troops .
but they are held back by long-standing reluctance among member states to risk soldiers lives in distant conflicts .
in a july 15 cable addressed to new york , sidikou outlined his streamlining plans .
they included reducing the force size by at least 750 troops , cutting official travel and reducing rations provided to congolese soldiers .
in another cable three days later , sidikou said he intended to ease restrictions on where units can operate , making them more flexible and able to respond to crises .
election delays and president joseph kabila s refusal to step down have fueled violence across congo , where millions have died in conflicts over the past two decades .
an agreement to hold an election by the end of this year is unlikely to hold .
after several years during which the focus had been largely on foreign armed groups , the u.n. mission is contending with increasingly dangerous local rebellions .
one , in kasai , on the border with angola , has displaced 1.4 million people in a year .
in the near future , elections-related violence might erupt across the whole of the drc .
consequently , the force requires the freedom to deploy its troops in a timely manner , to wherever they may be required , sidikou s cable said .