bushenyi , uganda ( reuters ) - when ugandan president yoweri museveni returned to his home region to throw an independence day party last month , the uniformed security outnumbered the small crowd of bored spectators .
museveni slowly drove past the crowd , a mix of schoolchildren and farmers , in a top-of-the-range pick-up truck , giving them a wide smile and a thumbs-up , the ruling party symbol .
he was met with blank stares .
the apathy - on a continent where strongman rulers are traditionally feted in their home areas - reveals the slow leaching away of political support from one of africa s longest-serving rulers .
now , as his party plans to extend his rule , the president is increasingly reliant on a military unit from his home area , the special forces command , to quell dissent over collapsing public services , corruption , growing poverty and brutality by security services .
we ve had enough of him , said butcher steven ruturukirira bluntly .
in a lengthy speech , the 73-year-old museveni studiously ignored the day s hot topic : a legislative plan to remove the 75-year age limit for the presidency , clearing the way to extend his leadership of the oil-rich nation .
the pursuit of social and economic transformation of africa is not a simple matter .
it calls for visionary leadership , museveni told the crowd .
relieved to see uganda freed from the yoke of brutal dictators , the west has given museveni an easy ride over the last three decades , glad of his support against radical islam and his role as power broker in the volatile great lakes region .
uganda has also welcomed foreign investors like france s total , china s cnooc and britain s tullow , who hope to start pumping 6.5 billion barrels worth of crude reserves through a planned $ 3.55 billion pipeline .
but as the opposition makes inroads in urban areas , museveni relies on support in rural heartlands , as well as his special forces , exacerbating ethnic tensions and potentially sowing the seeds for conflagration when he eventually leaves power .
currently , the age cap bars museveni from standing in uganda s next elections , scheduled for 2021 .
but last month a ruling party lawmaker introduced a bill to scrap the rule .
the government gave each mp $ 8,000 to help them consult voters on the bill , provoking fury among ordinary citizens like quarry worker ronald malongo , 27 , who is among a growing number of ugandans who make less than a dollar a day .
museveni works only for his stomach and those around him , malongo panted as he lifted a load of granite .
we re trash to him .
an opinion survey of 1,200 ugandans by pollster afrobarometer a year ago found three quarters opposed the bill .
some legislators trying to promote it were met with jeers or violence in their home constituencies , media reported .
protests have been crushed by riot police , killing two .
opposition lawmakers tried to filibuster the bill in september , but said they were forcibly ejected from parliament by the special forces command ( sfc ) , a loyalist military unit heavily staffed with soldiers from museveni s hima ethnic group .
several mps sustained serious injuries , like ibrahim ssemujju nganda , who said sfc forces dragged him from the debating chamber and choked him in a nearby room .
uganda is gradually moving into some sort of a military regime , he said .
i don t see museveni turning back , he has a group around him that can t allow a change ( because they are profiting from this ) .
at the time , the police chief told television reporters he had invited sister security agencies into parliament , a euphemism usually used for the military .
but military spokesman richard karemire denied soldiers had ejected legislators or strangled nganda , telling reuters : uganda is not a military state ... it s a democracy .
estimated at about 10,000 , sfc has evolved from a small presidential guard to a fully fledged branch of the military that enjoys better welfare and training and controls superior equipment .
soldiers in the sfc get an $ 80 per month food basket allowance that ordinary soldiers don t get .
that s a powerful incentive when the number of ugandans who spend less than a dollar a day has surged to 27 percent of the population , up from 20 percent five years ago , according to the statistics office .
the starting wage for an ordinary soldiers is $ 105 .
the unit also gets better housing , training , and weapons than regular soldiers , two military officers told reuters on condition of anonymity .
it s an army within an army , one the officers said .
it was formerly commanded by museveni s son , major general muhoozi kainerugaba , now a presidential adviser .
many believe he is being prepared to succeed his father after a military general , david sejusa , wrote a widely published letter to the head of internal security in 2013 .
sejusa , an old comrade of museveni s , asked for an investigation into an alleged plot to assassinate top government officials opposed to the museveni family project of holding onto power in perpetuity .
sejusa fled to the united kingdom but returned to uganda in 2014 .
he remains in the military , which bars him from politics , but has been sidelined from power .
kainerugaba s successor at the head of the sfc is also from the hima ethnic group .
other prominent members include military chief david muhoozi , and museveni s wife , janet , the education minister .
sfc is ethnic , it s an army built on ethnic lines , said nganda , a former member of a parliamentary committee that oversees the military .
the danger with rewarding ethnic loyalists with favors and privileges is that beneficiaries will not sit back and watch power slide out of their hands , uganda political analyst nicholas sengoba said .
these people will try by hook or crook to maintain the status quo , he said .
that is where you have potential for violence .