berlin ( reuters ) - describing brexit as nonsense , german finance minister wolfgang schaeuble warned on monday against allowing europe to divide further along east-west lines , saying this would be a catastrophe .
speaking at his 75th birthday party in the southwestern town of offenburg , schaeuble paused after mentioning britain in the context of europe .
laughter broke out among the guests and , in an aside , he said britons were probably unhappy now with their vote last year to leave the eu .
if we were now to get new divisions between east and west after the british it was nonsense to take such a decision and they are probably no longer happy with it that would be a catastrophe , he said .
we must be clear : we will only have a good future , history shows this , if we hold europe together , and that means all of europe , he added .
schaeuble appeared to be referring to a deepening divide between eastern countries like poland and hungary and their eu partners to the west over democratic values , acceptance of refugees and further european integration .
french president emmanuel macron has been especially critical of governments in warsaw and budapest , which the eu says are distancing themselves from core european values like free speech and rule of law .
germany , in part because of its history with poland , has been less openly critical of its eastern neighbors , but it has tacitly supported macron and steps by the eu to ratchet up pressure on governments in the east .
many poles , especially rightwing supporters of the ruling law and justice party , are animated by a hatred of germans dating to world war two , though relations have warmed up since the end of communism when germany backed polish eu membership .
last week , european commission chief jean-claude juncker stressed his wish to heal divisions between eastern and western states .
juncker also attended schaeuble s party on monday and praised him for working to unify the eu .
schaeuble said those eu states that want to press ahead with closer integration must do so .
but we must also be careful that not only the big states decide .
i learned that from kohl , he said with reference to late chancellor helmut kohl , with whom he worked on the reunification of germany .