vienna ( reuters ) - austria s president warned conservative election victor sebastian kurz that european values must underpin the next government and he would scrutinize developments as kurz considers bringing the far right back into power .
kurz s people s party ( ovp ) won sunday s parliamentary election with a hard line on immigration that left little daylight between it and the far-right freedom party , two years after austria was swept up in europe s migration crisis .
the ovp secured about 31.5 percent of the vote , well short of a majority .
a coalition with the fpo is far from certain but appears the most likely outcome after kurz called an end to the ovp s previous coalition with the social democrats .
kurz , 31 , has given little away about what he plans to do .
the fpo was founded by ex-nazis in the 1950s and first became a major political force in the 1990s under the charismatic joerg haider , who praised hitler s employment policies .
haider led the party to a record parliamentary election score in 1999 that it came close to matching on sunday .
the fpo says it has put its nazi past behind it and purged its ranks of anti-semitism , but still frequently has to expel members for anti-semitic comments .
it has , however , stopped calling for austria to leave the european union .
i will ensure that the fundamental european values inscribed in our constitution remain the compass for austria s future , president alexander van der bellen said on tuesday as he received the outgoing coalition government , which will stay on in a caretaker role until a successor is formed .
austria s president holds a largely ceremonial post but has the power to appoint and dismiss governments , and can be an influential figure in forming coalitions .
i will check policy objectives but also staffing proposals very closely , van der bellen added .
what that means for a potential tie-up between kurz and the fpo is unclear but van der bellen , a former leader of the leftist greens , is known to have reservations about the far-right party .
van der bellen narrowly beat an fpo candidate in a presidential election run-off last year , campaigning on a pro-european platform .
during his campaign he said that as president he would seek to prevent fpo leader heinz-christian strache from becoming chancellor if the fpo won an election , but since taking office he has said only that the next government must be pro-european .
the fpo cheered britain s 2016 vote to leave the eu and even sketched out a case in which austria might hold its own oexit referendum on leaving the bloc .
but the anti-immigrant party has since backed away from that position given that a clear majority of austrians support eu membership .
it now describes itself as pro-european but still criticizes the eu , calling for brussels to hand back more powers to member states .
that stance overlaps with kurz s , since the ovp has called for a streamlined eu that focuses on core competencies like internal trade and securing external borders .
kurz has also said that any coalition partner must be pro-european , although whether he and van der bellen agree on what that means is unclear .