donald trump has been touting himself as a pro-lgbt candidate because he s going to kill muslims or something , but one thing he has never done is pay more than lip service to the lgbt community .
but he doesn t walk the walk .
he hasn t spoken out against his party s platform , which actively seeks to oppress anyone who is not as straight as laura ingraham s arm at the end of her rnc speech .
donald trump says he supports the lgbt community , but he does so just as much as he supports african-americans , muslims , jewish people , and anyone who isn t a white christian who keeps his good set of sheets in the closet.on friday , hillary clinton met privately with the families of pulse night club victims and first responders in orlando .
there was no press release .
she didn t hype the visit .
she met with the families and held a roundtable discussion with community leaders.clinton vp speculation is everywhere , except in this solemn orlando room where she s discussing the pulse shooting pic.twitter.com/n1s7kevu4v jennifer epstein ( @ jeneps ) july 22 , 2016 hillary clinton meets with families of pulse nightclub victims and holds round table with orlando community leaders .
pic.twitter.com/cgkqefxzqy steve bousquet ( @ stevebousquet ) july 22 , 2016clinton sits down for conversation with pulse nightclub victims families and first responders .
pic.twitter.com/axqxjbwls9 amy chozick ( @ amychozick ) july 22 , 2016 per an aide , clinton met privately with friends and family of the victims of the pulse nightclub shooting .
event starting now .
tamara keith ( @ tamarakeithnpr ) july 22 , 2016clinton then visited the pulse nightclub to pay her respects to victims , even apparently delaying her announcement of her vice presidential pick to do so .
an nbc political reporter says that her staff was told to wait to learn of her decision until an undisclosed time .
clinton s bk hq staff went into 3:00 meeting expecting to hear vp pick , but told will have to wait until undisclosed time , per source .
alex seitz-wald ( @ aseitzwald ) july 22 , 2016here are some photos from her visit .
hillary clinton is now at orlando s pulse nightclub , where she ll pay her respects and meet with first responders jennifer epstein ( @ jeneps ) july 22 , 2016clinton speaking to first responders at pulse nightclub memorial in orlando .
laid white roses at the memorial .
pic.twitter.com/ozmhaclfvw tamara keith ( @ tamarakeithnpr ) july 22 , 2016 clinton at pulse with a bouquet of white roses .
no words to describe seeing the tributes to victims here .
pic.twitter.com/gbrefqv0fy ruby cramer ( @ rubycramer ) july 22 , 2016clinton outside pulse in orlando pic.twitter.com/jwcu5azhld jennifer epstein ( @ jeneps ) july 22 , 2016 clinton stands with first responders , mayor dyer and senator nelson pic.twitter.com/ojhgj1hkuq jennifer epstein ( @ jeneps ) july 22 , 2016hillary clinton is paying respects at the pulse nightclub memorial in orlando pic.twitter.com/zf6fw8sw6d monica alba ( @ albamonica ) july 22 , 2016why hasn t clinton visited until now ?
buzzfeed reports that orlando commissioner patty sheehan tearfully thanked clinton for not politicizing the visit , and for waiting until they as a community were ready for such a visit .
she was waiting for the right time .
i want to thank you for not politicizing this , and for waiting until we were ready , orlando commissioner patty sheehan tells hrc tearfully ruby cramer ( @ rubycramer ) july 22 , 2016this is something you will likely never see from donald trump .
he doesn t care about actual , real , live people ( unless they are wealthy and/or fit into his very tight accepted demographic groups ) .
this was a very human moment for clinton .
you can see that she genuinely cares about the lives that were lost .
it is clear that this visit was about the victims rather than furthering her political career.remember this moment when you head to the polls .
do you think trump would do this ?
do you think he even cares ? featured image via twitter