paris ( reuters ) - arab states may want their turn at the helm of unesco , but the barbs hurled by egypt at rival candidate qatar during the vote highlights the fractious geopolitics paralyzing the workings of the u.n. cultural agency .
the paris-based body is known for designating world heritage sites like the ancient city of palmyra in syria and grand canyon national park , but it has struggled for relevance as it becomes increasingly hobbled by regional rivalries and a lack of money .
after two days of a secret ballot that could run until friday , qatar s hamad bin abdulaziz al-kawari leads france s audrey azoulay and egyptian hopeful moushira khattab .
three other candidates , including from lebanon , trail .
the row between qatar and egypt has its roots in the crisis engulfing qatar and its gulf arab neighbors which have severed diplomatic , trade and travel ties with doha after accusing it of sponsoring hardline islamist groups , a charge qatar denies .
the dispute has been bubbling for several months , but what we re seeing with the arab candidates is that they are extremely divided .
some of the clashes are quite virulent , said one unesco ambassador .
egypt , the arab world s most populous state which has joined the boycott of qatar , has not shied from making its feelings about qatar s unesco bid clear .
in an interview with egypt today and retweeted by the foreign ministry , egypt s top diplomat sameh shoukry suggested qatar was using its financial power to influence unesco s 58-member executive council .
it is an organization that is owned by international society and can not be sold to a particular state or individual , he was quoted as saying when asked about the qatari candidate s campaign logo i m not coming empty handed .
a diplomat at qatar s embassy in paris declined to comment .
a qatari official at unesco s headquarters also declined immediate comment .
egyptian candidate khattab s first message on twitter in three months was a re-tweet of an article in the israeli press entitled israel bemoans emerging qatari victory in unesco leadership vote .
kawari , the qatari candidate , has so far not reacted to the egyptian allegations , simply tweeting on wednesday : al-kawari tipped to head unesco .
voting lasts over a maximum five rounds .
if the two finalists end level , they draw lots .
you get the impression that some are playing politics and competing for the sake of having a post rather than actually wanting to secure the future of the organization , said a european diplomat .