beijing ( reuters ) - china s internet regulator had said it will purge the evil influence of its former top official who the ruling communist party has put under investigation for suspected corruption .
the official , lu wei , was suspected of serious discipline breaches , the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) announced on tuesday .
lu , a colorful and often brash official by chinese standards , was at the height of his power seen as emblematic of china s increasingly pervasive internet controls .
the communist party referred to him as the first tiger taken down after a congress in october , when president xi jinping pledged that his anti-graft campaign would continue to target both tigers and flies , a reference to elite officials and ordinary bureaucrats .
lu s former agency , the cyberspace administration of china ( cac ) , held a meeting on wednesday in which it called its former chief a typical two-faced person who had seriously polluted its political environment .
lu wei can not represent cac s image .
he precisely undermined cac s image , the agency said in statement published late on wednesday .
the cac would draw profound lessons from lu s breaches and thoroughly purge lu s evil influence , it said .
the ccdi said in a separate commentary on its website on thursday that the investigation of lu was a potent sign that the party would not let up on its fight against wayward officials .
one must not think that no one will ask today about yesterday s crimes , the ccdi said .
it was nonsense to think the party would let bygones be bygones , it said .
xi has waged war against deep-rooted corruption since taking office five years ago , punishing hundreds of thousands of officials .
lu worked his way up though china s official xinhua news agency before becoming head of propaganda in beijing and then moving to internet work in 2013 .
he later became a deputy propaganda minister .
but his downfall , foreshadowed by his june 2016 replacement as head of the internet regulator and the loss of his other posts , is unlikely to signal a reversal of internet control policies , which have been tightened under his successor , xu lin .
the government has blocked sites it thinks could challenge party rule or threaten stability , including sites such as facebook and google s main search engine and gmail service .