tokyo ( reuters ) - prime minister shinzo abe , buoyed by a huge election win for lawmakers who favor revising japan s post-war , pacifist constitution , signaled a push towards his long-held goal on monday but will need to convince a divided public to succeed .
parties in favor of amending the u.s.-drafted charter won nearly 80 percent of the seats in sunday s lower house election , media counts showed .
that left the small , new constitutional democratic party of japan ( cdpj ) as the biggest group opposed to abe s proposed changes .
formed by liberal members of the democratic party , which imploded before the election and no longer exists in the lower house , the cdpj won 55 seats , a final count by public broadcaster nhk shows .
that is a fraction of the ruling bloc s two-thirds majority of 313 seats in the 465-member chamber .
abe said he wanted to get other parties on board , including tokyo governor yuriko koike s new conservative party of hope , and was not insisting on a target of changing the constitution by 2020 that he floated this year .
we won a two-thirds majority as the ruling bloc , but it is necessary to strive to form a wide-ranging agreement among the ruling bloc and opposition ( to revise the constitution ) , abe told a news conference on monday .
and then we aim to win the understanding of the people , so that we can gain a majority in a referendum , abe said .
he stopped short of claiming to have won a mandate for amending the constitution in sunday s election .
amending the charter s pacifist article 9 would be hugely symbolic for japan .
supporters see it as the foundation of post-war democracy but many conservatives view it as a humiliating imposition after japan s defeat in 1945 .
it would also be a victory for abe , whose conservative agenda of restoring traditional values , stressing obligations to the state over individual rights and loosening constraints on the military , centers on revising the constitution .
mr. abe is trying to create a legacy .
his first legacy project was to get the economy out of deflation , said jesper koll , head of equities fund wisdomtree japan .
the second legacy is to change the constitution , he said .
you can debate whether he has a mandate but what will make or break him ... is the constitutional issue .
any revision of the constitution requires support from two-thirds of the members of both chambers of parliament and a majority in a public referendum , with no minimum quorum .
i think that debate in parliament will begin , said zentaro kamei , a senior researcher at think tank php institute and a former lawmaker of abe s liberal democratic party ( ldp ) .
but the reason given for this snap election was abe s proposal to change what sales tax hike revenues would be used for .
if he starts talking about the constitution , people will say , you didn t ask me that , kamei said .
abe proposed last may adding a clause to article 9 to legitimize japan s self-defence force .
read literally , article 9 bans a standing military but has been interpreted to allow armed forces exclusively for self defense .
parliament enacted laws in 2015 allowing japan to exercise collective self-defense , or aid allies under attack , based on a reinterpretation of the constitution rather than a formal revision .
critics , including cdpj leader yukio edano , say those laws violate the constitution .
the ldp s junior partner , the komeito , is cautious about revising article 9 , perhaps even more so after signs that some of its dovish supporters had voted for the cdpj .
it also believes the biggest opposition party should agree with the proposed changes .
opinion polls show the public is divided on abe s proposal .
an nhk survey before the election showed 32 percent in favor , 21 percent opposed , and 39 percent unsure .
media exit polls showed that , despite the ldp s big win , 51 percent of voters do not trust the prime minister , a hangover from suspected cronyism scandals that eroded his support this year and a potential risk in case of a referendum .