kandahar , afghanistan ( reuters ) - the taliban has shut down dozens of clinics in the southern afghan province of uruzgan in the past few days , officials said , amid demands for special treatment for its fighters who control most of the embattled region .
dost mohammad nayab , a spokesman for the provincial governor , said authorities were talking to elders , asking them to intercede with the taliban to allow the clinics to reopen .
hospitals are not places for politics and we are asking the taliban to let our doctors and healthcare workers return , nayab said .
only three clinics , including the provincial hospital , were operating after the taliban shut down 46 of the 49 treatment centers in uruzgan since friday , nayab said .
the taliban were asking for special treatment for their fighters , he said .
we have asked elders in the areas to talk to the taliban to fix this problem , he said .
uruzgan , which abuts the taliban heartlands of kandahar and helmand , has been under intense pressure from the insurgents for years and the defences of the provincial capital tarin kot were briefly overrun last year .
a taliban spokesman confirmed that its fighters had closed down dozens of treatment centers but said it was done because of poor services , underlining its push to replace basic government services in many areas under its control .
in most of these centers there was no proper medication .
there were no doctors or healthcare personnel , the spokesman said .
we asked repeatedly for better services but no one cared .
now if the local administration do not provide basics , we will .
the incident underlines the difficulty the western-backed government in kabul has in exerting control in provincial regions where the insurgency is strongest .
u.s. officials estimate that the taliban , fighting to drive out foreign forces and impose strict islamic law on afghanistan , control or contest around 40 percent of the country , although they have not taken any major provincial city .
uruzgan province was identified by u.s. commanders as a major priority for 2017 and there has been a big focus on bolstering afghan forces with on-the-ground u.s. training teams .