winston-salem , n.c. ( reuters ) - north carolina ’ s governor on wednesday signed into law a measure that blocks local governments in the state from enacting ordinances to allow transgender people to use public bathrooms that match their gender identities .
the legislation came in response to such a provision approved last month in charlotte , the state ’ s largest city , as part of an expanded nondiscrimination ordinance that also added protections for marital and familial status , sexual orientation , gender expression and gender identity .
the bill passed both chambers of the legislature during a one-day special session convened in raleigh to address the charlotte law .
republican governor pat mccrory , who signed the bill late on wednesday , said the charlotte measure “ defies common sense. ” “ the basic expectation of privacy in the most personal of settings , a restroom or locker room , for each gender was violated by government overreach and intrusion by the mayor and city council of charlotte , ” mccrory said in a statement .
controversy over the bathroom component echoed similar fights across the country as transgender advocates push for the right to choose restrooms and locker rooms , including in schools , based on gender identity rather than birth gender .
republican lawmakers in north carolina warned that the “ radical ” charlotte measure would create a public safety issue by giving men , including sex offenders , access to women ’ s bathrooms if allowed to take effect on april 1 .
“ this is a common sense bill that protects the privacy expectations of our citizens while clarifying local authority , ” said republican representative paul stam .
lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender advocacy groups condemned the law ’ s passage and said they were exploring legal challenges .
they say no public safety risks had resulted in the more than 200 u.s. cities that have enacted protections similar to those passed in charlotte .
“ we are disappointed that governor mccrory did not do right by north carolina ’ s families , communities , and businesses by vetoing this horribly discriminatory bill , ” said chris brook , legal director of the state ’ s american civil liberties union .
the bill requires multiple-occupancy bathrooms and locker rooms in public schools and government buildings to be used by people only according to their biological sex .
the measure also creates north carolina ’ s first statewide nondiscrimination policy for public places , including restaurants , hotels and taxis .
but it limits the protections against discrimination to race , religion , color , national origin and biological sex .
local governments would be prohibited from passing anti-discrimination ordinances that extended the protections to include gender identity and sexual orientation .