it looks like bill o reilly is getting the last laugh when the fox news channel fired cable news giant bill o reilly in april , reports surfaced revealing fox news owner , the murdoch family , wanting to move the network in a different direction .
out with the old guard , in with the new .
more hosts similar to megyn kelly , who is now at nbc news , fewer like the ones who built the network from the ground up , including o reilly.about one month later , fox news has a completely different news lineup , and the results thus far have been nothing short of disastrous.on thursday , tv newser reported fox news , which once dominated its competitors in virtually every timeslot , is now losing across the board in the key 25-54 demographic.the results are most notable in primetime , which used to carry fox news most reliable audience .
now , fox news is running a distant third to hosts who previously drew audiences half the size of o reilly s.on thursday , at the 7 p.m. hour , fox news the story , hosted by martha maccallum , lost by more than 100,000 viewers in the 25-54 demographic to cnn s outfront with erin burnett .
chris matthews hardball beat maccallum by nearly 60,000 viewers.at 8 p.m. , fox news tucker carlson tonight lost to both cnn s anderson cooper and msnbc s all in with chris hayes.at 9 p.m. , fox news channel s the five was absolutely demolished by cooper and msnbc s the rachel maddow show , which won the key demographic by more than 200,000 viewers.of all the fox news hosts in primetime , sean hannity performed the best , although he still finished third to cnn tonight with don lemon and msnbc s the last word with lawrence o donnell.through may 18 , fox news channel s total audience in may remained larger than its cable-news competitors , including cnn and msnbc , according to nielsen media research.o reilly , who joins glenn beck on the glenn beck program every friday , told beck on friday there s no doubt that fox news has a problem .
they have a problem , o reilly said .
fox news has a problem .
there s no doubt about it .
whenever you lose a key person in any industry , competitive industry , sports , media , you better have a plan .
and it doesn t look like fnc has a plan .
the blaze