mexico city ( reuters ) - relief supplies and volunteers are piling up at rescue sites in upscale districts of mexico city following tuesday s deadly earthquake in a show of solidarity that has contrasted with the government s struggle to get aid to people most in need .
in the wealthy neighborhoods of roma and condesa in the center of mexico city , volunteers by the hundreds stand ready to help dig for survivors who may be trapped beneath the rubble .
in recent days , however , they have largely remained idle .
others have brought food and water , eager to tend to rescue workers or the thousands of people made homeless by the quake .
yet they have struggled to find takers because so much sustenance is on offer .
in the poor , far-flung neighborhoods in the outskirts of the capital , meanwhile , aid and comfort were less abundant .
and in villages in some states surrounding the mexico city , victims said they had yet to see government aid arrive .
in the hard-hit mexico city neighborhood of del valle , 48-year-old marcela sanchez came in search of aid after she lost her home in the large , working-class area of nezahualcoyotl , in the remote northeast suburbs .
we haven t received any aid , sanchez said .
those of us who work in mexico city return home with aid .
god willing , they can help us .
the government s response to tuesday s quake , which killed 319 people in mexico city and surrounding states , is under scrutiny ahead of presidential elections next year .
earthquakes are politically sensitive after the ruling institutional revolutionary party s flawed response to the 1985 earthquake that killed thousands .
the government s handling of this disaster is markedly better than it was 32 years ago , when days passed before rescues began at many buildings .
that disaster led to more rigorous building codes and regular quake drills .
the lasting memory of the 2017 quake may be the outpouring of voluntary action , but also the unevenness of the relief operations and the lack of government coordination of resources .
there s plenty ( of provisions and aid workers ) .
all that s missing here is emergency management , said roberto hernandez , founder of los topos , or the moles , a civilian rescue squad that rose to prominence after the 1985 earthquake .
the government response is being coordinated by the civil protection unit of the interior ministry , which did not immediately make an official available for comment .
president enrique pena nieto s office did not respond to requests for comment .
a combination of mexican government employees , police , soldiers and sailors as well as foreign aid teams and hordes of civilian volunteers have cleared buildings of debris , rescued some 69 people and recovered bodies .
but the enormous logistical task of marshalling those resources has appeared wanting .
even in the best of times , coordinating action among myriad government agencies in mexico is complicated , and volunteers and victims have complained that the overlapping jurisdictions have thwarted relief efforts .
while rescuers work around the clock at disaster sites , dozens of police and military forces are left without any apparent task , sometimes just standing by , inactive .
hernandez , of los topos , complained about the slow pace of removing debris at a collapsed office building in roma .
while rescuers in hard hats worked atop the ruins , scores of uniformed police and soldiers appeared to have little to do .
we need to break up slabs and bring them down to look for bodies or survivors .
we did this 32 years ago and saved 137 people , hernandez said .
look at them ( police officers ) .
every one of them would be willing to pick up a couple of rocks if you asked them .
the mayor of mexico city said in an interview with broadcaster tv azteca that the official response was improving .
we have stuck to the contingency plan without reticence .
we are working hand-in-hand with the navy , with the army , with the federal police , mayor miguel angel mancera said .
that contention may be lost on people in the states of morelos and puebla , closer to the epicenter of the 7.1 magnitude quake , where in some villages victims said the government had not arrived .
instead , caravans of volunteers from the capital traveled backroads and waded through rivers to deliver aid to remote populations .
even in relatively close neighborhoods , such as san geronimo on the capital s southern extreme where many of the modest adobe and brick homes crumbled or cracked and road damage has impeded access , residents complained aid was slow to arrive and not nearly as abundant as in the upscale neighborhoods close to the city center .
we have not had any support from the authorities , said antonio ramirez , a retired teacher who was surveying damaged homes .
the support has been from ordinary people .
even the soldiers , instead of bringing picks and shovels , brought their machine guns .