united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council will meet on monday on north korea s nuclear test at the request of the united states , japan , britain , france and south korea , the u.s. mission to the united nations said in a statement on sunday .
north korea conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sunday - in violation of u.n. resolutions - which it said was an advanced hydrogen bomb for a long-range missile .
the 15-member security council will meet at 10 a.m. ( 1400 gmt ) on monday , the u.s. mission said .
north korea has been under u.n. sanctions since 2006 over its ballistic missile and nuclear programs .
typically , china and russia only view a test of a long-range missile or a nuclear weapon as a trigger for further possible u.n. sanctions .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on sunday that the members of the security council remain unanimous in their commitment to denuclearization of the korean peninsula .
he said any threat to united states , its territories , or allies would be met with a massive military response .
the council last month unanimously imposed new sanctions on north korea over its two long-range missile launches in july .
the resolution aimed to slash by a third the asian state s $ 3 billion annual export revenue by banning exports of coal , iron , lead and seafood .
diplomats have said the council could now consider banning pyongyang s textile exports and the country s national airline , stop supplies of oil to the government and military , prevent north koreans from working abroad and add top officials to a blacklist to subject them to an asset freeze and travel ban .
japan urged washington last week to propose new sanctions after pyongyang fired a medium-range missile over north japan on tuesday .
the united states traditionally drafts resolutions to impose sanctions on north korea , first negotiating with china before formally involving the remaining 13 council members .
following the nuclear test on sunday , britain , japan and south korea pushed for new u.n. sanctions , while china and russia said they would appropriately deal with north korea .
daniel russel , until april the u.s. assistant secretary of state for east asia and now a senior fellow at the asia society policy institute , told reuters : we should expect an uptick in chinese and russian pressure on both north korea and on the united states .
we should also expect more of the same from china ( and russia ) in claiming that the u.s. is also to blame and calling on washington to appease pyongyang with front-loaded concessions and placate it with dialogue , despite the fact that north korea is clearly only interested in dictating terms , not in negotiating , he said .
any new sanctions would build on eight resolutions ratcheting up action against pyongyang over five nuclear tests , four long-range ballistic missile tests and dozens of medium-range rocket launches .
the past three substantial resolutions have taken between one and three months to negotiate .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , britain , france , russia or china to pass .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres condemned north korea s nuclear test on sunday as profoundly destabilizing for regional security and called on the country s leadership to cease such acts ,