tokyo ( reuters ) - young japanese will back the ruling liberal democratic party ( ldp ) in a lower house vote on sunday at a higher rate than their elders , survey data shows , apparently reflecting approval of low unemployment , not an ideological drift to the right .
among voters aged 18 to 29 , 41 percent intend to vote for prime minister shinzo abe s ldp in proportional representation districts , according to a survey by the asahi shimbun daily published on thursday .
that compared with 27 percent of voters in their 60s .
for young people , the most important thing is employment .
japan is doing really well in that field , when compared with other countries , said one analyst , naohiro yashiro , dean of showa women s university s global business department .
this is not young people turning more conservative , but wanting to keep the status quo , said yashiro , an economist who has worked on several government panels .
after five years of the prime minister s abenomics recipe of hyper-easy monetary policy and fiscal spending , japan s jobless rate stood at a 23-year low of 2.8 percent in august .
among university students who graduated in march , 97.6 percent of those who had sought employment got jobs , a record high .
mikitaka masuyama , professor at the national graduate institute for policy studies , also said young voters preferences had little to do with ideology .
my impression is they don t care much about being left or right .
they just don t have real alternatives , or other attractive parties , masuyama said .
the poor showing of the opposition democratic party of japan ( dpj ) , which ruled from 2009 to 2012 , haunts the opposition and helps the ldp among younger voters , said takeshi kohno , professor at keio university .
young people are worried about japan s future given the aging of the population , kohno said .
as the dpj did so badly before , the ldp or an ldp-led coalition can be viewed as a good choice .
the democratic party , faced with rock-bottom ratings , has imploded and is running no candidates of its own this time , encouraging its members to run on the slate of tokyo governor yuriko koike s new conservative party of hope .