lome ( reuters ) - togo s opposition chief called on wednesday for the immediate resignation of president faure gnassingbe , the current head of a half century-old political dynasty , rejecting a government move to introduce term limits as protests gained momentum .
tens of thousands of protesters clad in red , orange and pink - the colors of togo s opposition parties - marched through the streets of the capital lome as security forces looked on , a reuters witness said .
some carried banners bearing slogans including free togo and faure resign .
gnassingbe has ruled the west african nation since his father died in 2005 after 38 years in power .
the late president gnassingbe eyadema passed a law in 1992 limiting the president to two terms in power , only to scrap it a decade later .
togo s cabinet on tuesday adopted a draft bill to bring back the term limits , the government announced in a statement .
but the decision did little to satisfy an increasingly rejuvenated opposition .
speaking before a crowd of thousands of protesters in central lome , jean-pierre fabre , the head of the main anc opposition party , said : we will march again tomorrow .
faure should talk to us about the conditions for his departure .
the ( draft ) law on mandates comes too late .
residents said similar protests were underway in sokode , 340 km ( 210 miles ) north of the coastal capital , as well as several other towns .
a number of long-serving african rulers , notably in rwanda , burundi and burkina faso , have moved to drop term limits in recent years in order to remain in power .
in some cases this has sparked strong opposition that has led to violent unrest .
however , unlike marches last month during which at least two protesters were killed by security forces , there was no sign of violence by early afternoon on wednesday .
togo , which aspires to become an african dubai and hosts the headquarters of pan-african lender ecobank and other major firms , has a history of repression .
around 500 people were killed during protests against the current leader s 2005 poll victory .
but the move to reintroduce a two-term limit could represent an important volte-face by the president , whose government in 2015 voted against the introduction of regional term limits across the ecowas 15-nation zone which he currently chairs .
( i ) deplore the serious incidents in sokode and lome during the protests of 19 august and call upon the people to exercise calm , serenity and moderation , gnassingbe said in a statement released on wednesday .
he also pledged to improve living conditions in the country of nearly 8 million people .
it was not immediately known when the bill approved by the cabinet will be presented to parliament .
nor was it clear how the proposed change to article 59 of the constitution would affect gnassingbe , who is now serving a third mandate which ends in 2020 .
government critics accused authorities of cutting mobile internet access on wednesday in a move they said mirrored cuts imposed by other african incumbents , such as gabon s ali bongo , to control criticism at sensitive times .
however , the main internet gateway remained operational according to dyn which monitors global internet traffic .
a government official could not immediately be reached for comment .