a tweet caught my eye after exploring all of the hate and violence posted from charlottesville .
did you dig deeper and do you know : who paid for helmets , bus rentals , body armor on both sides in charlottesville ?
are we missing the elephant in the room ?
is this event being used for political purposes ( see va gov .
mcauliffe video below ) to shut down free speech and to denounce president trump who has no connection to any of these radical groups ?
george soros must be so proud right now what s missing in all of the news reports is that the group that got permission to rally ( we don t agree with them but they got permission to rally ) was infiltrated by bussed in black lives matter and antifa thugs who are very violent .
remember berkeley ?
the rally then became a violent mob was this the plan by the left when they bussed in hundreds in opposition ?
a perfect scenario for the left something isn t right here george soros of moveon.org was advertising for protesters too : antifa is paid by dnc funder george soros but not one democrat is being asked to condemn them for charlottesville jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) august 12 , 2017the truth is that trump supporters and most americans on both sides reject this violence !
it s being used as a tool to destroy the trump supporters and trump ! doesn t matter what evil it is .
remember the media rule .
every story must be twisted around so that donald trump is the villain .
mark simone ( @ marksimoneny ) august 12 , 2017my feelings were confirmed when virginia governor terry mcauliffe waisted no time in denouncing white nationalists but this sounds more like a political stump speech than anything else .
notice how he didn t denounce blm or antifa : i just asked @ governorva if he wanted to condemn antifa as well as neo nazi groups .
he heard .
refused to answer .
pic.twitter.com/w7vch4fsi0 raheem ( @ raheemkassam ) august 12 , 2017mcauliffe is in full politician mode here : it s sickening !
i told president trump that there has got to be a movement in this country to bring people together .
.
@ governorva on # charlottesville protests : i told @ potus that there has got to be a movement in this country to bring people together .
pic.twitter.com/huncmubv4q fox news ( @ foxnews ) august 12 , 2017