the hague ( reuters ) - dutch prime minister mark rutte sealed a deal to form a new coalition government on tuesday , announcing a major tax overhaul and steering the netherlands towards the political right .
the four-party coalition talks were the country s longest since world war two , overtaking a record of 208 days set in 1977 as the parties struggled to bridge wide differences .
among the issues discussed in often fraught debates were migration a topic which dominated the national election in march in which the anti-islam party of geert wilders finished second taxation and euthanasia .
it took a long time , but we have an ambitious and balanced plan that will benefit all , rutte said , presenting the pact .
rutte , who leads the liberal vvd party , will head his third government since coming to power in 2010 .
he is due to start picking his cabinet on friday , the day after parliament debates the government pact , and have his team installed by the end of this month .
the coalition will have a more rightwing hue than the outgoing government of the vvd and the centre-left labour party .
the independent budget office said the government s plans would increase growth in gross domestic product ( gdp ) by 0.2 percentage points annually through 2021 , with average growth forecast at 2 percent .
but despite being able to reap the benefits of the strongest dutch economic expansion in a decade , at over 3 percent , the new government may struggle to promote its political agenda , given its wafer-thin , one-seat majority in both houses of parliament .
among the most important plans of the new coalition which comprises the vvd , the centrist d66 and conservative christian parties cda and christian union is a large tax overhaul , with a cut in income taxes worth around 6 billion euros ( $ 7.1 billion ) that will benefit the wealthy and middle classes .
the coalition also aims to lower the corporate tax rate , from 25 to 21 percent , which will be partly offset by higher taxes on food and a scaling-back of tax breaks for homeowners .
the largest employers association said the plans would make the netherlands more attractive for international companies .
the dividend tax is going to be totally abolished .
that s especially beneficial for foreign investors , said marcel klok , a senior economist at ing bank .
lowering taxes for households and companies will bring higher consumer spending and employment that will support the wider economy .
it is becoming more rewarding to work and that is one of the main aims of this government .
however , labour unions said the plans would raise the cost of living , while companies shareholders are being pampered .
the coalition does not include wilders party and , while a greater focus on national identity is part of its agenda , a clampdown on migration is not .
the four parties have agreed to limit financial allowances for asylum seekers in the first two years of their stay , though the netherlands plans to admit several hundred refugees per year more than until now .
government plans also include higher taxes for polluters and the promise to shut all five coal-fired energy plants in the country by 2030 .
this should help lower emissions of carbon dioxide in 2030 to 49 percent of the level reached in 1990 .
that goal seems unfeasible , environmental group greenpeace said .
coal plants will be allowed to run 10 years longer than necessary , while other plans to reduce emissions remain vague .
a plan by d66 to extend euthanasia will not get the full support of the coalition since the cda and christian union oppose the idea .