naypyitaw ( reuters ) - myanmar and bangladesh signed an accord on thursday over terms for the return of hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslims who have fled to bangladesh , both governments said , amid concern that myanmar s powerful army could prove obstructive .
rights groups have accused the military in mostly buddhist myanmar of carrying out mass rape and other atrocities during a counter-insurgency operation launched in late august in retaliation for attacks by rohingya militants in rakhine state .
on wednesday , the united states said the military operation that drove 620,000 rohingya to seek sanctuary in neighboring , largely muslim bangladesh , amounted to ethnic cleansing , echoing an accusation first leveled by top u.n. officials in the early days of the humanitarian crisis .
myanmar is seeking to ease international pressure by striking an initial agreement on returns , while dhaka wants to ensure overstretched refugee camps that have mushroomed in the cox s bazar region don t become permanent .
the return of the refugees should start in two months , the pact says .
a joint working group will be set up in three weeks and a specific bilateral arrangement for repatriation will be concluded in a speedy manner , the bangladesh foreign affairs ministry said in a statement .
we are ready to take them back as soon as possible after bangladesh sends the forms back to us , myint kyaing , a permanent secretary at myanmar s ministry of labor , immigration and population , told reuters , referring to forms the rohingya must complete with personal details before repatriation .
the signing took place after a meeting between myanmar s civilian leader aung san suu kyi and bangladesh foreign minister abul hassan mahmood ali in naypyitaw .
in its statement , myanmar said the deal was based on the 1992-1993 repatriation pact between the two countries that followed a previous spasm of violence in myanmar .
although western countries and the world muslim body , the organisation for islamic cooperation , portrayed the matter as an international issue , myanmar said it was resolved via two-way talks based on friendly and good neighborly relations .
issues that emerge between neighboring countries must be resolved amicably through bilateral negotiations , suu kyi s office said .
on the basis of the 1992-1993 agreement , myanmar would accept those who could present identity documents issued to the rohingya by governments in the past , myint kyaing said .
acceptable identity documents include the currently distributed national verification cards , the now-withdrawn white cards , and receipts the rohingya received for the return of white cards , he said .
the refugees have to provide names of family members , previous addresses in myanmar , birthdates and a statement of voluntary return in the forms they fill out , he added .
diplomats have said key deal elements will be the criteria of return and the participation of the united nations refugee agency , unhcr .
other important points include safeguards for the rohingya against further violence , a path to resolving their legal status and whether they would be allowed to return to their own homes and farms .
myint kyaing declined to elaborate on those points .
speaking at a military event in dhaka , bangladesh prime minister sheikh hasina said she was calling on myanmar to start taking back soon their nationals from bangladesh .
however , there was little enthusiasm for the deal among rohingya refugees in the camps in bangladesh s cox s bazar area near the myanmar border .
we will go back to our country if our demands are met , said one of them , salimullah , who arrived in bangladesh 15 days ago .
our demands are that we are given citizenship .
they also have to give us back our land , he told reuters television .
suu kyi , whose stature as a nobel peace prize winner was tarnished by the crisis , has said repatriation of the largely stateless muslim minority would be based on residency and that it will be safe and voluntary .
but her civilian administration , which is less than two years old , has to share power with the military that ruled myanmar for decades , and the generals have appeared less enthusiastic about the prospect of rohingya returning .
russia s ambassador to myanmar criticized the u.s. stance , saying that using the term ethnic cleansing was unhelpful and could aggravate the situation .
on a visit to beijing on wednesday , myanmar s commander in chief , senior general min aung hlaing , was told by a senior chinese general that china wanted stronger ties with myanmar s military .
humanitarian workers told reuters they were particularly concerned about a statement by min aung hlaing last week .
the situation must be acceptable for both local rakhine ethnic people and bengalis , and emphasis must be placed on wish of local rakhine ethnic people who are real myanmar citizens , min aung hlaing said .
his use of the term bengali for the rohingya implies they are from bangladesh , and buddhists in rakhine are largely opposed to their presence .
min aung hlaing , over whom suu kyi has no control , also said the returnees would be scrutinized and re-accepted under the 1982 citizenship law and the 1992 myanmar-bangladesh bilateral agreement .
the 1982 law , passed during the junta s long rule , ties myanmar citizenship to membership of recognized ethnic groups , an official list that excludes the rohingya .
senior u.n. officials based in myanmar told reuters they feared that security personnel in key positions may not cooperate over the return of rohingya .