another untold story of a random act of kindness by president donald j. trump iranian-american pastor saeed abedini is brimming with gratitude for one u.s. presidential aspirant : donald trump.in a surprising revelation , abedini said trump helped provide for the needs of his family in boise , idaho while he was locked up in an iranian prison for his faith .
the pastor said trump gave his family $ 10,000 while he was imprisoned for three and a half years .
i am finally free in a free country .
last year on the same day i was sick and in chains for christ , and now i can vote to choose my next president , abedini said in a post on his facebook page on sunday .
and most amazingly , i can vote for someone that i know fought for me and called my name so many times .
he met my family and gave them a $ 10,000 gift .
i think his ideas are more biblical than the other candidates , he added.in contrast , abedini said democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton did not do or say anything to help secure his release from iranian prison .
the pastor said clinton never spoke his name or met his family .
as a woman who says she stands for women s rights when she was foreign minister , she never contacted my mom , wife , sister or my daughter .
she never did anything to help when i was in prison as an american pastor who was detained in iran as a hostage , he wrote.abedini strongly defended trump from attacks on his character , saying god used flawed men to lead nations in the old testament , likening him to king cyrus of persia , a figure mentioned more than 30 times in the bible .
according to bible experts , cyrus was a great pagan king who ruled persia from 539 to 530 b.c .
under his rule , jews were first allowed to return to israel after 70 years of captivity .
in the past few months , we have seen how media is attacking donald trump s past .
i have even heard so many people said he is not a christian .
of course , only god knows this for sure , but what i see is god is using him and anointed him .
it seems to me that he is the cyrus of our modern day , but like you and me , he is a flawed man , in the process of spiritual growth , abedini said.the pastor pointed out that those who are condemning trump for his past are forgetting that america is also a nation saved by grace .
when we hear that this candidate or that candidate is not a strong christian or has a past that disqualifies him to be the president of the united states , my answer is that we are a nation , a people who are also sinners , saved by grace , he wrote.last week , abedini said he already cast an early vote for trump in the 2016 presidential election.from abedini s facebook page :