bogota ( reuters ) - colombia and the marxist eln rebels began a ceasefire on sunday aimed at generating goodwill during complicated talks to end a half-century war that has killed hundreds of thousands .
the truce , the first with the national liberation army ( eln ) , will run through jan. 9 and may be extended if it is respected .
this is a very important step , a step that i hope will be the first in a process that will also lead the eln to hand in their weapons , president juan manuel santos said ahead of the armistice .
the eln is in talks in ecuador to end its part in the conflict .
since negotiations began in february , the eln has continued to take hostages for ransom and in recent weeks stepped up bomb attacks on oil companies .
defense minister luis carlos villegas warned that , although colombia s military would avoid confrontations with the eln during the ceasefire , it would go after the group if it engaged in criminal activities such as illegal mining and drug trafficking .
we ll respect the ceasefire in the sense that we won t confront the eln , looking for contact and combat .
we hope they do the same , villegas told reuters in a recent interview .
our mission to pursue crime will be maintained throughout the nation without exception .
despite the ceasefire , the road to a definitive peace accord will be long and complex .
the eln is considered hard-line in its ideology and was not known for compromise during past attempts at peace .
inspired by the cuban revolution and the liberation theology beliefs of the catholic priests who founded it in 1964 , the 2,000-strong eln has sought an end to the war before , holding talks in cuba and venezuela between 2002 and 2007 .
both attempts collapsed with little progress .
the eln is considered a terrorist group by the united states and european union for engaging in kidnapping , assassinations , drug trafficking , attacks on economic infrastructure and extortion of oil and mining multi-nationals .
during the ceasefire , the insurgent group has pledged to suspend hostage taking , attacks on roads and oil installations , the use of landmines and the recruitment of minors .
in turn , the government agreed to improve protection for community leaders and conditions for about 450 jailed rebels .
santos s government signed a peace deal with the larger revolutionary armed forces of colombia ( farc ) in 2016 after negotiations in havana , cuba that lasted four years .