who could forget the unbelievable standoff in oregon between patriots and the government ?
who could forget the dramatic shooting of patriot lavoy finicum who traveled from arizona to oregon from to stand with american ranchers against the blm , an overbearing government agency ?
oregon state police troopers fired the three rounds that killed the arizona rancher and father of 11 during a confrontation on a remote road , law enforcement officials said at a news conference in bend .
go here to see the actual video showing patriot lavoy finicum being shot to death by authorities.here s a great video showing the historic standoff between patriots and the overreaching blm government agency : recently fox news bret bair did a special report , where he asked , whatever happened to the bundy s ?
on october 27 , 2016 , ammon and ryan bundy were been found not guilty of conspiracy .
their five co-defendants jeff banta , shawna cox , david fry , kenneth medenbach and neil wampler have all been found not guilty as well .
jurors were unable to reach a verdict on ryan bundy s theft of government property charge.the jury returned its verdict after some six weeks of testimony followed by less than six hours deliberations , and the last minute replacement of a juror after an allegation surfaced that he was biased.the jury was instructed to disregard their previous work and to reconsider the evidence .
it was a pretty jaw-dropping verdict , said opb reporter amelia templeton of the climate in the courtroom .
the jury began by reading out the verdict for ammon bundy , ostensibly the leader of the occupation , and when we heard that ammon bundy was not guilty , it became clear very quickly that likely no one in the case was going to be found guilty , and indeed , everyone has been acquitted .
after the verdict was read , ammon bundy s attorney marcus mumford was tackled to the ground by five u.s .
marshals .
he insisted his client was free to go .
ammon bundy faces a us marshall hold and is supposed to be transferred to nevada where he faces charges for the bunkerville standoff.here is ammon bundy explaining why they are protesting : ( function ( d , s , id ) { var js , fjs = d.getelementsbytagname ( s ) [ 0 ] ; if ( d.getelementbyid ( id ) ) return ; js = d.createelement ( s ) ; js.id = id ; js.src = 'https : //connect.facebook.net/en_us/sdk.js # xfbml=1 & version=v2.11 ' ; fjs.parentnode.insertbefore ( js , fjs ) ; } ( document , 'script ' , 'facebook-jssdk ' ) ) ; standing for the rights of men & womenbreaking !
share !
standing for the rights of men & women .
calling all freedom loving people to come to harney county oregon , come to the malhuer wildlife refuge .
the people are finally getting some good use out of a federal facility.posted by bundy ranch on saturday , january 2 , 2016judge gloria navarro dismissed jurors wednesday , several weeks after the trial began against bundy , his sons ammon and ryan bundy , and militia member ryan payne , who were accused of leading an armed standoff with federal land agents in 2014.navarro cited five key pieces of information that prosecutors did not disclose : records about surveillance and snipers at the bundy ranch ; unredacted fbi logs about activity at the ranch in the days around the standoff ; threat assessments about the bundys dating to 2012 ; and internal affairs reports about the blm.withheld evidence at issuenavarro methodically laid out her reasoning for about an hour , citing legal standards and case law , before delivering her ruling.she said the evidence that was withheld could have been favorable to the accused and could have affected the outcome of the case.navarro stopped short of dismissing charges against the four men .
it is unclear whether the case will be retried because navarro did not rule whether the mistrial was with or without prejudice.she has set another hearing for january and has tentatively scheduled a new trial to begin feb. 26.navarro suspended the trial two weeks ago and warned of a potential mistrial after prosecutors for the first time disclosed several documents that appeared to support defense claims about the government s use of video surveillance and sniper teams during the standoff.prosecutors have long maintained the fbi was not involved in the standoff and that no video surveillance or sniper teams were used .
they charged defendants with making false claims about snipers and videos to incite militia in the runup to the standoff.lawyers raise self-defensedocuments turned over by the prosecution after the start of the trial indicated the fbi played an active role in the standoff and that surveillance camera and armed tactical teams were positioned around the bundy ranch.defense lawyers filed motions to dismiss the case , arguing the new documents provided critical evidence that would have allowed them to challenge the government s charges , impeach government witnesses and lay the foundation for self-defense claims.the bundys launched a social-media rallying cry .
hundreds of supporters , including members of several militia groups , converged on the bundy ranch .
federal agents abandoned the roundup , saying they were outgunned and in fear for their lives.last year , the government charged 19 people with conspiracy , assault , extortion and weapons violations for their roles in the standoff .
two men took plea deals .
trials for the remaining 17 defendants were broken into three tiers based on their alleged levels of culpability.bundy has maintained there was no conspiracy and that supporters were staging a peaceful protest and exercising their constitutional rights to bear arms.for many americans , images of the four-day standoff in a dusty wash below interstate 15 about 70 miles northeast of las vegas were shocking .
hundreds of protesters , ranchers and militia members took armed positions around federal law-enforcement officers , some lying prone on freeway overpasses and sighting down long rifles.but making a solid case against bundy and his supporters has so far eluded prosecutors .
two federal juries in las vegas have rejected conspiracy claims against six defendants in earlier trials .
az central here is a video showing cliven bundy asking the local sheriff , on behalf of we the people to disarm the park service :