dar es salaam ( reuters ) - tanzanian prosecutors charged two government officials on friday with economic sabotage after they were accused of undervaluing an export-bound consignment of diamonds seized from a mine majority owned by london-listed petra diamonds .
archard kalugendo , director of the state-run diamond and gemstone valuation unit , and government gemstone valuer edward rweyemamu were jointly charged with being responsible for $ 1.1 million of lost tax revenue .
the court case is the latest twist in a government crackdown on the minerals industry this year , with president john magufuli accusing the sector of not giving the government a fair share of tanzania s mineral wealth .
kalugendo , 49 , and rweyemamu , 50 , are both employees of the ministry of energy and minerals .
they were not allowed to enter pleas at the kisutu resident magistrate s court in tanzania s commercial capital , dar es salaam .
lawyers said the two officials will enter their pleas when the case is transferred to the high court , which has jurisdiction to hear economic sabotage trials .
the accused were denied bail and will be held on remand until the next hearing on sept. 29 .
the pair face maximum jail terms of 20 years if found guilty .
the diamonds were seized as they were being exported to antwerp , belgium , from tanzania s main airport in dar es salaam on aug. 31 .
petra diamonds said on monday that it had halted operations at its williamson mine after the government seized the diamonds and questioned some of its employees .
petra owns 75 percent of the mine , with the tanzanian government holding the remaining shares .
petra has denied that it under-declares its diamond exports , saying that it follows all government laws and procedures in its business .
the government said it will nationalize the diamonds , the value of which it puts at $ 29.5 million , twice the provisional value approved by the two government officials charged in court .
the government has not disclosed how it came to its $ 29.5 million valuation .
magufuli had ordered the examination of exports by individual companies after a parliamentary investigation found that the country s diamonds and other precious gemstone exports were under-declared .
mining accounts for about 4 percent of tanzania s gdp .