washington ( reuters ) - the white house said on thursday it believed that saudi arabia would allow a blocked port in yemen to open after president donald trump urged riyadh to lift a blockade to let humanitarian aid reach the yemeni people .
the saudi-led military coalition fighting the iran-aligned armed houthi movement in yemen s civil war started blockading ports a month ago after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward its capital riyadh from yemen .
although the blockade later eased , yemen s situation remains dire .
about 8 million people are on the brink of famine with outbreaks of cholera and diphtheria .
yemen s population of 27 million is almost entirely reliant on imports for food , fuel and medicine .
i believe there are actions that are taking place for a port to open and we ll keep you posted as those details become more available , white house spokeswoman sarah sanders told reporters .
trump called for saudi arabia on wednesday to completely allow food , fuel , water , and medicine to reach the yemeni people , suggesting washington had run out patience with the blockade that has been condemned by relief organizations .
progress has not been seen yet , but we hope that advocacy and those strong messages will open up the port from being a partially open port to being a fully open port , jamie mcgoldrick , united nations humanitarian coordinator in yemen , told reporters in new york .
mcgoldrick said there were 15 ships , carrying mainly food and fuel , waiting to enter the yemeni ports of hodeidah and salif .
around 80 percent of yemen s food imports arrive through hodeidah .
they need to come onshore now , said mcgoldrick , speaking via telephone from sanaa .
there are some boats which are offshore which have been cleared by riyadh already ... we see no reason why they should not be able to come onshore now .
a reuters analysis of port and ship tracking data has shown that no fuel shipments have reached yemen s largest port for a month .
what we have got right now is food trickling in to yemen through the various ports , but we can t get it to the people without the fuel , mcgoldrick said .
yemen s humanitarian response needs millions of liters of fuel a month to keep hospital generators running , transport food and to pump water .