socialist indoctrination starts in kindergarten and is reinforced throughout the american student s educational journey .
parents need to pay attention to the drivel their children are being taught at school .
this kind of socialist teaching is not limited to public schools , many of us have discovered that private and parochial schools are equally guilty of this type of indoctrination .
conservative hollywood actress sam sorbo suggests home schooling your children to avoid government indoctrination .
the role of government is to redistribute wealth , according to a course at the milwaukee school of engineering.a test , administered on april 29 in professor john traxler s healthcare economics class , told students that [ o ] ne of the main functions of government is income redistribution , then asked them to explain what the statement meant .
the correct answer was c : taxing the wealthy and giving it to those in poverty .
josh fisher , a student in the class , told campus reform he was flabbergasted when he saw the question , given that it is premised on an unabashedly liberal view of a politically contentious issue .
when i saw it i wanted to get up and leave , he said .
i thought there s no way this is a real question at all .
fundamental concepts include : demand and supply , elasticity and marginalism , inflation , unemployment , business cycles , role of government , states the course description on the school s website , adding , these concepts are then used to explain and analyze market structures , including perfect competition and monopoly .
the website also defines the course learning outcomes , which include [ analyzing ] the role of government and the effect of regulation on the healthcare section as described by economics .
i listen to talk radio a lot now : [ ben ] shapiro , [ steven ] crowder , [ andrew ] klavan , [ mark ] levin , and milo [ yiannopoulos ] , fisher said .
so i knew that this type of liberal perspective being pushed on students was happening but i had no idea it was so blatant .
maybe the worst part is that so many of my classmates now believe this to be true .
several professors who spoke with campus reform about the matter said that while the question defines income redistribution accurately , it was unnecessary to include an endorsement of that controversial concept .
this question assumes a false premise , said antony davies , a professor at duquesne university .
i do not accept the premise that redistribution is a main function of government ( in general ) , he added , though he did concede that it is a main function of our government today .
when asked if this is common to be taught in economics classes he claimed : no .
that s not common [ to be taught ] .
it is common to teach that that is something governments can do .
one way to read the question is that it is simply a definition : c is the definition of income redistribution .
the real slant is in the start , saying that income redistribution is one of the main functions of government , noted mount holyoke college economics professor jim hartley .
some people think that is true , but others disagree .
so , if the question was written as income redistribution means , the question is fine .
if it started , some people believe one of the main functions it would be fine , he explained .
the assertion in the first sentence is the evidence of bias , but the question is unaffected by the bias .
he also added that the first sentence is not necessary for the test question and thus is really just serving as propaganda .
fisher told campus reform that he was reluctant to challenge his professor on the matter , saying , i didn t want to risk to affecting my grade .
he pushes his agenda pretty hard .
the student who provided the tip wishes to remain anonymous , but added that traxler is pretty set with his opinion anyways , so i don t think [ fighting him ] would have made a difference .
via : campus reform