manila ( reuters ) - the philippines has started upgrading military facilities on the biggest features it occupies in the disputed south china sea , its defense secretary said on tuesday , asserting manila s claims in the strategic waterway .
delfin lorenzana said a contractor was building a beach ramp on thitu island , locally known as pag-asa ( hope ) , the largest of nine features the philippines holds in the spratly islands .
while construction is ongoing , albeit intermittently , depending on good weather , we expect its completion by early 2018 , lorenzana said , adding the monsoon rains have been hampering the building of the beach ramp .
no construction can proceed without a good beaching ramp .
china claims almost the entire south china sea , but brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam also have claims on the waterway where more than $ 3 trillion worth of sea-borne goods pass every year .
recent satellite imagery has shown chinese vessels gathering around thitu , in what some experts say could be an attempt to deter the philippines from cementing its claim .
china s ambassador has played that down , insisting his country has no ill intent .
the two countries have long been at odds over the south china sea , although ties have warmed substantially under philippine president rodrigo duterte , who says it is smarter to do business with china than pick a fight with its far superior military .
lorenzana said the ramp was important to allow large naval ships to deliver construction materials to repair and upgrade the island s airfield , fix structures and build a new port for fishermen .
a small community lives on thitu , ostensibly to prop up the country s claim , although conditions are basic compared to those enjoyed by vietnamese and chinese on other islands in the spratly chain .
defense department spokesman arsenio andolong said the government would spend more than 1.3 billion pesos ( $ 25.3 million ) for the upgrades on thitu .
the military has defended the work , saying almost of all south china sea claimants have been doing the same .
china has built seven artificial islands , installing radar and anti-aircraft guns and missiles on several .
experts have predicted fighter jets will soon be deployed on those islands .