des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - liberal groups allied with the white house staged rallies around the country on monday to pressure republican senators including the judiciary committee ’ s chairman not to block president barack obama ’ s supreme court nominee merrick garland .
at the same time , a conservative group , the judicial crisis network , said it launched a $ 2 million , three-week television , radio and digital advertising campaign in colorado , indiana , iowa , new hampshire , north dakota and west virginia opposing garland ’ s confirmation .
the group is backing the stance of senate republicans including majority leader mitch mcconnell not to hold confirmation hearings or a vote on garland ’ s nomination .
in iowa ’ s capital , demonstrators targeted judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley , whose panel handles confirmation hearings for supreme court nominees .
more than 50 protesters gathered on the sidewalk outside a federal building where grassley has an office , chanting “ do your job ” as a plane pulling a banner carrying the same message flew overhead .
liberal groups including moveon.org organized rallies targeting republicans in their home states during the senate ’ s two-week spring recess in states including ohio , pennsylvania , texas and wisconsin .
the rallies generally drew crowds in the dozens , organizers said .
“ i have called grassley ’ s office every week for the last two or three weeks and it doesn ’ t seem like he ’ s getting the message , so i need to find another way to do this , ” said des moines demonstrator tracey aubrecht , a 44-year-old homemaker from north liberty , iowa .
state senator rob hogg , one of the four democrats running in a primary for a chance to challenge grassley in the nov. 8 election , attended the rally .
the nomination requires confirmation by the republican-led senate .
republicans have said they want the next president to make the selection , hoping their party wins the presidential election .
garland , a centrist appellate judge and former prosecutor , was picked last week to replace justice antonin scalia , who died feb. 13 .
his appointment could tip the court leftward for the first time in decades .
the white house said vice president joe biden will deliver remarks on garland ’ s nomination at georgetown law school on thursday .
it said garland also will continue meeting senators individually , speaking with democrats charles schumer of new york and bob casey of pennsylvania on tuesday and amy klobuchar of minnesota on wednesday .
both sides have promised intensive campaigns on the ground and over the airwaves that will eclipse other battles over supreme court nominees in recent decades .
garland remains relatively unknown among americans .
roughly one out of every five people say they are “ somewhat ” or “ very ” familiar with him , a reuters/ipsos poll conducted from thursday to monday found .
among those who have heard of garland , half expressed a favorable opinion , including 60 percent of democrats and 43 percent of republicans .