maxine waters has a major brain freeze during an interview ripping on the trump administration karma ?
recognize that evidence is pouring in and it s growing or what is matt what what is wrong with them , i just don t quite understand , if maxine waters is the best the dems have in their arsenal then this is good news for republicans .
the california democrat has been bashing president trump at every turn with no real reason .
she s even called for his impeachment .
is this all she s got ?
she never speaks about what she s doing for the district in california that she doesn t even live in .
she refuses to hear any opposing views during town halls .
she has opposing voices removed so the adoring masses can rant and rave about trump .
it s truly a banana republic in maxine s world .
we ve reported in the past about her bizarre behavior but the best question was asked by tucker carlson : maxine waters is so filled with hate for anyone who disagrees with her , that she s decided to appoint herself as the democrat s chief attack dog for president trump and his administration .
unfortunately for maxine , making a public spectacle of herself also comes with a price .
speaking of a price how about the price tag on career politician maxine waters $ 4.3 million mansion ? tucker carlson reacted to rep. maxine waters ( d-calif. ) threat to take [ hud secretary dr. ben carson s ] a * * apart by noting she might indeed be qualified to take his job.carlson said waters , a 40-year politician , lives in a 6,000 square-foot mansion worth $ 4.3 million that is not in her congressional district.he asked how waters could afford a home like that in a ritzy neighborhood while solely working as a representative of the 43rd district .
we should take her seriously on this subject , carlson said , calling her a confirmed expert on the question on housing .
he said that while waters sometimes speaks using racially-charged rhetoric , she lives in a neighborhood that is only six percent african-american.via : fox news