our refugee resettlement program needs to bed stopped right now .
we need to rethink and regroup on everything about it .
the cost is huge but security is a big issue too .
here s one example : two al qaeda terrorists who had killed american soldiers were able to enter the country as refugees , according to a report released wednesday from the house homeland security committee.waad ramadan alwan and mohanad shareef hammadi , two iraqi refugees settled in bowling green , kentucky , after killing american soldiers , whom they bragged about having for lunch and dinner .
in 2010 , they were caught handling weapons , including included a machine gun and a missile launcher , that they planned to smuggle to insurgents in iraq .
i wouldn t be surprised if there were many more than that , said rep. michael mccaul ( r. , texas ) , the chairman of the house committee on homeland security .
and these are trained terrorists in the art of bombmaking that are inside the united states ; and quite frankly , from a homeland security perspective , that really concerns me .
the committee s report found that the administration s refugee resettlement program proposal will have a limited impact on alleviating the overall crisis but could have serious ramifications for u.s. homeland security .
jeh johnson , the secretary of the department of homeland security , admitted in october at a hearing before the homeland security and governmental affairs committee that organizations such as the islamic state might attempt to exploit the syrian refugee resettlement program .
it is true that we are not going to know a whole lot about the syrians that come forth in this process , he said.president obama s refugee resettlement program is now under scrutiny after deadly terrorist attacks in paris killed more than 120 people and left more than 300 injured on friday .
it is suspected that one of the terrorists entered the country as a refugee.in addition to these attacks , men in minnesota were apprehended by the feds for trying to join the islamic state .
there is growing concern that the state would be a recruiting ground for the islamic state because of its large community of somali refugees.read more : wfb