sarajevo ( reuters ) - the u.n. war crimes tribunal for former yugoslavia delivers its verdict on wednesday in the trial of ratko mladic , the ex-bosnian serb military commander charged with genocide and crimes against humanity in bosnia s 1992-95 war .
here is a timeline of events leading to his arrest as well as important aspects of his trial : july 25 - the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia ( icty ) indicts mladic and wartime bosnian serb political leader radovan karadzic on charges of genocide , crimes against humanity and violations of the laws and customs of wars .
nov. 21 - the united states brokers the dayton accords that formally end europe s worst conflict since world war two , with 100,000 dead and 2 million homeless .
a nato-led force deploys in the shattered country to secure implementation of the deal .
late 1990s - mladic is believed to move to neighboring serbia to avoid possible capture by international forces in bosnia .
occasional reports surface of mladic appearing in public in belgrade .
karadzic also moves secretly to serbia .
2000 - serbian president slobodan milosevic is toppled by a pro-democracy uprising and successor authorities hand the former strongman over to the icty in 2001 for trial .
icty prosecutor carla del ponte renews demand for arrest of mladic and karadzic .
2006 - a serbian military intelligence report discloses that mladic was using army premises until mid-2002 .
the european union suspends talks on relations with serbia over its failure to arrest war crimes fugitives including mladic and karadzic .
march 11 , 2006 - milosevic dies in his prison cell before his trial can be completed .
2008 - serbian authorities arrest a disguised karadzic and extradite him to the icty in the hague .
june 16 - mladic s family launch court proceedings in serbia to declare him dead , saying he had been in poor health and they had had no contact with him for over five years .
oct. 28 - serbia raises reward for information leading to the arrest of mladic to 10 million euros .
may 26 - mladic is arrested at the farmhouse of a relative in a small town in northern serbia .
may 29 - serbian nationalists assault police at a belgrade rally where about 10,000 people demand the fall of the government over mladic s arrest .
may 31 - serbia extradites mladic to the icty .
june 3 - mladic appears at an icty hearing , calling the charges against him obnoxious and monstrous words .
he declines to enter a plea , saying he needs more time to study the charges .
judge alphons orie schedules a new hearing for july 4 .
july 4 - judge alphons orie removes mladic from the courtroom after he refuses to listen to the charges against him .
orie enters a not-guilty plea on mladic s behalf on all 11 charges against him .
may 16 - mladic s trial begins .
july 9 - the first witness , a survivor of a 1992 massacre , confronts mladic and breaks down in tears as he tells the court about the last time he saw his father , one of 150 muslim men killed by bosnian serb forces in the village of grabovica .
april 10 - mladic gets removed from court for challenging harrowing testimony from a survivor of the july 1995 massacre in srebrenica of 8,000 muslim men and boys by bosnian serb forces .
jan. 28 - mladic appears as a witness against his will in the trial of karadzic and sidesteps questions from his old ally .
april 5 - the icty upholds a life sentence against zdravko tolimir , the former head of bosnian serb military intelligence who reported directly to mladic , for genocide over his role in the srebrenica massacre .
march 24 - the icty convicts karadzic of genocide for the srebrenica massacre , the worst atrocity in europe since world war two , and sentences him to 40 years .
december - prosecution and defence teams deliver closing arguments in mladic s trial .
prosecutors demand life in prison for mladic for the execution-style killings of muslim men and boys in srebrenica and their burial in mass graves , the long siege and bombardment of the bosnian capital sarajevo , and ethnic cleansing of muslims and croats in other areas .
defense lawyers argue that mladic never ordered the srebrenica killings and say the case against him was systematically biased .
march - mladic s lawyers seek his provisional release , arguing he is not getting adequate medical treatment at the u.n. detention center in the hague .
prosecutors argue against this .
may 11 - judges reject mladic s requests for provisional release .
they will reject his appeals and similar requests for release on medical grounds regularly through november .
nov. 22 - verdict and potential sentencing .
( $ 1 = 0.8530 euros )