marco rubio sounded so robotic during the last gop debate that people are now trolling him by dressing up as robots.as you ll recall , rubio had a terrible performance on saturday night thanks to the efforts of new jersey governor chris christie .
christie nailed rubio for repeating the same line over and over again in a matter of minutes as if the florida senator malfunctioned and became a broken record .
let s dispel once and for all with this fiction that barack obama doesn t know what he s doing , rubio said in response to christie s charge that rubio lacks the experience to be president .
he knows exactly what he s doing .
rubio would go on to repeat the line several more times .
let s dispel with this fiction that barack obama doesn t know what he s doing .
he knows exactly what he s doing .
here s the bottom line .
this notion that barack obama doesn t know what he s doing is just not true .
he knows exactly what he s doing .
christie didn t let rubio get away with it either .
christie accused rubio of being scripted .
this is what washington d.c. does , christie said .
the drive-by shot at the beginning with incorrect and incomplete information and then the memorized 25-second speech .
that is exactly what his advisers gave him .
it was a disaster for rubio , especially since he looked to be rising in the new hampshire polls .
but now , he s seen as a robot who is pre-programmed to say certain things.and he s not going to able to forget about his robotic blunder any time soon.some clever people had the brilliant idea to troll rubio by dressing up as robots .
in the twitter image below , you can see two guys in their robot gear .
one is named marco roboto and the other is called rubio talking point 3000.outside rubio s 1st nh event today , per @ inesdlc : marco roboto + rubio talking point 3000 , from @ american_bridge pic.twitter.com/isqyosg9cp ben siegel ( @ benyc ) february 7 , 2016as if the republican primary couldn t get any stranger , we now have robots trolling the candidates and we have marco rubio to thank for it.domo arigato , marco roboto .
featured image from digital journal