washington ( reuters ) - republican u.s. senate majority leader mitch mcconnell on sunday ruled out senate confirmation of democratic president barack obama ’ s supreme court nominee this year , even if after the november election it appears the next president may pick a liberal who republicans would like even less .
in television interviews , mcconnell said republican senators had no intention of confirming democrat obama ’ s nominee , merrick garland , even if democrats win the white house in november , putting them in the position to nominate someone more liberal than garland when the new president takes office in january .
“ i can ’ t imagine that a republican-majority congress , in a lame-duck session , after the american people have spoken ( in the election ) , would want to confirm ( garland ) , ” mcconnell told cnn .
“ that ’ s not going to happen , ” mcconnell told fox news on sunday .
“ the principle is the same , whether it ’ s before the election or after the election .
the principle is the american people are choosing their next president and their next president should pick this supreme court nominee. ” nominees to the lifetime supreme court post require senate confirmation .
but mcconnell says the republican-run senate will not hold a hearing or a vote on garland .
republicans have said they want the next president to make the selection , hoping their party wins november ’ s election .
billionaire businessman donald trump is the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination .
garland , 63 , is widely viewed as a moderate , admired by both democrats and republicans .
republican senators orrin hatch and jeff flake last week raised the possibility of senate action on garland late this year if democrats keep the white house in the nov. 8 election .
mcconnell seemed keen to shut down that idea on sunday , saying the republican majority would not want to confirm garland “ even if it were soon to be in the minority. ” senate democratic leader harry reid told “ meet the press ” that he thought the republican facade against garland would break , because some republican senators already have said they would be willing to meet garland , and one republican - senator mark kirk of illinois - has said there should be a vote .
“ mcconnell is leading his senate over the cliff .
and i am telling everybody that ’ s watching this , the senators aren ’ t going to allow that , ” reid said .
the white house said it would stand by obama ’ s nominee .
“ we will stand by him from now until he is confirmed and he ’ s sitting on the supreme court , ” white house chief of staff denis mcdonough said on fox news on sunday .