geneva ( reuters ) - u.n. investigators have started collecting testimony from fleeing rohingya muslims pointing to human rights violations by myanmar s military and security forces , the head of the fact-finding mission said on tuesday .
marzuki darusman said his u.n. team was still trying to get myanmar s permission to enter the country , but was gathering evidence from refugees and medics in the border town of cox s bazar in neighboring bangladesh .
darusman s team started its work in august , the month that attacks by rohingya muslim insurgents in myanmar triggered a military response that has forced more than 421,000 rohingya into bangladesh in the past month .
myanmar has denied rights groups accusations that it is trying to drive the minority community out of rakhine state , saying it is only targeting militants .
initial information has been given that some of the allegations that have been spelled out in the resolution are reflected in the initial findings of the team in their interviews , darusman told reporters .
what they have come up with reflects in general the reporting of the international media so far on what is happening there .
the u.n. human rights council s resolution to set up the fact-finding mission mandated darusman s team to look into alleged recent human rights violations by military and security forces and abuses in myanmar , in particular in rakhine state .
the international media has widely reported on the plight of the rohingya and their accounts of persecution by myanmar s military and security forces , which the u.n. human rights chief has referred to as a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
initial findings would be released within about 10 days , darusman said .
his team was supposed to deliver its full report in march , but darusman told the geneva-based council that timeframe was utterly insufficient and asked for a six-month extension .
myanmar s ambassador htin lynn told the council that myanmar was making efforts to restore peace , law and order .
proportionate security measures targeted only on terrorists are being taken to safeguard our state security , and to restore law and order , he said .
we continue to believe that instituting such a mission is not a helpful course of action in solving the already intricate rakhine issue with daunting challenges .