washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump is seeking what he called a “ historic ” increase in defense spending , but ran into immediate opposition from republicans in congress who must approve his plan and said it was not enough to meet the military ’ s needs .
the proposed rise in the pentagon budget to $ 603 billion comes as the united states has wound down major wars in iraq and afghanistan and remains the world ’ s strongest military power .
the plan came under fire from democratic lawmakers , who said cuts being proposed to pay for the additional military spending would cripple important domestic programs such as environmental protection and education .
a white house budget official , who outlined the plan on a conference call with reporters , said the administration would propose “ increasing defense by $ 54 billion or 10 percent. ” that represents the magnitude of the increase over budget caps congress put in place in 2011 .
but mick mulvaney , the white house budget director , said the plan would bring the pentagon ’ s budget to $ 603 billion in total , just 3 percent more than the $ 584 billion the agency spent in the most recent fiscal year , which ended on sept. 30 , 2016 .
the rise would be slightly higher than the country ’ s current 2.5 percent rate of inflation .
“ president trump intends to submit a defense budget that is a mere 3 percent above president ( barack ) obama ’ s defense budget , which has left our military underfunded , undersized , and unready to confront threats to our national security , ” john mccain , the republican chairman of the senate armed services committee , said in a statement .
the defense boost would be balanced by slashing the same amount from non-defense spending , including a large reduction in foreign aid , the white house budget official said .
trump does not have the final say on federal spending .
his plan for the military is part of a budget proposal to congress , which , although it is controlled by his fellow republicans , will not necessarily follow his plans .
budget negotiations with lawmakers can take months .
mccain told reporters he would not vote for a budget with the slight military increase and thought it would face opposition in the senate .
trump told state governors at the white house his budget plan included a “ historic increase in defense spending to rebuild the depleted military of the united states of america. ” he said his proposal was a “ landmark event ” and would send a message of “ american strength , security and resolve ” to other countries .
officials familiar with trump ’ s budget blueprint said the plan would call for cuts to agencies including the state department and the environmental protection agency .
one official familiar with discussions over state ’ s budget said the agency could see spending cut by as much as 30 percent , which would force a major department restructuring and elimination of programs .
the united states spends about $ 50 billion annually on the state department and foreign assistance .
more than 120 retired u.s. generals and admirals urged congress on monday to fully fund u.s. diplomacy and foreign aid , saying such programs “ are critical to keeping america safe. ” trump has vowed to spare middle-class social programs such as social security and medicare from any cuts .
nancy pelosi , the top democrat in the house of representatives , said trump ’ s plan to slash funding for federal agencies to free up money for the pentagon showed he was not putting american working families first .
“ a $ 54 billion cut will do far-reaching and long-lasting damage to our ability to meet the needs of the american people and win the jobs of the future , ” pelosi said .
“ the president is surrendering america ’ s leadership in innovation , education , science and clean energy. ” an official familiar with the proposal said trump ’ s request for the pentagon included more money for shipbuilding , military aircraft and establishing “ a more robust presence in key international waterways and choke points ” such as the strait of hormuz and south china sea .
that could put washington at odds with iran and china .
the united states already has the world ’ s most powerful fighting force and it spends far more than any other country on defense .
about one-sixth of the federal budget goes to military spending .
trump has said previously he would expand the army to 540,000 active-duty troops from its current 480,000 , increase the marine corps to 36 battalions from 23 – or as many as 10,000 more marines – boost the navy to 350 ships and submarines from 276 , and raise the number of air force tactical aircraft to 1,200 from 1,100 .
he has not said where he would place the extra hardware and forces or made clear what they would be used for .
the united states has been shutting some of its military bases in recent years .
trump has also said he would bolster the development of missile defenses and cyber capabilities .
last week , he told reuters the united states had “ fallen behind on nuclear weapon capacity. ” he pledged to ensure that “ we ’ re going to be at the top of the pack . ”