berlin ( reuters ) - germany s greens need to compromise on immigration policy if talks on forming a new governing coalition are to succeed , the leader of the free democrats ( fdp ) said , putting the chances of a deal at 50-50 .
chancellor angela merkel is trying to form a coalition with the fdp and greens after her conservatives lost support to the far right in a federal election last month .
the three-way alliance is untested at national level .
i still see the biggest differences with the greens , fdp leader christian lindner said of immigration policy in an interview with the rheinische post newspaper .
germany is at the limit of what the majority are ready to provide in humanitarian aid , he said , adding that realism can not be sacrificed in a readiness for coalition .
the three parties found common ground in areas of social policy and digital infrastructure during talks on monday , but remained far apart on issues of immigration , fiscal and climate policies that divided them last week .
lindner said the greens did not represent the majority of germans on the issue of family reunification - allowing foreigners to join loved ones granted asylum in germany .
that is one of the most contentious issues in the coalition talks .
all the parties are eager to show the public they are taking measures to prevent a repeat of 2015 , when merkel s decision to welcome people fleeing wars and persecution led to the largest influx of asylum seekers in the post-war years .
but the greens may not accept a conservative plan to suspend the right to family reunions for asylum seekers who have only been granted so-called subsidiary protection , starting in march 2018 .
the greens say that would hamper integration .
those given subsidiary protection are given one-year visas that can be renewed , because it is deemed their home country is not safe .
but they do not have full refugee status that would give them the right to stay .
in the first phase , we haven t come close to solutions to conflicts , lindner said of the exploratory talks on a jamaica coalition , so called because the parties colors match those of the jamaican national flag .
therefore , i still see the chances for jamaica at 50-50 .
european reform is another area of contention between the three party groups .
the fdp welcomed french president emmanuel macron s push for european integration and would like more security cooperation , lindner said , but he resisted closer budget and fiscal ties .
we would like to facilitate investment in the euro area .
if there is a lack of money for that , we can talk .
but joint liability , common risks - whether for national debt or deposits at our savings banks , cooperative banks or private banks - there is no room for maneuver there for the fdp , he said .