america deserves so much better and should get early serious about our next president .
obama has been so undignified throughout his presidency and unserious on so many occasions .
we don t need a nice guy or a funny guy for our next president .
we need a serious man who is selfless in his desire to put america back on track .
i couldn t think of a better way to spell it out than this awesome piece from white house dossier that says what we ve all been thinking .
i know i m 100 % fed up !
with a president who s a partier and not a patriot.i wonder what would happen if nine people were murdered in a church and a republican president jetted out to the west coast for four days of fundraising and golf .
surely , the sensitivity police would have been brought out in force and locked down the nation s airwaves , commenting on the callousness of the president and the neanderthal nature of republicans in general.but obama returned sunday night from four fundraisers and two rounds of golf without hearing a peep of protest , his devotion to government having pre-certified him as a caring , sensitive type and rendered him immune to suggestions otherwise.but the parties , the constant golf , the extravagant and frequent vacationing do take a toll .
because obama does not understand that his presidency , like any other , is within a kind of petrie dish , and every seemingly insignificant mold that grows there is scrutinized by friends and enemies alike.if obama wonders why nobody in congress cares what he thinks , why iran doubles down on its insults as nuclear deal time approaches , or why the chinese blithely arise strategically placed islands out of depths of the south china sea , well part of the answer is the unseriousness with which everyone can see this president operates.obama , who the previous weekend had staged a what the heck party for 500 people to celebrate no particular occasion and who , during his california trip , offered a rare interview to a podcast titled wtf , has stripped the presidency of what was left of its dignity in the aftermath the fun-loving democratic president who preceded him.i was reminded of how the actions of a president can echo in unpredictable directions and with unanticipated force when i read last week about an interview former israeli ambassador to the united states michael oren did with the times of israel .
oren said : the bottom line is that the day that obama didn t act against the syrians ( for their use of chemical weapons in 2013 , and thus failed ) to maintain the syrian red line , was the day that the debate ( over whether obama was serious about his military option on iran ) stopped here .
did you notice that ?
just stopped .
dead .
and everyone went quiet .
an eerie quiet .
everyone understood at that point that that was not an option , that we re on our own.obama didn t understand that when he , as president as opposed to community organizer drew a red line , it meant something .
and when he didn t enforce , it meant something even greater.i recalled then the story about how ronald reagan s decision in 1981 to fire most of the illegally striking air traffic controllers reverberated far beyond our borderswrites peggy noonan , reagan s biographer and former speechwriter.foreign governments , from friends and allies to adversaries and competitors , saw that the new president could make tough decisions , pay the price , and win the battle .
the soviets watched like everybody else .
they observed how the new president handled a national-security challenge .
they saw that his rhetorical toughness would be echoed in tough actions .
they hadn t known that until this point .
they knew it now.this is why reagan s secretary of state george shultz said that the patco decision was the most important foreign-policy decision reagan ever made.everyone knew at the time that it was a domestic crisis .
it wasn t until years later that they came to appreciate that it was foreign-affairs victory.people understood this new president was not to be messed with .
just as people understand they can mess with the current one all they like.read more : white house dossier