harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s top general said on monday talks were planned between president robert mugabe and former vice president emmerson mnangagwa , whose sacking by the 93-year-old leader two weeks ago triggered a coup .
general constantino chiwenga , head of the armed forces and leader of the takeover codenamed operation restore legacy , told a media conference he was encouraged by contact between the two men and mnangagwa would be back in the country soon .
thereafter , the nation will be advised on the outcome of talks between the two , he said , reading from a statement .
earlier , zimbabwe s ruling zanu-pf resolved to bring a motion in parliament on tuesday to impeach mugabe , after a noon deadline expired for the besieged leader to resign and bring the curtain down on nearly four decades in power .
impeachment could see mugabe kicked out in days and would be an ignominious end to the career of the grand old man of african politics , once lauded as an anti-colonial hero .
in the draft motion , the party accused mugabe of being a source of instability , flouting the rule of law and presiding over an unprecedented economic tailspin in the last 15 years .
it also said he had abused his constitutional mandate to favor his unpopular wife grace , 52 , whose tilt at power triggered the backlash from the army that brought tanks onto the streets of the capital last week .
mnangagwa s removal was meant to boost her chances of succeeding her husband .
on paper , the impeachment process is long-winded , involving a joint sitting of the senate and national assembly , then a nine-member committee of senators , then another joint sitting to confirm his dismissal with a two-thirds majority .
however , constitutional experts said zanu-pf , in revolt against mugabe , could push it through quickly .
they can fast-track it .
it can be done in a matter of a day , said john makamure , executive director of the southern african parliamentary support trust .
mugabe s demise , now apparently inevitable , is likely to send shockwaves across africa .
a number of entrenched strongmen , from uganda s yoweri museveni to democratic republic of congo s joseph kabila , are facing mounting pressure to step aside .
mugabe was once admired as the thinking man s guerrilla , a world away from his image in his latter years as a dictator who proudly declared he held a degree in violence .
as the economy crumbled and opposition to his rule grew in the late 1990s , mugabe tightened his grip in the southern african country of 16 million , seizing white-owned farms , unleashing security forces to crush dissent and speaking of ruling until he was 100 .
zanu-pf s action follows a weekend of high drama in harare that culminated in reports mugabe had agreed to stand down - only for him to dash the hopes of millions of his countrymen in a bizarre and rambling national address on sunday night .
flanked by the generals who sent in troops last week to seize the state broadcaster , mugabe spoke of the need for national unity and farming reform , but made no mention of his own fate .
i am baffled .
it s not just me , it s the whole nation , shocked opposition leader morgan tsvangirai told reuters .
he s playing a game .
two senior government sources told reuters mugabe had agreed on sunday to step aside and cnn said on monday his resignation letter had been drawn up , with terms that included immunity for him and grace .
two other political sources told reuters on monday mugabe had indeed agreed to resign but zanu-pf did not want him to quit in front of the military , an act that would have made its intervention last week look more like a coup .
another political source said mugabe s opponents had hoped his televised speech would sanitize the military s action , which has paved the way for mnangagwa , a former security chief known as the crocodile , to take over .
moments after the address , war veterans leader chris mutsvangwa , called for a wave of protests if mugabe refused to go .
in london , a spokesman for british prime minister theresa may said mugabe had clearly lost the support of his people .
since last week , mugabe has been confined to his lavish blue roof residence in harare , apart from two trips to state house to meet the generals and one to a university graduation ceremony at which he appeared to fall asleep .
grace and at least two senior members of her g40 political faction are believed to be holed up in the same compound .
on saturday , hundreds of thousands took to the streets of harare to celebrate mugabe s expected downfall and hail a new era for their country , whose economy has imploded under the weight of economic mismangement .
inflation reached 500 billion percent in 2008 .
an estimated 3 million zimbabweans have emigrated to neighboring south africa in search of a better life .
the huge crowds on the streets have given a quasi-democratic veneer to the army s intervention .
behind the euphoria , however , some zimbabweans have misgivings .
the real danger of the current situation is that , having got their new preferred candidate into state house , the military will want to keep him or her there , no matter what the electorate wills , former education minister david coltart said .
others worry about mnangagwa s past , particularly as state security chief in the early 1980s , when an estimated 20,000 people were killed in the so-called gukurahundi crackdown by the north korean-trained fifth brigade in matabeleland .
he has denied any wrongdoing but critics say zimbabwe risks swapping one army-backed autocrat for another .
the deep state that engineered this change of leadership will remain , thwarting any real democratic reform , said miles tendi , a zimbabwean academic at oxford university .