are you paying attention america ?
a vote for hillary is a vote for communist billionaire , and chaos financier george soros .
her election has nothing to do with helping the working class or middle america .
hillary is beholden to wall street and one-world-order , communist freaks like george soros who fund radical groups like black lives matter and occupy wall street re-treads occupy spring .
he and hillary will always put themselves and their massive fortunes before the little people .
isn t it time to elect someone who really cares about america ? watch hillary boldly proclaim , we are going to follow the money !
meanwhile back to reality : billionaire investor george soros has re-emerged this election cycle as a major democratic donor , committing more than $ 25 million to hillary clinton and other party candidates and causes , according to politico.soros has committed $ 5 million to a super pac called immigrant voters win that s devoted to increasing turnout among low-propensity hispanic voters in key swing states , though fec records show he d donated only $ 3 million through the end of june , the period covered by the most recent filings.soros spent roughly $ 27 million in a bid to unseat then-president george w. bush in 2004 but later scaled back his giving , the website reported .
some associates of the soros fund management chairman told politico they expect him to give even more as election day approaches.fox news host , bill o reilly does an excellent job of exposing the truth about billionaire radical george soros and his anti-american intentions : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=kege285gqucthe hungarian-born financier is worth $ 24.9 billion , according to forbes most recent estimate , and his return as a big-time contributor will be a boon to the party as it seeks to retain control of the white house and regain a majority in the senate.soros advisor michael vachon told politico that soros has been a consistent donor to democratic causes , but this year the political stakes are exceptionally high .
vachon confirmed to cnbc politico s report of the roughly $ 25 million in donations so far this cycle .
via : politico