almaty ( reuters ) - the first prominent dissident to return to uzbekistan since the death of its long-time leader was detained on arrival on wednesday , his wife said , raising questions about the new president s efforts to change the country s image .
uzbek police took writer nurulloh muhammad raufkhon away in handcuffs after he landed at tashkent airport , and sent him to jail after questioning , gulnara otakhonova told reuters in tears .
officers told her to bring him clothes and a lawyer but did not say what he was charged with , she added .
the interior ministry in mainly muslim ex-soviet state bordering afghanistan did not immediately respond to requests for comment .
raufkhon had been in self-imposed exile in turkey since 2016 , when he was placed on a security blacklist after publishing a book that criticized former leader islam karimov .
karimov , held responsible by western governments for systematic human rights violations during his 25 years in power , died last september .
his successor , shavkat mirziyoyev , has sought to present himself as a more liberal leader , and this month raufkhon told reuters in an interview that , despite harboring some misgivings , he would soon return home .
in an open letter to mirziyoyev last week , raufkhon said his safe return would suit the country which is repackaging itself in front of the world community as free and fair since you came to power .
improving tashkent s image could help mirziyoyev forge closer ties with the west and attract foreign investment to modernize the economy which has struggled to create enough jobs , forcing millions of uzbeks to look for work abroad .
raufkhon s wife , said by telephone that she and their son had waited for several hours at the airport before seeing raufkhon escorted outside in handcuffs , then taken to a police station .
as she waited outside the police station later in the day , a police officer told her to hire a lawyer .
in the evening , police told her they were taking raufkhon to jail and instructed her to bring clothes for him , still without stating any charges , otakhonova said .
steve swerdlow , uzbekistan researcher for human rights watch , called raufkhon s detention troubling , particularly given reports authorities had informed him about his rehabilitation and the various steps president mirziyoyev has taken to show this is a new political era in uzbekistan .
mirziyoyev last month ordered the removal of 16,000 people , including raufkhon , from the blacklist .
but some of his reforms announced since the december election have suffered from setbacks or delays caused , according to uzbekistan-based foreign diplomats , by interventions of karimov-era security boss rustam inoyatov with whom mirziyoyev effectively shares power .