kigali ( reuters ) - the mother and sister of a prominent critic of rwanda s president said on friday all three of them had been tortured and deprived of food as they were held in jail on charges of forgery and inciting insurrection .
adeline rwigara told a court she and her daughters were handcuffed day and night .
she is being held alongside her daughter diane shima rwigara , a 35-year-old accountant who tried to stand against president paul kagame in august elections .
diane rwigara , who is accused of faking the registration papers for the election , was eventually barred from running and kagame went on to win with 98.8 percent of the vote .
she has repeatedly accused kagame of stifling dissent and criticized his rwandan patriotic front s tight grip on the country since it fought its way to power to end rwanda s 1994 genocide .
kagame has repeatedly denied cracking down on dissent .
justice minister johnston busingye on friday declined to comment of the torture allegations , saying they were a matter for the court .
since august 29 , i and my children were tortured , adeline told the panel of three judges .
we were handcuffed day and night , without eating or drinking , adeline said , adding they had once gone without food and medication for a week .
diane s younger sister anne said the family has also been kept in solitary confinement .
imagine staying in a closed room for 24 hours without access to fresh air .
at least allow us to bask in the sun for 30 minutes and be visited , she said .
diane rwigara was in court but did not speak .
their lawyer buhuru pierre celestin told the court that their confinement violated international conventions .
in response , prosecutors told the court that the defendants rights were respected , without commenting on the torture allegations .
on tuesday , human rights watch said the government routinely and unlawfully detained and tortured detainees with beatings , asphyxiations , mock executions and electric shocks .
asked by reuters to respond to rwigara s torture accusations , minister of justice johnston busingye said : issues raised in court are determined by the court .
if there is a claim of torture in court , the court is the proper place to examine it and determine what happened .
the trial will resume on monday .