new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump ’ s hardline rhetoric on immigration might not trigger the surge in latino voter turnout for which many activists are hoping , according to a pew research center survey released on tuesday .
about 89 percent of latino registered voters who were surveyed said they planned to vote in the nov. 8 election , down from 91 percent who said in october 2012 that they were planning to vote in that year ’ s election .
the decrease was within the survey ’ s plus or minus 4.6 percent margin of error .
the pew report was based on a bilingual telephone survey of 1,507 latino adults , including 804 registered voters , from aug. 23 through sept. 21 .
in july 2008 , four months before the presidential election that year , 94 percent of respondents said they planned to vote .
according to previous pew research , about 81.7 percent of hispanic registered voters cast ballots in 2012 , the year democratic president barack obama ran successfully against republican mitt romney .
that turnout was down from 84 percent in 2008 , when obama ran against republican john mccain and won .
the latest pew survey found that democrats continued to maintain an edge as the party “ more concerned ” for latinos .
hillary clinton is relying on a coalition of minority voters to help her against trump , who launched his presidential bid last year by calling some mexican immigrants rapists and promising to build a wall to stop them entering the united states .
latinos , a growing segment of the u.s. electorate with rising influence in closely fought states like florida and nevada , tend to lean democratic and favor clinton heavily over trump .
according to the survey , some 58 percent support clinton compared to 19 percent for trump .
another 10 percent favor libertarian candidate gary johnson and 6 percent prefer green candidate jill stein .
turnout among latinos tends to run well below that of whites and african americans , blunting their impact in political races .
a number of civic groups opposed to trump have been working to ensure latinos get to the polls .
pew said that 27.3 million latinos were eligible to vote .
however , knowing how many of those people are registered is harder to measure because many states do not capture information such as race or ethnicity along with voter registration information .
in 2012 an estimated 11.2 million latinos voted in the presidential election , according to pew .
in 2008 that figure was 9.7 million latino voters .
while one must be a u.s. citizen to cast a ballot in u.s. elections , requirements for voter registration can vary by state .
immigrants ’ rights group america ’ s voice , for example , launched a new spanish language radio ad in miami and orlando for the next two weeks bashing trump ’ s hardline immigration proposals , which include deporting all undocumented foreigners and making it harder for would-be immigrants to get visas .
in nevada , the culinary union , which is heavily latino , is working to ensure its members get to the polls , helping them with logistics like finding their polling stations and arranging transport .
“ it could make the difference between a one point loss and a one point win , ” said yvanna cancela , the union ’ s political director .
sergio garcia-rios , a professor of latino studies at cornell university , said clinton could be missing an opportunity to drive voter turnout further by not engaging latino voters enough on policy .
“ we can ’ t just rely on an anger reaction to donald trump , ” he said .
the challenge is “ to create enthusiasm for latinos to get out and vote . ”