karachi , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistan has appointed an economist , who was recently chairman of the board of investment , to take charge of the finance ministry after the former minister was relieved of his duties amid accusations of corruption .
miftah ismail has been made an adviser to the prime minister for finance , with the status of a federal minister , the government said in a notification .
although i will have stewardship of the ministry of finance for only 5 months , the prime minister has tasked me to help him implement a very ambitious agenda , ismail said in a post on twitter .
he was referring to general election due next year and widely expected in may , though no date has been fixed .
the former fiance minister , ishaq dar , was relieved of his portfolio on nov. 22 amid mounting headwinds for the $ 300 billion economy battling to stave off balance of payments pressures due to dwindling foreign currency reserves and a widening current account deficit .
dar , who was widely credited with navigating pakistan out of a 2013 balance of payments crisis , is facing corruption charges in connection with accusations he amassed wealth beyond his known sources of income .
dar has denied all charges .
he is receiving treatment in london for a heart condition .
ismail is a member of former prime minister nawaz sharif s political party , which is still the ruling party even though sharif was ousted amid corruption allegations in july .
sharif has also denied any wrongdoing .
the party has been reluctant to allow the rupee to weaken ahead of elections as it may stoke inflation , though many investors and economists say a weaker rupee is needed to shore up lagging exports .
samiullah tariq , director of research at arif habib limited , said he expected ismail would let the rupee soften if he though it necessary .
basically , he s pro-business , if he feels that a stronger rupee is hindering exports , he will let it weaken , tariq told reuters .
he has plans to introduce tax reforms , rationalize tax rates , create a scheme to release refunds and initiate a scheme to bring back and declare foreign assets owned by pakistanis , tariq added .