doha ( reuters ) - qatar will buy fighter jets and armored vehicles as part of 12 billion euros worth of commercial contracts it agreed with france on thursday , bolstering its military capability and its international ties as it faces a boycott by other arab states .
the latest contracts underscored how doha can use the wealth it has accumulated as the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas to defy some of the largest and wealthiest arab countries .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt cut diplomatic and trade relations with the emirate almost six months ago .
they accuse the qataris of backing terrorism , which qatar denies .
our position on this blockade was very clear .
qatar s position was very clear - to resolve this problem , if we saw problems between us and our neighbors - we should be at a table and speak honestly , emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani said at a news conference alongside french president emmanuel macron .
macron , who has tried to play a mediation role between the sides , was in doha to discuss how to combat the financing of terrorism at a time when the middle east is locked in a regional power struggle between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran .
restoring stability to the gulf is a priority for us because we have a lot of friends here , macron said .
our wish is that we find a quick resolution to today s situation .
paris has strong commercial and political ties with qatar .
it has promoted deeper business interests in the country and encouraged qatari investment in france , where the gulf state already has assets of about $ 10 billion .
macron said some 12 billion euros ( $ 14.13 billion ) worth of deals were agreed on thursday .
they included qatar s taking up an option from 2015 to buy 12 more dassault aviation-made rafale fighters , and saying it could purchase a further 36 .
it has already bought 24 planes for about 6 billion euros , including missiles .
it also committed to buying 490 armored vehicles from defense firm nexter .
doha has repeatedly called for dialogue with its neighbors , although it has strengthened its military as relations with them have deteriorated .
it has secured this year alone military equipment deals with the united states , russia and britain .
in total , it amounts to nearly 12 billion euros which was signed today and which underlines the closeness of our economic cooperation , macron said .
among other deals signed , suez sevi.pa will dredge and clean qatar s lagoon and a rail consortium of ratp and sncf will build and operate a metro system in the qatari capital .
qatar airways also placed a new order for airbus a321neo civilian aircraft to replace an earlier a320neo order .
the new deal for larger planes is worth an extra $ 930 million at current list prices for airbus and involves a switch of engine supplier to a french-american venture co-owned by safran ( saf.pa ) < and general electric ( ge.n ) .