kinshasa ( reuters ) - democratic republic of congo s main opposition parties have rejected a new date for elections announced at the weekend to replace president joseph kabila , saying it violates the law and a political deal agreed with the government .
originally scheduled for late 2016 , the polls have been repeatedly delayed .
following several rounds of deadly protests , kabila s camp and his opponents signed an accord last december agreeing to hold the election before the end of this year .
on sunday , congo s ceni elections commission announced that the election , which term limits currently bar kabila from taking part in , will be held on dec. 23 , 2018 with the winner to be sworn in on jan. 13 , 2019 .
the calendar presented by the ceni violates the constitution , the dec. 31 , 2016 accord and electoral law , read a statement from opposition leader felix tshisekedi s rassemblement coalition .
the document was also agreed to by the mlc and unc opposition parties .
dozens died in protests against kabila s refusal to step down at the end of his constitutional mandate last december .
unrest sparked by the uncertainty surrounding the polls has raised fears congo could witness a repeat of the kind of violence that killed millions around the turn of the last century , mostly from hunger and disease .
after the ceni said last month that the vote could only take place in april 2019 at the earliest , the opposition warned that the population would take matters into its own hands .
the opposition leaders call upon all the congolese people to be vigilant and mobilized in the aim of freeing up the electoral process by dec. 31 , 2017 , tuesday s rassemblement statement said .
it nonetheless went on to state that the coalition believed it was possible to hold the vote by june 30 next year at the latest .
the ceni and government officials blame poll delays on problems registering millions of voters across the vast central african nation .
the opposition accuses kabila of manipulating the process to cling to power .