what a class act !
the president and first lady visited rep. steve scalise in the hospital last night : president # trump and first lady melania visit rep. steve scalise in the hospital and bring him flowers pic.twitter.com/sskor0rm1l john binder ( @ jxhnbinder ) june 15 , 2017president trump planned to make a visit past 8 p.m .
et to medstar washington medical center , where rep. steve scalise , the number three house republican , underwent surgery earlier wednesday for wounds sustained in the shooting , which took place outside washington.the hospital said after the surgery that scalise remained in critical condition .
a us capitol police officer who was also hurt in the gun attack was also receiving treatment at the facility , situated about three miles northeast of the white house .
the president tweeted about his visit : just left hospital .
rep. steve scalise , one of the truly great people , is in very tough shape but he is a real fighter .
pray for steve !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 15 , 2017 ahead of his visit , a white house official said trump may only be able to visit scalise s family , which has gathered at the facility , since the lawmaker himself remains critically ill.mark knoller tweeted out that the first lady brought flowers to the hospital : press pool told @ flotus accompanied pres to the hospital and has brought flowers for rep. scalise , who had to undergo surgery today .
mark knoller ( @ markknoller ) june 15 , 2017leaving the hospital : photo of @ potus and @ flotus leaving medstar hospital following visit to house majority whip steve scalise .
pic.twitter.com/7fhcqrhfgf josh caplan ( @ joshdcaplan ) june 15 , 2017president trump has been hailed by both sides of the aisle .
he came out and spoke almost immediately after this attack on republicans .
great job ! how sweet is this !
back on march 17th president trump sent a message to the 10-year old daughter of rep .
scalise : .
@ potus has an important message for my daughter madison on her 10th birthday !
pic.twitter.com/grlz1yjech rep. steve scalise ( @ stevescalise ) march 17 , 2017 read more : abc