the senate had better stick to their guns on this !
they say they will not bring up merrick garland for a vote as a supreme court nominee but will wait for the new administration .
mcconnell is done if he goes back on his word .
he spoke on the senate floor today to say that the senate will not take up this vote .
six republican senators have already said they ll meet with garland : sen. mark kirk ( r-ill. ) , sen. kelly ayotte ( r-n.h. ) , sen. jeff flake ( r-ariz. ) , sen. susan collins ( r-maine ) , sen. jim inhofe ( r-okla. ) and sen .
rob portman ( r-ohio ) one of the five things below is a big deal breaker judge garland is anti-second amendment 1 .
garland is considered anti-second amendment .
as the national review noted last week : back in 2007 , judge garland voted to undo a d.c .
circuit court decision striking down one of the most restrictive gun laws in the nation and voted to uphold an illegal clinton-era regulation that created an improvised gun registration requirement .
obama will use his pick to pursue a gun control agenda.2 .
garland has favored environmental regulations .
as scotusblog noted in 2010 : on environmental law , judge garland has in a number of cases favored contested epa regulations and actions when challenged by industry , and in other cases he has accepted challenges brought by environmental groups .
that could be very important , with obama s clean power plan in the balance.3 .
garland s positions on abortion and social issues are murky .
some liberals are worried that garland may not be unambiguously pro-choice .
richard wolf of usa today writes : during 19 years at the d.c .
circuit , garland has managed to keep a low profile .
the court s largely administrative docket has left him without known positions on issues such as abortion or the death penalty .
4 .
garland would maintain the court s demographic profile .
he is the second chicagoan obama has nominated .
he is no wise latina , and is the first man obama has chosen .
but garland , like scalia , is a graduate of harvard law , keeping the number of crimson justices at five .
if confirmed , he would also be the fourth jew on the court , preserving the odd exclusion of evangelical protestants.5 .
republicans have supported garland in the past .
sen. orrin hatch ( r-ut ) in particular has been outspoken in his support for garland as the best republicans could expect from the clinton administration .
more recently , he suggested he would welcome garland s nomination but predicted that obama would make a more ideological pick .
that makes garland harder for the gop to oppose.via : breitbart