b .. b .. but that can t be right maybe we should change the way we poll the reuters/ipsos polling team announced friday that they are dropping the neither option from their presidential preference polls after their tracking polls showed a 17-point swing in favor of the republican nominee donald j. trump , exposing the secret trump voters democrats fear .
in a presidential campaign notable for its negativity , the option of neither candidate appears to be an appealing alternative , at least to participants in the reuters/ipsos opinion poll , wrote maurice tamman , the leader of the reuters news service s new york city-based data mining and investigative reporting team .
many voters on both sides have been ambivalent in their support for democratic nominee hillary clinton and republican nominee donald trump , complicating the task of the pollsters trying to track the race .
breitbart news noted the 17-point swing for trump , which seems to have set off alarm bells at reuters.reuters has a reputation for accurate polling , so it is significant that mamman made this decision as the presidential campaign enters its last 100 days with both conventions adjourned .
in the nearly five years reuters/ipsos has been offering the neither/other option to respondents in presidential polling , it has never yielded such a skew , he wrote .
the results highlight how poll designs and methodologies can yield significantly differing results , and how important differences can emerge from the way a question is framed .
the real problem this year s polling presents to democrats is the reluctance , especially among more educated voters , to confess their support of trump .
other pollsters have noted the divergence between polls conducted with live operators and robo-phone calls .
live operators have long been considered the preferred , most accurate method inside the polling community .
however , live operator polls uniformly show lower support for trump than online or automatic-dial phone polls.much has been made of trump s lack of support among college-educated whites , a stronghold of republican support , but it could very well be that these people , susceptible to social perceptions , have not abandoned the republican nominee but are giving the socially acceptable answer until they are alone in the voting booth .
via : breitbart news