the movie that hillary will not want america to see hillary clinton s staff are currently giving depositions under oath about how she got away with having an allegedly illegal private email server when conducting matters of national security.the depositions are being filmed , but hillary s lawyers have managed to persuade a judge to block the release of the tapes in case they are used to make her look bad in the election ! this is amazing and unacceptable that films , showing the truth are being blocked from the american people , especially in the run-up to an election.film director , phelim mcaleer and producers ann mcelhinney and magdalena segieda have managed to find a way around this .
george orwell described journalism as something somebody somewhere doesn t want published .
so they are going to commit a series of acts of journalism.the deposition transcripts have been released and they are re-enacting and filming highlights of the depositions.here is a peek into what the film looks like so far : an urgent message from film director phelim mcaleer : today we re releasing a film of cheryl mills deposition highlights , using the transcript her actual words .
cheryl mills has worked for the clintons for almost 30 years .
she was hillary s chief of staff at the state department.cheryl mills evidence is amazing , full of classic clintonian evasions .
she used the phrase i don t remember or i don t recall 189 times .
this deserves to be brought to a wider audience not censored and hidden away .
and we now have it on film .
( you can share the film with your friends by sending them to clintonemailsonfilm.com .
) these short videos will be : the films that hillary clinton doesn t want you to see .
there will be a total of five short films ending with huma abedin s deposition at the end of the month .
and if the depositions uncover enough evidence , then the judge could give them permission to depose hillary .
that will be a great film ! here s how the # neverhillary every day americans can help make the movie that hillary will not want america to see : we need your help to finish the videos .
the american people deserve to see what s being said in these depositions .
to make a video of each of the deposition , we need to raise at least $ 84,000 .
we launched a crowdfuding campaign so people like yourself can donate and make these videos possible : www.clintonemailsonfilm.comby supporting this project , you re making a statement : truth is more important than politics.click here to donate ! please choose a perk , make a contribution , and spread this campaign far and wide .
tell your friends , family , neighbors , and coworkers .
send them to clintonemailsonfilm.com.let s send a message to hillary and her lawyers : they can t stand in the way of the truth.thank you for your support !