sarajevo ( reuters ) - thousands of pensioners from across bosnia s bosniak-croat federation , most of whom live on the edge of poverty , took to the streets in sarajevo on wednesday to protest for a rise in pensions and better social and health care .
out of about 410,000 pensioners living in the bosnian region , nearly two-thirds live on minimum payments of 326 bosnian marka ( $ 196 ) a month , while the average pension amounts to 370 marka compared to an average wage of 870 marka .
with five pensioners to every six employed people in the bosnian region , the government , which has yet to come up with an overall reform plan for the pension system , is struggling to make payments on time .
some pension fund officials say the system survives on low pensions , which are the lowest in the balkans .
the pensioners , some carrying placards reading stop the robbery and give us back our dignity , called for a 10 percent rise in payments which have not been increased since 2014 .
pensions are low , medicines expensive and we have to pay electricity , water , telephone , said alosman halic from the northern town of lukavac , who has worked for 45 years and receives 326 marka pension .
after we pay our bills , there is nothing left for us , says his wife isura , adding they could not survive without help from their children .
youth unemployment is high at more than 60 percent , scores of young people having left the balkan country which was left impoverished by the 1992-95 war and is riven by political and ethnic divisions .
on tuesday , the federation government adopted a new draft pension law , envisaging a 10 percent rise of pensions for some categories and five percent increase for other categories .
the law now needs to be approved by the region s parliament , where the passage of laws is often blocked over political bickering .
the situation is also grave in the serb republic , bosnia s other autonomous region , where the level of employed is almost equal with that of retired people .
earlier this month , the government there decided to raise the minimum pension to 360 marka .