chicago ( reuters ) - illinois governor bruce rauner reported personal income of more than $ 188.1 million in 2015 , and 90 percent of the former private equity investor ’ s earnings came from capital gains , according to income tax returns he released on friday .
rauner , a republican , and his wife , diana , paid federal taxes of $ 51.6 million and $ 6.9 million in state taxes in 2015 .
of the total income , $ 169.5 million was from capital gains , though no details were released on the source of those profits .
“ i believe as the good book says to whom much has been given from whom much is expected in return , ” rauner said at a news conference when asked about his tax returns .
rauner , who has led a fight against democrats controlling illinois ’ legislature in the country ’ s longest-running state fiscal impasse , and his wife contributed $ 21.7 million individually to various illinois political campaigns this year to weaken democratic control of the state legislature and dislodge the state ’ s long-running budget stalemate , campaign records show .
illinois has not had a full operating budget for 17 months .
republicans netted four seats in the illinois house and two seats in the state senate in tuesday ’ s elections , but democrats retained control of both legislative chambers and defeated rauner ’ s choice for comptroller .
a separate filing from rauner ’ s family ’ s foundation showed $ 53.6 million in assets at the end of 2015 and $ 11.6 million in charitable giving for the year .
in 2014 , rauner and his wife reported $ 58.3 million in earnings .
because the rauners ’ assets are in a blind trust , an aide said the couple is “ screened from all financial decisions ” and can not explain the increase in their income .
a spokesman for democratic house speaker michael madigan declined comment on the governor ’ s earnings , but a top madigan ally said rauner ’ s wealth puts him out of touch with the electorate .
“ i don ’ t know how he can claim to ever understand the problems of regular , ordinary illinoisans , ” said democratic representative lou lang .
madigan and democratic senate president john cullerton , chicago attorneys who maintain property-tax appeal practices , do not release their tax returns .