mack beggs , the transgender wrestler from euless trinity high school , is halfway home to capturing the class 6a state girls wrestling championship in the 110-pound weight class.beggs dismantled two opponents on friday s opening day , earning a major decision over league city clear spring s taylor latham 18-7 and then improving his season record to 54-0 with a major decision over mya engert of amarillo tascosa 12-4.both of beggs opponents managed to avoid being pinned , but neither provided enough resistance to make the match close at the uil wrestling state tournament.beggs advanced to saturday s 10:30 a.m. semifinal against area rival kailyn clay of grand prairie .
beggs defeated clay in the semifinals of last week s regional tournament in allen.for the most part , friday s action was routine despite the sudden swirling controversy around beggs , whose gender transition from female to male became a news story after the regional tournament.at the regional tournament , two wrestlers forfeited rather than grapple with beggs .
one , coppell s madeline rocha , who had already qualified for state , lost her opening-round match friday in cypress.after losing to beggs , who has has been on testosterone treatments since october 2015 , engert left the mat in tears and her coach tersely declined an interview request for her wrestler .
many of the coaches have said they re not upset at beggs , but just the predicament of their girls having to wrestle against an athlete on testosterone.conservative british actress and talk radio host katie hopkins is not one to shy away from a controversy .
after reading about a trans high school student who takes regular testosterone treatments , beating non-testosterone enhanced females , she tweeted this brutal response : you want to be a boy .
and are still prepared to fight girls .
forgive me if i do n't applaud .
nasty narcissist .
https : //t.co/felk1yqpuo katie hopkins ( @ kthopkins ) february 25 , 2017watch the video of trans student mac beggs wrestling a non-enhanced female student : but at least one wrestling parent , patti overstreet , yelled cheater at beggs .
look at how beefed up she is , overstreet said .
it s because she s taking an enhancement .
whether she s a boy , girl , wants to be purple or blue it doesn t matter .
when you re using a drug and you re 10 times stronger than the person you re wrestling because of that drug , that shouldn t be allowed .
one athletic director watching the action , who asked for his name not to be used because of the sensitivity of the issue , said he believes there is cause for concern because of the testosterone , adding , i think there is a benefit .
star telegram