washington ( reuters ) - billionaire environmental activist tom steyer ’ s super pac launched a $ 25 million youth voter drive on monday in seven political battleground states to help elect candidates that champion climate change policies in november ’ s general election .
steyer ’ s nextgen climate super pac , a political group that raises funds to boost candidates with strong environmental platforms , said the campaign aims to boost turnout of millennials , who have become one of the largest potential voter groups .
in the lead-up to the november general election , nextgen will deploy hundreds of organizers across over 200 colleges to register young voters and facilitate on-campus voting .
“ we are determined that they will be a difference maker , ” steyer told reporters on a conference call .
the group is targeting seven battleground states where steyer said millennial voters could “ make up the difference in a tight race. ” those states are pennsylvania , iowa , ohio , new hampshire , nevada , illinois and colorado .
steyer has been the second largest individual political donor in 2016 , having spent $ 13 million so far this year , according to opensecrets.org .
nextgen said the number of registered millennials has nearly tripled since 2008 from 17.2 million to 50.3 million , making the demographic a key political force in 2016 .
climate change and clean energy is an area where there is widespread millennial interest .
nextgen cited a june 2015 poll that found that 73 percent of young voters want the united states to get 50 percent of its energy from renewable sources by 2030 .
the group has not yet announced which candidates it will endorse in the presidential or congressional races but said it has challenged all candidates to say how they would achieve a goal of hitting a 50 percent clean energy target by 2030 .
he said the air and water impacts of fracking , a controversial drilling technique that has been responsible for a boom in u.s. oil and natural gas production over the past decade , shows the u.s. needs to make a faster transition away from fossil fuels .
steyer said nextgen will spend around $ 25 million on the months-long campaign and will launch several other initiatives later in the election cycle .
steyer ’ s pac in 2014 aimed to make climate change into a wedge issue in the 2014 midterm elections , spending over $ 70 million with mixed results .
but with millennial voters turning out in record numbers in the 2016 primaries , steyer sees a formula for success .
“ we need to make sure to carry on that momentum until november , ” he said .