paris ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on friday questioned some of saudi arabia s recent moves in the middle east , suggesting it should consider its actions more carefully , a rare rebuke when washington s own policies in the region are under fire .
publicly , u.s. president donald trump , his top aides and senior saudi officials have hailed what they say is a major improvement in u.s.-saudi ties compared with relations under former president barack obama , who upset the saudis by sealing a nuclear deal with their arch-foe iran .
however , u.s. diplomats and intelligence analysts privately express anxiety over some of the more hawkish actions by saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman , especially towards yemen , qatar and lebanon , as saudi arabia seeks to contain iranian influence .
with respect to saudi arabia s engagement with qatar , how they re handling the yemen war that they re engaged in , the lebanon situation , we would encourage them to be a bit more measured and a bit more thoughtful in those actions to , i think , fully consider the consequences , tillerson told a news conference alongside his french counterpart jean-yves le drian .
in yemen , riyadh is leading an arab military coalition against the houthi movement that controls the capital .
in recent weeks it imposed a blockade of ports , threatening to worsen what the united nations says could become one of the worst famines in modern times .
saudi arabia has also led neighboring gulf arab countries this year in cutting off trade and diplomatic ties with their neighbor qatar , which riyadh says supports terrorism .
qatar is an important american ally and home to a big u.s. air base .
a month ago , the prime minister of lebanon announced he was resigning while on a visit to saudi arabia .
he returned home two weeks later and withdrew his resignation last week , drawing a line under the episode .
tillerson s comments were the latest sign of u.s. concern over aspects of the kingdom s foreign policy after trump on wednesday issued a one-paragraph statement demanding the saudis allow immediate humanitarian aid to reach the yemeni people .
although the blockade showed signs of breaking this week , yemen s situation remains dire .
about 8 million people are on the brink of famine with outbreaks of cholera and diphtheria .
we have called for a complete end of the blockade in yemen and the opening of all ports .
we are asking saudi arabia to allow that access , tillerson said .
tillerson s comments appear to be the first time the united states had publicly linked saudi arabia to the political crisis that broke out in lebanon after prime minister saad al-hariri announced his resignation last month in riyadh .
i think as to lebanon , things have worked out in a very positive way , tillerson said .
perhaps even more positive than before , because there have been very strong statements of affirmation for lebanon , which will only be helpful .
tillerson s rebuke comes at a time when washington needs support from its major arab ally , after trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel earlier this week .
when asked whether there was room for palestinians also to achieve their goal of having part of jerusalem as their capital , tillerson emphasized that trump s move was not intended to shut down their demands over the city .
in fact , he was very clear , i think , the final status of jerusalem , including the borders , would be left to the parties to negotiate and decide , tillerson said .