mexico city ( reuters ) - the leftist front-runner for mexico s 2018 presidential election on thursday proposed a moderate u.s.-trained economist for finance minister , unveiling a planned cabinet made up of men and women in equal measure .
former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador had a 12-point lead in one recent poll .
he wants to overhaul mexico s approach to the economy , security and education , vowing more support for the poorest but without new taxes or higher debt .
for the finance portfolio , lopez obrador tapped carlos manuel urzua , an academic who served as finance minister of the mexico city government from 2000 to 2003 when the candidate , 64 , was mayor of the capital .
a veteran campaigner , lopez obrador was runner-up in the last two presidential contests .
a self-declared nationalist , he hopes mexico will elect him next july , reversing a latin american trend towards right-leaning governments .
if he wins , it could increase friction with u.s. president donald trump over his anti-migrant language and policies .
lopez obrador , or amlo as he is often known , proposed a cabinet of eight men and eight women , including a onetime interior minister for the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) and a respected former supreme court judge .
the naming of urzua encouraged the view that amlo would be a more pragmatic manager of latin america s second biggest economy than critics have warned he would be .
we see an amlo administration as increasingly moderate from a macroeconomic perspective and the signaling of mr. urzua , who is not an extremist economist by any means , corroborates this view , marcos casarin , head of latin america macro services oxford economics , said in emailed comments .
an author , researcher and university professor , urzua earned a phd and master in economics from the university of wisconsin and a degree in mathematics from mexico s tecnologico de monterrey .
he is also a poet who writes about inequality .
for interior minister , lopez obrador selected olga sanchez , a former supreme court justice who helped move the country s top tribunal in a more liberal direction during two decades in the job .
for education , lopez obrador picked esteban moctezuma , who served as interior minister under former president ernesto zedillo .
for energy , he named rocio nahle , a chemical engineer and lower house leader of his morena party .
in the july 1 election , amlo looks likely to face former finance minister jose antonio meade for the pri , and ricardo anaya at the head of a right-left opposition coalition .