i was a die-hard cruz supporter .
i trusted him .
i believed in him and i donated to his campaign .
today i am ashamed at the people i stood side by side with in the battle to take back our country from the left , who seem hell-bent on not only allowing the socialist left to control the narrative , but actually aiding them in the process .
the turning point for me was not the lack of endorsement for trump at the rnc , but the time that trump fans were viciously attacked in chicago just for supporting a candidate they believed in .
cruz blamed trump for the violence his supporters were victims of that night .
at that moment , i knew i could no longer support a man who put his own candidacy before the support of thousands of americans who are entitled by the very constitution cruz so vehemently defends , to their right to freedom of speech and to freedom of assembly .
on march 3 , 2016 senator ted cruz told the fox news debate audience he would support donald trump if he was the republican nominee.bret baier : senator cruz will you support donald trump if he is the nominee ? senator ted cruz : yes , because i gave my word i would .
and what i have endeavored to do every day in the senate is do what i said i would do.here s what cruz actually did when he was invited to speak at the rnc convention and was given the opportunity to endorse trump : here s how the crowd at the rnc reacted over ted s non-endorsement of trump : ted cruz fails to endorse donald trump ; crowd boos as he walks off stage.pic.twitter.com/fr28zrg0jx breaking911 ( @ breaking911 ) july 21 , 2016today , die-hard cruz supporters are paying for ads in swing state to help hillary win : regina thomson and ted cruz.thomson , a cruz supporter , led the free the delegates campaign against trump to steal delegates from the record-setting republican nominee.now disgruntled cruz supporters are running campaign ads against donald trump in swing states .
via : gppolitico reported : anti-trump republicans are preparing to launch a broadcast tv ad in a handful of swing-state suburbs urging donald trump to quit the presidential race so the party can replace him with a more electable nominee.the ad , titled keep your word , features footage of trump during the republican primary in which he suggested he d drop out if he saw his poll numbers decline .. the 30-second spot is marked for a limited run on broadcast networks in suburban florida , virginia , ohio and michigan , according to regina thomson , a colorado republican activist and leader of free the delegates , the organization that failed to stop trump s nomination at last month s national convention .
all four states are central to trump s path to the white house , though he s trailing in most polls of those states .