beirut ( reuters ) - a saudi official has visited northern syria with a u.s. envoy to discuss reconstruction of raqqa , which kurdish and arab militias backed by a u.s.-led coalition , captured from islamic state on tuesday , an adviser to the militias said .
saudi gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan visited the area with brett mcgurk , the u.s. special envoy to the coalition against islamic state , and met the raqqa civil council said amed sido , an adviser to the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) alliance .
the saudi okaz newspaper also reported on thursday that sabhan had visited northern syria and that riyadh and washington had discussed the reconstruction of raqqa .
saudi arabia is a member of the u.s.-led international coalition against islamic state , set up in 2014 , but no senior officials from riyadh are known to have visited areas held by coalition allies in syria .
saudi arabia s foreign ministry was not immediately available for comment .
the sdf s four-month battle against islamic state in raqqa , aided by coalition air strikes , left much of the city in ruins and forced much of its population to flee to camps nearby .
international charity mercy corps said on thursday that most of the city was uninhabitable .
the sdf and its allies set up the raqqa civil council to run the city after the fighting was over .
the international coalition s 73 members also include european countries , other arab countries and turkey .
its work includes supporting stabilization and restoration of public services to areas taken from islamic state militants .
the saudi officials who visited raqqa to check the area were there to listen to discussions rather than take part , sido said , adding that they met a reconstruction committee set up by the council .
they promised that they would contribute in construction in raqqa in the future , sido said .
sido is also an sdf coordinator with the coalition .
the main priority for the city s reconstruction now is clearing landmines and bodies , and working on water and electricity projects , sido said .
while no concrete plans were set in motion , sido continued , we consider it a first visit , a first step , that could be the beginning of future relations .