if the murderer was arguing in defense of a republican would the media be working so hard to keep her political persuasion private ?
in a dramatic and colorful case with strong political overtones , a livonia , michigan woman was ordered to stand trial for murder after allegedly bashing her neighbor to death with a slow cooker following an argument over presidential politics .
the news media are studiously avoiding any inquiry into the politics of the accused and those of the victim , which ordinarily tells you the story .
a few seconds worth of internet sleuthing fills in a few details that proceed along the lines any conservative ( but no media reporter ) would suspect.// < !
[ cdata [ var p = new anv_pl_def ( ) ; p.loadvideowithkey ( `` eyjwijoimtawmdaxmsisim0ioijtufmilcj2ijoizxhwcmvzc18xndm0ndkzmdy2mda2in0= '' ) ; // ] ] > https : //youtu.be/mxaeuvmbuo4the detroit news reports : a detroit woman was ordered thursday to stand trial in the killing of her friend beaten with a slow cooker after the two argued about politics.tewana sullivan , 50 , who is charged with murder , cried at her preliminary hearing as she heard graphic details about the fatal oct. 22 assault on cheryl livy , 66 , with a kitchen appliance.oakland county medical examiner dr. ljubisa dragovic testified before livonia district judge sean kavanagh that livy died of blunt force injuries to her head , face and mid-back.livy also had defensive injuries to the back of her hands where it appears she tried to protect herself , dragovic testified.livy was discovered barely breathing with the cord of the busted slow cooker around her neck in her apartment around 10:45 p.m. at the mcnamara towers senior housing complex in the 19300 block of purlingbrook , officer thomas blauvelt testified.blauvelt said he found blood all over the walls , all over the floor , all over the victim .
in other words , an extremely brutal murder .
not quite isis-level , but no swords , cages , or lighter fluid were at hand .
using what was available , a slow cooker ( apparently this was a kitchen discussion ) , ms. livy was beaten to death , as she futilely tried to defend herself.the argument was over politics , but no specifics are being given : defense attorney john mcwilliams said the two women had argued over presidential politics .
whatever the controversy is between democrats and republicans , he said.as a conservative , i am accustomed to vitriol being hurled at me from the left .
sure , there are some uncouth and some violent people on the right , but in this era , one sees racial agitators on the left in particular sparking violent attacks , as , for example , following the shooting in ferguson , missouri .
i am not aware of any riots in the past several decades by conservatives.the defendant , ms. sullivan , is black .
we know that roughly 92 % of blacks voted for president obama .
the victim , ms. livy , is white .
take a look at the facebook page justice for cheryl livy to see her pictures : this is not conclusive evidence , to be sure .
it is possible ms. livy was an extreme leftist .
arguing with ms. sullivan that obama is not progressive enough .
or maybe ms. sullivan was among the small minority of blacks who are conservative , though i have never in my life heard of a black conservative who has tendencies toward violence ( clarence thomas , thomas sowell , lloyd marcus , kevin jackson they all tend toward thoughtful ) .
but the odds are that a democrat assassinated a critic of president obama ( presidential politics today necessarily involve president obama ) in the wake of a heated political argument .
i d be willing to bet a substantial amount of money on that with anyone who would give me even odds.via : american thinker