one woman s awful experience at the airport could soon be what we all go through to travel by air .
this is the day of terrorism where islamists will do pretty much anything to hide explosives or a weapon so we now have to endure a very intimate examination in order to keep us all safe when flying .
the new procedure was put in place a month ago-please see the specifics below.do you have a story to tell ?
we d like to hear it .
here s jenna s story below : jenna macfarlane was on the way to visit a friend in baltimore in april when her carry-on bag triggered an alarm at charlotte s airport.a transportation security administration screener told macfarlane she would have to undergo a full-body pat-down by a female officer .
late for her flight and with no option other than to be searched in private , macfarlane agreed.the pat-down , done over her clothes , explored her breasts , crotch and buttocks .
i did not imagine that she would ask me a few times to spread my legs wider and in fact touch my vagina four times with the side of her hand , macfarlane later wrote in a complaint to the tsa.just a month before her search , tsa had launched a new , more involved pat-down procedure : pat-down procedures are used to determine whether prohibited items or other threats to transportation security are concealed on the person .
you may be required to undergo a pat-down procedure if the screening technology alarms , as part of random or unpredictable security measures , for enhanced screening , or as an alternative to other types of screening , such as advanced imaging technology screening .
even passengers who normally receive expedited screening , such as tsa pre passengers , may at times receive a pat-down.a pat-down may include inspection of the head , neck , arms , torso , legs , and feet .
this includes head coverings and sensitive areas such as breasts , groin , and the buttocks .
you may be required to adjust clothing during the pat-down .
the officer will advise you of the procedure to help you anticipate any actions before you feel them .
pat-downs require sufficient pressure to ensure detection , and areas may undergo a pat-down more than once for the tsa officer to confirm no threat items are detected.tsa officers use the back of the hands for pat-downs over sensitive areas of the body .
in limited cases , additional screening involving a sensitive area pat-down with the front of the hand may be needed to determine that a threat does not exist.you will receive a pat-down by an officer of the same gender .
tsa officers will explain the procedures to you as they conduct the pat-down .
please inform an officer if you have difficulty raising your arms or remaining in the position required ; an external medical device ; or areas of the body that are painful when touched .
you may request a chair to sit if needed.at any time during the process , you may request private screening accompanied by a companion of your choice .
a second officer of the same gender will always be present during private screening.read more here : charlotte observer