seoul ( reuters ) - a north korean soldier is expected to survive critical wounds he received when his old comrades fired a hail of bullets at him as he made a defection dash to south korea , the south s government and military said on tuesday .
the soldier had on monday sped toward the border in a peace village in the heavily guarded demilitarized zone , in a four-wheel drive vehicle .
but when a wheel came loose , he fled on foot as four north korean soldiers fired about 40 rounds at him , said suh wook , chief director of operations at south korea s joint chiefs of staff , briefing lawmakers .
until this morning , we heard he had no consciousness and was unable to breathe on his own but his life can be saved , suh said .
surgeons had removed five bullets from the soldier s body , leaving two inside , suh added , to murmurs from lawmakers who said the soldier s escape was right out of a movie .
the soldier took cover behind a south korean structure in a joint security area ( jsa ) inside the demilitarized zone between the two koreas .
south korean and u.s. soldiers , fearing more north korean fire , later crawled to him to rescue him , the united nations command said in a separate statement .
north korea has not said anything about the soldier .
its military had not given any indication of unusual movements on tuesday , the south s military said .
while on average more than 1,000 north koreans defect to the south every year , most travel via china and it is unusual for a north korean to cross the land border dividing the two koreas , which have been in a technical state of war since their 1950-53 conflict ended in a truce , not a peace treaty .
the u.n. command , in place since the end of the war , said an investigation into the incident was being conducted .
south korean defence minister song young-moo said it was the first time north korean soldiers had fired toward the south s side of the jsa , prompting complaints from some lawmakers that the south s military should have returned fire .
moon sang-gyun , the south s defense ministry spokesman , said military operations at the jsa were usually conducted under the orders of the u.n. command , which is in turn under orders from the u.s. military .
the soldier , who was not armed , was flown in a u.n. command helicopter to an operating theater where doctors began working to save him even before he was out of a uniform that indicated he held a lower rank , suh said .
south korean officials have yet to identify where the soldier came from or what his intentions were .
lee cook-jong , the surgeon in charge of the soldier s care at the ajou university hospital , told reporters he was suffering from critical intestinal damage .
hospital officials where under strict security agency orders not to talk to media and all updates on the soldier had to be through the military , workers there told reuters .
dr lee had been given a talking-to after a brief exchange with the media , the hospital workers said .
the u.n. military armistice commission said it had informed the north korean military that the soldier , who was found about 50 meters ( 150 feet ) south of a military demarcation line , was undergoing surgery for his wounds .
suh said the south had also informed the north on monday of the soldier and his treatment , via loudspeakers on the border .
north korea has in the past complained that north korean defectors had been abducted by south korea , and it has demanded their release .
this month , the north demanded that south korea return 12 waitresses it said had been kidnapped while working in china in 2016 .
south korea said the 12 women , and one man , had chosen to defect to the south .
monday was the first time since 2007 a north korean soldier had defected across the jsa .