london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may appointed the top official at the brexit ministry as her eu adviser on monday , taking tighter control of divorce negotiations just as britain tries to shift the focus of talks onto the future relationship with europe .
in order to strengthen cross-government co-ordination of the next phase of negotiations with the european union , the prime minister has appointed oliver robbins as her eu adviser in the cabinet office , in addition to his role as eu sherpa , a government spokesman said in a statement .
robbins will continue to lead british officials in the negotiations and will work closely with brexit secretary david davis , the spokesman said .
robbins , 42 , who media reported had sometimes clashed with davis , had worked in the brexit ministry since shortly after it was set up following the eu referendum in june 2016 .
robbins will be replaced as permanent secretary of the brexit department by his second-in-command philip rycroft .
may , whose position was weakened after losing her governing conservative party s majority at a june election , has been criticized for failing to give clear instructions to her negotiating team .
her foreign minister , boris johnson , was accused by colleagues on sunday of backseat driving after setting out his own vision for brexit days before may is due to give a major speech on the subject on sept. 22 .
moving key individuals at this critical time adds a whole new dimension to government s chaotic approach to brexit , opposition labour party brexit spokesman keir starmer said .
the real problem we have is the failure of the government to confront the difficult policy choices it faces , bob kerslake , a former top government official told bbc radio , adding the timing of the move was odd .
it could be ... a simple case of the prime minister wanting more control and influence over the process , it could be down to clash of personalities , he said .
what i worry about is the signal it sends ... about our organization and capability in this crucial time .
may is due to make a speech on britain s future eu relationship ahead of the next round of talks later this month .
so far negotiations on the terms of the divorce have made limited progress , prompting warnings from the eu the start of discussions on post-brexit ties could be pushed back from october .