riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabia will train women to work as air traffic controllers , state media reported , as the conservative islamic kingdom seeks to create more jobs for women as part of a reform push to wean the economy off oil .
its vision 2030 plan aims to increase employment and diversify revenue sources as low oil prices have hit the finances of the world s top exporter .
some of the planned changes , like increasing the number of women in the overall workforce to 28 percent from 23 percent and quadrupling their presence in senior civil service roles to 5 percent , would transform a society where employment has traditionally been the preserve of men .
state-owned saudi air navigation services ( sans ) announced on sunday that it was offering theoretical and practical training to 80 women per year to prepare them for work in the air traffic control sector .
the applicants began taking admissions exams on sunday for the saudi academy of civil aviation and will undergo a number of editorial tests , state news agency spa said in a report late on sunday .
applicants must have a high school diploma with high marks and be between 18 and 25 years old , it said .
saudi arabia is the only country where women are forbidden to drive , making it harder for them to get to work .
most employed women work for the kingdom s vast public sector , primarily in health and education , but authorities say they seek to encourage more hiring by private firms as part of the 2030 plan .
regulations bar women from certain professions , while rules on gender mixing in shops and businesses further limit job opportunities .
until 2012 , even lingerie shops were mostly staffed by men .
female employment has been a battleground for years between social conservatives and reformers , but the balance has tipped toward change since crown prince mohammed bin salman took on wide-ranging powers role two years ago .
last year a senior cleric said women should be allowed to work as paramedics and opticians , and last month women staffed an emergency call center at the haj pilgrimage for the first time .