hong kong ( reuters ) - hong kong leader carrie lam said she would not blindly obey the orders of communist party leaders in beijing , while admitting the government has no way to suppress skyrocketing prices in one of the most expensive property markets in the world .
lam was sworn in by chinese president xi jinping in july as the former british colony celebrated 20 years of chinese rule under the principle of one country , two systems , which promises the city a high degree of autonomy and freedoms not enjoyed in the mainland .
while a recent poll shows the new chief executive is more popular than her predecessor , some accuse her of being a puppet of beijing amid perceptions of chinese meddling in hong kong s affairs .
specifically , they criticize her for pushing an arrangement that will allow chinese officials to enforce chinese laws in a high speed railway station due to open next year .
lam , in an interview with the government-funded rthk , said she was accountable to both the hong kong public and beijing , but she would not blindly obey the central authorities .
being accountable doesn t mean you have to do everything you re told , lam said .
so you can t say you ll do whatever the central government ( says ) .
if the central government asks me to do something that i think is beyond what hong kong people can bear or against hong kong s developmental interests , then of course i have the duty to tell the central government and fight for a more favorable arrangement for hong kong .
lam also said she did not plan to kickstart legislation for a controversial national security law in 2018 , and urged people not to demonize it .
asked about hong kong s red-hot property market , where prices have shot up more than 12 percent over the past year and are expected to climb another 10 percent in 2018 , lam said the government was helpless in reversing the trend .
the government really has no ways to curb property prices ...
the government has introduced a few rounds of cooling measures , but they did not suppress prices , and quite the contrary now some people say these measures have pushed up prices .
the government s mixed bag of tax and regulatory policies , on top of eight rounds of mortgage tightening measures by the city s defacto central bank since 2009 , has effectively locked up supply in the secondary housing market .
lam also said that while she has never promised to suppress property prices , she would seek more land to boost long-term housing supply .
i ve never said i want to turn around the increase in property prices , because there are many factors contributing to that .
but i want to turn around how supply falls short of demand , or , simply put , insufficient supply , lam said .