dubai ( reuters ) - saudi arabia s powerful crown prince called the supreme leader of iran the new hitler of the middle east in an interview with the new york times published on thursday , sharply escalating the war of words between the arch-rivals .
the sunni muslim kingdom of saudi arabia and shi ite iran back rival sides in wars and political crises throughout the region .
mohammed bin salman , who is also saudi defense minister in the u.s.-allied kingdom , suggested the islamic republic s alleged expansion under ayatollah ali khamenei needed to be confronted .
but we learned from europe that appeasement doesn t work .
we don t want the new hitler in iran to repeat what happened in europe in the middle east , the paper quoted him as saying .
iran reacted harshly by saying that salman was discredited internationally by his immature behavior , state television reported .
no one in the world and in the international arena gives credit to him because of his immature and weak-minded behavior and remarks , iran s foreign ministry spokesman bahram qasemi was quoted as saying .
now that he has decided to follow the path of famous regional dictators ... he should think about their fate as well .
tensions soared this month when lebanon s saudi-allied prime minister saad hariri resigned in a television broadcast from riyadh , citing the influence of iran-backed hezbollah in lebanon and risks to his life .
hezbollah called the move an act of war engineered by saudi authorities , an accusation they denied .
hariri has since suspended his resignation .
saudi arabia has launched thousands of air strikes in a 2-1/2-year-old war in neighboring yemen to defeat the iranian-aligned houthi movement that seized broad swaths of the country .
salman told the times that the war was going in its favor and that its allies controlled 85 percent of yemen s territory .
the houthis , however , still retain the main population centers despite the war effort by a saudi-led military coalition which receives intelligence and refueling for its warplanes by the united states .
some 10,000 people have died in the conflict .
the group launched a ballistic missile toward riyadh s main airport on nov. 4 , which saudi arabis decried as an act of war by tehran .
bin salman said in may that the kingdom would make sure any future struggle between the two countries is waged in iran .
for his part , khamenei has referred to the house of saud as an accursed tree , and iranian officials have accused the kingdom of spreading terrorism , an accusation it denies .