hamburg ( reuters ) - many syrian refugees in germany have resigned themselves to the reality that there will be no swift return to the land of their birth , where a civil war is nearing the start of its eighth year .
they are starting to build new lives in their host country , driving up demand for made in syria goods there as they seek to soothe homesickness with a precious slice of their old lives .
products popular among the half a million syrians , who mainly arrived over the last three years , range from nuts , sweets and sesame paste to clothes , vertical spinning grillers used to make shawarma meat in diners and hair removal wax .
people want the very same things they were used to in syria , said trader anas msouty , sitting in his dim underground office near hamburg port as workers sorted out parcels of baklawa sweets and clothes that had just arrived from syria .
the german market is full of similar products from turkey , but syrians want syrian ( goods ) , added the father-of-six , who had to abandon his islamic women s clothing factory outside damascus when he fled the country .
orders have grown 25-fold since msouty set up his trading firm sajeda three months after his arrival in germany in early 2016 .
he now imports 25 tonnes of syrian goods a month .
he is not alone in capitalizing on this trend ; dozens of syrian restaurants , stores and supermarkets have sprung up in all major german cities over the past two years , with more opening every month .
in berlin alone , at least half a dozen new syrian eateries and as many supermarkets have opened this year .
the rise in demand for syrian goods is contributing to a gradual revival in syrian exports to germany , which has taken in more syrian refugees than any other western nation .
exports from syria rose to 15.5 million euros ( $ 17.9 million ) in 2016 and totaled 8 million euros in the first five months of this year alone , according to official german data .
this is still a far cry from the pre-war level when non-oil syrian exports to germany totaled around $ 100 million a year .
more than 5 million syrians - almost a quarter of the pre-war population - have fled the middle eastern nation , according to the united nations .
it is unclear how much support rising demand for syrian goods among refugee populations in germany and elsewhere may be having on syria s shattered economy .
little data is available from the war zone .
the revival in trade in germany nonetheless appears to have coincided with a bottoming out of economic activity in syria .
the world bank estimates the country s gross domestic product contracted by an accumulated 61 percent in 2011-2015 , but in 2016 it shrunk by only 2 percent , though it mainly puts the improvement down to a slowing in the population exodus .
msouty , who supplies syrian individuals and businesses in germany , said he was proud of his contribution to recovering syrian exports , which he said is providing much-needed income to factory owners and workers in syria .
we are resuscitating the syrian economy , he said .
in berlin , the boulevard of sonnenallee - dubbed arab street for its abundance of arabic shop signs - has become one of the most popular shopping destinations and hangouts for the capital s syrian refugees .
it boasts three syrian supermarkets , two syrian restaurants and one syrian sweet shop , which have all opened over the past two years .
this is just a smell of home , said houda bayyad , a veiled young mother shopping at one of the supermarkets , which opened in recent weeks .
it doesn t solve our problems like learning german and finding a job .
but it makes our life here easier , said the 20-year-old , holding a jar of makdous , a syrian delicacy of baby aubergines stuffed with walnuts , garlic and sun-dried red peppers pickled in olive oil .
most syrian goods come from factories in areas under government control mainly in and around damascus but also from aleppo .
three companies in damascus that supply msouty with goods declined to comment when contacted by reuters .
the products are transported in trucks through relatively safe areas under government control to the port of latakia in northern syria and loaded onto container ships bound for hamburg .
other products come by plane via beirut .
this trade is proving indispensable for syrians setting up businesses in germany .
sweet shops , and coffee and nut roasters , need specialized machines to make sweet and salty delights such as baklawa and roasted kernels .
they prefer to import equipment from syria as it is cheaper than to buy them in germany from european or turkish manufacturers .
restaurateurs depend on specialty raw ingredients to recreate the flavors that syrians crave .
l amira falafel , a syrian restaurant in hamburg that opened in 2015 , has proved so popular that it has now opened at a second location in the northern city .
our main goal was to make sure that everything we prepare tastes like in syria , said mohammad abou saeed , co-owner of the eateries where it is hard to find a table any time of the day .
to do that we needed the same sesame paste , pickles and spices we used in syria , he added , gesturing at a waiter to bring baked bread to a couple who had just walked in .
it makes us very happy when diners tell us our food reminds them of syria .