berlin ( reuters ) - syrian refugees rejoiced on sunday at the news that angela merkel had secured a fourth term as german chancellor , but said they were alarmed by the rise of the far-right afd party , which they feared could push her to tighten asylum rules .
we prayed that merkel would win , said fatima al-haidar , a mother of two from damascus .
allah answered our prayers .
to us she represents wisdom and humanity .
while merkel s conservative bloc won most seats in parliament , the result was its worst since 1949 as voters turned en masse to smaller parties .
the conservatives bled support to the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) , which entered parliament for the first time as the third-biggest party , cashing in on anger at merkel s decision to welcome more than 1.3 million refugees .
merkel put her career on the line to help us , said haidar s 55-year-old husband ayman .
we want to learn german and contribute to the success of this country through work , simply to prove that she was right and her opponents were wrong .
fatima and ayman found out the election results from their 14-year-old son zayd , who tuned in to the public broadcaster zdf on his mobile phone to break the news to his parents and their friends as exit polls came in .
when zayd told us merkel had won we did a zalghouta , said roula mohammad , referring to a tongue trill that arab women perform during weddings .
we need a wise woman like her in syria to end the war .
the syrian refugees were having dinner at al dimashqi , a popular arab restaurant on sonnenallee , a long boulevard in berlin s poor neighborhood of neukoelln that refugees call arab street for its abundance of arabic shop signs .
the afd s campaign appealed unashamedly to voters who feel that the influx of mainly muslim migrants will undermine german culture , asserting that islamic customs have no place in germany .
merkel s conservatives and their social democrat coalition partners in the outgoing government quietly introduced stricter asylum rules last year after losing support to the afd in regional elections .
refugees fear that the afd s stunning showing of more than 13 percent of the vote on sunday could spell even tougher immigration rules under the next merkel-led government .
she is less popular because of us , said nabil zainaldin , 32 , from aleppo .
we totally understand that germans are worried .
all we can do to reassure them is to be law-abiding citizens .
but we are also worried : what will the asylum policy of the new government be ?