the faux outrage from the press over any and every move that president trump makes is getting so old !
just ask sean spicer he showed his awareness of the ridiculousness of the press with this smackdown of a reporter during his press conference today : i love how spicer dismisses the biased media and moves on .
this is exactly how you have to deal with them .
# pressbriefing pic.twitter.com/q5e50hzpxb alex ( @ socal4trump ) may 12 , 2017here are some of our favorite spicer moments : everyone who has ever watched a sean spicer press conference has witnessed the melt down and completely childish behavior of the leftist media .
this video perfectly illustrates how childish our media acts and how sean spicer responds to them , as though he s talking to a group of kindergarten students.hilarious ! this is by far the funniest video i 've ever seen showing wh reporters behaving like kindergartners .
lmao # flashbackfriday pic.twitter.com/x9po7oonog cris ( @ thepatriot143 ) april 7 , 2017we think sean spicer leads the trump administration for the best zingers here are a few of our favorites : she got spiced !
white house press secretary sean spicer zinged alexis simendinger after the real clear politics reporter whined to spicer to call on her fellow commie from the new york times.the mainstream media is clearly a leftist clique united against the trump administration .
on thursday , spicer called on simendinger during a heated press briefing.instead of asking her own question , alexis snarked : could you help us all by calling on peter right now ?
could you call on the new york times , please ?
https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=-dt68a4lqxucnn continues to trail the other two news networks in ratings here s why : wolf blitzer was interviewing the rnc s sean spicer and kept pushing the false narrative that trump is tied to neo-nazi groups .
spicer finally got sick and tired blitzer asking the same question to push the narrative and blew up at him cnn is disgusting ! you ve asked me eight times ! sean spicer blows up when wolf blitzer ( wolfie the blinker ) pushes on neo-nazis # crookedmedia pic.twitter.com/gf57wv6wyi trump anomaly ( @ anomaly1 ) november 23 , 2016