chicago ( reuters ) - democrats from pennsylvania ’ s congressional delegation sent a letter to a federal rail regulator on monday raising concerns over the possible negative impacts of a merger between canadian pacific and norfolk southern corp .
the letter sent to the surface transportation board raised concerns over the impact it could have on railroad jobs in pennsylvania and said the merger could lead to “ disinvestment ” in rail infrastructure in the state .
senator bob casey and five members of the u.s. house of representatives , all democrats , also wrote that they were deeply concerned about the voting trust structure canadian pacific has proposed in its bid for the no .
4 u.s. railroad .
the canadian company in mid-november disclosed its $ 28 billion offer to buy the norfolk , virginia-based railroad .
norfolk southern has rejected canadian pacific ’ s advances , setting the stage for a possible proxy battle .
the surface transportation board would have to review a merger of the two railroads , which would be a test case since the regulator rewrote the rules for approving takeovers in 2001 .
the review process would include public hearings where rail customers , labor groups and elected officials would be allowed to weigh in .
in their letter , the pennsylvania democrats wrote that they believe the acquisition could hurt thousands of rail shippers , manufacturers and local communities , as well as rail workers , in the state , and urged a thorough review of any proposed merger .
canadian pacific has said that a takeover of norfolk southern would lead to $ 1.8 billion in annual savings .
in early january , two senior democrats in the u.s. house of representatives urged the board to reject any merger of canadian pacific and norfolk southern .
a number of industry groups and rail customers , plus a couple of the unions representing workers at norfolk southern have also come out against any merger .
last week , the board posted letters from some rail customers who argue that , on the contrary , a merger of canadian pacific and norfolk southern would create a transcontinental railroad that would result in better service .