why fed up hungarian mayor would send all illegal immigrants to us we are now prisoners on our farms .
people s calm lives are destroyed , and the people want them back .
we bet that if you mentioned asotthalom before september 16 , 2015 , people would make big eyes wondering what you just said .
but a day later you started googling this hungarian village and its mayor laszlo toroczkai , whose video message swept the board in the web.it is 10.00 a. m. saturday in the village of asotthalom nearly touching the hungarian-serbian border .
a smiling sprightly man in jeans and a jacket steps out from his sedan near the municipality .
no military clothing , no big hulky bodyguards on jeeps .
a vigorous handshake .
it is the mayor .
i have to work every day , and fortunately the situation with the illegal immigration is better , laszlo toroczkai says instantaneously coming to the point of our talk.this is what made him the most googled hungarian figure as of right now a blockbuster trailer-style video stating that if you are an illegal immigrant , hungary is a bad choice and asotthalom is the worst .
once , smugglers had a violent clash with asotthalom police and two of them were hospitalized as well as the policemen .
later , a group of smugglers were arrested in the village.the best employees of asotthalom toroczkai criticized the croatian government , scolding it for fueling this impropriety .
currently croatia is the main migrant route to hungary .
the croatian government carries migrants from the croatian-serbian border to the croatian-hungarian border acting just like human traffickers .
and no one talks about it .
as for the hungarian-serbian border , where asotthalom is located , the situation relatively scaled down when the government sent the army to protect the border wall .
however , the mayor wants the government to build a better fence there.now migrants are moving across the village in few groups at night , trying to cross as fast as they can , as it is unsafe for them here .
what the visitors first notice entering asotthalom is a traffic sign depicting a crossed-out man with a bag behind his back .
the mayor explained that the broad meaning of the sign is that we do not welcome criminals here , however , it originally targeted a specific crime where swindlers distracted residents by offering things for sale , while their accomplices robbed the house.migrants intercepted while trying to cross the fence , the post reads.the mayor lives in farm right at the border and he became one of the first witnesses of the expanding influx of migrants .
his neighbor s wife was alone in her house with three little kids when a group of exclusively young male migrants broke into her garden at night and wanted to enter her house.sometimes they do it just to charge their cell phones , sometimes the wait for human traffickers in abandoned houses .
but imagine when you are alone and you are a woman with children and a group of men from islamic or other countries want to enter your house at night on your farm !
the mayor s family was trapped in a very similar situation .
my wife woke me up , she was afraid , there were some 40 people , and i ran out of the house with a non-lethal pistol not to shoot but to scare them off .
you would do anything in this situation .
i have nothing against refugees during our conversation laszlo torockai several times emphasized and reiterated that he has nothing against refugees .
he draws a line between those who are saving their lives ( asylum-seekers ) and those who are looking for easy money and benefits ( economic migrants ) .toroczkai argues that hungary is full of purely economic migrants who are not real refugees , including those from pakistan , bangladesh and african countries which are free of wars .
when he meets migrants , he always asks them two questions : where are your family , kids and wife , and what are you going to do in europe ? one of the typical answers toroczkai gets is like this : i want a mercedes cabrio in monaco , an african man told him .
citing statistics , the mayor emphasized that of all the illegal immigrants in hungary , 83 percent are young males and only 17 percent are children and women those whom he considers true refugees .
in his book , a man must defend his homeland instead of leaving it in danger .
you know , if there is a war in my village , in my country , then my wife and my children will be refugees and i will stay at home to fight for my village and for my country .
he stated that if a person agrees to abide by the law in asotthalom , he or she would not have any problem.read more : sputnik news