prague ( reuters ) - a host of pro-western candidates met tuesday s deadline to run for czech president , seeking to unseat incumbent milos zeman who has leaned toward russia and china .
czech presidents wield limited day-to-day power but have large informal influence and play a key role in forming governments - now under way following elections last month .
the winner of the january presidential election will fuel or tame euroscepticism that has taken hold despite the country s economic success and stability since joining nato in 1999 and the european union in 2004 .
zeman , 73 , former social democrat leader and prime minister , is one of the major figures in the country s recent history , along with predecessors vaclav havel and vaclav klaus .
he remains the favorite to win a second five-year term according to bookmakers , despite limited public appearances in recent months due to diabetes and difficulty walking .
so far the most serious rival to zeman is chemist and former chief of the czech academy of sciences jiri drahos who is running as an independent .
drahos , 68 , is pro-eu and pro-nato with a reserved and sober manner , a contrast to zeman who has a reputation for swiping out at media and opponents .
if drahos wins , it would mean a pro-western , pro-european course , said political analyst josef mlejnek jr .
under zeman , our politicians have often had to remind foreign partners that it is the government and not the president who is in charge of foreign policy , and that does not make a good impression especially if there is such an east-west discord between the two lines .
zeman took a sharp anti-eu turn when he took russia s line in the ukraine conflict and opposed eu sanctions .
he also has adopted a sharply anti-immigration stance and said islam was anti-civilisation .
zeman has also given support to andrej babis , a billionaire businessman whose ano party won the parliamentary election last month and who zeman promised to become prime minister .
ano did not field its own presidential candidate , which removes one of the potential threats to zeman .
another pro-western contestant is michal horacek , 65 , founder of betting firm fortuna which he sold in 2004 and a recognized lyricist for pop music stars .
former centre-right prime minister mirek topolanek , whose cabinet collapsed during the country s eu presidency in 2009 , also joined the race at the last minute .
a eurosceptic , topolanek s former right-hand man , marek dalik , started a 5-year jail sentence on monday for corruption in army procurement while topolanek was in office .
in a poll published on monday , zeman led with 34 percent , followed by drahos at 22 and horacek at 13 percent .
another poll on tuesday gave drahos a 51-49 percent edge over zeman in a hypothetical run-off .