london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may pledged on tuesday to hold a mirror up to society with a study showing sharp racial disparities in britain , as she looks for a way to demonstrate her leadership is about more than just delivering brexit .
among the findings of the audit , the data showed asian , black and other minority ethnic households were most likely to be in persistent poverty , that ethnic minorities have a lower employment rate than white people , and that they were under-represented in senior public sector jobs .
bogged down by brexit and losing her parliamentary majority in a snap election in june , may has struggled to deliver on social reforms to tackle what she has called burning injustices since taking control of the ruling conservative party in july 2016 .
attempting to relaunch that agenda , she published the findings of a race disparity audit which pulled together existing data from across sectors such as health , education , employment and the criminal justice system and analyzed it to discover how ethnicity affects people s lives .
this audit means that for society as a whole for government , for our public services there is nowhere to hide .
these issues are now out in the open , she told a private meeting to launch the report , according to her office .
the message is very simple : if these disparities can not be explained then they must be changed .
may s center-right conservatives were blindsided in june s election by a surge in support for the left-wing policies of opposition leader jeremy corbyn , who has presented higher state spending as part of the cure for voters he says have been let down years of cuts to public services .
the prime minister has done nothing but exacerbate the problems .
far from tackling the burning injustices she has added fuel to the fire , labour s equalities spokeswoman dawn butler said .
she called for the government to start offering solutions to the problems the audit highlighted .
at last week s conservative conference , may was keen to show party members that she had a plan to counter corbyn s rise and allay fears that brexit was squeezing out action on britain s social problems .
it will hold a mirror up to society and allow us and wider society to see where action is needed , may told a meeting of her senior ministers , according to a spokesman .
may s deputy damian green said the audit s findings were not relentlessly negative , but added in a forward to the document : there is still a way to go before we have a country that works for everyone regardless of their ethnicity .
( this refiled version of the story fixes date , no change to text ; updates after publication ) .