washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president-elect donald trump ’ s nominee for treasury secretary , steven mnuchin , has pledged to divest at least $ 94 million worth of investments in 43 entities to avoid conflicts of interest , according to an ethics agreement released on wednesday .
mnuchin said in a 42-page financial disclosure report that these investments include more than $ 50 million worth of common shares of cit group inc , the financial services group that acquired his onewest bank in 2015 .
however , his cit shares are likely worth more .
they are listed in the “ over $ 50 million ” category , the highest amount required on the asset valuation form for presidential political appointees .
the investor group he led sold onewest in 2015 for $ 3.4 billion , seven years after they purchased the assets of failed mortgage lender indymac bank for $ 1.55 billion .
mnuchin , a former goldman sachs executive and hollywood film financier , added that he resigned his position as a cit director in december as part of his agreement with the treasury ’ s assistant general counsel .
he pledged to divest goldman sachs shares worth over $ 5 million and goldman sachs treasury investments worth over $ 25 million .
the disclosure forms , which allow a range for the value of assets , reveal that mnuchin is worth at least $ 118 million to around $ 392 million , making him he richest treasury secretary since his former boss , ex-goldman sachs ceo henry paulson , who served under george w. bush and was worth over $ 700 million at the time he took office in 2006 .
by contrast , president barack obama ’ s treasury secretaries , tim geithner and jack lew , were each worth between about $ 740,000 and $ 1.7 million when they took office .
under mnuchin ’ s ethics agreement , he will refrain from any decisions involving cit group until august 2018 , when a final payment of at least $ 5 million from cit group is made as part off a “ holdback ” agreement related to the onewest merger .
among other assets disclosed by mnuchin are a small airplane he operates for business and personal use , and an interest in a 1978 willem de kooning oil painting , “ untitled iii ” , valued between $ 5 million and $ 25 million .
mnuchin also said in his ethics agreement that prior to or upon senate confirmation he would fully disclose the assets of his fiancée , scottish-born actress louise linton , as if they were married and pledged to refrain from any matter that affects her finances .
the documents are on file with the office of government ethics .
( here+index/30aaab9d74b0557b852580a5004ff9f9/ $ file/mnuchin , % 20steven % 20t. % 20finalea.pdf )