barcelona ( reuters ) - more than 700 mayors from across catalonia gathered in barcelona on saturday to confirm their support for a planned independence referendum that madrid has declared illegal .
the catalan government plans to hold a referendum on self rule for the wealthy northeastern region on oct. 1 , despite strong opposition from government which has challenged the vote in the constitutional court .
the mayors met with catalonia s regional head carles puigdemont in a show of defiance , following spanish prosecutors warning earlier this week that officials engaging in any preparations for the vote could be charged with civil disobedience , abuse of office and misuse of public funds .
on wednesday , spanish prosecutors summoned for questioning more than 700 mayors who had said they would allow municipal spaces to be used for voting .
if the mayors do not respond to the order , police should arrest them , the order said .
meeting in downtown barcelona in front of hundreds of flag waving pro-independence protesters , the mayors gave speeches in which they promised continued support for the referendum amid chants of we will vote and independence .
barcelona mayor ada colau , who has reached an agreement with the catalan regional government to allow voting in the city , criticized madrid s response to the crisis in a short speech in the city hall .
it s a disgrace that we have a government that is incapable of dialogue and instead dedicates itself to pursuing and intimidating mayors and the media , colau said .
so far , 740 of 948 municipal leaders have said they would allow municipal spaces to be used for the referendum , according to the association for municipalities for independence ( ami ) .
spanish police have raided several print shops and newspaper offices in recent days in a hunt for voting papers , ballot boxes and leaflets to be used for the referendum .
catalonia s top court on friday issued a warning to seven newspapers not to publish campaign notices for the referendum , a court spokesperson said .
on saturday , prime minister mariano rajoy called for a return to rationality and legality and promised to block the vote .
the only thing i ask of ( catalan ) mayors is that they comply with the law , and as such don t participate in an illegal referendum , rajoy said .
polls show a minority of catalans want independence , although a majority want the chance to vote on the issue .
the scottish government lent its support to the catalan referendum .
cabinet secretary for external affairs fiona hyslop said scotland s 2014 referendum on self rule , which was agreed to by both westminster and edinburgh , was a positive example of how to resolve such disputes .
all peoples have the right to self determination and to choose the form of government best suited to their needs , a principle which is enshrined in the un charter , hyslop said in a statement on saturday .
the no side won in the scottish independence referendum .