photo illustration by patrick henningsen @ 21wire nader talebzadeh 21st century wirethe american enlightenment has started .
the dormancy of over three decades , and the miseries that the united states has put dozens of nations through , have begun to cease .
the torment that the vietnamese went through and the innocent lives that perished under us drones in afghanistan and pakistan are beginning to find their answers .
but not in international tribunals or world system of justice .
no .
in people s conscious , the great divide in the american population is the first sure sign of a change to come.ever since the unwelcome appearance of donald trump on the us governmental scene , the first president not to be placed into position by the deep state , the inquisition over what is going on has begun.americans , more than ever are perplexed about their future .
their past is vague , and no matter how hard they peer into the rear view mirror for those americans , it doesn t make sense.9/11 doesn t make sense.the occupation of iraq and afghanistan doesn t make sense.the admittance to not finding any wmds in iraq and yet occupying it , doesn t make sense.to cause the deaths of 500 , 000 children , and say it was worth the kill by the administrators doesn t make sense.the cover-up for 9/11 doesn t make sense .
to start a global war on terror and not explain how 9/11 occurred , or how a third building collapsed nine hours later , doesn t make sense.obama s sudden appearance on the scene , doesn t make sense.the hundreds of books and articles that question the mechanism of the selection of obama and never discussing them on the mainstream media , doesn t make sense.obama placed in that position by the establishment , by the deep state , doesn t make sense.the blanked out middle-class of america , still pondering what happened , doesn t make sense.the fact that they lost their jobs beginning three decades ago , and having had to let go of their comfortable insured life working in an american factory , doesn t make sense.the abandoned factories and grand industries that once made america great , lying obsolete and deserted , doesn t make sense.half of detroit abandoned and deserted , doesn t make sense.the media cheering on its hallucinatory concussions all throughout these disasters , doesn t make sense.the ptsd ed war veterans and the official suicide rates of us soldiers on and off duty , go undetected and barely seen in the rear view mirror of the media , never make sense.all the common man sees today is one man attacked by the same mass media that pushed them into the illegal wars and illegitimate debts from zero to $ 20 trillion , between 1979-2017 , by some estimates.but the buck stops here as president eisenhower once famously said .
the heavy train loaded with old rusted debris is coming to a screeching halt .
meanwhile the curious are looking wide-eyed .
nato doesn t know where it really stands .
the think tanks of washington the hub of all mesmerizing strategies are vacant , or their curtains half drawn .
the neocons are contemplating plan b .
the israeli firsters are caught off guard .
they are planning ahead of time desperately .
but whose ears do they have this time ? !
a man who calls the weapons of the think tanks , the mainstream media , liars , fake news !
? once the invisible sword , the likes of new york times and cnn are today exposed and blunted .
who dared call cnn liars ? !
cnn engaged america meticulously into two fake wars which indebted the united states , and still avoided any blame .
it was almost scripted and storyboarded like a hollywood movie .
now , it is still loose , with acrobatic skills evading all detection like a skilled serial killer breathing in our civilized world.now the eye-opening process has begun .
watch out for the six-packers and their evaporated illusions !
you have finally awaken the slumbering slave of america , and awakened they are alas !
all empires go through these stages .
the awkward moments must be tolerated i.e .
the president without a cabinet , the supporters with semi-automatic weapons guarding his speeches in georgia and florida .
the anti-semitic accusations that are being discussed in the morning regular sessions on cnn .
the angry obliterated alan dershowitz who is nervously accusing cnn s moderator don lemon , of giving the anti-semites their fifteen minutes of fame .
they fear that it will catch fire on the colleges and universities.the masquerade however is over .
the paul wolfowitzs , the richard perles , the daniel pipes have to face the masses .
the not-so-innocent masses that succumbed to the beast s demands also wait .
the confrontation lingers silently .
no one even knows these people as thomas friedman of the new york times once famously said in his interviews with the haaretz .
twenty five neocons have planned and executed what has happened in the past two and a half decades.the wakeup call has rung , the moment of illusion has disappeared .
the apparent , sudden sun is beginning to shine gloriously , one ray at a time .
wash your face and watch the unfolding.21wire contributor nader talebzadeh is an iranian filmmaker , producer , writer , cultural and historical commentator and new horizon conference chair , channel one tv program host a sr ( the time ) .
read more trump news at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv