washington ( reuters ) - nearly half of president donald trump ’ s 2017 $ 30 billion supplemental defense budget proposal would go to buy and modernize warplanes , warships and missiles , a down payment on trump ’ s promises to boost military spending .
although congress must approve the $ 13.5 bln request and is likely to make changes , boeing co would be one of the biggest beneficiaries of the administration ’ s proposal , which included $ 2.3 billion for 24 f/a-18 e/f super hornet jet fighters .
this is 10 more than the u.s. house of representatives approved on march 8 in its 2017 base spending bill .
the navy will use the additional money to bolster its aging fleet of fighters , lieutenant general anthony ierardi , the director of force structure , resources and assessment for the joint chiefs of staff , told reuters .
in a dec. 22 tweet , before he was inaugurated , trump had suggested buying more boeing f/a-18s , which he called “ comparable ” to the lockheed martin f-35 , despite the fact that the f-35 is a stealth aircraft difficult for enemy radar to detect .
the 1990s-vintage f/a-18 is does not use stealth technology .
the navy also proposed $ 920 million to buy six boeing p-8 submarine-hunting aircraft .
the army requested $ 708 million for 20 boeing apache attack helicopters .
lockheed martin is also one of the big winners in the administration ’ s proposal .
pentagon officials said the request for additional 2017 funds would help accelerate planned acquisitions of f-35 joint strike fighters .
the pentagon budgeted $ 596 million to buy five of the stealthy jets , which cost between $ 95 million and $ 123 million each , depending on the model .
in the past , president trump had complained about the “ tremendous cost and cost overruns ” of the f-35 program , which is the pentagon ’ s most expensive weapons program .
the pentagon budgeted $ 151 million for lockheed ’ s thaad missile defense and $ 376 million for 17 blackhawk helicopters made by sikorsky aircraft , a lockheed subsidiary .
the proposal also requested $ 433 million to complete the third version of the ddg-51 navy destroyer being built by general dynamics corp at bath iron works in maine .
a general accounting office report published on aug. 4 said the navy “ has not demonstrated sufficient acquisition and design knowledge ” to provide an accurate estimate of the vessel ’ s cost .
the administration ’ s supplemental request takes the base pentagon budget for fiscal 2017 to $ 541 billion , analyst robert stallard of vertical research said in a report on thursday .
congress will likely consider the request before april 28 , when the current defense department funding expires .
( this story has been refiled to correct data in paragraphs 2 and 10 . )