new york ( reuters ) - u.s. liberal groups , divided in their support of democratic presidential candidates hillary clinton and bernie sanders , have urged a united , active opposition to donald trump , the republican front-runner .
in an open letter released on tuesday , a group of liberal organizations called for a “ non-violent movement ” to thwart trump ’ s candidacy for november ’ s general election , calling the new york billionaire a “ hate-peddling bigot who openly incites violence. ” “ this is a five-alarm fire for our democracy , ” said the letter , which was signed by the leaders of the liberal advocacy group moveon.org , a supporter of sanders , and the service employees international union , a major labor union that is backing clinton .
representatives of 20 other groups signed the letter , which was published online as americans in five states voted in the latest round of primary contests to pick party nominees for the nov. 8 election .
trump has alarmed many in america , not just liberals , with his campaign rhetoric , from calling mexican immigrants rapists and drug dealers to his proposal to ban muslims temporarily from entering the united states .
protests have become a recurring , noisy feature at trump ’ s rallies and in recent days , tensions have risen sharply as a few of trump ’ s mostly white supporters have punched or bloodied protesters , many of whom are black or latino , in scuffles in or outside campaign venues .
the open letter urged americans to use tactics familiar from the civil-rights movement to oppose trump , including large public marches and prayer vigils .
it told americans to ask “ every media outlet , corporation , and office-holder ” whether they will condemn what the letter described as trump ’ s “ racism , misogyny and xenophobia. ” the letter also called for efforts to increase voter turn-out in november , hoping to beat trump if he becomes the republican nominee .
some republican politicians , including the party ’ s presidential nominee in 2012 , mitt romney , have also called for efforts to prevent trump winning the party ’ s nomination in july , including tactical voting .
a trump spokeswoman did not respond to a request for comment .
trump has said in media interviews he does not condone violence , but at rallies he has sometimes encouraged people to use force on protesters , drawing condemnation from both democratic and republican politicians .
many protesters have told journalists they are supporters of sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , and clinton , a former secretary of state .
trump , who canceled a rally in chicago last week after hundreds of protesters got inside the venue , has said it is unfair that his events are disrupted more than those of any other candidate .