tokyo/detroit ( reuters ) - when japanese prime minister shinzo abe meets on friday with u.s. president donald trump , japan ’ s bulging automotive trade surplus will be a sore spot , but the path to balancing auto exports and imports will be no easier than it was in the 1980s .
trump may press abe to do more to level the trade imbalance with japan during a white house visit or a round of golf , but the two leaders are unlikely to change the fact that the big cars and trucks that america makes do not sell in japan .
many japanese consumers , faced with congested cities , favor tiny domestically-made vehicles , called kei cars , which make up more than a third of the market .
priced from around 1.1 million yen , or about $ 9,800 , these cars have engines most americans would consider inadequate for a motorcycle .
even japan ’ s toyota motor corp and honda motor co can not convince japanese consumers to buy models that are popular in the united states .
small sport utility vehicles such as the toyota rav4 and honda ’ s cr-v are seen by japanese consumers as too big .
only about 13,000 vehicles from u.s. automakers sold in japan in both 2016 and 2015 , and of that about three-fourths were jeep suvs made by fiat chrysler automobiles .
ford motor co announced last month that it is pulling out of the japanese market entirely , after selling just 2,400 vehicles there in 2016 .
the japanese auto market has shrunk not only in terms of vehicle size , but in sales volume .
as a result , global automakers , including japan ’ s , are focused on boosting sales in china , the united states and growing emerging markets .
“ it would take a painstaking fine-tuning of vehicle specs to suit american cars to those driving and other conditions and develop a strong distribution network to be able to gain traction in japan .
it is nothing short of a 20-year effort , ” said a toyota executive who spoke on condition he not be named .
jaguar land rover japan ltd chief executive magnus hansson said the low sales of u.s. cars in japan did not mean it was a closed market , but rather reflected “ a total and absolute lack of effort over 50 years ” by detroit .
still , japan remains an export hub for the big japanese automakers .
the u.s. commerce department this week reported that the u.s. trade deficit with japan in 2016 was $ 68.9 billion , and of that total surplus , some $ 52.6 billion was in vehicles and automotive parts .
japan ’ s automakers have more than 90 percent of the japanese market .
last year u.s. automakers controlled only 45 percent of their home market , the world ’ s second-biggest after china .
a bigger factor than imports in the detroit automakers ’ loss of u.s. market share since 1980 is the surge in investment by japan ’ s automakers in u.s. factories .
last year , 56 percent of the vehicles toyota sold in the united states were made in america , the company said .
toyota said it employs more than 34,000 in the united states .
for years the growth of japanese-owned auto factories in the u.s. heartland has helped cool trade tensions .
but trump , a republican , has turned up the heat by complaining about the trade surplus and accusing japan of manipulating the value of the yen to disadvantage american-made goods .
on thursday , a bipartisan group of senators from auto manufacturing states called on the new president “ to address currency manipulation and auto-related non-tariff barriers. ” they are not alone in urging changes to help bolster u.s. business .
“ ( trump ) must bring abe up short on any cheery notion that business will continue as usual , ” said kevin l. kearns , head of the u.s. business and industry council .
the group represents smaller u.s. manufacturers , many of which feed the u.s. auto industry .