this morning , president-elect made yet another disastrous announcement over twitter , when he send out a tweet that called for the cancellation of the air force one contract .
the contract , which was for an update on the presidential plane , was apparently too much money and trump wants to do away with the deal .
and as expected , trump s reasoning behind this was riddled with misinformation.trump tweeted that he was going to cancel the contract with boeing because of the hefty $ 4 billion price tag .
however , $ 4 billion is practically a mysterious , made-up number from trump no one knows where he got that number .
according to reports , the air force would only cost $ 1.6 billion for the project , which included several planes .
trump is blindly throwing out a number more than twice that amount , for only one plane .
trump tweeted : boeing is building a brand new 747 air force one for future presidents , but costs are out of control , more than $ 4 billion .
cancel order !
twitterof course , trump tweeting falsehoods is hardly a surprise at this point but he made it worse by addressing the press shortly after his tweet .
during his brief moment with the press , one reporter asked trump : sir , you tweeted about canceling the contract about the new air force one ?
trump gloated and made this ridiculous announcement even worse by saying this : well , the plane is totally out of control .
it s going to be over $ 4 billion .
it s for air force one program , and i think it s ridiculous .
then , trump attacked boeing and accused the company of scamming america ( obviously , the irony of this is lost on him ) .
he said : i think boeing is doing a little bit of a number .
we want boeing to make a lot of money , but not that much money .
you can watch the interview below : the insanity of this whole thing is that trump is supposedly cancelling this deal over its large ( made up ) price tag , but he s thinking nothing of costing tax payers $ 1 million per day to pay for the security costs while he stays in the trump tower instead of the white house.featured image via maddie mcgarvey / getty images