rancho mirage , calif. ( reuters ) - president barack obama will not rush through a supreme court choice to replace justice antonin scalia this week but will wait to nominate a candidate until the u.s. senate is back in session , the white house said on sunday .
“ given that the senate is currently in recess , we don ’ t expect the president to rush this through this week , but instead will do so in due time once the senate returns from their recess , ” white house spokesman eric schultz said .
“ at that point , we expect the senate to consider that nominee , consistent with their responsibilities laid out in the united states constitution , ” he said .
obama is traveling in california and returns to washington on tuesday .
the senate returns from recess on feb. 22 .
making a recess appointment would have been extremely controversial .
the white house declined to give a more specific timeline for obama to announce his nominee .
for his previous two supreme court picks , elena kagan and sonia sotomayor , the president took about 30 days each to announce his selection after their predecessors , justice john paul stevens and justice david souter , respectively , said they planned to step down .
in remarks honoring scalia on saturday , obama made clear he would not succumb to pressure from republicans to leave the selection of a new justice to his successor .
the president , who leaves office in january 2017 , said he would make his choice in due time .
“ these are responsibilities that i take seriously , as should everyone .
they ’ re bigger than any one party .
they are about our democracy , ” he said .
“ they ’ re about the institution to which justice scalia dedicated his professional life , and making sure it continues to function as the beacon of justice that our founders envisioned. ” scalia ’ s death and the upcoming fight over his replacement gives the white house an unexpected shot at shifting the balance of power on the supreme court in what would be a legacy-defining act during his last year in office .
it also keeps the president from slipping quickly into “ lame duck ” status during an election year .
white house officials are unlikely to drag out the process of announcing obama ’ s choice .
“ they should move with dispatch , ” said david axelrod , obama ’ s former senior adviser .
to rebut republican arguments , the white house points to a host of previous supreme court nominees who have received speedy hearings and votes regardless of which party had control in congress .