louisville , ky. ( reuters ) - three people who claim they were assaulted at a donald trump rally in louisville , kentucky , last month have filed a lawsuit against the republican presidential candidate , saying he “ incited a riot. ” molly shah , kashiya nwanguma and henry brousseau filed the lawsuit on thursday in jefferson circuit court in louisville , claiming that trump ’ s repeated calls of “ get them out ” at a rally at the kentucky international convention center on march 1 was intended to direct his supporters to “ use unwanted , harmful physical force to remove protesters , including the plaintiffs. ” the lawsuit also names as defendants the trump campaign and three individuals who the plaintiffs claim assaulted them at the rally .
the three plaintiffs , all louisville residents , claim they suffered physical injuries , emotional distress and humiliation , and are seeking unspecified damages , according to the lawsuit .
“ peaceful protest is an american tradition , especially in the context of presidential politics , ” dan canon , the attorney for the plaintiffs , told reuters in a twitter message .
“ but what you see all over the country , time and time again , is violence employed against protesters at trump campaign events .
these plaintiffs are saying ‘ enough is enough , ’ ” the lawsuit said trump stopped his 30-minute speech five times to point out protesters and , in most cases , told supporters to “ get ‘ em out of here , ” according to the lawsuit .
a spokeswoman for trump ’ s campaign could not be reached for comment .
the lawsuit claims that trump “ incited a riot as defined under the kentucky penal code. ” the individuals named as defendants are matthew heimbach , described in the complaint as a trump supporter and ohio resident who is “ affiliated with the traditionalist worker party , a recognized hate group ” ; alvin bamberger , 75 , described as a trump supporter and an ohio resident ; and an unknown female .
according to the lawsuit , at the rally , heimbach , who was wearing a traditionalist worker party t-shirt , attacked shah and nwanguma .
a spokesman for the traditional worker party could not be reached .
a website for the traditionalist worker party describes it as a grassroots political organization that believes , among other things , that “ european-american identity is under constant attack. ” the southern poverty law center , a non-profit organization that monitors groups it considers extremist , classifies the traditionalist worker party as a white nationalist hate group .
according to the lawsuit , nwanguma was assaulted by numerous protesters at the rally , of whom heimbach and bamberger were the most aggressive .
video of nwanguma , a 21-year-old college student , being repeatedly pushed at the convention went viral after the rally , the lawsuit said .
bamberger could not be reached immediately for comment .
the lawsuit also claims that shah was assaulted by heimbach and that brousseau was assaulted by the unknown female defendant .