seoul ( reuters ) - north korean leader kim jong un sent a rare congratulatory message to chinese president xi jinping on wednesday at the end of china s communist party congress , wishing him great success as head of the nation , the north s state media said .
the friendly gesture by the north korean leader , who seldom issues personal messages , comes as china is being urged by the international community to do more to rein in the north s missile and nuclear tests that have raised tensions globally .
xi became china s most powerful leader since mao zedong at the all-important week-long congress .
it expressed the conviction that the relations between the two parties and the two countries would develop in the interests of the peoples of the two countries , the north s state-run central news agency said in a statement on thursday , citing the message sent by kim to xi .
the chinese people have entered the road of building socialism with the chinese characteristics in the new era under the guidance of xi , the message said .
the two countries often exchange routine diplomatic correspondence and ceremonial letters to each other on political anniversaries or political promotions , although personal messages to and from the leaders tend to be few .
analysts said it was too early to tell whether or not ties between the two countries were warming up .
congratulatory messages between north korea and china are an old story and reading too much into the message exchanged would be a one-sided analysis , said yang moo-jin , professor at the university of north korean studies in seoul .
it s what they usually do and not surprising at all .
china is the north s sole major ally , and accounts for more than 90 percent of trade with the isolated country .
beijing has been called upon by several countries , especially the united states , to step up its efforts to curb north korea s ambitions towards building a nuclear-tipped ballistic missile that can reach the united states .
it has shown it is irritated with pyongyang following the isolated state s numerous missile launches and nuclear tests , repeatedly calling for restraint and urging all sides to speak and act carefully .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said at a regular briefing on thursday that china had received congratulatory messages from many countries and parties , including one from north korea .
china and north korea are close neighbors and have a tradition of friendly contact , he said , without elaborating .
china has said it will strictly enforce u.n. security council sanctions banning imports of north korean coal , textiles and seafood , while cutting off oil shipments to the north .
north korea has not engaged in any missile or nuclear provocations since mid-september , although it tends to test fewer missiles late in the year for unexplained reasons .
north korea has been walking a diplomatic tightrope by taking advantage of strategic mistrust between china and russia , but it has not been easy as beijing has sternly responded to its nuclear and missile provocations , said kim han-kwon , a professor at the korea national diplomatic academy in seoul .
china s party congress is over , but kim jong un s concerns will only continue to deepen .
the most significant event at hand is the upcoming summit between xi and ( u.s. president donald ) trump , said kim .