andrew breitbart got under the skin of the left like no other .
when he entered the political scene , progressives had been so used to getting a pass from polite conservatives , they didn t quite know what to make of him .
by exposing the ties between unions , academia , the media and democrat party , andrew made their plan to disrupt everything we hold dear about our country much more difficult to implement.he was 100 % correct in his predication about what obama would do to our country .
it s too bad the media did everything they could to bury his message and pretend he didn t exist.watch andrew explain barack obama s plan to divide our nation just prior to obama s second term : this video is one of the best examples of how andrew breitbart boldly and brilliantly exposed the truth behind the very well organized progressive democrat party : if you can t sell freedom and liberty you s * ck !
here is the brilliant and very funny story about how andrew breitbart went from an apathetic liberal to a passionate conservative and the # 1 enemy of the left .
truth is light and light is the best disinfectant .
no one s light shined brighter on the left than our hero , andrew breitbart.sheriff arpaio talks about how he spoke with andrew on the phone just before he died on march 1 , 2012 : listen to one of the only witnesses who were present when andrew breitbart died : here is sean hannity s tribute to andrew that shows the amazing work by breitbart and how he started the citizen journalism revolution : here is the video breitbart planned to release before he died .
watch brilliant economist thomas sowell explain the significance of this video and barack obama s relationship with radical harvard law school professor derrick bell.here is a trailer from the brilliant movie , hating breitbart that was released shortly after his death .
it shows his support for conservatives and tea party members : he came out of nowhere and shook things up like no other before him .
there will never be another breitbart.rest in peace andrew breitbart .
we ll do our part to help keep your torch lit # war