beijing ( reuters ) - china said on wednesday that it respects robert mugabe s decision to resign as zimbabwe s president , a week after the african country s army and mugabe s former political allies moved to end his four decades of rule .
the 93-year-old mugabe had clung on for a week after an army takeover , and finally resigned on tuesday , moments after parliament began an impeachment process , prompting dancing in the streets of the capital , harare .
china has close ties with zimbabwe and traditionally also with mugabe himself , who is reviled in the west as a despot whose disastrous handling of the economy and willingness to resort to violence to maintain power destroyed one of africa s most promising states .
chinese foreign ministry spokesman lu kang told a regular news briefing that china was happy to see zimbabwe peacefully and appropriately resolve the issue via talks , and that its policy toward the country would not change .
china respects mr mugabe s decision to resign .
he remains a good friend of the chinese people , lu said , adding that mugabe had made historic contribution to zimbabwe s independence and liberation .
zimbabwe s army seized power after mugabe sacked his former vice president , emmerson mnangagwa , who was a favorite to succeed him .
mugabe s move was an apparent bid to smooth a path to the presidency for his wife grace , 52 , known to her critics as gucci grace for her reputed fondness for luxury shopping .
mnangagwa is expected to be sworn in within days and serve the remainder of mugabe s term until the next election , which must be held by september 2018 .
asked about a u.s. call for free elections in zimbabwe , lu said china believed it could handle its own affairs and china hoped other countries would not interfere .
china and zimbabwe have a close diplomatic and economic relationship , and china had stood with mugabe s government in the face of western economic sanctions , investing in auto , diamond , tobacco and power-station projects .
in august , zimbabwe said a chinese company planned to invest up to $ 2 billion to revive operations at zimbabwe iron and steel company ( zisco ) , which ceased production in 2008 at the height of an economic meltdown .
that year , china vetoed a proposed western-backed u.n. resolution that would have imposed an arms embargo on zimbabwe and financial and travel restrictions on mugabe and 13 other officials , saying it would complicate , rather than ease , conflict .