washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. defense department ’ s fiscal year 2017 budget requests $ 145.8 million in support for israel , including iron dome and other cooperative defense programs , according to pentagon documents released tuesday .
the iron dome system is designed to defeat short-range missiles and rockets .
the united states will also continue to help fund david ’ s sling , a medium-range missile interceptor , set to be deployed this year , as well as the arrow ballistic missile interceptor .
the systems are meant to form a multi-level shield that the israelis are developing with washington ’ s help as a bulwark against iran and its allies on the israeli border .
the u.s. missile defense agency ’ s fiscal 2017 budget request included $ 103.8 million for israeli cooperative programs , down from $ 267.6 million in fiscal 2016 , plus $ 42 million for iron dome , down from $ 55 million in fiscal 2016 .
the budget forecast total spending on israeli cooperative programs of $ 540 million over the next five years , with no additional funding for iron dome envisioned after $ 42 million in fiscal 2017 .
vice admiral james syring , director of the u.s. missile defense agency , told reporters the agency was working with israel under a co-production agreement signed for the iron dome system , with a “ not insignificant ” workshare going to u.s. firms .
he declined to give the specific percentage share .
syring said the united states and israel were working on a second co-production agreement for the david ’ s sling program , although he declined to give a timeframe for reaching a deal .
he said a test of the david ’ s sling system late last year exceeded expectations .
raytheon co is working with israel ’ s state-owned rafael advanced defense systems ltd on the iron dome and david ’ s sling programs .
syring said israel had not signaled any plans to request additional funds for missile defense programs , as it did last year , after the agency sent its budget request to congress .
he said any decision on funding would be up to congress , which must approve the budget .
robert scher , assistant defense secretary for strategy , plans and capabilities , told congress last year that the u.s. government had provided more than $ 3 billion to israel for work on david ’ s sling and other missile defense programs since 2001 .