michael savage is 100 % correct .
if you think he s crazy , take a stroll down memory lane to 2008 and watch obama s troops extoll the virtues of obama and obamacare savage also weighed in on the recent violence in israel , the black lives matter movement , the open border policy in parts of europe with regards to muslim refugees , as well as gop and democratic races .
this was an amazing interview ! the conservative radio host said the latest iowa polls with carson leading are due to white guilt .
michael savage : the only solution is a patriot who is nationalistic .
that is donald trump.steve malzberg : you believe donald trump is the answer .
are you concerned , not only is he behind in three polls in iowa but a new york times-cbs poll today shows him , i think , four or five points behind ben carson nationally for the first time ? michael savage : the new york times , cbs , pravda means nothing .
do you think they interviewed one conservative voter ?
no .
polls don t mean anything .
in iowa , as i say , god bless iowa , i m on a big station in iowa .
the fact of the matter is iowa is not america .
iowa is a very different place .
if they are going to use their white guilt to elect a man simply because he s an african-american who speaks really quietly , we re in real trouble.michael savage went on to tell steve that the black lives matter movement is obama s shock troops.michael savage : the establishment does not want trump .
the establishment would rather work with hillary clinton than with donald trump.steve malzberg : let me ask you quickly about the black lives matter .
we have another incident in a school in south carolina now the fbi is investigating .
black lives matter they chant in the street .
put pigs in a blanket .
where the heck are we heading ? michael savage : the black lives matter movement , and i m going to say it like it is , are obama s shock troops .
they re the brown shirts that hitler had in germany .
how s that ?
does that work for you ?
via : gateway pundit