berlin ( reuters ) - germany s social democrats ( spd ) voted on thursday to hold talks with chancellor angela merkel s conservatives on forming a government after their leader made an impassioned plea for a free hand to work for a social united states of europe .
the vote clears the way for talks that could resolve the impasse into which europe s economic powerhouse was plunged after merkel and the spd shed support in a september election , greatly complicating the parliamentary arithmetic .
martin schulz urged reluctant center-left spd members to be open to merkel s overtures to renew the coalition that has governed for the past four years , saying the party had a responsibility to revive social democracy in germany .
a new grand coalition with the reluctant spd is merkel s best hope of extending her 12 years in power after talks with two smaller parties failed , giving the smaller spd greater leverage in any negotiations .
the question isn t grand coalition or no grand coalition , he said in a speech to his party s biennial congress , nor minority government or fresh elections .
no - it s about how we exercise our responsibility , including to the next generation .
schulz said the party would only recover if it could offer a clear vision of a germany and a europe that worked for their citizens , calling for deeper european integration and a united states of europe by 2025 .
europe does not always work for its people , rather too often for the big companies , he said , outlining a populist vision that goes well beyond merkel s own openness to limited structural reforms and bureaucratic streamlining .
talks between the two parties are expected to begin in earnest in the new year .
a special congress will have to be convened at which party members will vote on whether to support a final agreement , which could fall short of a formal coalition , and could include tolerating a minority government .
stephan weil , the influential premier of the state of lower saxony , said the spd would want to see its policies reflected in return for supporting any government .
i think the majority of the delegates see themselves as a european party and they expect that germany becomes a driving force in europe again , he said of schulz s proposals regarding the european union .
schulz s proposals were received more cautiously by merkel .
the ( eu s ) ability to act should be at the forefront now , she said at a berlin press conference .
so i will concentrate on more cooperation in defense by 2025 and on other issues , including employment and innovation .
outside the congress hall , spd youth activists , many of whom want the party to chart a distinctive course after spending eight of the past 12 years in centrist coalitions , handed out red cards reading no grand coalition .
merkel leads this country without direction , said one speaker addressing the conference .
she has no plan for europe , she leads the country from week to week .
we need a strong social democracy in this country .
schulz , who initially said his party should go into opposition after being punished for participating in the previous grand coalition under merkel , apologized for his party s disastrous electoral result .
schulz attacked european moves to support big banks while doing little to counter high youth unemployment .
when states can t balance their budgets they face draconian sanctions from brussels .
if we can mobilize billions for bank rescues but have to fight for paltry sums to support jobs for young people , then this is definitely not my europe .
he struck a tone that was more critical of big companies than french president emmanuel macron , who is pushing for deeper euro zone integration and pro-business reforms under a euro zone finance minister .
he took aim at u.s. technology firms apple , facebook and google , saying a strong europe was needed to make them stick to the rules and protect the rights of workers in a changing economy .
we don t want an app-directed service society but we want digitalization to lead to more individual freedom , he said to applause , calling for steps to protect the digital economy s self-employed from becoming self-exploiters .
on the issue of immigration , one of the main reasons for the collapse of merkel s first attempt at a coalition , the spd opposes a conservative plan to extend a ban on the right to family reunions for some accepted asylum seekers .
there can be no upper limit to the right to protection from war and persecution , schulz told delegates , rejecting conservative demands for a ceiling of 200,000 immigrants a year .