lome ( reuters ) - a bill to limit presidents in togo to two terms of office will be decided by referendum after it failed on tuesday to win approval from parliament due to a boycott by opposition lawmakers .
the boycott was called because the measure appears to exempt incumbent faure gnassingbe , who is already in his third term .
gnassingbe s family has ruled the small west african country for 50 years and frustration over the slow pace of reform there has spilled onto the streets several times since august , involving thousands and prompting u.n. calls for action .
under the terms of the bill , he would be eligible for two further five-year terms that could leave him in power until 2030 .
they voted for a referendum but we don t care .
we ll set the streets against their referendum , said pedro amuzun , an official at the main anc opposition party , which announced more protests on wednesday and thursday in the capital lome .
all but one of the 63 lawmakers present in parliament backed the bill , but the boycott meant the vote fell short of the four-fifths majority needed to change the constitution .
the referendum was announced by parliament head drama dramani , who told lawmakers it would take place in coming days .
so far the protests have mostly been peaceful , although two people were killed by security forces in august , while hundreds died in demonstrations that followed the election in 2005 that brought the current president to power after the death of his father .
gnassingbe s opponents have been seeking term limits and other constitutional reforms since then , to align the former french colony wedged between ghana and benin with most of its west african neighbors .
with former veteran leaders such as gambia s yahya jammeh and burkina faso s blaise compaore now living in exile , analysts say gnassingbe may be getting isolated .
however , nearby states have so far stopped short of publicly criticizing gnassingbe , who currently chairs the 15-member regional west african bloc ecowas .
lome has pretensions toward becoming a miniature singapore and hosts offices of several multinational companies including ecobank and airline asky .