hong kong ( reuters ) - protesters outside a luxury hotel in hong kong shouted anti-racism slogans on tuesday ahead of a speech by former white house chief strategist steve bannon at an investor conference organized by a unit of china s largest brokerage .
the far-right architect of u.s. president donald trump s 2016 election victory , bannon is the latest controversial figure invited to address a forum hosted by clsa , a subsidiary of state-backed citic securities .
bannon , whose views on immigration , climate and trade helped shape trump s election campaign and his first months in office , was fired by the republican president last month in a push to end factional fighting within the white house .
no bannon , no racism , chanted the group of about 15 demonstrators , who also held up a large black banner carrying the words , nazis are not welcome here .
one protester wearing a mask of trump held up a placard depicting the u.s. president in the shape of a chicken , with the words , toxic nationalist , on its belly .
clsa initially said bannon s speech would be open to some print media but reversed its decision a day later , without citing a specific reason , although a clsa spokeswoman said the event was meant for invited clients only .
we reserve the right to open or close sessions as we see fit , she wrote in an emailed response to reuters .
the clsa investors forum provides an agnostic platform for diverse views and opinions from people who influence policy , economies and markets .
mr bannon is one of these , hence our decision to invite him .
past speakers at the forum have ranged from actors george clooney and arnold schwarzenegger to boxer mike tyson , who was convicted of rape , former alaska governor sarah palin , and former national security agency contractor edward snowden , who revealed secret details of u.s. surveillance programs .
in a recent interview with the cbs program 60 minutes , bannon predicted republicans could lose control in the house of representatives next year because of a looming battle over what to do about immigrants brought illegally to the united states as children .
( this story has been refiled to update paragraph 9 descriptions of previous speakers )