tokyo ( reuters ) - emperor akihito , who has spent much of his nearly three decades on japan s throne seeking to soothe the wounds of world war two , will step down on april 30 , 2019 - the first abdication by a japanese monarch in about two centuries .
a 10-member imperial household council of lawmakers , royals and supreme court justices , chaired by prime minister shinzo abe , agreed on the timing on friday .
akihito , who turns 84 on dec. 23 and has had heart surgery and treatment for prostate cancer , said in rare remarks last year that he feared age might make it hard for him to fulfil his duties .
he will be succeeded by his heir , 57-year-old crown prince naruhito .
this is the first abdication by an emperor in 200 years and the first under the ( post-war ) constitution , abe told reporters after announcing the recommendation .
i feel deep emotion that today , the opinion of the imperial household council was smoothly decided and a big step was taken toward the imperial succession .
the cabinet still has to sign off on the decision on the date , which it will likely do next week .
once considered divine , japan s emperor is defined in the post-war constitution as a symbol of the state and of the unity of the people , but has no political power .
akihito , along with empress michiko , has spent much time trying to address the legacy of world war two , which was fought in the name of his father hirohito , and consoling victims of disasters or other woes .
he is widely respected by average japanese .
both the emperor and empress thought tirelessly about the people , said taeko ito , a 72-year-old caregiver .
now he is elderly and i wish from my heart that he can have a rest .
akihito and michiko , the first commoner to wed a japanese monarch , have worked to reconcile ties across asia , soured by japan s aggression before and during world war two , with numerous visits abroad .
in 1992 , he became the first japanese monarch in living memory to visit china , where bitter memories of the war run deep .
during that visit the emperor said he deeply deplored an unfortunate period in which my country inflicted great suffering on the people of china .
akihito has consistently urged the japanese never to forget the horrors of war , remarks that have garnered increased attention since abe took office in 2012 and sought to adopt a less apologetic tone over japan s past military aggression .
he redefined the job .
he wanted to modernise the monarchy and take care of the unfinished business ... and bring the imperial household closer to the people , said jeffrey kingston , director of asian studies at temple university japan .
he s been remarkably successful on all fronts .
he is deeply admired and respected .
his moral authority is unquestioned .
once akihito steps down a new imperial era will begin , replacing the current heisei or achieving peace period which began on jan. 8 , 1989 , the day he took the throne .
japan uses the western-style gregorian calendar but has also preserved the ancient custom in which the reign of a new emperor ushers in a new era .
the last time a japanese emperor abdicated was in 1817 .
post-war law had not allowed for abdication , so a one-off law was adopted in june to let akihito step down , but it left details such as the timing to be worked out .
an early proposal that he retire at the end of 2018 , his 30th year on the throne , was rejected over worries it would conflict with rituals and other duties around then .
another date considered was march 31 , 2019 , the end of the business year .
but subsequent ceremonies would have coincided with a busy time for many people and nation-wide local elections in early april , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga said .
some japanese lamented that the process was taking too long .
it s the same for me - life is not so long , said a 79-year-old retiree , asataro nishizawa .
they should have granted his wish sooner , while he is still vigorous .
the abdication law did not address the problem of the future of an ageing , shrinking imperial family and the related issue of whether women should be allowed to ascend the throne .
eleven-year-old prince hisahito , the son of akihito s younger son prince akishino , is the emperor s only grandson and will be second in line to the throne after his father following the abdication .
naruhito s daughter , princess aiko , who turned 16 on friday , can not inherit the males-only throne .