rome ( reuters ) - italy s lower house of parliament on thursday approved a new electoral law for use in the next national election , due by may 2018 .
the bill now passes to the upper house for further debate .
here are the main points of the bill .
italy gives latin names to its electoral laws .
this new proposal is called the rosatellum , named after ettore rosato , the parliamentary party leader of the ruling democratic party ( pd ) who helped draft the legislation .
the bill envisages that some 36 percent of parliamentarians in both the upper and lower houses will be elected on a first-past-the-post basis , with the rest chosen by pure proportional representation via party lists .
parties can stand alone or as part of broader coalitions .
single parties need to win at least 3 percent of the vote to gain seats , while coalitions need to take 10 percent .
unlike the previous italian electoral law , the rosatellum does not give an automatic majority to any party or group that wins more than 40 percent of the vote .
with opinion polls split three ways between the center-right , the center-left and the maverick 5-star movement , there is unlikely to be a clearcut winner in the next election .
voters get two voting slips one for the senate and one for the lower house .
they can only put one cross on each slip , with that vote counted for both the first-past-the-post and pr segments .
under previous electoral systems , voters were able to split their vote between individual candidates and the parties .
candidates can put their name down for the first-past-the-post ballot in one constituency , and also be on five pr lists in locations of their choosing .
there will be two to four names on each party pr list .
the party leaders will have a major say in whose names go on the lists .
in the lower house , 232 seats will be reserved for first-past-the-post winners , 386 will be reserved for the pr lists , and 12 will be reserved for overseas constituencies .
in the senate , 102 seats will go to first-past-the-post winners , 207 will go to the pr lists , and 6 will be for the overseas vote .
no more than 60 percent of the candidates on any of the lists can be of the same sex .