new york/los angeles ( reuters ) - the first presidential debate between democrat hillary clinton and republican donald trump drew 84 million u.s. television viewers , a record for such an event and numbers rarely seen on tv in the age of digital streaming and social media .
the audience for the monday night face-off beat the 1980 record of 80.6 million set by the jimmy carter-ronald reagan presidential debate , when viewers had far fewer entertainment options .
but it fell short of the 100 million viewers some analysts had predicted .
the estimated ratings figure from nielsen included people who watched the raucous encounter across 13 u.s. cable and broadcast networks and public television station pbs .
the tv figures did not include millions of people who watched the debate online through twitter ( twtr.n ) , facebook ( fb.o ) and other social media , including in large groups in bars and restaurants .
alphabet inc ’ s ( googl.o ) youtube reported nearly 2 million live concurrent streams of the debate on its platform .
the national football league ’ s annual super bowl attracts more than 100 million viewers , making it the biggest u.s. tv event .
monday ’ s debate was the first of three scheduled between clinton and trump before the nov. 8 election .
the other two are set for oct. 9 and 19 .
fox news channel ( foxa.o ) grabbed the biggest cable audience with an average 11.4 million viewers , early nielsen data showed .
nbc cmsca.o , whose “ nightly news ” anchor lester holt moderated the contentious exchanges about race , the economy and national security , was first overall with an estimated audience of 18.2 million .
tv networks had promoted the debates for days beforehand and reported strong demand compared with four years ago for commercial time during pre- and post-debate programming .
ad rates were far higher than for typical news programming .
cnn ( twx.n ) charged more than $ 55,000 for 30-second ad spots as part of packages ranging from $ 800,000 to $ 1 million that included future debates and election night , according to a person with knowledge of the matter .
cbs ( cbs.n ) charged between $ 200,000 to $ 225,000 , according to another source .
both cnn and cbs have limited availability left for the next debate on oct. 9 , the sources said .
“ clearly the debate did really well last night , ” said michael law , managing director of video investments at dentsu aegis network .
law said he did not expect ad rates for the next debate would rise significantly based on monday night ’ s audience .
the oct. 9 face-off airs against an nfl matchup of two popular teams - the green bay packers and new york giants .
“ the nfl will likely do well on that night , but will probably see some fall-off during the 90 minutes of debate , ” law said .