i wish there was some way i could let tide detergent co. know that i don t approve of their association with the radical open borders , no voter id required , social justice extremism group la raza .
oh wait there is thank goodness we too have choices when it comes to laundry detergent , just like tide s choice to align themselves with this leftist anti-american group.detergent company tide is helping to wash away racist labels , and its partner in the project is la raza ( literally the race ) , a notorious racialist activist group that espouses open-borders radicalism.in a new tide ad , a handful of latinos discuss some of the demeaning labels they ve encountered in america .
look , i could tell you a long list of all the things people call us , one man says .
gardener , being naco , ' says another .
i think it s beaners , frijoleros , ' adds a woman .
drug dealer , says another young man .
usually people call us mojados , ' says the first interviewee .
i don t like to hear when people refer to all cubans as balseros , ' says a man with a salt-and-pepper goatee .
hispanics are labeled all the time , the screen reads.https : //youtu.be/j_xmalvsutkthe video then explains that using ketchup instead of ink , tide printed t-shirts with the racial smears .
the participants are then asked to walk around the room with the shirts and respond to the hateful labels they gave tide to print .
the first thing that came to my mind is that this is an insult to all cubans , said the man with the goatee in response to the shirt that contained the demeaning name he had mentioned.holding the beaners shirt , the woman says , in a way this is how a lot of people think to be labeling people it s really a low thing to do , says another participant.the ad then shifts to a montage of washing the shirts , revealing , surprise ! , tide has successfully washed the hurtful names away .
the next montage features the interviewees writing in their own positive labels , like decentes ( decent , honest ) , trabajadores ( workers ) , valientes , ( brave , courageous ) and luchadores ( fighters ) .the sponsors of the ad are tide and la raza , an activist group notorious for its race-baiting and overtly racist positions .
if its name isn t a clear enough declaration of its racially motivated intentions , the race s political positions have made clear that its goal is the promotion of the hispanic race through open-borders radicalism and social justice activism .
a few of the group s positions : it opposes voter id laws , building a wall on the souther border and cooperation between local officials , and federal immigration officials ( in other words , sanctuary cities ) .
it supports drivers licenses and in-state tuition for illegals , and voter id .
via : daily wire