washington ( reuters ) - supreme court nominee merrick garland has been sympathetic to government regulators in his almost two decades as an appeals court judge , frequently rejecting business-led challenges to federal action .
his overall record , however , suggests he is a moderate who follows supreme court precedent and is not eager to spearhead efforts to adopt novel legal theories .
garland sits on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit , which hears a large proportion of the legal challenges to major federal regulations in areas such as environment and labor .
they are often brought by business groups like the u.s. chamber of commerce .
cases are assigned randomly to three-judge panels .
garland has avoided some of the most contentious cases of recent years , including challenges to government efforts under president barack obama to curb carbon emissions and ensure equal access to internet data via its so called “ net neutrality ” rule .
of the cases in which he has participated , some of his opinions and votes in his 19 years on the bench have already attracted criticism from conservative and pro-business groups following his nomination to the high court by obama on wednesday .
they say he too easily defers to government action .
“ we have great concerns about this nominee ’ s record , ” said juanita duggan , president of the national federation of independent business , which represents small business owners .
the group cites several cases , including one from 2003 in which the appeals court ruled against a developer challenging a finding the federal government had authority to force it to take measures to protect an endangered toad on the property under the federal endangered species act .
the ruling , written by garland , was a win for the administration of republican president george w. bush , which was defending the actions of the u.s .
fish and wildlife service .
garland wrote a narrow decision , saying he was merely staying in line with court precedent .
one of the judges on the appeals court who disagreed with the outcome was john roberts , who bush appointed as chief justice of the supreme court in 2005 .
roberts questioned whether the federal government had the authority to issue regulations protecting what he described as “ a hapless toad. ” roberts ’ opinion was questioned by liberals when he was nominated to the high court as a sign that he would limit federal power to issue broad nationwide regulations .
in another case mentioned by the business group , garland was part of a three-judge panel that in 1998 upheld environmental protection agency emissions limits for nitrogen oxides from electric utility boilers .
more recently , he was on a panel in 2014 that upheld an obama administration air pollution rule that limits emissions of mercury and other toxic pollutants .
the court held that the government was not required to consider the cost of compliance before issuing the regulation .
the supreme court in june 2015 threw out that decision , although the regulation remains in place .
in another 2014 case , he was part of a panel of 11 judges that ruled 8-3 to reject a food industry challenge to a federal rule concerning labeling requirements for meat .
despite those votes in favor of the government and against business interests , garland is seen by legal experts as a moderate on the appeals court .
“ he ’ s a modest judge in that he really does try to stick to supreme court precedent , ” said jonathan adler , a professor at case western reserve university school of law .
adler said garland was somewhere in the middle of the 17-judge court when it comes to deference to agency action .
appeals court judges ’ hands are somewhat tied on regulatory cases because they are bound by supreme court precedent that favors deference to government agencies .
in 1984 , the high court ruled that judges should not second-guess agencies if the law is ambiguous .
neal katyal , a former obama administration lawyer now in private practice with the hogan lovells law firm , said it is a “ really tough argument ” to suggest garland ’ s rulings on regulations show an ideological leaning .
he described garland ’ s record on such cases as “ very , very centrist. ” the chamber of commerce and the national association of manufacturers , another industry group that regularly fights government regulations , said they would not comment on the merits of garland ’ s nomination .
( this version of the story corrects the day of nomination announcement to wednesday in paragraph five . )