washington ( reuters ) - u.s. republicans have only themselves to blame for donald trump , a “ monster ” spawned by their constant partisan opposition to all major obama administration initiatives , senate democratic leader harry reid said on wednesday .
“ republicans created him ( trump ) by spending seven years appealing to some of the darkest forces in america , ” said reid .
he spoke on the floor of the u.s. senate a day after presidential candidate trump won a string of primary contests and consolidated his status as front-runner to be the republican nominee in the november election .
trump ’ s rise has alarmed many establishment republicans , who are both critical of his positions and skeptical he can win the white house .
reid , known for occasionally delivering controversial statements on the senate floor , said trump was now the republican standard-bearer , but he could destroy the party .
“ the reality is that republican leaders are reaping what they ’ ve sown , ” reid said , recounting seven years ’ worth of staunch republican opposition to obama ’ s initiatives .
republicans had decided from the start of obama ’ s presidency in 2009 that he was an “ illegitimate ” president , said reid , who is retiring at the end of this year .
democrat obama , the first african-american president , is in the final year of his second four-year term .
his presidency has been marked by bitter battles with republicans over fiscal affairs , a landmark law to expand healthcare coverage for the uninsured , immigration , banking reform and policies to tackle climate change .
republicans have controlled the house of representatives since 2011 .
and while they took control of the senate in 2015 , they previously used their minority status deftly to challenge obama .
some republicans , such as senator lindsey graham , have been outspoken in their opposition to trump as the prospective party nominee , saying the new york billionaire ’ s inflammatory rhetoric will lead to defeat in the general election .
nonetheless , trump , 69 , now looks near unstoppable to be the republican running against the eventual democratic presidential candidate - most likely hillary clinton .
among trump ’ s more controversial proposals have been his call for a wall along the entire southwestern u.s. border to keep out mexican immigrants .
when congress was attempting to pass a comprehensive immigration bill in 2013 and 2014 , many republican lawmakers put the brakes on the measure , instead calling for tough border enforcement only .
“ now it ’ s time for republicans to undo what they ’ ve done by denouncing donald trump , ” reid said .
“ trump is the gop ’ s frankenstein monster .
if the republicans fail to stop donald trump , he ’ ll tear the party apart even more than it is now. ” ( reporting by richard cowan ; editing by eric beech and frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .