seoul ( reuters ) - north korea has ratcheted up international tension and fear with its sixth and largest nuclear test on sunday , but south koreans feel increasingly doubtful it would start a war , a poll showed on friday .
a gallup korea survey found that 58 percent of south koreans felt there was no possibility north korea will cause a war , while 37 percent said they thought it would .
gallup korea began asking south koreans the question in 1992 , and the percentage of respondents this time who thought the north would not start a war was the second highest since then .
in the first poll in 1992 , 69 percent of those questioned thought the north would start a war while only 24 percent thought it would not .
the survey released on friday showed south koreans were considerably less concerned about war compared with june 2007 , nine months after north korea conducted its first nuclear test , in september 2006 .
in 2007 , 51 percent of respondents said they expected a war , while 45 percent did not .
north korea says it needs to develop weapons to protect itself against u.s. aggression .
it has been steadily pursuing its nuclear and missile programs in defiance of international condemnation and has threatened more action in response to any new u.n. sanctions and u.s. pressure .
despite the north s fiery rhetoric , south koreans are generally calm , going about their lives with no sign of panic .
the survey results show south koreans have likely grown accustomed to its repeated threats of provocation after over 60 years in a ceasefire state , gallup korea said in a statement .
south korea and the united states are technically still at war with north korea after the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce , not a peace treaty .
the poll also found that 60 percent of those surveyed believed south korea should arm itself with nuclear weapons while 35 percent disagreed .
those in their twenties were most opposed to the idea of acquiring nuclear weapons , while respondents 50 and above said the south should have them .
gallup also said 59 percent of respondents were against the idea of the united states attacking north korea first should north korean provocations continue , while 33 percent said it should .
gallup korea said the poll was carried out from sept. 5 to 7 .
a total of 1,004 south koreans over the age of 19 were polled by telephone , it said .
the survey has a margin of error of plus or minus 3.1 percent .