berlin ( reuters ) - nihan sen s grandmother came to germany in the 1960s but still speaks no german .
by contrast , nihan herself is a star of german youth culture , with 783,000 followers for her youtube channel .
yet she acknowledges : i really do like a bit of turkish television .
she is not alone .
turkish broadcasters have an 84 percent market share among germany s three million people of turkish background , and 40 percent of them watch no german television at all , according to market researcher data4u .
as a captive audience of television broadcast from ankara , germany s turkish citizens are caught in a tug-of-war for their loyalty ahead of a german national election on sept. 24 .
turkey s president , tayyip erdogan , has called on german voters of turkish background to reject germany s mainstream political parties , saying they are unfriendly to turkey .
the parties worry that erdogan has more access to turkish-speaking german voters than they do .
green party co-leader cem ozdemir , the most prominent german politician of turkish descent , has called for germany s public media to start broadcasting a turkish channel for the benefit of turks , both in germany and in turkey .
we need a german-turkish broadcaster , he told the rheinische post newspaper in march .
for years we ve neglected to help people from turkey find a new political homeland , also politically , and now we re seeing the fruits of that .
traditionally , turks in germany have voted mainly for the social democrats or the greens , the main center-left parties , which are known for being friendly to immigrants .
but erdogan has repeatedly urged them instead to reject both those parties , as well as merkel s ruling conservatives .
`` the majority , because they only watch turkish tv , are informed very one-sidedly , '' said joachim schulte , head of data 4u , which specializes in polling germany 's turks .
schulte believes erdogan 's call could sway 300,000 votes -- a quarter of the germans of turkish descent who are eligible to vote .
for now , voters of turkish descent who turn away from the social democrats and greens have few other choices .
schulte said those who become disaffected are more likely to stay home than back rival parties .
but that could still affect the outcome in an election that is likely to be hard fought for every vote .
a change in germany s citizenship law in 2000 means the number of ethnic turks with the right to vote has nearly doubled over the past decade , increasing their importance as a bloc .
polls show most turks in germany backed erdogan when voting as expatriates in turkish elections .
for erdogan , having influence over voters in germany provides a chance to settle scores with german politicians he sees as enemies , while burnishing his credentials at home as a defender of turks everywhere .
germany s mainstream parties have been outspoken critics of turkey s crackdown since a failed coup last year , in which thousands of turks have been jailed , including around a dozen who hold german citizenship .
turkey also demands that germany hand over asylum seekers it accuses of involvement in the coup .
for the social democrats and greens , losing the turkish vote poses a real risk : even a small swing could weaken them in potential talks with the conservatives about setting up a government after the vote .
in recent weeks , a new party , the alliance of german democrats , led by ethnic turks , has campaigned with a poster of erdogan .
friends of turkey , it reads .
stand with them !
so far the new party is polling below one percent nationally and fielding candidates only in north rhine-westphalia , the big western state home to more than a fifth of germany s population .
the national prospects for a minority ethnic party may be limited in a country with a 5 percent threshold to win seats , but a party appealing directly to turks could undermine the bigger parties .
our poster was a quote from erdogan : he was criticizing german politics and saying we should vote for parties that are our friends , said party spokesman ertan toker .
unlike the other german parties that are always negative about erdogan , we are not .
we saw this as him encouraging us to vote .
among the causes the new party has taken up : making it easier for ethnic turks in germany , most of whom still don t have the right to vote , to gain it .
that struck a chord for rascha , a 17-year-old turkish girl in duisburg , north rhine-westphalia .
i was born here and i still don t have a german passport , she said .
the process for getting one is long and bureaucratic .
there s a new party that wants to give all permanent residents voting rights .
turkish community leaders from the big political parties say erdogan s interventions into german politics are undoing decades of work on promoting integration .
the political climate is poisoned by this , said cansel kiziltepe , social democrat parliamentary candidate in berlin s multi-ethnic kreuzberg district , where the social democrats , greens and conservatives are all fielding candidates with turkish roots .
president erdogan has torn down what we have built up over decades .
we get threats , e-mails as ethnic turkish lawmakers saying we aren t sufficiently loyal as turks , kiziltepe said .
but i am a german politician and i do politics for germany and for all people who live here .
timur husein of merkel s christian democratic union was categorical about his loyalties : i am german , only german , said the son of a turkish father and a croatian mother .
for youtube personality nihan , who confessed her passion for turkish tv during an interview with social democrat leader martin schulz , the worry was that some turks would end up alienated from wider german society .
what can we do to stop parallel societies from emerging ?
she asked schulz .
schulz was reassuring .
`` it 's not bad , or even hard , to have two identities .
why should you deny your roots ? ''