how should the gay community feel about the trump-hating actor , and bill clinton pal , kevin spacey , coming out as a gay man , as an excuse or distraction for attempting to molest a 14-year-old boy when he was 26-years -old ?
star trek : discovery actor anthony rapp claims kevin spacey got sexually aggressive toward him when he was only 14 years old , and spacey has responded by apologizing and coming out as gay.rapp told buzzfeed news the incident occurred in 1986 the 2 were both on broadway at the time .
rapp says spacey told him he was having a party and invited him.rapp says he got bored and retreated to the bedroom to watch tv .
he said spacey came in the room and appeared drunk , then picked me up like a groom picks up the bride over the threshold .
but i don t , like , squirm away initially , because i m like , what s going on ?
and then he lays down on top of me .
rapp says spacey was holding him down as he struggled to get away , adding , he was trying to seduce me .
he eventually got away and left.spacey , now 58 , responded on social media , saying , i have a lot of respect and admiration for anthony rapp as an actor .
i am beyond horrified to hear his story .
i honestly do not remember the encounter , it would have been over 30 years ago .
but if i did behave as he describes , i owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior in response to the allegations , spacey tweeted that he was beyond horrified to hear [ rapp s ] story .
tmz i honestly do not remember the encounter , it would have been over 30 years ago .
but if i did behave then as he describes , i owe him the sincerest apology for what would have been deeply inappropriate drunken behavior , and i am sorry for the feelings he describes having carried with him all these years .
here is kevin spacey s sorry , but i was drunk and i don t remember , but am truly sorry if i acted as a child predator and oh , by the way , i m gay , so can we just make that the news story ?
[ our summary of the tweet ] : pic.twitter.com/x6ybi5atr5 kevin spacey ( @ kevinspacey ) october 30 , 2017here are some of the reactions to spacey s apology/coming out tweet : you do n't remember the incident but remember being drunk ?
elizaeverafter ( @ elizaeverafter ) october 30 , 2017dude , you did this to a kid .
screw you .
the columbia bugle ( @ columbiabugle ) october 30 , 2017these comments praising kevin spacey are just disgusting .
what is wrong with you people excusing this behavior .
wtf katica ( @ goppollanalyst ) october 30 , 2017is everyone on this thread making note of who this person is ?
ceo of allied artists excusing sexual assault of a minor lydia snider ( @ lydiasnider ) october 30 , 2017 in 2008 , financier jeffrey epstein , whose friends included some of the most powerful people on the planet , was convicted of soliciting an under-age girl for prostitution.spacey was on board epstein s private jet with bill clinton when it flew from jfk airport into the azores before the former president and the actor enjoyed a tour of africa.according to fox news , epstein , allegedly had a team of traffickers who procured girls as young as 12 to service his friends on orgy island , an estate on epstein s 72-acre island , called little st. james , in the u.s. virgin islands .
bill clinton took at least 26 trips on the lolita express , a luxury jet fitted out with beds where prominent elitists allegedly had sex with young girls , ditching his secret service detail for 5 of those trips.clinton chose to continue his association with epstein even after , according to the alliance to rescue victims of trafficking , everyone within his inner circles knew was a pedophile .
epstein also reportedly had 21 different phone numbers for bill clinton.while there is no evidence to suggest spacey engaged in criminal activity while on board epstein s jet , his admission that he sexually assaulted a 14-year-old boy is sure to provoke further questions.abc action news spacey , who has been famously private about his personal life , said that he now lives as a gay man which marked the first time the actor has made a public statement about his sexual orientation .
this story has encouraged me to address other things about my life , spacey said in his tweet .
he continued that he has had relationships with both men and women , and added , i have loved and had romantic encounters with men throughout my life , and i choose now to live as a gay man .
is spacey suggesting that s it s normal behavior for all gay men to molest young boys ?
or is the trump-hating actor attempting to convince people that it s okay for a 26-year-old man to molest a 14-year-old boy if he was drunk , or that if he already forgotten about it , we should too ? so many questions remain , like for instance , will prince charles un-knight the alleged pedophile actor ? https : //twitter.com/kevinspacey/status/743590498456088576spacey took the opportunity to bash trump while in france at an awards ceremony : watch spacey and unhinged late show s stephen colbert , who been allowing donald trump to live rent-free in his head for well over a year , bash donald trump :