ettadamen , ( tunisia ) ( reuters ) - a suspected islamist militant wounded two policemen with a knife near the parliament in tunis on wednesday and was later arrested , tunisia s interior ministry said .
it was a rare incident in a country that has improved security since deadly attacks in 2015 .
the assailant was known to authorities and said after the attack that he considered the police to be tyrants , the statement said .
one of the policemen was taken to hospital for treatment after being wounded in the neck , while the other was only lightly wounded , it said .
i saw a young man with a thick beard trying to kill a policeman .
he put the knife in his neck before he was pursued by a second policeman , a witness told reuters .
he shouted allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) as he attacked the policemen .
the interior ministry said wednesday s suspect had confessed that he had adopted takfiri thought three years ago and believes that killing security forces is a form of jihad .
takfiri thought refers to a view that muslims should proclaim other muslims to be infidels and justify attacks against them .
large numbers of police were deployed to the bardo square in the aftermath of the attack , a witness said .
blood could be seen on the ground in the square .
the square is opposite the parliament building and close to the bardo museum , where 21 people , mostly european tourists , were killed in an attack by three gunmen in march 2015 .
a security source told reuters the attacker was 25 and from ettadamen - one of the largest , poorest suburbs of tunis .
i know him well , he is the youngest in a family of six brothers including a sister who works in the parliament s administration , hamid one of the attacker s neighbors told reuters .
colonel major khelifa chibani of tunisia s national guard named the attacker as zied gharbi .
security forces raided his house and confiscated his personal computer and other items , he said .
sofian sliti , a spokesman for judicial counter-terrorism investigations said that the attacker planned to join terrorist groups in libya .
as well as the bardo killings , tunisia suffered two other major attacks in 2015 , one against tourists at the beach resort of sousse and the other against presidential guards in the capital .
the 2015 attacks severely damaged the economy , which has a large tourism sector at its mediterranean beaches .
since then , security has been boosted at strategic sites while authorities have cracked down on militants , dismantling dozens of cells .
tunisia was the only arab country where a long-serving leader was toppled in the region s 2011 uprisings without triggering civil war or large-scale violence .
tunisian democracy activists who kept dialogue open between islamists and secularists were awarded the nobel peace prize in 2015 .