wachakal , nigeria ( reuters ) - when millions of people in northeast nigeria faced hunger and attacks by islamist militant group boko haram in march 2016 , the government acted : it decided to spend $ 1.4 million cutting down weeds around the village of wachakal in order to stop flooding .
six months later , many of the weeds had grown back and 317 million naira ( at the time $ 1.04 million ) had been transferred from the company hired to destroy them to a firm founded by the government official in charge of dispensing aid , according to a nigerian senate report .
the report , written by a committee of lawmakers from nigeria s upper chamber of parliament , concluded that companies that received contracts for projects including the weeding from a government body overseen by the official , babachir lawal , transferred a total of 500 million naira ( worth around $ 2.2 million ) to the firm he set up .
the report publicly called for a criminal investigation into the payments .
central to the probe was whether lawal was involved in a suspected kickback scheme to divert aid money intended for the volatile northeast .
the committee said the scheme involved inflating the value of contracts to enrich lawal and his associates .
the report did not provide evidence to show why it believed costs had been enlarged .
lawal , 62 , is an ally of president muhammadu buhari and one of his first appointments .
in a written statement responding to reuters questions , lawal denied wrongdoing and said he had been the victim of a senate witch-hunt .
the united nations has warned that northeast nigeria is gripped by one of the world s worst humanitarian crises .
boko haram has burned down homes , destroyed livelihoods and killed thousands of people .
refugees living in camps complain of starvation and disease , while soldiers and police have been accused of rape .
a reuters review of the senate report s findings shows how two pillars of buhari s presidency - restoring stability in the northeast and fighting corruption - may have been undermined by the alleged misappropriation of aid money and food .
the review draws upon documents detailing bank transfers and corporate records , visits to aid projects and interviews with senior politicians , diplomats and humanitarian workers .
the final senate report , published in may , recommended that lawal be prosecuted for allegedly flouting procurement rules and breaking his oaths of office .
he was suspended in april pending a presidential investigation launched after the senate s findings first surfaced in an earlier draft of the report .
the investigation into lawal , ordered by buhari , was headed by vice president yemi osinbajo , who delivered his findings to the president on aug. 22 .
the president has to look at the report , study it and then make his own decisions , osinbajo said , without saying what was in the presidential investigation report .
buhari s office referred reuters to the vice president s comments .
despite buhari s vows to fight corruption , no major figures have been convicted so far .
boko haram , who have killed around 20,000 people since 2009 , have been pushed back in some areas yet continue to launch attacks , while millions of people in the northeast rely on some form of aid .
shehu sani , who chaired the senate committee that produced the report , said overall losses to suspected corruption in various forms in the northeastern humanitarian crisis in recent years had not been determined due to the probe s specific remit and factors that restricted its scope .
he said the senate investigation was limited by the timeframe examined , as it focused on government aid spending since the current administration took office in may , 2015 .
sani also said some government agencies had refused to cooperate , access to bank account details was limited and the use of international donor funds was not investigated .
we can say , conservatively , that over 10 billion naira ( $ 33 million ) of monies that were supposed to go to the idps ( internally displaced persons ) were misappropriated or unaccounted for , or misused from different segments of the nigerian government , sani told reuters .
he said he was referring to all forms of corruption related to funds involving nigerian humanitarian aid dating back around three years , and not just allegations involving lawal .
he declined to elaborate further .
the humanitarian crisis began in 2014 .
nigeria s then-president , goodluck jonathan , set up the presidential initiative on the northeast ( pine ) to provide emergency assistance to communities and foster economic growth in the region .
pine had problems from the outset .
according to a 2014 internal pine presentation prepared by the then-chairman for the group s committee , a pilot scheme sent 51 food trucks to borno state and 10 to gombe state ; none arrived .
after he became president in 2015 , buhari made lawal secretary to the government of the federation ( sgf ) - nigeria s top civil servant .
through pine , lawal oversaw millions of dollars of aid .
the senate report alleges that most aid contracts in 2016 did not help the needy .
instead , inflated contracts were awarded to companies belonging to top government officials cronies and close associates .
it said a company called rholavision engineering limited , which describes itself as information and communication technology engineers & consultants and was founded by lawal in 1990 , was where money for companies that were awarded contracts by pine came to first .
in his statement , lawal said he relinquished ties with rholavision on aug. 27 , 2015 , four days before being sworn in as sgf .
but company registry records show he did not resign as a director until sept. 8 , 2016 .
in addition , a signed letter from lawal to the corporate affairs commission ( cac ) dated sept. 16 , 2016 - contained in the appendices of the senate report - said he wished to relinquish his shares in rholavision .
that can t be true , said lawal in a text message when asked about the apparent discrepancy .
this is forged , he said , when sent a picture of the letter to cac .
he declined to elaborate .
rholavision declined to comment .
in march and august 2016 , pine awarded two contracts to cut weeds and improve irrigation in riverside communities in the northeastern state of yobe .
for some 30 years , the weeds had caused farmland to flood and prevented people from fishing .
the contracts , worth a combined total of 531 million naira , were granted to josmon technologies ltd .
the first contract , awarded in march 2016 , was for 273 million naira - at the time worth $ 1.4 million .
the second contract was awarded to josmon in august 2016 .
nigeria s naira currency lost around a third of its value two months earlier , so the 258 million naira contract was then worth some $ 845,000 .
rholavision , the company founded by lawal , received a contract for a consultancy role in the weed-cutting project .
the 7.1 million naira contract was awarded in march 2016 when that sum was equivalent to $ 36,040 .
some work was done .
ali dodo , a farmer in wachakal , told reuters that he and others cut weeds around the komadugu-yobe river over a month-long period from august 2016 .
he said contractors paid them 2,500 naira a day .
reuters was unable to determine how much was spent on the work in total .
bank records , however , show that josmon technologies paid 317 million naira to rholavision between march and september 2016 .
monday john apeh , a josmon director , told reuters that josmon has no relationship with mr babachir lawal .
in a text message , he said josmon struggled to finance the pine contract because the company had been experiencing financial difficulties and would only be paid when the work was complete .
that led us to borrow money from rholavision s md , he said .
josmon said 195 million naira ( $ 637,359 ) of the 317 million naira it sent to rholavision was to repay that loan .
apeh declined to comment on what happened to the remaining 122 million naira .
lawal said in his statement : these purely business transactions between the companies can not be classified as bribes .
dodo , the local farmer , said weeds started growing back within six months .
despite numerous setbacks , nigeria s government is trying to reboot aid efforts .
buhari replaced pine with the presidential committee on the northeast initiative last october .
in june , the government promised to distribute 30,000 tonnes of grain to people displaced by boko haram , after saying more than half of food aid previously dispatched had gone missing .
zainab ahmed , who heads nigeria s inter-ministerial task force on the humanitarian response in the northeast , told reuters the deliveries would now be guarded by soldiers .
coordination between agencies is not perfect but it has improved a great deal and is getting better , she said .