aden ( reuters ) - former yemeni president ali abdullah saleh said on saturday he was ready for a new page in relations with the saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen if it stopped attacks on his country .
the call came as his supporters battled houthi fighters for a fourth day in the capital sanaa while both sides traded blame for a widening rift between allies that could affect the course of the civil war .
together they have fought the saudi-led coalition which intervened in yemen in 2015 aiming to restore the internationally recognized government of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi after the houthis forced him into exile .
the clashes between saleh s supporters and the houthis underscore the complex situation in yemen , one of the poorest countries in the middle east , where a proxy war between the iran-aligned houthis and the saudi-backed hadi has caused one of the worst humanitarian catastrophes in recent times .
i call upon the brothers in neighboring states and the alliance to stop their aggression , lift the siege , open the airports and allow food aid and the saving of the wounded and we will turn a new page by virtue of our neighborliness , saleh said in a televised speech .
we will deal with them in a positive way and what happened to yemen is enough , he added .
saleh , who was forced to step down by a 2011 mass uprising against his 33 years in office , said yemen s parliament , which is dominated by his gpc party , was the only legitimate power in the country and was ready for talks with the coalition .
the saudi-led coalition welcomed saleh s change of stance .
in a statement carried by the saudi-owned al-hadath channel , the coalition said it was confident of the will of the leaders and sons of saleh s general people s congress ( gpc ) party to return to arab fold .
the coalition accuses non-arab iran of trying to expand its influence into arab countries , including yemen , which shares a long border with saudi arabia , by aligning themselves with the houthis and saleh .
the houthis accused saleh of betrayal , and vowed to keep up the fight against the saudi-led coalition .
it is not strange or surprising that saleh turns back on a partnership he never believed in , the group s political bureau said in a statement .
the priority has been and still is to confront the forces of aggression .
residents of sanaa described heavy fighting on the streets of hadda , a southern residential district of the yemeni capital where many of saleh s relatives live , early on saturday , with sounds of explosions and gunfire heard while the streets were deserted .
the fighting eased in the afternoon as saleh supporters gained the upper hand , but intermittent gunfire was being heard .
there was no immediate word on casualties .
both sides have reported that at least 16 people were killed in the fighting , which began on wednesday when armed houthi fighters entered the main mosque complex , firing rpgs and grenades .
saleh s gpc party accused the houthis of failing to honor a truce and said in a statement on its website that the houthis bear responsibility for dragging the country into a civil war .
it also called on supporters , including tribal fighters , to defend themselves , their country , their revolution and their republic ...
the gpc appealed to the army and security forces to remain neutral in the conflict .
but the head of the houthis ansarullah group warned that the biggest winner from what he described as saleh s sedition was the saudi-led coalition .
i appeal to the leader saleh to show more wisdom and maturity ... and not to heed incitement calls , abdel-malek al-houthi said in a speech on the group s al-masirah tv , adding that his group was ready to sit down for arbitration and abide by any ruling .
yemen s civil war has killed more than 10,000 people since 2015 , displaced more than two million people , caused a cholera outbreak infecting nearly one million people and put the country on the brink of famine .