dubai/london ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson held almost an hour of talks with iranian president hassan rouhani on sunday after flying to tehran to seek the release of a jailed british-iranian aid worker .
both spoke forthrightly about the obstacles in the relationship and agreed on the need to make progress in all areas , said a spokeswoman for britain s foreign office after johnson concluded what was only the third visit to iran by a british foreign minister in the past 14 years .
the foreign office confirmed johnson had raised consular cases of dual nationals during talks .
these cases include nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe , who britain says was visiting family on holiday in april 2016 when she was jailed by iran for attempting to overthrow the government .
the woman s husband later told sky news that a court appearance scheduled in iran for sunday had been postponed .
i think i am very optimistic today , richard ratcliffe said .
he added that he hoped his wife would be home before christmas but cautioned that there could still be setbacks .
without doubt having the foreign secretary there was a big thing .
without doubt the court case not happening is a big thing .
there may be a number of big things that have to happen before she s home , but ... as i sit here i am a lot more optimistic than i was .
iranian state television had reported that bilateral relations , the nuclear deal and regional developments made up the axis of the talks , between the president and johnson .
two-day visit the case of zaghari-ratcliffe has taken on domestic political importance after johnson said last month that she had been teaching journalists in iran , which her employer denies .
johnson later apologized .
opponents have called for him to resign if his comments lead to her serving longer in prison .
johnson met ali akbar salehi , head of iran s atomic energy organization earlier on sunday and had talks with his iranian counterpart mohammad javad zarif on saturday .
the two-day visit took place against a complex backdrop of historical , regional and bilateral tensions .
it has been a worthwhile visit and we leave with a sense that both sides want to keep up the momentum to resolve the difficult issues in the bilateral relationship and preserve the nuclear deal , the foreign office spokeswoman added .
international sanctions against iran have only recently been lifted as part of the 2015 multilateral nuclear deal to curb tehran s disputed uranium enrichment program .
that deal is under threat after u.s. president donald trump decided to decertify iran s compliance with its terms .
johnson told zarif he believed the deal should be fully implemented .
zaghari-ratcliffe is not the only dual national being held in iran , but has become the most high profile case .
a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , she was sentenced to five years in prison after being convicted by an iranian court of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges .
the thomson reuters foundation is a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters and operates independently of reuters news .
it says zaghari-ratcliffe had been on holiday and had not been teaching journalism in iran .