berlin ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) reached a deal on migrant policy with her conservative bavarian allies on sunday , removing a major obstacle to pursuing talks on a coalition with other parties .
in an apparent concession , merkel agreed to put a number on how many people germany would accept per year on humanitarian grounds , namely a net total of around 200,000 individuals .
the cdu and christian social union ( csu ) reached the migrant deal after about seven hours of talks and later adjourned their meeting .
it was unclear whether they had agreed on other issues , such as europe and pensions .
further details will be made available at a news conference on monday .
merkel won a fourth term as chancellor in a sept. 24 election but was weakened by heavy losses to the far right .
she wants to build a coalition between her conservative bloc and two other parties , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and the greens , which are far apart on issues from tax and energy to europe .
first , however , she must get her own house in order and overcome some major differences between her cdu and the csu , its sister party in bavaria , a state that accounts for 15 percent of germany s population .
the two parties have formed a parliamentary bloc together for decades , but have diverged over migrant policy since merkel left the border open to a huge wave of migrants in 2015 , most of whom entered the country through bavaria .
the csu has demanded a cap on refugees , but merkel has resisted that , arguing it would breach germany s constitution , which guarantees the right of asylum to anyone facing political persecution .
under the face-saving compromise brokered on sunday , germany would accept a net of about 200,000 people a year on humanitarian grounds , including families of refugees already in germany .
authorities will not turn people away at the border , however , and the parties avoided using the term upper limit that merkel has consistently rejected .
we want to achieve a total number of people taken in for humanitarian reasons ( refugees and asylum seekers , those entitled to subsidiary protection , family members , relocation and resettlement minus deportations and voluntary departures of future refugees ) that does not exceed 200,000 people a year , states the agreement .
the leaders also agreed they wanted to set up centers where asylum seekers would stay until decisions on their applications were made .
rejected asylum seekers would be returned to their home countries .
they also agreed to declare morocco , algeria and tunisia as countries of safe origin , meaning germany can return rejected asylum seekers there more easily .
it is a good day for the conservatives and a good day for germany , csu general secretary andreas scheuer said after the talks .
setting a number is a climbdown for merkel and may not be acceptable to the greens .
this is an agreement between the cdu and csu and far from the result of exploratory talks for a coalition with the fdp and greens , said greens co-leader simone peter .
the target looks achievable , however , given that the number of people arriving in germany fell to about 280,000 last year from 890,000 in 2015 .
a further drop is expected this year .
in addition , the two parties agreed to push for an immigration law that would give priority to migrants with skills to plug gaps in the labor market .
there is broad support for that from the fdp and greens .
fearing heavy losses to the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) in a state election next year , the csu has dug in its heels on the issue of a cap to the number of migrants .
the stakes are high for the csu s combative leader , horst seehofer , who is fighting for his political survival after a poor election performance .
the csu slumped to 6.2 percent , measured nationally , from 7.4 percent in 2013 .
once the cdu and csu have agreed on all their policies , they can start exploratory talks with the fdp and greens .
it could still take months to get a full coalition deal and investors are concerned about the prospect of a policy standstill in europe s biggest economy .
if no deal is reached , the prospect looms of either a minority government or new elections .