so what s worse , barack obama remaining silent about the slaughter of innocent cops , while meeting behind closed doors in the white house with black lives matter leaders advocating for violence against innocent cops , or president trump making a joke about cops being tougher on criminals who kill innocent people ?
does anyone remember al sharpton leading a hateful chant : what do we want ?
dead cops !
when do we want it ?
now !
in a pro-violence against cops rally in the city of new york ?
does anyone remember then president barack obama denouncing this hateful rhetoric against innocent law enforcement officers ? shortly after these protests , 2 new york city cops were killed in cold blood by a black lives matter supporter .
donald trump , who was not yet a candidate for president , spoke out on the culpability of al sharpton , who is a close friend of former president barack obama for the murders of these innocent cops : president trump didn t make any secret of the fact that he was pro-police while he was running for office .
he also didn t make any secret of the fact that he believed al sharpton was doing what he was doing to racially divide our nation.president trump made a joke while speaking to law enforcement officers that was portrayed in the media as an endorsement of police brutality.meanwhile , the heartbreaking picture of slain indiana cop lt. aaron allen walking his young son to the bus on the day he was murdered by one of the victims in a car crash he was responding to , has appeared on several social media sited .
you will be hard pressed to find it in the media however , because it doesn t fit their liberal , anti-cop narrative.this is a photo of lt. aaron allen walking his son to the bus stop hours before he was killed in the line of duty .
teared up looking at this pic.twitter.com/tjrneatwjj ryan fournier ( @ ryanafournier ) july 29 , 2017daily caller while speaking about violent gang-members in a speech to law enforcement officers that focused on ms-13 , trump said officers shouldn t be too nice when putting violent criminals in the paddy wagon .
he added : like when you guys put somebody in the car and you re protecting their head , you know , the way you put the hand over .
like , don t hit their head and they ve just killed somebody , don t hit their head .
i said , you can take the hand away , ok. trump s comment was clearly a joke and , as liberal website slate pointed out , resembled a famous jerry seinfeld joke on the same topic.liberal journalists said the joke was an open endorsement of police brutality.here s the clip of trump making a joke to the law enforcement officers : president urges officers to commit acts of brutality , officers laugh and cheer wildly .
beginning to think problem is n't a few bad apples .
pic.twitter.com/o1ssgw6lgy matthew gertz ( @ mattgertz ) july 28 , 2017 trump endorses police brutality , blared huffpost s front page , featuring a story titled : donald trump endorses police brutality in speech to cops .
other outlets took a similar tone .
trump promotes police brutality in speech to cops , reported the daily dot .
trump praises police violence to audience of laughing cops , left-wing thinkprogress reported .
trump endorsed police brutality in a speech to law enforcement while officers laughed and cheered , claimed huffington post editor emma gray .
in a country that already has a pretty pervasive problem with police brutality , trump endorses their behavior , wrote huffpo editor phillip lewis .
trump just called for cops to rough up suspects more in front of a crowd of cops , they cheered , claimed daily beast writer colin jones .
president trump is openly and explicitly calling for , to wild applause just moments ago , cops to commit more police brutality , claimed daily beast writer asawin suebsaeng .
this is vile , and shame on every officer who cheered and whooped , said liberal msnbc host chris hayes .
msnbc producer kyle griffin claimed the video showed trump suggesting that it s ok for police to rough up the people that they arrest .
president trump spent his friday afternoon publicly praising police brutality , claimed left-wing news outlet nowthis.conservative commentator ben shapiro was quick to push back against claims that trump was endorsing police brutality .
this is all exaggeration .
is it appropriate for trump to encourage police not to be too nice to suspects ?
not really .
but it s not police brutality to refrain from putting your hand on the head of a suspect to prevent them from bumping it on a car door .
it s police brutality if you slam their head into the car door , shapiro wrote .