berlin ( reuters ) - chancellor angela merkel on friday said germany should react decisively to ankara s detention of two further german citizens , amid growing calls for berlin to issue a formal travel warning for germans heading to turkey .
twelve german citizens are now in turkish detention on political charges , four of them holding dual citizenship .
among these is german-turkish journalist deniz yucel , who will have been in detention 200 days on friday .
under the circumstances , merkel said she did not think it was appropriate to carry out further discussions with ankara about its participation in a european union customs union .
we must react decisively , merkel told a business event in the southern city of nuremberg , noting that germany had already fundamentally revamped its relations with ankara .
given the latest events , perhaps it is necessary to rethink them ever further .
germany was not officially informed of the two new detentions , which took place at antalya airport on thursday , leaving berlin s consulate in the coastal city of izmir to learn of their arrest from non-state sources , foreign ministry spokeswoman maria adebahr told a news conference .
many european citizens have been detained in turkey over the past year , accused of involvement in last year s failed coup against president recep tayyip erdogan , whom many accuse of purging opposition under the cover of a crackdown .
we re trying to establish what they are charged with , said adebahr said .
we must assume that it s a political charge , suspicion of terrorism , as with the others .
diplomats had not been able to contact them , she added , with friday s public holiday celebrating the muslim festival of eid a possible reason for delays in contacting officials .
social democrat martin schulz , merkel s main challenger in sept. 24 elections , and other german politicians urged berlin to issue a formal travel warning for germans heading to turkey .
the government in july urged german citizens to exercise caution if traveling to turkey , but stopped short of issuing a formal travel warning .
juergen hardt , a senior member of merkel s conservatives , told die welt newspaper that a further tightening of the travel guidance should be seriously considered .
cem ozdemir , leader of the greens party , told bild newspaper he could no longer assure anyone they would be safe in turkey .
erdogan is no president , but a hostage-taker , ozdemir told the daily newspaper bild .
no comment was immediately available from the foreign ministry about whether it was considering a travel warning .
about 3 million people with turkish heritage or citizenship live in germany .
such a move could mark a significant setback for turkey , which already saw the number of foreign visitors drop to its lowest level in nine years last year .
bookings from germany accounted for some 10 percent of turkey s tourists this year .