washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama was set on wednesday to make his first visit to a u.s. mosque , a trip the white house said was aimed at countering rhetoric from republicans on the presidential campaign trail exploiting some americans ’ fears about muslims .
in the trip to the islamic society of baltimore , obama wants to highlight the american right to freedom of religion for all , including muslims , white house spokesman josh earnest said .
“ we ’ ve seen an alarming willingness on the part of some republicans to try to marginalise law-abiding , patriotic muslim americans .
and it is offensive , ” earnest told reporters .
republican presidential front-runner donald trump called for a ban on muslims entering the united states after a california couple who killed 14 people last december were described by authorities as radicalised muslims inspired by islamic state militants .
republicans vying to be the party ’ s candidate for the nov. 8 presidential election also argued against obama ’ s plan to accept 10,000 refugees fleeing syria ’ s war , saying it raised national security risks .
republican candidate ben carson has said muslims were unfit for the presidency of the united states .
“ it has been a transparent strategy on the part of republicans to play on people ’ s anxieties , to target religious minorities to advance their political ambition , ” earnest said .
obama has called the comments a betrayal of american values , and said discrimination against muslims “ plays into the hands ” of extremist groups like islamic state .
muslim civil rights leaders have expressed alarm about anti-muslim backlash , pointing to recent incidents where vandals have thrown bacon and even a pig ’ s severed heads at mosques .
obama , who has visited mosques outside the united states on trips abroad , will first meet privately with a small group of muslim community leaders before delivering remarks at the mosque at 12:05 p.m .
et .
he is set to speak to the nation ’ s christian leaders at the annual national prayer breakfast on thursday , and last week warned against the rise of religious intolerance during a ceremony at the israeli embassy .