berlin ( reuters ) - german social democrat ( spd ) leader martin schulz , whose party trails chancellor angela merkel s conservatives by 17 points , said he was going into sunday s television debate convinced he would win this month s elections .
i am not in the least bit nervous , he told bild newspaper in an interview conducted after media reports suggesting his predecessor as leader had given up hope of an spd victory .
a successful duel can create momentum , schulz said in a separate interview with the rnd network of newspapers .
merkel , 63 , has been chancellor since 2005 and is widely seen as europe s most influential politician .
she has weathered storms over mass immigration and financial and political turmoil the european union , while the spd , germany s oldest party , has struggled to promote a strong rival .
merkel told the rheinische post newspaper she expected the debate to spark great public interest .
i ll be happy if as many people as possible take the time to watch , she told the newspaper in an interview to be published saturday .
but she defended her decision to allow only one such two-way debate since voters in germany s parliamentary system pick parties and direct candidates in their districts , rather than voting directly for a chancellor .
schulz s campaign got off to a promising start early this year , with thousands flocking to the party after he was chosen as candidate ; but three crushing defeats at the hands of the conservatives in regional elections , including in its heartland of north rhine-westphalia , knocked him off course .
these were very difficult defeats for the spd ... but nonetheless , 46 percent of voters have yet to make up their minds , a weary-looking schulz , 61 , said in a live online interview with bild .
he said he would turn things around in the first and only televised debate between the pair ahead of the sept. 24 election .
i believe we will certainly still win the election .
the spd , which has stewarded europe s biggest economy as junior partner to merkel s conservatives for the last four years , was on 22 percent in an opinion poll published on friday , while the conservatives were on 39 percent .
almost half the 61.5 million people eligible to vote are expected to tune into the debate , pollster forsa found .
nearly two-thirds of germans expect merkel to win the contest while 17 percent expected schulz to fare better , another poll showed .
it also found that if there were to be a direct vote for chancellor , 49 percent of germans would pick merkel , who is seen as a steady pair of hands at a time of global uncertainty , with donald trump in the white house and britain preparing to leave the european union .
just 26 percent would opt for former european parliament president schulz , whose campaign focusing on social justice has struggled at a time when germans are enjoying rising wages and record employment .
in a bid to appeal to the younger generation , schulz told bild the biggest domestic policy difference between him and merkel was on pensions .
if someone is in his early 40s , he will belong to the generation that pays ever more contributions and at the end will get the lowest pension in history from his pension insurance , he said .