coming to a town near you a sign was hung in a public square in antwerp , belgium threatening mayor bart de wever with death if he did not convert to islam , belgian media reported sunday.the message was written in french , one of the three official languages of belgium , the others being dutch and german.het laatste nieuws reported ( via google translate ) : by n-va chairman bart de wever again death threats walked .
in a letter drafted in french which was hung on the handschoenmarkt , the mayor of antwerp was threatened with execution if he did not convert to islam .
how serious the threat should be taken remains to be seen , said de wever in the news on vtm .
la libre also reported on the threat : des nouvelles menaces de mort ont t prof r es l encontre du pr sident de la n-va bart de wever .
formul es dans une lettre r dig e en fran ais , elles ont t affich es au handschoenmarkt , anvers .
le document menace le bourgmestre d anvers d une ex cution s il ne se convertit pas l islam .
j ai toujours pr dit que nous ne serions pas quitte dans l imm diat de la menace de cet islam extr miste .
cela a t n glig durant des ann es .
cette plaie est pr sent ouverte avec la syrie et beaucoup de pus s en chappera encore avant que nous n en soyons d barrass s a comment dimanche le patron de la n-va sur vtm .
on monday , russian government-owned sputnik news published an english translation of de wever s statement regarding the islamist death threat along with an estimate of the number of belgian muslims who have left to join isis : i always warned that we will not get rid of the threat from islamic extremists in the near future .
this was ignored for years .
this wound became apparent now with [ the current developments in ] syria and will fester for a long time before we will get rid of it , de wever said .
according to september 2014 statistics from belgium s ministry of interior , between 300 and 350 belgians have gone to fight alongside the isil in iraq and syria since 2012 .
via : gateway pundit