despite what many racists say and regardless of the hand-picked statistics of the federal government in an effort to demonize black people , the rate of white-on-white crime in the united states is far higher than that of african-americans victimizing white citizens.in a report published last thursday by the bureau of justice statistics ( bjs ) on race and hispanic origin of victims and offenders 2012-2015 , some staggering figures emerged .
research conducted over a four year period during which u.s. residents experienced 5.8 million violent victimizations each year found that the rate of white-on-white violent crime ( 12.0 per 1,000 ) was almost four times higher than black-on-white violent crime ( 3.1 per 1,000 ) .however , even when the facts are blatantly obvious and staring them right in the face , there is no swaying some republicans who still subscribe to the idea that african-americans are still the largest threat to themselves and others .
case in point : former white house advisor sebastian gorka in this interview last monday : on a sinclair station , gorka refers to `` black african crime on black african crime '' & says black men are killing each other `` by the bushel '' pic.twitter.com/cbtqm39ttd yashar ali ?
( @ yashar ) october 24 , 2017indiana attorney general curtis hill , an african-american himself , shares the same sentiments as gorka .
one of the most dramatically difficult things to fathom in this country is the amount of lives lost black lives lost as a result of black-on-black violence , hill said on saturday .
in the same year that we experienced about 259 police officer shootings of blacks in 2015 , there were 6,000 black lives lost to murders from black people .
however , contrary to what both mr. gorka and mr. hill believe , black men aren t killing each other by the bushel .
in fact , according to the report , black-on-black violence has decreased exponentially in the last two decades , by almost the exact same rate as white-on-white violence .
from 1994 to 2015 , white-on-white violence and black-on-black violence declined at a similar rate .
white-on-white violence declined 79 percent ( from 52.5 to 10.8 victimizations per 1,000 white persons ) .
black-on-black violence declined 78 percent ( from 66.6 to 14.5 victimizations per 1,000 black persons ) .
information on hispanic origin of offenders was not collected prior to 2012 , the report stated.it s time that the u.s. government started to report the facts when it comes to the issue of race , instead of dividing the country.featured image via brian blanco/getty images