doris truong is a reporter for the hard left-leaning washington [ com ] post where they only have the highest regard for journalistic integrity right ?
well maybe not so much.during a break in the confirmation hearings for rex tillerson , trump s choice for secretary of state , a reporter ( who many on twitter are claiming is doris truong , the homepage editor for the washington post ) was caught on camera snapping photos of the notes left on the table where tillerson sat.update : doris truong has published a piece on the washington post where she claims the woman in the video is not her .
from her piece : i work as a homepage editor at the washington post .
because wednesday was my day off , i hadn t been online much .
but before i went to bed , i noticed a message request on facebook .
someone i didn t know asked : any comment on you taking photos of rex tillerson s notes ?
when i checked twitter , i had to scroll for several minutes to figure out what was going on .
it seemed to start with this post : who is this woman and why is she secretly snapping photos of rex tillerson s notes ?
we d love to know who this woman is .
if you have any idea who this woman is , or who the man is that can be seen talking to her in the video , we d love to hear from you .
please send us an email : onehundredpercentfedup @ gmail.comfrom the gateway pundit : the washington post says the reporter is not doris truong , their homepage editor.it is not clear at this point who the reporter was but she was friendly with the men in the video.please email us if you recognize the woman.truong , who is being hammered on twitter over claims that she took pictures of tillerson s notes has not disputed the claims on her twitter account , even though she is getting hammered by twitter users over this video .
we also scanned the washington post s website to see if there was any mention of the video and the potentially false claim that the woman caught on camera does not work for them .
we couldn t find anything on their website about the incident or a story refuting their reporter s involvement.https : //twitter.com/truth_bombers/status/819404616366522368some were saying the woman in the video was actually lisa song , a reporter for inside climate news .
lisa song has flatly denied this allegation on her twitter account ( which is more than truong has done to date ) .hey twitter trolls , not all asians look alike .
i was nowhere near dc yesterday .
was in boston/cambridge , not even covering tillerson .
https : //t.co/ig3lwkreut lisa song ( @ lisalsong ) january 12 , 2017we asked washington post reporter doris truong if she is the woman in the video on twitter : @ doristruong are you the woman in this video snapping photos of tillerson 's notes during confirmation hearings break https : //t.co/cvmrsjo09i 100 % fed up !
( @ 100percfedup ) january 12 , 2017we ll wait for her reply , and hope to have an update soon