kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - a north korean embassy official and a manager of air koryo , the national airline , met suspects wanted for the killing of kim jong nam shortly after the murder , according to video recordings shown at the trial in kuala lumpur on monday .
two women , indonesian siti aisyah and doan thi huong from vietnam , and four men who are still at large , have been charged in the murder of the half-brother of the country s leader , using banned chemical weapon vx at kuala lumpur airport on feb. 13 .
defense lawyers have said siti aisyah and huong were duped into thinking they were playing a prank for a reality tv show .
the four suspects , who were caught on airport camera talking to the women before they attacked kim jong nam , were identified as north koreans for the first time on monday , a month since the trial began .
three of them were seen meeting a north korean embassy official and the air koryo official , both unidentified , at the main airport terminal within an hour of the attack , lead police investigator wan azirul nizam che wan aziz told the court .
north korea has vehemently denied accusations by south korean and u.s. officials that kim jong un s regime was behind the killing .
kim jong nam , who was living in exile in macau , had criticized his family s dynastic rule of north korea and his brother had issued a standing order for his execution , some south korean lawmakers have said .
footage played in the courtroom showed the air koryo official helping the three suspects at an airport check-in counter .
he was later seen arranging a flight ticket for the fourth suspect too , wan azirul said .
wan azirul identified the men as north koreans hong song hac , ri ji hyon , ri jae nam and o jong gil , citing intelligence findings by the special branch of the malaysian police .
wan azirul said he investigated and took statements from both the embassy and the air koryo official .
they explained that the reason they were there was to assist every north korean individual or citizen who boarded a flight to leave the country , he told the court .
the north korean embassy in kuala lumpur did not respond to reuters telephone calls and emails to seek comment .
the sensational murder unraveled once-close ties between malaysia and north korea .
malaysia was forced to return kim jong nam s body and allow the return home of three north korean men wanted for questioning and hiding in the kuala lumpur embassy , in exchange for the release of nine malaysians stuck in pyongyang .
wan azirul said police intelligence also provided information on a fifth suspect identified as ri ji u , who was also suspected to have the real name james , based on images and photographs taken from siti aisyah s phone .
( the story was refiled to remove article an in paragraph one . )