new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton widened her lead over likely republican nominee donald trump to 13 percentage points in a reuters/ipsos opinion poll released on tuesday .
the july 1-5 poll included responses gathered mostly over the holiday weekend , before the federal bureau of investigation recommended on tuesday that no criminal charges be filed against clinton over her use of private email servers and what it called her “ extremely careless ” handling of classified information while she was u.s. secretary of state .
the presumptive democratic nominee led trump , a new york businessman , by 9 percentage points in a previous reuters/ipsos poll that ran from june 27 to july 1 .
tuesday ’ s poll showed that 46 percent of likely voters supported clinton , while 33 percent backed trump .
twenty-two percent said they would not support either candidate for the nov. 8 election .
throughout the campaign , clinton has been dogged by her use of a personal email server during her years as the nation ’ s top diplomat .
over the past several months , she has handed over thousands of pages of emails to investigators and responded to a number of government inquiries .
clinton has repeatedly said she never sent or received classified documents on her private servers , yet the public appears distrustful of her , according to reuters/ipsos polling .
in early may , 63 percent of americans , including 36 percent of democrats , said they did not believe clinton was “ honest and truthful. ” but clinton has led trump most of the year among likely voters .
since mid-may , she has maintained a relatively consistent level of support among likely voters , while trump ’ s popularity has eroded as his campaign wrestled with a variety of issues .
republican leaders distanced themselves from trump after he suggested a federal judge was biased because of his hispanic heritage and after he doubled down on a pledge to block muslims from entering the country .
on tuesday , u.s. house of representatives speaker paul ryan criticized a tweet posted by trump over the weekend that many deemed to be anti-semitic .
trump ’ s level of support among likely voters was about 10 points below what 2012 republican nominee mitt romney received in early july 2012 .
among clinton ’ s supporters , nearly half said they were backing her because “ i don ’ t want donald trump to win. ” a further 39 percent said they “ agree with her positions , ” and about 13 percent said they “ like her personally. ” the online national poll of 1,441 american adults had a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points .