beijing/taipei ( reuters ) - china has the resolve , confidence and ability to thwart any attempt by self-ruled taiwan to declare independence , chinese president xi jinping said on wednesday , prompting taipei to retort that only its people could decide their future .
taiwan is one of china s most important and sensitive issues .
china considers proudly democratic taiwan to be a wayward province and has never renounced the possibility of using force to bring the island under its control .
xi has set great store on trying to resolve differences , holding a landmark meeting with then-president ma ying-jeou in singapore in 2015 .
but relations have nosedived since tsai ing-wen of the pro-independence democratic progressive party won presidential elections last year , with beijing fearing she wants to push for taiwan s formal independence , a red line for china .
we will never allow anyone , any organization , or any political party , at any time or in any form , to separate any part of chinese territory from china , xi told more than 2,000 delegates at the opening of a week-long communist party congress , drawing the longest applause during his 3-1/2 hour speech .
we have the resolve , the confidence and the ability to defeat separatist attempts for taiwan independence in any form , xi told the audience , including some 300 from the people s liberation army .
beijing has suspended a regular dialogue mechanism with taipei established under taiwan s previous , china-friendly government , and there has been a dramatic fall in the number of chinese tourists visiting taiwan under tsai s administration .
tsai says she wants peace with china but will protect taiwan s freedom and democracy in taipei , the cabinet s mainland affairs council said it was absolutely the right of taiwan s 23 million people to decide their future .
the republic of china is a sovereign country , the council said , using taiwan s formal name .
the perpetuation of taiwan s democratic system was a core value of taiwan s , the council said in reaction to xi s speech .
tsai and her government had been restrained and not provocative towards china , but had staunchly defended taiwan s security and dignity .
xi said that china respected taiwan s current social system and way of life .
recognize the historical fact ... that the two sides both belong to one china , and then our two sides can conduct dialogue to address through discussion the concerns of the people of both sides , and no political party or group in taiwan will have any difficulty conducting exchanges with the mainland , he added .