houston ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson received compensation worth $ 27.4 million last year when he was chief executive of exxon mobil corp , the world ’ s largest publicly traded oil producer , regulatory filings showed on thursday .
he and other senior executives got raises even though exxon ’ s net income fell more than 50 percent in 2016 as the company , like many of its peers , tried to cut costs and weather a period of low oil prices .
the value of tillerson ’ s compensation package last year rose about 0.5 percent largely due to a 4 percent boost in his salary to $ 3.2 million and an 8 percent jump in the value of stock awards to $ 19.7 million , an exxon filing with the securities and exchange commission showed .
the value of perquisites tillerson received from exxon last year , including personal security and a life insurance policy , rose 7 percent to $ 575,850 .
tillerson , 65 , was nominated by then president-elect donald trump to be secretary of state in december .
tillerson retired from exxon at the end of the year .
he was confirmed by the u.s. senate in early february .
his current post carries an annual salary of $ 207,800 , according to the federal office of personnel management tables .
as part of an ethics agreement when tillerson assumed his government post , tillerson forfeited unvested exxon stock worth $ 2.8 million and potential for a bonus of $ 3.9 million .
he also waived his right to retiree health benefits .
tillerson ’ s vested exxon stock was put into a trust worth about $ 180 million at the time , the proceeds of which will be paid out over the next decade , much in the same way proceeds are paid out to all exxon retirees .
the trust is prohibited from investing in exxon .
tillerson will not be allowed to work anywhere in the oil and gas industry for the next decade .
if he does , the entire trust ’ s value would be donated to a charity that neither he nor exxon chooses , according to the regulatory filings .
darren woods , exxon ’ s ceo as of january , saw his compensation rise 64 percent last year , when he was exxon ’ s president , to $ 16.8 million .
woods saw his base salary rise 36 percent to $ 1 million and the value of stock and stock option awards , his pension and company perquisites , including the cost of a home security system , rise as well .