lausanne , switzerland ( reuters ) - ai wei-wei denounced china s crackdown on lawyers and free speech on wednesday but saw little hope that the upcoming communist party congress would lead to more freedoms .
the chinese dissident artist spoke while inaugurating an exhibit in the swiss city of lausanne that includes some of his political works symbolizing repression .
they are not accepting what we call common values such as democracy and freedom of speech and the freedom of religious practice and independence of the press or independence of a judicial system or people having the right to vote , ai told a news conference .
china has been booming and become very powerful in the economic sense but at the same time it doesn t trust its own people , he said .
after 60 or 70 years in power , still its own people are not trusted to have a chance to vote .
asked about the five-yearly leadership reshuffle of the ruling communist party set to begin on oct. 18 , ai said : you have a party that functions more like a family .
it doesn t matter how many meetings they have , it s always closed-door .
so there s no trust remaining in society .
human rights watch said on wednesday that china has launched more rigorous investigations into rights lawyers and law firms that take on politically sensitive issues .
ai , who lives in berlin but returns to china regularly , voiced concern about two friends who are human rights lawyers ruthlessly put in jail for five and 10 years , respectively .
so the danger is there but i have no fear for myself because i have been through everything and what i have done is not for myself .
it s for my father s generation and my son s generation , the 60-year-old said .
the exhibit entitled it s always the others , on view at the cantonal fine arts museum in lausanne until jan. 28 , brings together 46 works made in wood , jade , porcelain , bamboo , and silk , along with photographs and videos .
dragon in progress , a 50-metre-long bamboo and silk kite hung from the ceiling , transforms a traditional symbol of chinese imperial power with quotes from imprisoned or exiled activists including nelson mandela , edward snowden and ai .
a marble sculpture , surveillance camera with plinth , depicts a camera set up outside his beijing studio .
i m a free man , that means i can go and come back .
which is fine .
they kept their promise , they didn t touch me .
but of course when a state is not really ruled by law you can see that anything still can happen at any moment because it s unpredictable , you re not protected by law .