beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party broke with recent precedent on wednesday , unveiling a new leadership line-up without a clear successor to president xi jinping , who has become arguably the most powerful chinese leader since mao zedong .
xi led his team in order of rank on to a stage at beijing s great hall of the people , overlooking tiananmen square , culminating a week-long party conclave at which he laid out his vision for an increasingly prosperous china confident of its place on the world stage .
apart from xi , premier li keqiang was the only one to retain his spot amid sweeping changes on the politburo standing committee .
there has been persistent speculation xi could seek to stay on in some capacity beyond the end of his customary second five years in power , which began on wednesday .
all seven standing committee members are men in their 60s and , for the first time , none was born before china s 1949 communist revolution .
the make-up of the committee , which has ultimate control over the world s second-largest economy , appeared to be a compromise to include a blend of xi allies and those considered loyal to party elders , including jiang zemin and hu jintao , former presidents whose networks still wield influence .
cheng li , an expert on chinese politics at the brookings institution , said xi appeared to have traded securing favorable amendments to the constitution in exchange for a compromise on the make-up of the standing committee , a line-up he likened to a team of rivals .
the member considered closest to xi is li zhanshu , who has often accompanied xi on overseas trips in a chief-of-staff-style role as the head the party s general office .
li , who is not related to the premier , was named the third-ranked member , meaning he will most likely assume the role of head of the largely rubber-stamp parliament .
that will not be confirmed until parliament meets in march .
xi had already strengthened his hand considerably ahead of the announcement , with his political theory and belt and road infrastructure-led development strategy put into the party constitution .
he was named the party s core last year .
guangdong party secretary hu chunhua and chongqing party boss chen miner had been previously seen as prominent contenders to succeed xi among the party s so-called sixth generation of leaders but were not included in the standing committee .
instead , both were named to the wider 25-member politburo , a rung below the standing committee .
he s consolidated his power without making unnecessary problems for himself , said david zweig , a professor at hong kong university of science and technology .
the costs of keeping wang qishan or getting chen miner were too high .
he didn t need to do it .
wang , who led xi s sweeping anti-graft campaign and was considered china s second most-powerful politician , is above retirement age ; chen was comparatively junior .
while the standing committee bears the hallmarks of compromise , the new politburo is stacked with more than a dozen xi allies , including chen , beijing party boss cai qi , economic adviser liu he and ding xuexiang , who is expected to become xi s chief of staff as director of the party s general office .
xi has managed to put a lot of his own people there , as much as possible , said bo zhiyue , a new zealand-based expert on chinese politics .
most of xi s close associates are too junior to be put into the politburo standing committee right away .
blanket state media coverage made no mention of factional politics or alliances , while an editorial on the official people s daily s wechat account hailed the new seven-man line-up as a dream team to lead china into its new era .
xi , who has sought to revitalize the communist party s role across chinese society , made no mention of who his successor might be as he introduced his new standing committee at a media event broadcast live around the country .
his remarks were translated consecutively into english .
xi did not take questions , but said the party had weathered trials and tribulations .
we will also work with other nations to build a global community with a shared future , and make new and greater contributions to the noble cause of peace and development for all humanity , he said .
xi and li were first promoted to the standing committee at the 17th party congress in 2007 , in a clear signal that the pair would succeed hu jintao and wen jiabao and occupy the top two offices - which they did five years later .
zhao leji , who headed the party s organisation department , which oversees personnel decisions , replaced wang qishan as chief of the central commission for discipline inspection .