by paul crag robertsa month ago i wrote a column , he who hesitates is lost and russia hesitated .
the consequences of this hesitation are now apparent:1 .
a un report orchestrated by washington has accused syria and russia of war crimes in aleppo .
according to the report , indiscriminate airstrikes across the eastern part of the city by government forces and their allies [ russia ] are responsible for the overwhelming majority of civilian casualties .
these violations constitute war crimes .
and if knowingly committed as part of a widespread or systematic attack directed against civilians , they constitute crimes against humanity .
the un human rights council has now voted to start an independent investigation .
the purpose of the investigation is to indict russia and putin as war criminals and to bring to justice those responsible for the alleged abuses .
moreover , the situation should be urgently referred to the international criminal court .
every party to this conflict must know that they will be held accountable for the international crimes they commit all , without selective protection or discrimination .
keep in mind that washington provides the largest share of the un s budget , and the un will overlook that it was washington that sent isis to aleppo.obviously , neither washington nor the un will be able to drag putin into the international criminal court , but a war criminal charge can serve washington s purpose by stopping putin from traveling abroad and curtailing his diplomatic efforts .
the purpose of this orchestrated exercise is its propaganda value .
among washington s many concerns is that some eastern european countries , alarmed by the conflict that washington is leading them into with russia , will threaten nato with a non-participation statement .
if russia is branded a war criminal , it becomes even more difficult for countries that foolishly and thoughtlessly joined nato to extricate themselves from the consequences.2 .
washington has succeeded in bringing to power in poland the far right-wing law and justice party .
these agents of washington have re-opened the matter of the death of poland s president kaczynski in a plane crash , making wild claims that the crash was a terror attack by russia aimed at depriving poland of its political leadership .
despite massive and convincing evidence to the contrary , the law and justice party s claims will find traction thanks to the scary portrait of russia painted by washington s demonization campaign .
the intended result is to further blacken and isolate russia and its government.3 .
as the anointed spokesperson for the neoconservative warmongers , hillary wants washington to enforce a no-fly zone in syria .
a no-fly zone would require washington to attempt to prevent syrian and russian air strikes against isis positions .
it seems clear enough that syria and russia would not accept any attempt to deny syria the use of the country s own airspace in the conflict against forces sent by washington to overthrow the syrian government , as happened to gaddafi in libya .
unless russia and syria surrender , hillary s no-fly zone would result in military conflict between russia and the us.to advance the no-fly zone proposal , the use of chemical weapons ruse has been resurrected .
fabricated reports are appearing that the syrian air force is guilty of dropping chemical weapons on the syrian population .
on october 22 , the indian express reported that on october 21 the un-led joint investigative mechanism informed the un security council that the chemical attack on qmenas was caused by a syrian arab armed forces helicopter dropping a device from a high altitude which hit the ground and released the toxic substance that affected the population .
the report concluded that three of the chemical attacks investigated were made by syria and one by the islamic state.the fact that the russians resolved the chemical weapons issue in 2014 , a year before the alleged attack on qmenas , by taking possession of the weapons and removing them from syria means that the report has little credibility .
however , at no time during washington s 15-year-old attack on muslim countries have facts played any role , and certainly facts have played no role in washington s demonization of russia.4 .
diana johnstone has concluded that hillary intends regime change for russia and will use the presidency for that purpose.it is impossible to imagine a purpose more reckless and irresponsible .
many members of the russian government have stated that washington s provocation and demonization of russia have brought trust between the nuclear powers close to zero and that russia will never again fight a war on her own territory continue this article at the institute for political economyread more russia news at : 21st century wire russia files