abidjan ( reuters ) - a group of allies of ivory coast s former president laurent gbagbo , including at least one living in exile in neighboring ghana , are behind a wave of attacks on security installations this year , the interior minister said on thursday .
thirty-five people , a number of them soldiers , have been arrested for involvement in the violence , according to a statement released by sidiki diakite following a meeting of the national security council .
francophone west africa s biggest economy has been shaken by army mutinies , violent protests by former rebels and a spate of attacks on prisons and police stations this year .
the attacks have raised fears over its long-term stability , more than six years after a prolonged crisis ended in a civil war that killed more than 3,000 , when gbagbo refused to cede a 2010 election to current president alassane ouattara .
most of the people were already implicated in similar attacks around 2012 to 2014 , diakite said .
arrested and imprisoned , they were freed in the spirit of political dialogue and reconciliation .
previously , much of this year s violence has been blamed on disgruntled former members of the rebel group that helped ouattara dislodge gbagbo , but former fighters loyal to gbagbo have been blamed for attacks in the past , including several that killed 10 soldiers in the commercial capital abidjan in 2012 and other deadly attacks near the liberian border in 2014 .
gbagbo was captured in april 2011 and is on trial at the international criminal court on war crimes charges , but many of his allies have been pardoned .
it is clear that the clemency offered them with a view to peace and reconciliation was not understood by them , and so they continue to pose a threat , the minister said .
ghanaian government officials were not immediately available to comment on the allegations .
ivory coast has accused accra in the past of not doing enough to track down gbagbo supporters .
ouattara has won praise for helping ivory coast recover from a decade of crisis to become africa s fastest growing economy , but thousands of weapons left over from the war are still in circulation and the army is crippled by internal divisions .
if gbagbo s allies are behind recent attacks , ivory coast faces the prospect of instability from both them and the rebels they fought as it approaches what is likely to be a hotly contested election to choose ouattara s successor in 2020 .