jay dyer 21st century wiresuicide squad is who they call to counsel the people leaving this vapid movie .
possibly the worst superhero film yet , it even rivals the likes of spawn , catwoman and ghost rider .
at least there was nic cage , but here , only a confused and garbled cgi wasteland that is as messy as the single mom tats emblazoned every scene .
nothing in this movie makes sense , much less is the plot even coherent , as a selection of the worst of america s convicts are chosen to become task force x , a microchipped hit team to take on the meta-humans ( x-men , yawn ) and the extra-dimensional entities that possess two paper-thin characters.side note the film is adapted from my old essay , united skanks of america.this film is one of the few instances i can think of where the overt propaganda is actually more interesting to spot than the film itself .
will smiff plays a hitman baby-daddy whose only concern is scoring 2 million dollars to buy his daughter s attention .
yes , all those noble baby-daddies are really just striving for ghetto release so they can become responsible parents .
next , a hot chick plays a psychiatrist babe-turned skank who , after falling in love with the joke that is the joker , morphs into the average american skank , graffiti ed to the hilt with thug-style sleaze .
in this sense , harley quinn makes sense as a representation of the mental illness that plagues the young western female , as evidenced in their body-defacing obsessions and self-mutilation.planetary sigils adorn the headdress.as matt forney writes : no girl has ever improved her looks with a gaudy mural injected under her skin or a piece of metal dangling from her nostrils .
there s no man on earth who has ever thought about his girlfriend or wife , man , you know what would make her even sexier ?
a butterfly emblazoned just over her ass .
yet , despite this objective reality , thousands of girls continue to mutilate themselves at an astounding rate , to the point where more girls now have tattoos than men.indeed , nothing captures the full throttle ruination of the western female than this slut character which drives the ridiculous simulacrum of a plot by seeking to be reunited with joker leto .
since grant morrison is an open fan of crowley , chaos magick and summoning entities through sigils , i am curious which god he offended to have the legions of suck demons inspire his advice to leto .
that is the only explanation.the crowleyan elements of this film are really the only noticeable esoteric themes , with the joker now being apparently bi-sexual ( perfect embodiment of the ruined western male ) , and the planetary sigils that adorn cara delevingne s headdress .
from here , you can divine the rip off of a rehash semblance a story a giant garbage vortex has opened up over a city with the intent of destroying humans who no longer worship the entities as gods .
the giant garbage vortex was actually filmed when in reality it opened up over new york the night this film premiered.faith , the hillary-hero .
originally , the skank squad was formed through the machinations of reagan ( presumably based on the latin american death squads ) and now , even obama plays a positive role in the storyline from the comic .
indeed , comic books have long been tools of propaganda , from world war 2 americanism to cold war absurdity , comic books have been a staple in the establishment-promoted anti-establishment toxic culture.the sad fact , as i have been arguing for a long damn time now , is that the increase in corporate government control of entertainment realm only results in the degeneration of artistic creativity .
i can wait for the 5th version of the plot of ghostbusters-avengers-ghostbusters-suicide squad , but can you ?
aside from this , the other amazing , little-known tidbit is that since the market for comics is generally teenagers , the script was written by a teen how else would an ancient goddess lithely intone , you don t have the balls !
? nowadays , comic books are the tip of the queer spear in promoting transgender heroes , fat acceptance heroes that promote hillary , and the absurd reversing of racial and gender roles ( such as thor becoming a woman and iron man a black girl ) .
the cultural degeneration and toxification is a symbiotic relationship as the west devolves at lightning speed into a troglodyte , morlock genetic experiment , the comic book world then comes to reflect that gluttonous , scooter-bedeviled psych ward in its art .
since comic books now drive the film industry s big blockbuster productions , blockbuster films continue to foist the disney-degeneration of social justice warriors rabidly attempting to quell dissent.meanwhile , the self-devouring ouroboros of the left is its own punishment and destruction .
in sum , don t waste your time , as it s all chaos , and no magic .
however , if you liked john leguizamo s farting clown in spawn , you ll probably love the ebonics-speaking crocodile in this garbage.the comedy gold of the farting clown .
read more hollywood news at : 21st century wire hollywood filesto hear jay s full podcasts , see more information and learn how you can become a subscriber to jaysanalysis.jay dyer is the author of the forthcoming title , esoteric hollywood : sex , cults and symbols in film from trine day .
focusing on film , philosophy , geopolitics and all things esoteric , jaysanalysis and his podcast , esoteric hollywood , investigates the deeper meanings between the headlines , exploring the hidden aspects of our sinister synthetic mass media matrix .