washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on sunday dismissed the prospect of talks with north korea as a waste of time a day after his own secretary of state said the united states was maintaining open lines of communication with north korean leader kim jong un .
i told rex tillerson , our wonderful secretary of state , that he is wasting his time trying to negotiate with little rocket man , trump wrote on twitter , using his sarcastic nickname for kim and seeming to contradict the top u.s. diplomat .
trump , who has traded insults and threats with kim in recent weeks amid escalating tensions over pyongyang s nuclear and missile programs , later tweeted that his white house predecessors , bill clinton , george w. bush and barack obama , had all failed on north korea by being nice to rocket man .
so why would it work now ?
he asked .
kim succeeded his father , kim jong il , as north korean leader in 2011 , during obama s administration .
previous presidents negotiated with pyongyang but ultimately failed to prevent it from pressing ahead with its internationally condemned weapons programs .
tillerson disclosed on saturday that the united states was directly communicating with north korea on its nuclear and missile programs but that pyongyang had shown no interest in dialogue .
save your energy rex , we ll do what has to be done !
trump said .
tillerson said during a trip to china that the united states had multiple direct channels of communication with pyongyang , the first such disclosure by the trump administration , and that it was probing north korea to see if it was interested in dialogue .
tillerson expressed hope for reducing tensions with north korea , which is fast advancing toward its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the u.s. mainland .
we are probing , so stay tuned , tillerson told a small group of reporters .
we ask : would you like to talk ?
he said the united states had a couple of , three channels , open to pyongyang .
in beijing on monday , china s foreign ministry said it supported dialogue .
we consistently support the united states and north korea engaging in dialogue and contact to promote mutual understanding and resolve related issues through consultations , it said in an emailed response to a reuters query on tillerson s revelations about contact with north korea .
a senior trump administration official , asked for clarification about trump s sunday morning tweets , played down the significance of the communication channels .
at a time when north korea is continuing its provocations , the president does not think now is the time to negotiate with them , the official said , speaking on condition of anonymity .
to the extent that diplomatic channels exist between washington and pyongyang , they are aimed at securing the return of americans detained by north korea , the official added .
r.c .
hammond , an adviser to tillerson , denied that his boss had been undercut by trump s tweets and rejected any suggestion that the secretary of state should resign .
let s resign the idea of resignation .
the president just made it clear to the kim regime the diplomatic offer on the table is cooling , hammond said on twitter .
he also downplayed any contacts .
channels have been open for months .
they ve been unused and cooling for months , hammond wrote .
state department spokeswoman heather nauert made a similar point on sunday .
diplomatic channels are open for # kimjongun for now .
they won t be open forever , she wrote on twitter .
u.s. representative adam schiff , the top democrat on the house of representatives intelligence committee , wrote on twitter : if tillerson is wasting his time , it s only because his boss fails to understand the catastrophic consequences of war on the korean peninsula .
trump s rhetoric on north korea has run the gamut , from personal attacks on kim to veiled military threats , from a denial of any interest in talks to an insistence that he would prefer a diplomatic solution .
after announcing new u.s. sanctions on north korea last month , he acknowledged diplomacy was still possible , asking : why not ?
.
but he has also frequently declared that he had military options at its disposal , although u.s. officials and outside experts have long said a u.s. strike on north korea would risk massive casualties .