baghdad ( reuters ) - iraq s top shi ite cleric opposes the secession of the kurdistan region in northern iraq , his representative said in a friday sermon on his behalf , in the religious leader s first comments on the kurds decision to back independence in a referendum .
grand ayatollah ali al-sistani , a reclusive octogenarian , is revered by millions of shi ite muslims in iraq and abroad .
sistani believes that any attempt to make secession an accomplished fact will lead to undesired consequences affecting kurdish citizens , his representative ahmed al-safi said in the sermon in the holy shi ite city of kerbala , south of baghdad .
he urged the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) to return to the constitutional path in solving disputes such as self-determination for the kurdish people , safi said .
it is the first direct political sermon by sistani since early 2016 , in a clear sign that he attaches importance to the crisis pitting the krg against baghdad and iraq s neighbors .
sistani stopped making direct political comments in feb. 2016 , in protest at the widespread and deep-rooted corruption within iraqi government institutions .
most iraqi kurds are sunni muslims but kurdish northern iraq is also home to some shi ite turkmens and arabs .
the shi ite-led government in baghdad is set to impose a ban on international flights to and from iraq s kurdistan region from 6 p.m. ( 1500 gmt ) on friday , in retaliation for the vote .
masoud barzani s krg says monday s referendum , which delivered an overwhelming yes for independence , was meant to pave the way for a peaceful secession from iraq , through talks with baghdad and neighboring states turkey and iran .
barzani said last week one reason for holding the referendum was because he feared iraq , split between a shi ite majority and sunni minority , was becoming a sectarian-based theocracy , not a proper democracy as promised after the 2003 u.s.-led invasion that ousted veteran ruler saddam hussein .
the iraqi government has rejected any talks with the krg and demanded that the kurdish leadership cancel the result in order to avoid sanctions , international isolation and possibly a military intervention .