( reuters ) - a reporter for the conservative website breitbart news filed a criminal complaint on friday against republican presidential election front-runner donald trump ’ s campaign manager , saying he grabbed her arm at a rally with such force that he left bruises .
a police report released on friday showed that the reporter , michelle fields , said she was the victim of battery on tuesday night at trump national golf club in jupiter , florida , where trump spoke after that day ’ s contests in the race to nominate the party ’ s candidate for the nov. 8 presidential election .
the accusation prompted a flurry of exchanges between trump ’ s campaign and fields .
the campaign manager , corey lewandowski , and trump have denied the accusation .
lewandowski dismissed fields as an “ attention seeker ” on twitter .
fields published her account at breitbart on thursday of what happened when reporters gathered around trump to ask him additional questions after a press conference .
fields said she asked trump about his views on affirmative action .
“ trump acknowledged the question , but before he could answer i was jolted backwards .
someone had grabbed me tightly by the arm and yanked me down .
i almost fell to the ground , but was able to maintain my balance .
nonetheless , i was shaken , ” fields wrote .
a trump campaign spokeswoman , hope hicks , questioned fields ’ story on friday .
hicks said she had not seen any encounter and said no cameras had captured the incident .
fields , who posted a photo on twitter of bruises on her arm , initially said she did not know who had grabbed her and caused her to stumble .
ben terris , a washington post reporter who witnessed the incident , told her lewandowski had seized her arm .
he wrote his own account for his newspaper .
the political news site politico posted a transcript of an audio recording of the incident , which included an exchange between terris and fields .
“ yeah he just threw you down , ” terris said to fields , who replied , “ i can ’ t believe he just did that .
that was so hard .
was that corey ? ” terris said that it was and later reported that fields was tearful after the incident .
in a statement on friday , breitbart chief executive officer larry solov said trump ’ s suggestion that fields may have invented the episode was contradicted by the evidence .
“ breitbart news stands behind michelle fields , ” he wrote .
hours later , however , the website posted a story disputing terris ’ account .
the story said that footage from the event showed trump flanked by two men : lewandowski and a security official who bore some resemblance to the campaign manager .
“ the person who made contact with fields was likely not trump campaign manager corey lewandowski , ” the report said .
terris stood by his account on friday .
he was quoted in a blog by washington post reporter erik wemple as saying , “ i saw what i saw. ” terris did not immediately respond to an email requesting comment .
fields and solov could not immediately be reached for comment on the complaint to police .
trump ’ s rallies across the united states have been marked by rowdiness and physical contact between protesters and either his supporters or security personnel .
at a rally in virginia on feb. 29 , a time magazine photographer trying to document the exit of dozens of black protesters was grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground by a u.s. secret service agent .
white house spokesman josh earnest also weighed in on the fields incident on friday , telling reporters : “ there is no excuse or justification for acts of violence against reporters who are covering a political event. ” ( reporting by joseph ax ; additional reporting by colleen jenkins and jeff mason ; editing by grant mccool ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .