bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand bade a final goodbye to its beloved late king bhumibol adulyadej on thursday in a ceremony steeped in ancient rituals , processions and buddhist rites that drew hundreds of thousands of mourners .
despite heavy downpours , black-clad mourners crowded bangkok s historic quarter where the king s cremation took place .
the $ 90 million funeral marks the end of an era for many thais who had only ever known king bhumibol as their monarch .
it ushers in the reign of the late king s son king maha vajiralongkorn , or rama x , who ascended the throne last year but whose coronation can only take place after his father s funeral .
king vajiralongkorn has overseen sweeping changes to the royal household , including the running of palace finances .
earlier in the day members of the thai royal family , visiting dignitaries and government officials placed sandalwood flowers at the royal funeral pyre .
the cremation of king bhumibol began with buddhist religious rites and ceremonial candle-lighting by saffron-robed monks .
many of those lining the thai capital s streets had slept overnight on pavements near the grand palace to capture vantage spots for the funeral procession that wended past buildings draped in yellow marigolds .
this is the last goodbye , said one tearful visitor , pimsupak suthin , 42 , who traveled from the northern province of nan to attend the function .
i really love and miss him .
it is very difficult to describe .
king bhumibol , also known as king rama ix , died last october aged 88 after ruling for seven decades .
he played a pivotal role in maintaining stability during years of political upheaval and rapid development .
at the start of the ceremony , officials dressed in blue and orange removed a symbolic golden urn from the dusit maha prasart throne hall and carried it through the streets to a 50-metre ( 165-foot ) -high royal crematorium in a nearby square .
the king s body was moved to the cremation area on wednesday night from the palace , where it had been lying in state since his death .
new king maha vajiralongkorn presided over religious chanting in the afternoon prior to the cremation at the royal crematorium , which features nine spires to mark the reign of his father , the ninth member of thailand s chakri dynasty .
one of the late king s daughters , princess maha chakri sirindhorn , lit candles inside the crematorium .
thailand s supreme patriarch , somdet phra maha muniwong , led the religious ceremony , urging thais to follow buddhist teachings and look beyond sadness .
royals from bhutan , britain , japan , lesotho , the netherlands , norway , spain and sweden , among others , attended the funeral ceremony on thursday .
performances including the thai khon masked dance punctuated the evening and added a festive air to an otherwise somber day .
officials in charge of the ceremony said about 110,000 people had gathered near the cremation area , with 200,000 more nearby .
the realisation of the king s departure was now sinking in , said funeral ceremony volunteer petchpailin jaidee , 60 .
the cremation makes it real , she added .
i feel like he is truly gone , and it feels like the sky is falling .
a sum of $ 90 million has been set aside for the funeral , the likes of which has never been seen in thailand , officials have said , even though king bhumibol was portrayed as a frugal man despite being one of the world s wealthiest monarchs .
elsewhere in the thai capital and around the country , 85 smaller replicas of the royal crematorium and more than 870 pavilions were built for mourners to lay sandalwood flowers and pay their final respects .
sites to offer sandalwood flowers were also set up in 94 countries to give overseas thais a chance to say good-bye .
some onlookers clutched pictures of the late king and several prostrated themselves as the urn passed by .
i was very fortunate to have been born under the reign of king rama ix , said piyamat potsopho , 38 , adding that she had waited for the funeral procession since wednesday night .
in nonthaburi province north of bangkok , a long queue of black-clad mourners waited to place sandalwood flowers in a mark of respect , as volunteers handed out food .
analysts say the king s death has left a large vacuum in the thai psyche .
king bhumibol is often referred to as father by thais and is credited with reviving the popularity of the monarchy .
days of heavy rain failed to deter mourners , many of whom pitched tents to secure the best access to the funeral .
many businesses around the southeast asian nation were shut , while bangkok s old quarter was draped in garlands of flowers .
some government buildings placed potted marigolds around the portraits of the king .
king bhumibol was born on a monday , a day that thais associate with the color yellow .
the king s ashes and bones will be collected in an early morning ceremony on friday .
( for a graphic on 'thai king 's funeral ' click tmsnrt.rs/2lewzcq )