manila ( reuters ) - stepping up a campaign against president rodrigo duterte s bloody war on drugs , catholic bishops in the philippines have called for church bells to be rung for the next 40 nights , and congregations to light candles and pray for the killing to end .
a pastoral letter by catholic bishops conference of the philippines ( cbcp ) sent to priests urged catholics to pray for victims from saturday until all saints day on nov. 1 , when filipinos traditionally pay respects to the dead .
more than 3,800 people have been killed in anti-drugs operations in the past 15 months and at least 2,100 murders are suspected of being drug-related , according to police data , though human rights groups believe the numbers are understated .
the relentless and bloody campaign against drugs that shows no sign of abating impels us , your bishops , to declare : in the name of god , stop the killings !
archbishop socrates villegas , the head of the cbcp , said in the letter .
such messages are typically read aloud in church or distributed to their congregations .
many catholic churches in the capital have already started lighting candles and ringing bells for five minutes each day at 8 p.m .. thousands of filipinos rallied against duterte on thursday to protest against what they fear is an emerging dictatorship , and several churches held mass against the killings and urged people to renounce violence .
the bishops are among the most influential dissenting voices to come out against the duterte s uncompromising strategy .
having been largely silent on the issue when it first erupted last year , priests have increasingly taken a stand against the anti-drugs campaign .
as bodies started to appear nightly in manila s slums , the church stepped up its opposition , denouncing the killings and in some cases , providing sanctuary to witnesses of killings and drug users who feared they could be targeted .
villegas said the country s bishops were firmly against drugs , but killing was not the solution and prayer was the most powerful weapon in our arsenal .
rights groups dispute official police accounts that say drug suspects were killed because they violently resisted arrest .
critics accuse police of executing users and small-time dealers and planting evidence , which police reject .
pablo virgilio david , bishop in manila s caloocan city , where large numbers of drug-related killings have taken place , urged the authorities to end the killings and let healing begin .
we disagree that we should treat them like monsters to be eliminated like stray cats and dogs , he said of drug users and criminals .
we disagree that a criminal has no more hope of changing his life .