cape town ( reuters ) - south africa s president jacob zuma suffered a setback on tuesday when a court ruled that the election of a faction loyal to him in his home province two years ago was invalid .
the high court ruling highlights growing rifts within zuma s ruling african national congress ( anc ) and could hamper his efforts to ensure his ex-wife nkosazana dlamini-zuma replaces him as party leader and eventually as president .
kwazulu natal province , situated on the east coast of south africa , is the ancestral home of the scandal-prone president and will also command most votes at the anc s national conference in december , when zuma will step down as party chief .
zuma loyalists took control of the province in november 2015 at a party conference after ousting former premier senzo mchunu , but he filed a court case against his removal , citing procedural irregularities - an appeal upheld by tuesday s ruling .
the eighth kwazulu natal provincial elective conference ( in november 2015 ) ... and decisions taken at that conference are declared unlawful and void , judge jerome mnguni ruled .
an anc provincial official told enca television channel the kwazulu natal anc leadership would not leave their posts and would probably appeal against the ruling .
the party s national spokesman , zizi kodwa , said the anc would study the judgment before taking any further steps .
the ruling could further erode zuma s support base .
zuma , 75 , survived a no-confidence vote in south africa s parliament last month but only after some 30 anc lawmakers broke ranks and voted with the opposition .
whoever wins the december contest will lead the anc , which has ruled south africa since the end of apartheid , into national elections in 2019 , when zuma s tenure as south africa s president expires .
tuesday s ruling could hit support for dlamini-zuma , a former health and foreign affairs minister , and allow her likely rival , vice-president cyril ramaphosa , a trade unionist-turned-business tycoon , to make gains in the province , analysts said .
despite court ruling dlamini-zuma still likely to be favored in kwazulu-natal ... but the ruling does allow his ( ramaphosa s ) campaign to make more inroads in the province , said darais jonker , eurasia group s director for africa , in a note .
neither dlamini-zuma , 67 , nor ramaphosa , 64 , have yet stated an intention to enter the race to succeed zuma in december .
analysts say zuma s priority is to ensure his chosen candidate succeeds him as party leader so he can complete his presidential term and avoid scrutiny over corruption charges his opponents would like reinstated .
the anc s flag bearer at the national elections usually becomes the country s president , given the anc s dominance .
daniel silke , a political analyst , said the judgment could increase factionalism in kwazulu natal .
there is now the potential for confusion and disarray within the anc in the province which could lead to a weakening of mrs zuma s position going forward , silke said .