johannesburg ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s first lady , grace mugabe , has denied assaulting south african model gabriella engels with an electric cable in a johannesburg hotel suite last month , saying an intoxicated and unhinged engels attacked her with a knife .
in a previously unreported aug. 17 deposition seen exclusively by reuters , mugabe countered 20-year-old engels version , portraying herself as the victim after intervening on behalf of her adult sons chatunga and robert junior who were in trouble with a drunken young woman .
the statement said grace mugabe , 52 and a contender to replace her 93-year-old husband as zimbabwe s president , was thinking about filing attempted murder charges .
a group representing engels dismissed the allegations as lies .
according to the model , an irate mugabe burst into the room where she was waiting with two friends to meet chatunga on aug. 13 and started laying into her with an electric cable .
photographs taken by engels mother soon after the incident showed gashes to the model s head .
she also had bruising on her thighs .
in her deposition , mugabe dismissed engels version as malicious allegations and said she had been attacked after going to help her sons .
she was worried about them and went to see them at their hotel suite , the statement said .
upon her arrival , ms engels , who was intoxicated and unhinged , attacked dr. grace mugabe with a knife after she was asked to leave the hotel .
security was left with no other option but to remove ms engels from the hotel suite , it continued .
the statement also alleged that engels had been in a fight with other women at johannesburg s taboo nightclub the previous evening and suggested that may have been the cause of her injuries .
afriforum , an afrikaans civil society group acting on behalf of engels , denied both accusations .
gabriella never attacked grace mugabe in any way and she did not participate in the fight at taboo , afriforum said .
it is clear that grace mugabe is desperately trying to escape responsibility for her own violent behavior by using lies to falsely portray the victim in this case as the perpetrator .
south africa granted grace mugabe diplomatic immunity , allowing her to evade immediate prosecution for assault , although engels and afriforum have challenged that decision , saying mugabe was not in south africa on official business .
they also argued that assault was a grave crime that was not covered by diplomatic immunity laws .
the decision to let grace mugabe return home caused a row in south africa , with the opposition democratic alliance also going to court to overturn the immunity .
according to zimbabwean intelligence files seen by reuters , robert mugabe lobbied his south african counterpart , jacob zuma , to have the issue solved amicably and out of court but was stymied by engels refusal to accept a settlement .
he is trying to avoid the embarrassment of his wife appearing before the court , one file , dated aug. 30 , reads .
the problem he is facing is that the woman who was assaulted is refusing to accept any money and she just wants justice to be delivered upon grace .
afriforum lawyer gerrie nel - best known for prosecuting south african track star oscar pistorius over the shooting of his girlfriend - said last month engels had been approached with a cash offer but had turned it down .
the intelligence report is a part of a series of hundreds of files dating back to 2009 that have come from within zimbabwe s central intelligence organisation ( cio ) .
reuters has not been able to establish their original author or final audience .
the aug. 30 report said mugabe was changing his attitude to the case and was now backing grace while accusing engels of impropriety .
mugabe wants people to stop castigating his wife and calling her all sorts of names , it said .
mugabe is saying that his wife acted in an angry mood like all other women who find their children being involved with sleeping with whores .
afriforum chief executive kallie kriel said this allegation was an absolute lie and part of a deliberate attempt by harare to undermine engels credibility as a witness .
a spokesman for zimbabwe s presidency , which has direct oversight of the cio , was not immediately available for comment .
zimbabwe s ambassador to south africa did not respond to a request for comment .
zuma has denied any hand in the affair , telling parliament on aug. 31 : i am not a lawyer .
i don t know the point of law and i was not involved in this process .
how it was done , i would be lying if i speculate .
his spokesman declined to elaborate .