this wasn t a smooth-talking politician inviting us to climb aboard his fancy word ship for a voyage beyond the stars .
he did not call upon the angels .
instead , he spoke in dark tones to the forgotten man .
the forgotten men and women of our country will be forgotten no longer , trump said .
everyone is listening to you now .
he began by punching the elites right in the mouth the bipartisan washington establishment sitting up there with him .
for too long , a small group in our nation s capital has reaped the rewards of government while the people have borne the cost , trump said.trump s campaign was nothing if not audacious , but to see him say such things in front of the capitol , right to the establishment s face as those sitting behind him wore those tight smiles , was beyond audacious .
it was jacksonian.you could feel washington trembling .
but you could also feel the establishment wise men like republican senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , and the k street boys who buy them all with campaign checks , democrats and republicans smirking and telling themselves a washington truth : fresh presidents talk a lot about change , and finally , when they re not fresh anymore , the presidents leave town , humbled , while the insiders remain.it was that beginning that was astonishing , his declaration of war on the establishment , especially as they all sat there with him , with former presidents carter and bush and clinton and obama looking on , outgoing first lady michelle obama frowning , hillary clinton icy and distant.bush bobbed his head and smiled as if in pain .
bill clinton s eyes were two frozen blue grapes , locked in a thousand-yard stare .
but what he was looking at inside his own head , i wouldn t ever want to know .
we ve defended other nations borders while refusing to defend our own , trump said , and spent trillions and trillions of dollars overseas while america s infrastructure has fallen into disrepair and decay .
we ve made other countries rich while the wealth , strength and confidence of our country has dissipated over the horizon .
the wealth of our middle class has been ripped from their homes and then redistributed all across the world .
the bush republicans and neoconservatives and european elites won t like his america first message one bit.predictably , the left hated his speech .
they love the working-class hero in the abstract , unless working-class heroes dare to support trump .
then the left mocks them .
the culture clash between liberal commentators and trump voters has gotten so petty that i ve even seen trump voters mocked as fools for spelling mistakes.they re not fools .
they re not deplorable .
they re hardworking americans , people who sent their children to our wars , people who were pushed aside by our politics , slapped down by our economy and abused by democrats , republicans and the very elites who formed the establishment.they were once the forgotten .
but now their guy is president of the united states.for entire story : chicago tribunewatch trump s full inauguration speech here : https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=tcfrbb9hpoi