ben shapiro makes the best case yet for why americans should support kim davis who s in jail for refusing to give out same-sex marriage licenses : her arrest represents tyranny not because there is no legal authority to arrest , or because freedom of religion trumps rule of law , but because selective use of legal authority is tyranny .
as of friday morning , kentucky county clerk kim davis sits in jail for her refusal to hand out state licenses for same-sex marriages .
she cited her first amendment religious liberty in her defense .
she was arrested after being held in contempt by a federal judge , district judge david l. bunning.her arrest represents tyranny not because there is no legal authority to arrest , or because freedom of religion trumps rule of law , but because selective use of legal authority is tyranny .
and kim davis is right to risk jail in defiance of federal lawlessness .
god bless her for that bravery.there are three issues to contemplate here .
first , legally , does the government have the authority to jail davis ?
second , morally , does the government have the authority to put davis in jail ?
third , morally , should davis have gone to jail rather than quitting ? legal authority .
the government has the legal authority to put davis in jail .
the first amendment does not protect the employment of people who violate their job descriptions as a general rule ; when it comes to government jobs , the first amendment does not protect your ability to disobey the law .
of course , the government also had the authority to put martin luther king jr. in jail for unlicensed protests .
that didn t make the jailing or the underlying law being protested morally right.moral authority .
the government may have legal authority to jail davis , but it has no moral authority .
this government has become an immoral force , a club wielded against people of certain political and religious perspectives .
supreme court justice anthony kennedy defied the constitution of the united states to unilaterally impose his political will on the people of the united states , and he does not sit in jail ; instead , the president of the united states shined rainbow lights on the white house to signify his celebration of such a constitutional perversion .
but kim davis , who refused to abide by that constitutional perversion , sits in jail for defying anthony kennedy and barack obama.kim davis sits in jail , but not the president of the united states who has illegally suspended deportations and sanctions against iran ; a former irs executive who deliberately targeted conservative nonprofit groups ; mayors of major cities around the united states who actively defy federal immigration law ; a former attorney general of the united states held in contempt by congress ; washington d.c. clerks who buck court orders to hand out concealed carry permits ; and the current leading democratic senate candidate in california , who as attorney general refused outright to defend a popularly-passed proposition in favor of traditional marriage , among others.if absence of law is anarchy , selective enforcement is tyranny .
as john adams wrote , civilization requires a government of laws , and not of men .
selective enforcement of the law and in this case , selective enforcement of the law against those who stand with natural law perverts law into a club to be wielded by the powerful against the powerless.did davis act immorally ?
of course not .
davis goal is to stand up against the injustice of the law itself .
the fact that the government has transformed rule of law into rule of leftist democrats means that davis decision to go to jail rather than quitting is actually heroic .
she didn t need to object to handing out same-sex marriage certificates on religious grounds ; she could have done so on purely constitutional , rule of law grounds .
lawless orders should not be followed , and the supreme court s decision in obergefell is lawless in the extreme .
the nuremberg defense the idea that superior orders must be followed was rejected in the nuremberg principles : the fact that a person acted pursuant to order of his government or of a superior does not relieve him from responsibility under international law , provided a moral choice was in fact possible to him.read more : breitbart