( reuters ) - south carolina lawmakers have introduced a measure that would require transgender people to use public bathrooms matching their sex at birth , disregarding a growing outcry for a repeal of a similar provision enacted last month in north carolina .
legislation such as the bill proposed in the republican-controlled state senate on wednesday has fueled a national debate , with states entrenched on either side of the issue and major companies calling for a rollback on measures restricting transgender rights .
the south carolina measure would prohibit local governments from requiring private businesses to provide restroom access based on gender identity rather than birth gender .
“ men should use the men ’ s room , and women should use the women ’ s room - that ’ s just common sense , ” republican senator lee bright , a sponsor of the bill , told the state newspaper .
“ north carolina is getting so much flak over what is common sense. ” the south carolina measure is narrower than north carolina ’ s law , which precludes local governments from adopting anti-discrimination ordinances with protections based on gender identity and sexual orientation .
but opponents warned the new proposal could spark the economic backlash seen this week in north carolina , where paypal holdings inc cited the discriminatory nature of the law in canceling a new operations center that was to employ 400 workers in charlotte .
more than 130 business leaders , including the chief executives of bank of america , herbalife and american airlines , have signed a letter with the human rights campaign calling for a repeal .
“ government simply has no place in our bathrooms , ” said jeff ayers , executive director of south carolina equality , a lesbian , gay , bisexual and transgender civil rights group .
pennsylvania governor tom wolf signed two executive orders on thursday aimed at safeguarding the rights of transgender people .
one of them bans the state from discriminating against any employee or job applicant based on a host of criteria including “ gender expression or identity. ” “ this is the right thing to do .
...
this is also the smart thing to do , ” wolf said , citing paypal ’ s decision in north carolina .
last year , the democratic governor named a transgender woman as the state ’ s physician general , a cabinet-level post .
more than a dozen states have considered bathroom provisions this year that would restrict access for transgender people , according to the national conference of state legislatures .
the measures come amid a wave of legislation pushed by social conservatives after the u.s. supreme court legalized same-sex marriage last year .
mississippi ’ s republican governor on tuesday signed a law allowing people with religious objections to deny wedding services to same-sex couples and permitting employers to cite religion in determining workplace policies on dress code , grooming and bathroom and locker access .
in response , a number of governors and mayors have banned non-essential government travel to mississippi or north carolina .
last week , the governors of georgia and virginia vetoed “ religious liberty ” bills , which critics said discriminated against same-sex couples .