kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian prosecutors said on friday they were investigating a case that could involve the head of the national anti-corruption bureau , the latest in a merry-go-round of law enforcement officials taking action against each other .
prosecutors are checking an audio recording of a man reading out a wiretapping transcript to unknown persons , which could constitute the illegal sharing of classified information .
they are trying to establish whether the voice belongs to bureau director artem sytnyk .
contacted for comment , a spokeswoman for the bureau said sytnyk was traveling abroad .
ukraine s political leaders want to convince their international backers they are serious about tackling entrenched corruption but have made only limited progress , delaying billions in new loans .
an investigation into the possible disclosure of secret documents has been registered , general prosecutor yuriy lutsenko said in a televised briefing .
if it is confirmed that this document s status was secret and if it is confirmed that it was done by that law enforcement official , then he will have problems with the law , he said .
the bureau , known by its acronym nabu , and a sister anti-corruption agency known as nazk were both set up after pro-western leaders took charge of ukraine in 2014 , following a wave of unrest and the escape into exile of a kremlin-backed former leader .
lutsenko s statement caps a week of allegations flying around between different agencies .
on monday , a senior prosecutor told reuters that senior political leaders were trying to bury corruption investigations through a change to the criminal code that would result in nabu being overloaded with case work .
on tuesday , nabu said it had opened a case against nazk after allegations by a whistleblower , who also accused president petro poroshenko s office of exerting improper influence over the agency .
the president s office denies the allegation .
on friday , as well as prosecutors announcing an investigation into nabu , nabu said it had opened a case in october against lutsenko at the behest of a court , but gave no details of the investigation .
the investigation continues , nabu spokeswoman svitlana olifira told 112 channel about lutsenko s case .
there are no conclusions .
the task is to check the facts .
lutsenko dismissed the case as illogical , saying it concerned whether he should have declared two parking places belonging to his adult son in an online registry of officials income and property .
i am confident in the legality of my position , he said .
conflict between nabu and the general prosecutor s office is nothing new .
in august 2016 prosecutors raided nabu offices and then later interrogated two nabu officials , sparking a protest from anti-corruption campaigners .
lutsenko said infighting between the agencies was unacceptable .
it seems to me that healthy cooperation between all law enforcement bodies is being destabilized , he said .