bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand s defense technology agency plans to set up a joint center with china to produce and maintain military equipment in the latest sign of the strengthening security relationship since a 2014 coup .
the plans to establish the facility - and discussions on a chinese naval center to serve submarines thailand ordered this year - point to a growing chinese security presence in the oldest u.s. ally in the region as elsewhere in southeast asia .
the thai government s defence technology institute ( dti ) will set up thailand s first commercial joint defense facility with china in the northeastern province of khon kaen in july , a defense ministry spokesman said .
it will be responsible for assembly , production and maintenance of chinese land weapon systems for the thai army .
all our production will be for domestic official usage , defense ministry spokesman kongcheep tantravanich told reuters , adding that it could become an assembly and maintenance center for all states in the association of southeast asian nations ( asean ) .
specific details , he said , were subject to further discussions between the ministry and china north industries corporation ( norinco ) - which makes tanks and weapons among other heavy equipment .
norinco did not respond immediately to an emailed request for comment .
its website describes it as a pioneer and leader of chinese military trade , and an important team to implement china s going global strategy .
kongcheep said the chinese would provide training and technology transfer , but details of any chinese personnel in khon kaen were among things being discussed .
the chinese defense ministry did not respond when contacted by reuters for comment .
china has become an increasingly important source of weapons for thailand , particularly since the united states and western countries downgraded ties after the army seized power in 2014 .
major purchases since 2015 include orders for 49 chinese tanks and 34 armored vehicles worth over $ 320 million - much more than the army has bought from other countries , although it also ordered helicopters from both russia and the united states .
the biggest chinese purchase is the royal thai navy s order for three submarines at a cost of over $ 1 billion .
thai and chinese armies and air forces have begun joint exercises , complementing thailand s continuing drills with the u.s. forces .
on the civilian front , thailand and china plan development of a high-speed rail link as part of beijing s belt and road initiative .
relations with the united states are warming again too , however , particularly since new u.s. president donald trump hosted junta leader prayuth chan-ocha at the white house .
the joint weapons manufacturing center in khon kaen - apparently similar to one in pakistan - could complement china s growing military presence in neighboring cambodia , said paul chambers , who has researched thai military and regional security .
it opens the door for the potential of growing chinese military influence in mainland southeast asia , said chambers , of naresuan university in the northern thai province of phitsanulok .
new legislation taking effect next year will allow thailand s defence technology institute to operate on a commercial basis , but it will remain entirely under government ownership .
thailand s defence ministry said the government was also holding preliminary discussions with ukraine , russia and south africa about joint defense manufacturing facilities , similar to the deal with china .