mogadishu ( reuters ) - thousands of somalis demonstrated on wednesday against those behind bombings that killed more than 300 people , defying police who opened fire to keep them away from the site where their loved-ones were killed .
the twin blasts in the heart of mogadishu on saturday also injured more than 400 in what were the country s deadliest truck bombings .
police initially opened fire to prevent people from accessing the rubble-strewn scene of the attack , injuring at least two people , the emergency response service said .
but , overwhelmed by the number of people , they eventually let thousands of protesters gather at the site .
residents said they had never seen such a big protest in the city .
we are demonstrating against the terrorists that massacred our people .
we entered the road by force , said halima abdullahi , a mother who lost six of her relatives in the attacks .
the islamist militant group al shabaab , which began an insurgency in 2007 , has not claimed responsibility , but the method and type of attack - a large truck bomb - is increasingly used by the al qaeda-linked organization .
mohamed ali , a police captain at the scene , said it was fine for protesters to access the site to express their grief .
for some who could not see their relatives alive or dead , the only chance they have is to at least see the spot where their beloved were killed , he told reuters .
later president mohamed abdullahi mohamed addressed demonstrators at a football field in the city and called on somalis to join the national army .
take your guns and let s liberate our country .
come forward for recruitment ( into ) government forces in order to fight and eliminate al shabaab , he said .
the government buried at least 160 of those killed because they could not be identified after the blast .
masked security officers kept an eye on the protest on foot and on motorbikes .
some protesters sat on police trucks waving sticks and chanting : we do not want al shabaab .
the militants were driven out of mogadishu in 2011 and have been steadily losing territory .
but they retain the capacity to mount large bomb attacks .
over the past three years , the number of civilians killed by insurgent bombings has steadily climbed as al shabaab increases the size of its bombs .
in the central town of dusamareb , residents also marched for several hours to protest against the bombings in mogadishu and clerics called for the war on the militants to be stepped up .
abdikadir abdirahman , the director of aamin ambulances , said one pregnant demonstrator was evacuated from the mogadishu protest after she developed complications .
the other two were also demonstrating .
they were injured by bullets which the police fired to disperse the demonstrators who wanted to enter the blast scene by force , he said .