london ( reuters ) - foreign minister boris johnson was accused by a government statisticians of misusing state data after he repeated a pro-leave campaign mantra that britain would have an extra 350 million pounds a week after brexit .
the figure had been a central part of the campaign s let s take back control message , with suggestions that the money could instead be used to fund state healthcare .
johnson was one of the few prominent members of the campaign not to abandon the pledge after it won the summer 2016 referendum on eu membership .
david norgrove , of the uk statistics authority , said he was surprised and disappointed that johnson was still quoting a figure that confused gross and net contributions .
it is a clear misuse of official statistics , norgrove said in a letter to the minister on sunday .
he said the number quoted did not include the rebate that britain receives from the eu , nor did it include payments from brussels to support , for example , agriculture and scientific research .
johnson , whose carefully tussled blonde hair and apparent bumbling manner has made him one of britain s most recognizable politicians , mentioned the figure again in a saturday newspaper article that laid out his vision for post-brexit britain .
once we have settled our accounts , we will take back control of roughly 350 million pounds ( $ 476 million ) a week , he wrote .
it would be a fine thing , as many of us have pointed out , if a lot of that money went on the nhs ( national health service ) .
johnson later added he was surprised and disappointed by norgrove s letter , which he said was based on what appeared to be a wilful distortion of the text of my article , according to the bbc .
britain had no control of eu spending in britain or of a rebate that was part of a funding arrangement agreed with other eu states , johnson said .
figures published by the office for national statistics in april 2016 showed britain s weekly net contribution to the eu to be about 190 million pounds a week .