riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabian women rejoiced at their new freedom to drive on wednesday , with some taking to the roads even though licenses will not be issued for nine months .
hundreds of others chatted with hiring managers at a riyadh job fair , factoring in the new element in their career plans : their ability to drive themselves to work .
saudi arabia will never be the same again .
the rain begins with a single drop , manal al-sharif , who was arrested in 2011 after a driving protest , said in an online statement .
king salman announced the historic change on tuesday , ending a conservative tradition which limited women s mobility and was seen by rights activists as an emblem of their suppression .
saudi arabia was the only remaining country in the world to bar women from driving .
at the jobs fair , sultana , 30 , said she had received four job offers since graduating from law school two years ago but turned them down because of transport issues .
my parents don t allow me to use uber or careem , so one of my brothers or the driver would need to take me , she said , referring to dial-a ride companies .
i m so excited to learn how to drive .
this will be a big difference for me .
i will be independent .
i won t need a driver .
i can do everything myself .
she plans to start taking driving lessons when her family travels abroad for vacation .
other women weren t waiting .
internet videos showed a handful of women driving cars overnight , even though the ban has not been officially lifted .
the move represents a big crack in the laws and social mores governing women in the conservative muslim kingdom .
the guardianship system requires women to have a male relative s approval for most decisions on education , employment , marriage , travel plans and even medical treatment .
the new initiative recalls previous modernizing milestones that unnerved conservatives at first but were eventually accepted , such as the 1960s start of state education for girls and the introduction of television .
the decree is expected to boost the fortunes of 32-year-old crown prince mohammed bin salman , who has ascended to the heights of power in the kingdom with an ambitious domestic reform program and assertive foreign policy .
a muted response from saudi s clergy , which has long backed the ban , suggested power shared between the al saud dynasty and the wahhabi religious establishment could be shifting decisively in favor of the royals .
many younger saudis regard prince mohammed s ascent as evidence their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked women s progress .
sharif , the activist , described the driving ban s removal as just the start to end long-standing unjust laws ( that ) have always considered saudi women minors who are not trusted to drive their own destiny .
a driving instructor at a government-run center said women called all day to inquire about registering a license , but he had received no instructions yet from the government .
um faisal , a mother of six , said her daughters would get licenses as soon as possible .
years ago , there wasn t work outside the house .
but today women need to get out and go places .
this generation needs to drive , she said , clad in a long black abaya .
the saudi ambassador to washington said on tuesday women would not need their guardians permission to get a license , nor to have a guardian in the car when driving .
in a country where gender segregation has been strictly enforced for decades in keeping with the austere wahhabi form of sunni islam , the decree means women will have regular contact with unrelated men , such as fellow drivers and traffic police .
other rules have loosened recently , with the government sponsoring concerts deemed un-islamic by clerics , allowing women into a large sports stadium for the first time and permitting them to dance beside men in a central riyadh street over the weekend .
amnesty international welcomed the decree as long overdue but said there was still a range of discriminatory laws and practices that needed to be overturned .
that risks inflaming tensions with influential wahhabi clerics with whom the ruling al saud has enjoyed a close strategic alliance since the kingdom s founding .
the state-backed council of religious scholars expressed support for the king s decree .
grand mufti sheikh abdulaziz al al-sheikh , who has repeatedly opposed women working and driving and said letting them into politics may mean opening the door to evil , has yet to comment .
some islamist clerics are currently in detention in saudi arabia following an apparent crackdown on potential opponents of the kingdom s rulers this month .
bernard haykel , professor of near east studies at princeton university , said the driving announcement may help explain that .
they might have raised a storm against the government by mobilizing opposition in the name of religion .
they have been stymied , he said .
still , some men expressed outrage at the about-face by prominent clerics , who in the past have sometimes justified the driving ban by saying women s brains are too small or that driving endangered their ovaries .
whoever says this is permitted is a sinner .
women driving means great evils and this makes them especially sinful , one twitter user wrote .
kawthar al-arbash , a member of the shura council , a government advisory body , acknowledged that resistance , saying : that s how things go .
everything new is accompanied by fears .