in a state plagued by a foster care crisis , it s hard to believe officials in the state of oregon would target two loving parents because their iq wasn t considered high enough to raise their children.in november of 2016 , oregon live published an article based on a report by the was released by the department of human services showing the state s ongoing failure to adopt solutions identified year after year in previous reviews : oregon needs to fill a deep shortage of foster homes and programs equipped to care for children with significant trauma and other intensive needs , the report found echoing warnings documented as recently as 2011 .
as a result , the state might be certifying foster homes that fall below its standards.moreover , oregon must still work up a strategy for recruiting foster care providers , despite acknowledging in a 2007 federal review that it lacked a process to ensure the diligent recruitment of foster homes , despite significant shortages of all types .
desperation for placements appears to be increasing the risk of ( the human services department ) certifying foster homes where abuse is more likely occur , the report said.and inconsistencies in how child welfare workers screen reports of abuse , a problem identified by consultants as far back as 2002 , remain today .
children in the foster care system , as well as people who have reported abuse , called the state s system for tracking and investigating abuse untrustworthy .
given the crisis the state of oregon has been facing with their foster home program , one has to wonder why they would target two loving parents who are raising their children in a safe and caring environment ?
should these children be allowed to stay in their home with their biological parents or does the state have the right to determine that the parents just aren t intelligent enough ? the daily mail an oregon couple has been fighting a legal battle after they lost custody of their two kids because both were designated not intelligent enough to care for them in a safe and proper manner.amy fabbrini , 31 , was reportedly unaware about her state of pregnancy when she grew far into her third trimester with her now eldest son , christopher.fabbrini did not receive formal examination or treatment within the ninth month term and went into advanced labor at the family s home , where she gave birth sept. 9 , 2013.fabbrini s partner , eric ziegler , 38 , was receiving financial aid through the social security and supplemental security income program on the behalf of a mental disability he was diagnosed with.earlier this year , social services acquired and fostered the pair s second newborn baby , hunter , while he was in the hospital , following past allegations brought against them.a relative to the couple initially expressed concern in a complaint to authorities regarding the christopher s well-being under the care of fabbrini and ziegler , according to the oregonian.a child welfare report alleged ziegler had been sleeping with the baby on the floor and almost rolled over on him .
fabbrini s father , raymond , said he and his wife were acting as the primary caregivers at the time , because he believed his daughter did not possess the instincts to be a mother .
after taking a required iq test , ziegler scored a meager 66 and fabbrini a 72 .
the iq of the average person ranges anywhere from 90-110.ziegler s iq score categorized him under the mild intellectual disability range , while fabbrini extremely low to borderline range of intelligence , according to the report.fabbrini had been working as a grocer to help provide for her family at the time .
ziegler was unemployed due to his health condition.board member of healthy families of the high desert and advocator for the couple , sherrene hagenbach , said the decision to place christopher and hunter up for adoption lacks substantial ground work and may be even more detrimental to the family as a whole .
they are saying they are intellectually incapable without any guidelines to go by , hagenbach said .
they re saying that this foster care provider is better for the child because she can provide more financially , provide better education , things like that .
if we re going to get on that train , bill gates should take my children .
there s always somebody better than us , so it s a very dangerous position to be in .
domestic abuse and neglect were not factors in the custody case.fabbrini s aunt , lenora turner , told the oregonian she believed the decision was unfair in the grand scheme .
i honestly don t understand why they can t have their children .
i go to the grocery store and i see other people with their children and they re standing up in the grocery cart .
i think , how come they get to keep their children ?
how do they decide whose child they re going to take and whose child can stay ?
turner said.fabbrini and ziegler insisted that they have complied to all of the state s orders over the course of the past several years .
we ve just done everything and more than what they ve asked us to , fabbrini said .
it doesn t seem like it s good enough for them they re saying , who would parent christopher better , the foster parents or the parents ?
is basically what they re going on .
ziegler added.so long as oregon s parental rights law stays in effect , both children will remain under watch by foster care.the parents will continue to have visitation rights under the supervision of another .