( reuters ) - voters in chicago have ousted embattled cook county state ’ s attorney anita alvarez , who has been harshly criticized for her handling of a police shooting investigation .
preliminary democratic primary results on tuesday showed alvarez , 56 , was handily defeated by kim foxx , an african-american who capitalized on criticism the two-term prosecutor received for taking more than a year to charge jason van dyke , a white officer , who fatally shot a black teenager in 2014 .
“ the stakes in this race were very high , ” foxx said during her victory speech .
“ i understand the excitement , but let us not get lost in the gravity of the work that is ahead of us. ” foxx , 43 , will face republican christopher pfannkuche , who ran an uncontested primary race , in the general election in november .
alvarez will remain in office until then .
killings of black men at the hands of mainly white law enforcement officials in u.s. cities over the past two years have prompted demonstrations across the country and stoked a national debate on race relations and police tactics .
alvarez charged van dyke on nov. 24 with first-degree murder more than a year after he shot laquan mcdonald 16 times .
the october 2014 shooting was captured on patrol car dashboard-camera videos that were released on the day van dyke was charged , setting off weeks of protests .
politicians , pastors and civil rights advocates called for alvarez to resign , saying she only filed the murder charges because she was under pressure after the videos were made public .
“ we find ourselves in this country , not just here in cook county , in a great climate of change and in reform in the criminal justice system , ” alvarez said during her concession speech .
after van dyke was charged , police superintendent garry mccarthy was fired and the u.s. justice department launched an investigation into the chicago police department .
“ this is what justice looks like , ” said organizers of assata ’ s daughters , a local black women ’ s advocacy group , on a facebook video post .
foxx served as assistant state ’ s attorney for cook county for 12 years and then as chief of staff for the cook county board president .
born to a teenage mother , she spent part of her childhood in chicago ’ s cabrini green public housing complex and in a homeless shelter .
“ kim ’ s life experience has given her a deep understanding of the impact of crime , violence and poverty on our communities , ” her campaign website said .