( reuters ) - a new jersey man who worked at the world trade center , a young new yorker , a belgian mother of two , and five argentines celebrating their high school graduation 30 years ago were killed in the truck attack on a new york city bike path .
twelve other people were injured in tuesday ’ s attack in lower manhattan by an uzbek immigrant who allegedly drove the truck onto the path along the hudson river .
it was the deadliest attack in the city since sept. 11 , 2001 .
u.s. and foreign officials identified the dead as : - darren drake , 32 , of new milford , new jersey .
his father , james drake , told local news media , that his son was a project manager at moody ’ s investors service at the world trade center , near the scene of the rampage .
- nicholas cleves , 23 , of new york city .
cleves was a software engineer who lived in a west village apartment within biking distance of the hudson , according to a friend who spoke with multiple news media outlets .
cleves attended little red school house and elisabeth irwin high school , known collectively as lrei , from kindergarten through 12th grade .
he graduated from the private manhattan school in 2012 and in recent years worked on its technology staff part-time , the school ’ s director , phil kassen , wrote on its alumni page on facebook .
“ nicholas was kind , caring , curious , interested , and a great friend , ” kassen wrote .
“ he always had a kind word when you would pass him in the hall , and the biggest smile , and always offered to help , no matter the situation. ” - anne laure decadt , 31 , of staden , belgium .
decadt was visiting new york with her two sisters and mother .
she was cycling on the bike path when the truck hit her from behind , cnn affiliate vtm reported .
her mother and sisters were not hurt .
decadt “ was a fantastic wife and the most beautiful mom to our two sons of 3 months and 3 years old .
this loss is unbearable and difficult to understand , ” her husband , alexander naessens , said in an interview with local belgium news media .
- the five argentine men were all from the city of rosario .
their journey to new york had been organized by ariel erlij , whose company , ivanar sa , distributes steel products .
the businessman had helped pay for two of his friends to go on the trip .
the five men were : - erlij , 48 - hernán diego mendoza , 48 - diego enrique angelini , 48 - alejandro damián pagnucco , 49 - hernán ferruchi , 48