cairo ( reuters ) - diplomats from qatar and the four states boycotting it exchanged heated words at an arab league meeting on tuesday .
tensions flared after qatar s minister of state for foreign affairs sultan bin saad al-muraikhi discussed the boycott in his opening speech despite the gulf dispute not being on the agenda .
he called the gulf monarchy s critics rabid dogs .
even the animals were not spared , you sent them out savagely , muraikhi said , referring to the thousands of camels left stranded on the border between qatar and saudi arabia after borders were closed .
saudi arabia , the uae , egypt and bahrain cut diplomatic and trade links with qatar on june 5 , suspending air and shipping routes with the world s biggest exporter of liquefied natural gas , which is home to the region s biggest u.s. military base .
the nations say doha supports regional foe iran and islamists .
qatar denies the charges and calls the economic boycott a siege aimed at neutering an independent foreign policy it says promotes peaceful regional reform and fighting terrorism .
kuwait has been trying to mediate in the dispute .
during his speech , muraikhi referred to iran as an honourable country and said ties had warmed with its neighbor since the blockade .
in response , ahmed al-qattan , saudi arabia s envoy to the arab league , said : congratulations to iran and soon , god willing , you will regret it .
the exchange descended into a row during which muraikhi and qattan each told the other to be quiet .
muraikhi said saudi arabia was looking to depose the emir of qatar and replace him with foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al-thani , who helped negotiate the entry of qatari pilgrims attending the annual haj pilgrimage into saudi arabia .
this is an improper thing to say because the kingdom of saudi arabia will never resort to such cheap methods and we don t want to change the regime , but you must also know that the kingdom can do anything it wants , god willing , qattan said .
egyptian foreign minister sameh shoukry said muraikhi s comments were unacceptable .
we all know qatar s historic support for terrorism and what has been provided for extremist factions , and money in syria , yemen , libya and egypt that have lead to the death of many of egypt s sons , shoukry said .
qatar backed a muslim brotherhood government in egypt before it was overthrown by the military in 2013 .
the arab states have demanded qatar sever any links with the brotherhood and other groups they deem to be terrorist , ideological or sectarian .