naypyitaw , myanmar/united nations ( reuters ) - myanmar leader aung san suu kyi on tuesday condemned rights abuses in rakhine state and said violators would be punished , but she did not address u.n. accusations of ethnic cleansing , drawing cool international responses and calls for action to help minority muslims .
suu kyi made the remarks in her first address to the nation since attacks by rohingya muslim insurgents on aug. 25 led to a military response that has forced 421,000 rohingya muslims , more than half of them children , into neighboring bangladesh .
western diplomats and aid officials , hoping for an unequivocal condemnation of violence and hate speech , welcomed the tone of the nobel peace laureate s message , but some doubted if she had done enough to deflect global criticism .
long feted in the west as a champion of democracy in the buddhist-majority country during years of military rule and house arrest , suu kyi has faced growing criticism for saying little about abuses faced by the rohingya .
we condemn all human rights violations and unlawful violence .
we are committed to the restoration of peace and stability and rule of law throughout the state , suu kyi said in her address in the capital , naypyitaw .
action will be taken against all people , regardless of their religion , race and political position , who go against the law of the land and violate human rights , she said .
in a phone call to suu kyi , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson welcomed the myanmar government s commitment to allow the return of refugees , but urged it to facilitate humanitarian aid to those affected by the violence and to address deeply troubling human rights abuse allegations , the state department said .
britain said it had suspended its military training program in myanmar and french president emmanuel macron condemned unacceptable ethnic cleaning .
he told the annual u.n. general assembly he would start a u.n. security council initiative to ensure humanitarian access and an end to the violence .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres told the general assembly : the authorities in myanmar must end the military operations , allow unhindered humanitarian access and recognize the right of refugees to return in safety and dignity ; and they must also address the grievances of the rohingya , whose status has been left unresolved for far too long .
a european union spokeswoman said suu kyi s invitation to the diplomatic corps to visit rakhine was a step forward , but added : myanmar s leadership needs to show that the democracy they fought so hard for can work for all the people of myanmar , beyond ethnic , social and religious boundaries .
at the general assembly , nigerian president muhammadu buhari likened the violence in myanmar to genocides in bosnia and rwanda , while turkish president recep tayyip erdogan cited the international community s failure in syria .
unless the tragedy taking place in myanmar is brought to a halt , humanity will have to live with the shame of another dark stain in its history , erdogan said .
twenty-two members of the u.s. congress wrote to tillerson calling for a strong , meaningful response to the crisis and the head of the influential senate foreign relations committee , bob corker , said suu kyi risked destroying her reputation as a force for positive change .
she had yet another opportunity today to stand up for the rohingya minority ... but instead refused to acknowledge the military s role in the ongoing atrocities , he said .
amnesty international described suu kyi s speech as little more than a mix of untruths and victim-blaming , saying she and her government were burying their heads in the sand for ignoring the army s role in the violence .
myanmar s generals remain in full charge of security and suu kyi did not comment on the military or its actions , except to say there had been no armed clashes and there have been no clearance operations since sept. 5 .
rohingya refugees arriving in bangladesh have told of soldiers and buddhist civilians attacking and burning villages as recently as last friday .
it was not possible to verify their accounts .
rights monitors and fleeing rohingya say the army and rakhine buddhist vigilantes have mounted a campaign of arson aimed at driving out the muslim population .
the u.n. rights agency said it was a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
myanmar rejects the charge , saying its forces are tackling insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army who it has accused of setting the fires and attacking civilians .
western governments that backed suu kyi s campaign against military rule still see her as the best hope for myanmar s political and economic transition .
but she has to avoid angering the powerful army and alienating supporters by being seen to take the side of a muslim minority that enjoys little sympathy in a country that has seen a surge of buddhist nationalism .
phil robertson of human rights watch said satellite images showed about half of all rohingya villages had been torched and it was time that suu kyi , the government and military faced the fact that the security forces shoot and kill who they want .
suu kyi , 72 , said her government had been promoting harmony between the muslim and largely buddhist ethnic rakhine communities .
but a government official there did not share her optimism .
they have no trust for each other , the state s secretary , tin maung swe , told reuters , adding that tensions were high .
the situation is ready to explode .
suu kyi said she was committed to recommendations made by the advisory team led by kofi annan , a former u.n. secretary-general , which last month suggested a review of a law that links citizenship and ethnicity and leaves most rohingya stateless .
on the return of refugees , suu kyi said myanmar was ready to start a verification process and refugees from this country will be accepted without any problem .