president trump made a joke while speaking to law enforcement officers that was portrayed in the media as an endorsement of police brutality the left will do just about anything to bash president trump !
go to the 22:30 mark to hear the joke : the daily caller reports that while speaking about violent gang-members in a speech to law enforcement officers that focused on ms-13 , trump said officers shouldn t be too nice when putting violent criminals in the paddy wagon .
he added : like when you guys put somebody in the car and you re protecting their head , you know , the way you put the hand over .
like , don t hit their head and they ve just killed somebody , don t hit their head .
i said , you can take the hand away , ok. trump s comment was clearly a joke and , as liberal website slate pointed out , resembled a famous jerry seinfeld joke on the same topic.journalists immediately said that the joke was an open endorsement of police brutality .
trump endorses police brutality , blared huffpost s front page , featuring a story titled : donald trump endorses police brutality in speech to cops .
other outlets took a similar tone .
trump promotes police brutality in speech to cops , reported the daily dot .
trump praises police violence to audience of laughing cops , left-wing thinkprogress reported .
trump endorsed police brutality in a speech to law enforcement while officers laughed and cheered , claimed huffington post editor emma gray .
in a country that already has a pretty pervasive problem with police brutality , trump endorses their behavior , wrote huffpo editor phillip lewis.commentator ben shapiro was quick to push back against claims that trump was endorsing police brutality .
this is all exaggeration .
is it appropriate for trump to encourage police not to be too nice to suspects ?
not really .
but it s not police brutality to refrain from putting your hand on the head of a suspect to prevent them from bumping it on a car door .
it s police brutality if you slam their head into the car door , shapiro wrote.read mrs : law officer