i wish i could say i was shocked , but the sad truth is pro-abortion voters are the major reason america has been crippled by obama for 8 years , and potentially looking at a continuation of his radical policies with a hillary presidency .
to hell with our nation , the abortion industry must be kept alive , no matter the cost maybe you ve seen those awards given to local businesses for having a certain number of accident free days or hitting certain regional or area sales quotas .
here s an award that will take your breath away for a terribly and horrific reason.planned parenthood of the rocky mountains gave its aurua abortion clinic an award for increasing the number of babies killed in abortions .
the award coincides with the abortion quotes the planned parenthood abortion business is implementing on all o its affiliates : from a blog post by abby johnson on the award : ever since i left planned parenthood , i have been talking about the abortion quotas that are established inside abortion facilities .
many abortion supporters refused to believe it , citing that surely planned parenthood wants abortion to be safe , legal and rare .
if they want something to be rare , they certainly wouldn t have quotas , right ? we recently had a clinic worker leave the affiliate , planned parenthood of the rocky mountains .
this affiliate runs the 2nd largest planned parenthood facility in the u.s. at this clinic in denver , they give out various awards to their satellite clinics and post these awards on a bulletin board for everyone to see.when our former worker saw this award on public display , it really started to change her thinking about planned parenthood s motivation .
this award was given to their aurora clinic for exceeding abortion visits first half of fiscal year 2012 compared to first half of fiscal year 2013 .
this means that the aurora planned parenthood exceeded the abortion quota that was imposed on them .
and that is award worthy according to planned parenthood.via : lifenews