lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistanis began casting votes on sunday for the parliamentary seat vacated by ousted prime minister nawaz sharif , in a by-election seen as a test of support for the sharif dynasty ahead of the 2018 general election .
sharif s ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party hopes a resounding victory in the eastern city of lahore would show that support for the family was undiminished despite the supreme court s removal of sharif in july .
sharif s daughter maryam has spearheaded the pml-n campaign for her mother kulsoom - who is the mpl-n candidate despite receiving cancer treatment in london with nawaz at her side .
maryam , who some pml-n leaders see as a future leader , has framed the poll as a chance for voters to give a bloody nose to the judiciary by handing the party a thumping victory .
will you take revenge for your disrespected vote ?
maryam asked supporters at a recent rally .
opposition leader imran khan - whose threats of street protests pushed the supreme court to launch a probe into nawaz s wealth - is seeking to build on the success of his anti-graft crusade by making inroads into sharifs power base in punjab .
the supreme court in july disqualified sharif because he did not declare a monthly salary , equivalent to $ 2,722 , from a company owned by his son when the veteran leader , who had held power twice in the 1990s , became prime minister for the third time .
sharif denies receiving the salary .
khan has turned the by-election into a plebiscite about corruption , and has accused the provincial punjab government , which is run by nawaz s brother shahbaz , of abusing state resources to help the pml-n campaign .
your prime minister owns some of the most expensive real estate in the world - all in his daughter s name .
meanwhile half the children of this country are malnourished , khan told a rally on saturday .
analysts predict pml-n will win again but they say khan s party would build momentum ahead of the 2018 poll if pti candidate yasmin rashid , a gynecologist from the area , substantially reduces the pml-n s 40,000 vote-winning margin from 2013 .
pti would be very happy if the margin ended up being small .
that would be a victory for them , said hasan askri a political analyst .
many of the 321,633 registered voters in the central lahore na-120 consituency are conflicted .
my head goes towards pti while my heart goes towards pml-n , said ali raza , 25 , a bank employee .
kulsoom and rashid will be competing against about 40 other candidates , including religious parties .
one candidate is backed by a new party that is led by an islamist firebrand who is subject to a $ 10 million bounty offered by the united states .
hafiz saeed heads the jammat-ud-dawa ( jud ) charity , having founded and formerly led the lashkhar-e-taiba ( let ) militant group that carried out the 2008 attacks on the indian city of mumbai that killed 166 people .
the united states has placed saeed , the charity and let on a terrorist list .
( l4n1lv52i ) voting began at 9am ( 0400 gmt ) and the polls are due to close at 5pm , with results likely to be announced after midnight .