moscow ( reuters ) - russia has proposed ending the publication of the names of banks which finance russian state-controlled arms producers , in a possible sign that moscow is preparing for new u.s. sanctions .
the draft law would , if adopted , mean the russian central bank no longer has to publish a list of banks dealing with the arms industry , which included eight lenders as of oct. 1 .
russia s government and the president would be able to include any banks they wanted to in such deals and would no longer publish the criteria for their involvement .
under current regulations only state-controlled or central bank-controlled lenders with capital of not less then 100 billion rubles ( $ 1.7 billion ) may get such contracts .
russian president vladimir putin chaired a meeting on tuesday to discuss building up the country s military .
the u.s. state department last month named 39 russian defense and intelligence-related entities following the signing in august of a new sanctions law by president donald trump to punish moscow after u.s. intelligence agencies concluded it meddled in the 2016 u.s. presidential election , allegations the kremlin has repeatedly denied .
the u.s. law calls on the president to impose sanctions on anyone he identifies as having engaged in a significant transaction with a person that is part of , or operates for or on behalf of , the defense or intelligence sectors of the russian government ..
the action does not itself impose new sanctions , and determinations will be made on a case by case basis , state department officials said in october .
banks on the list include state-controlled majors sberbank , vtb and russian agriculture bank , along with private-owned rossiya and gazprombank , in which gas producer gazprom holds a stake .
sberbank has proposed establishing a special bank to finance russia s military industry as a means of side-stepping the sanctions , three sources familiar with the talks told reuters .
sberbank declined to comment .