brussels ( reuters ) - nato accused russia on thursday of misleading the alliance over the scope of its war games last month in violation of rules meant to reduce east-west tensions , but moscow said nato was stirring up anti-russian propaganda .
at a meeting with russia s ambassador to the u.s.-led alliance , alexander grushko , nato envoys said that moscow had given conflicting accounts of the exercises known as zapad , or west , in belarus , the baltic sea , western russia and its kaliningrad outpost , diplomats said .
nato ambassadors pressed their message home at a meeting with grushko at the nato-russia council , a forum that was effectively suspended months after moscow annexed the crimean peninsula in march 2014 , but now meets regularly again .
russia s defense ministry said the war games included some 12,700 troops and ran from sept. 14 to sept 20 , with a fictional scenario focusing on attacks by militants .
nato says there were far more troops than 12,700 and they simulated an attack on the west during august and september .
saying they are concerned that large-scale , unannounced exercises could accidentally trigger a conflict in eastern europe between nato and russia , western allies have pressed moscow to be clear about its military exercises and to invite more observers .
the number of troops participating in the exercises significantly exceeded the number announced before the exercise , the scenario was a different one and the geographical scope was larger than previously announced , nato secretary general jens stoltenberg told reporters after the meeting .
under a cold war-era treaty known as the vienna document , which sets out rules for exercises , war games that number more than 13,000 troops should be open to observers who can also fly over the drills and allow them to talk to soldiers .
nato did send one expert to a visitor day in russia and two experts to a visitor day in belarus .
nato diplomats say moscow massed some 100,000 troops from the arctic to eastern ukraine , where russia backs separatists , and used ballistic missiles and electronic warfare to test its combat capability in europe .
grushko said nato s assessment was wrong and nato was wrong to lump all the exercises going on in russia last month under the zapad name .
nato countries are counting all the military activities that took place in the russian federation and counting them as part of zapad , he told a news conference after the meeting .
we don t accept the propaganda about the russian exercises , grushko said .
it was an unprecedented propaganda attack , he said .
some western officials have expressed concern that parts of the baltic states , which have large ethnic russian minorities , could be seized by moscow , much as russia took control of ukraine s crimea in 2014 .
however , stoltenberg said that russia had withdrawn its troops from belarus after the zapad exercises .
baltic countries had feared moscow might leave them on nato s borders .