kampala ( reuters ) - south sudanese soldiers are passing through the territory of neighboring uganda to launch assaults against rebels , raising the risk of the civil war spilling over into neighboring east african countries , south sudanese rebels and witnesses said .
the four-year-old conflict in oil-rich south sudan , the world s newest country , has created africa s biggest refugee crisis since the 1994 rwandan genocide , displacing nearly a third of its 12 million citizens .
more than one million have sought refuge in uganda .
in the latest development , rebel spokesman lam paul gabriel said government soldiers from the sudan people s liberation army ( spla ) crossed into uganda at the border post of nimule on friday .
they drove through the ugandan towns of moyo and koboko before crossing back into south sudan s yei river state , he said .
the ugandan military and the spla both denied any incursions by spla troops in uganda kaya , a town on yei river 10 km ( 6 miles ) from the ugandan border , was the site of fighting between the military and rebels on saturday that left 19 people dead , including an american journalist .
a reuters journalist in uganda saw three spla pickup trucks loaded with uniformed soldiers wearing red berets driving in the direction of kaya on friday .
another eyewitness in the ugandan border town of moyo told reuters he saw trucks with men in south sudanese military uniforms moving through the town on friday morning .
ugandan military spokesman brigadier richard karemire denied these accounts : there s absolutely no foreign military on ugandan soil .
we don t allow that .
colonel santo domic chol , a spla spokesman , also denied troops had passed through ugandan territory .
south sudanese soldiers have been passing through northwest uganda to reach rebel-held territory , residents there say .
the route allows them to avoid poor roads and rebel blockades .
in june , men wearing south sudanese military uniforms launched town raids in a hamlet over the border in uganda and stole cattle , in the first reported attacks on ugandan soil since the start of south sudan s civil war .
gabriel said they did not believe the ugandan government had officially allowed the south sudan military to use its territory but blamed individual officials for colluding with south sudan .
it will spoil relations between us , he said .
what the ( uganda ) government needs to do is to crack down on those individuals .
uganda deployed its military in south sudan to back president salva kiir shortly after the war begun , in late 2013 .
ugandan troops only withdrew after a regionally-brokered 2015 peace deal collapsed within months .
on wednesday , ugandan state-owned paper new vision reported the country had beefed up security on its south sudan border .
ugandan military spokesman karemire denied the story .