prague ( reuters ) - czech ano party leader andrej babis said on tuesday he expected his minority cabinet to take power on dec. 13 which would enable him to attend a european union summit as prime minister .
after meeting president milos zeman , babis said he had not yet secured backing for his cabinet in the lower house of parliament , where ano has 78 out of 200 seats and other parties have so far rejected joining or backing babis s administration .
lacking any direct left-right ideology , babis won the october election on pledges to cut corruption among mainstream parties , fight immigration and make government more efficient and pro-business .
i convinced mr president for an earlier date for appointing the cabinet , on dec.13 , because on dec. 14 and 15 the european council will take place which will obviously be very important , babis told reporters .
the progress of negotiations with great britain over its departure from the eu will be the main topic of the summit .
babis said zeman would appoint him on dec. 6 as prime minister , and his full cabinet on dec. 13 , from which date the new team will take power regardless whether it has parliamentary majority .
the main sticking point for babis , a businessman ranked by forbes as the second richest czech worth $ 4 billion , is that police want parliament to lift his immunity so he can be charged with illegal tapping of an eu subsidy a decade ago .
he denies any wrongdoing but the case has made him toxic for most of the other eight parliamentary factions .
a parliamentary vote on his immunity is expected in the coming weeks .
lack of mainstream partners has raised the prospect babis may negotiate support with the anti-nato , pro-russian communist party and the far-right freedom and direct democracy party ( spd ) , which wants to quit the eu , nato and fight what it calls eu-forced islamisation .
babis has repeatedly said he is ready to clash with eu partners over migration but also praised the eu s role as guarantor of peaceful europe and said he was a pro-european politician .
if the government loses a confidence vote prescribed within a month of its appointment , it must resign but it will stay in office until another solution is found , which can take months .