paris ( reuters ) - emmanuel macron on sunday said he was a president of all french , dismissing opponents criticisms that his policies favor the rich while urging his countrymen to adopt a more positive attitude toward success .
in his first months in power , macron has defied street protests to loosen france s labor laws , moved to scrap the wealth tax and cut housing aid .
his sometimes forthright style has forced him to fend off accusations that he holds the working class in contempt , but macron said he was a leader who would keep saying things as they are .
the 39-year-old , whose election win sidelined france s mainstream political parties and tore apart the country s traditional left-right divide , sought to reassure left-wing voters in his first live tv interview since taking office in may .
we re taking care of the france where things aren t going well , macron said .
i m doing what i said i would do during the election campaign .
macron angered unions last week with comments he made during a visit to a car parts factory , saying workers protesting over job losses should look for work at a nearby plant rather than kicking up a bloody mess .
he said that reforms to overhaul france s unemployment insurance and professional training systems , which will be discussed in the next few weeks , would help the most in need while encouraging social mobility and merit .
macron , whose popularity has slumped since his election , said the aim of scrapping the wealth tax was to help to retain talent in france and encourage the wealthy to invest .
for our society to get better , we need people who succeed .
we shouldn t be jealous of them , we should say : fantastic , he said .
but the move has prompted opponents to label the former investment banker president of the rich .
he s not president of the rich , he is president of the super rich , those who funded his campaign , right-winger nicolas dupont-aignan said .
left-wing daily liberation said on its monday front page macron was brandishing individual success like a mantra under the headline : succeed , bloody hell !
, in a reference to his comments at the car parts factory .
in the more than hour-long interview at the elysee palace that focused on his domestic agenda , macron also said his economic reforms would start bearing fruit within two years .
unemployment is currently falling .
you ll see the full effect of the reforms currently carried out by the government in 1-1/2 to two years , he said during the campaign , macron promised to lower france s stubbornly high unemployment rate to 7 percent by the end of his mandate from near double digits .
on the international front , he said that despite disagreements with u.s. president donald trump over iran and climate change , he would continue to work with the billionaire .
i constantly talk to the american president , because it s my duty , he said .
it s the right way to do it because he is the head of the top power so it s necessary to anchor him to this partnership and multilateralism .
on iran , he said he would go to tehran in due time , but added : we must be more stringent with iran on its ballistic activity , the missiles it shoots and which are not nuclear and iran s action in the region .