21st century wire says this is a bit of an oddity as far as ted talks go investigative journalist trevor aaronson actually delivers a ted presentation which calls out the fbi for being the party responsible for creating the majority of so-called domestic terror and islamic terror busts in the us since 9/11.just this week , the fbi are boasting of a high level domestic extremist terror bust of a militia group in kansas , but when you read the fine print of the case , it features several fbi confidential informants , no doubt helping to egg-on and steer their prey into a preconceived trap.21wire has been saying this for years , and it s refreshing to see what is normally a bland , mainstream talking shop like ted actually allow a speaker to present a real anti-establishment subject like this one.in truth , the fbi s shady record in this area stretched back well before 9/11 , when fbi informants ( under fbi supervision ) helped to organize the 1993 world trade center bombing .
despite this , idiotic mainstream media and politicians in the us still claim that the 1993 wtc event was linked to al qaeda .
note : the following speaker trevor aaronson claims that both the boston bombing and the attempted times square car bombing .
this statement is very likely to be incorrect .
it has already been confirmed that the fbi s lead suspect in boston , tamerlan tsarnaev was being active recruited by the fbi for at least two years prior to the event in question , as well as being associated with a cia front org called the jamestown foundation .
similarly , the alleged times square bomber , faisal shahzad , appeared to have fled to pakistan with a handler who has connections to the cia and mi6 .
otherwise , we welcome this topic raised by journalist aaronson.brasscheck tvguess who is behind more terrorist incidents in the us than al-qaeda , al-shabaab and isis combined ? the fbi and when given the change to set the record straight , they don t dispute it.as law enforcement scams go , this is one of the most reprehensible .
the fbi finds mentally ill people , puts ideas into their heads , works up plans for them and then gives them the money to carry them out an then arrests them for terrorist plots.they then declare victory in the war on terror .
domestic anti-terrorism efforts cost $ 100 billion a year or $ 1 trillion per decade.and you , your kids and grand kids pay for all this in the form of a reduced standard of living to make sure this useless anti-american scum get nice big paychecks and bloated tax-payer guaranteed pensions for their years of service .
watch : .
read more daily shooter news at : 21st century wire daily shooter files