when will american citizens stop being afraid to stand up and speak out against the politically correct thugs of the left ? a new black lives matter textbook will soon be available to middle school and high school classrooms.according to the publisher s description , black lives matter covers the shootings that touched off passionate protests , the work of activists to bring about a more just legal system , and the tensions in u.s. society that these events have brought to light .
abdo publishing specifies that the book was written for sixth graders through high school students , and says the textbook is aligned to common core standards and correlated to state standards .
until now , no authoritative text designed to teach non-black children about historical-structural inequalities productive of anti-black violence in u.s. law and society has been made available for commercial consumption , reads a review in the feminist wire .
parents as well as teachers eager to teach middle and/or high school students about the routine vulnerability and terror generative of the rejoined , black lives matter , will find an invaluable resource in this special report .
conservative radio commentator larry elder weighed in on fox and friends over the weekend .
[ the textbook ] is indoctrinating young kids , teaching them black people are victims , elder said.he argued that the movement would be better off addressing black-on-black crime .
if the black lives matter people are really concerned , they ought to say something about the fact that last year 6,000 blacks shot other blacks , and far and away the number one cause of preventable death for young black men is homicide , he added .
the textbook was co-authored by missouri journalist sue bradford edwards and duchess harris , a professor of american studies at macalester college in minnesota .
harris is also the author of black feminist politics from kennedy to obama and a co-editor of racially writing the republic : racists , race rebels , and transformations of american identity .
black lives matter is part of abdo publishing s special report series of books that aim to help readers develop an essential understanding of current events and encourage them to form their own opinions .
there are a total of eight titles in the special report series , including ebola outbreak , isis , and transgender rights and issues .
via : red alert politics