( reuters ) - the director of democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton ’ s asian american and pacific islander outreach efforts is leaving the campaign for a position with the colorado democrats , a campaign official said on saturday .
the departure of lisa changadveja comes ahead of democratic nominating contests in states with the highest proportion of asian american voters , like washington later this month and california in june .
“ she was an instrumental part of helping build our aapi program and those efforts will continue with events over the next few weeks , ” campaign spokeswoman xochitl hinojosa said in an email to reuters .
“ the campaign is expected to announce a new director of aapi outreach very soon. ” changadveja had announced her departure to campaign supporters in an email dated march 18 , saying she had “ tremendous faith in the campaign ’ s commitment and ability to continue engaging our community as we move through the rest of the primary and prepare for the general election. ” “ i will be leaving hillary for america as i have recently accepted a new job at the colorado democratic party , ” she said in the email , seen by reuters .
changadveja did not immediately return requests for comment .
minority communities have been key voting blocs for the clinton campaign , helping her rack up wins over bernie sanders , the u.s. senator from vermont who is her main rival for the democratic nomination to the nov. 8 presidential election .
asian americans and pacific islanders form about 6 percent of the u.s. population , a figure that does not include people of mixed race , according to the u.s. census bureau .
they make up nearly 15 percent of the population of california , which holds its nominating contest in june , and around 9 percent of the state of washington , which holds its democratic caucus on march 26 .
asian americans have also been among the fastest-growing ethnic groups in the united states , on occasion outstripping the growth in the latino population , according to the census .
a study by the university of california , los angeles last year found that the asian-american electorate will double to 12 million voters by 2040 .
changadveja joined the clinton campaign in september , according to her linkedin page .
she previously served as the lgbtq and aapi director for ready for hillary , a super pac that supported a clinton run for the presidency , according to the page .