jerusalem ( reuters ) - an israeli cabinet minister said on friday the phrasing of u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital suggested an openness to eventual palestinian control of part of the city , though he predicted israel would oppose this .
trump s announcement reversed decades of u.s. policy , angering the arab world and alarming western allies .
but he also said washington was not laying down a position on final-status issues including boundaries of israeli sovereignty in jerusalem , which the two parties would have to decide in negotiations .
israel has long deemed jerusalem its eternal , indivisible capital .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a state they seek on land israel took in a 1967 war .
its eastern sector is laden with jewish , muslim and christian holy sites that inject deep religious sensitivities into the dispute over sovereignty .
in his speech on wednesday , trump did not include words echoing israel s traditional description of jerusalem .
asked about this , minister zeev elkin said : i think that his leaving this out of the speech was premeditated .
he even hinted that borders in jerusalem will also be set as a result of negotiations , which presupposes an option of partition , said elkin , who holds the jerusalem affairs portfolio in prime minister benjamin netanyahu s government .
elkin was referring to trump s caveat that the new u.s. decision on jerusalem did not constitute taking a position of any final-status issues , including the specific boundaries of israeli sovereignty in jerusalem , or the resolution of contested borders .
those questions are up to the parties involved , added trump , who said washington still wanted israelis and palestinians to agree on a two-state solution for peace .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson echoed those remarks on friday .
with respect to the rest of jerusalem the president ... did not indicate any final status for jerusalem .
he was very clear that the final status , including the borders , would be left to the two parties to negotiate and decide , tillerson told reporters in paris .
like other world powers , and in keeping with u.n. security council resolutions since the 1967 war , washington had long held off on recognizing any sovereignty in jerusalem , one of the most treacherous issues in the middle east conflict .
elkin said he would have been happy had trump described jerusalem as israel s united capital .
but he played down any possibility of partition , saying trump s administration would only pursue the idea if the netanyahu government consented .
this is a very , very important factor , and i currently have no doubt that israel would not agree .
ultimately , in actuality , this is what matters , elkin said in his remarks , carried by tel aviv 102 fm radio .
trump spoke of jerusalem as the capital the jewish people established in ancient times ( and ) the seat of the modern israeli government , with freedom of worship for all faiths .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas responded angrily , saying washington had abdicated its role as peace mediator and deeming jerusalem a palestinian , arab , christian and muslim city , the eternal capital of the state of palestine .
abbas used the arabic term al quds , which he has generally qualified to refer to east jerusalem rather than the whole city .
in three public statements welcoming the u.s. move , netanyahu has not asserted jerusalem s indivisibility under israel - heretofore stock rubric for him , as for previous prime ministers .
a netanyahu spokesman did not immediately respond to a reuters query about the seeming omission .
israel s ambassador to the united states , speaking before the trump announcement , appeared to acknowledge that - in the eyes of foreign mediators , at least - jerusalem being the israeli capital may not rule out palestinian sovereignty there .
every single peace plan that s ever been put down has jerusalem be a capital of israel , ron dermer told politico on dec. 4 .
there have been other peace plans that have suggested it be capital of two states , which is a separate issue .
israel annexed east jerusalem after capturing it .
but world powers and the united nations have not recognized israeli sovereignty over the entire city , saying it must be negotiated by israel and the palestinians , whose last peace talks collapsed in 2014 .
no other country has its embassy in jerusalem .
thousands of palestinians protested in a day of rage on friday in the occupied west bank , gaza and in east jerusalem against trump s move on the ancient city .