washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama on tuesday sought a surge in funding to counter cyber security threats , as his top intelligence official warned congress that computer attacks were among the most imminent security challenges facing the united states .
in his fiscal 2017 budget proposal , obama asked for $ 19 billion for cyber security across the u.s. government , an increase of $ 5 billion over this year while the white house ’ s overall fiscal plan faces tough going in the republican-controlled congress , increased cyber security funding has won bipartisan support of lawmakers in the past .
the request comes as the obama administration has struggled to address the growing risk posed by criminals and nation states in the digital world .
in congress , obama ’ s director of national intelligence , james clapper , warned that cyber threats “ could lead to widespread vulnerabilities in civilian infrastructures and u.s. government systems. ” the obama initiative calls for a more than one-third increase from the $ 14 billion appropriated this year and would include $ 3.1 billion for technology modernization at various federal agencies .
cyber threats are “ among the most urgent dangers to america ’ s economic and national security , ” obama said in a wall street journal op-ed published on tuesday .
the request for a cash infusion is the latest signal that the white house intends to make cyber security a priority in the last year of obama ’ s presidency .
it follows a series of high-profile hacks against the government and companies like sony pictures ( 6758.t ) and target ( tgt.n ) that were largely met with legislative inaction and administrative uncertainty on how best to address evolving cyber threats .
those difficulties played out publicly last year when the office of personnel management announced it had fallen victim to a hack that lifted sensitive information on roughly 22 million individuals from its databases .
the white house issued an executive order setting up a presidential commission on cyber security , which would make recommendations for strengthening defenses over the next decade .
a new position of federal chief information security officer also would be established .
a government watchdog report last month concluded the government ’ s cyber defense system , known as einstein , is ineffective at combating hackers .
obama also signed another executive order creating a permanent federal privacy council , which aims to connect privacy officials across the government to develop comprehensive guidelines for how personal data is collected and stored .
the president ’ s budget proposal also called for $ 62 million to expand efforts to attract and retain qualified cyber professionals working for the government .