bogota/cartagena , colombia ( reuters ) - pope francis on sunday pays homage to the social justice legacy of one of his role models , saint peter claver , who ministered to slaves in colombia in the 1600s , defying spanish colonial masters who treated them as chattel .
francis wraps up his five-day trip with a stop in cartagena , the walled caribbean port city that was a gateway for the slave trade in the new world .
there , he is expected to hammer home his message that colombia needs to address social inequality as it struggles to nurture a fledgling peace process to end a 50-year civil war .
the spanish-born claver , who died in 1654 , is revered throughout latin america , particularly by fellow jesuits like francis , for his groundbreaking work with the era s poor and marginalized .
claver begged his jesuit superiors in spain to send him to cartagena so he could minister to the victims of the brutal trans-atlantic slave trade , where african captives were bought and sold in colonial cartagena s cobblestone streets .
he boarded slave ships that arrived with their human cargo , distributing food on board and later ministering to the sick and dying in huts along the beach .
francis , who has made defense of the poor and downtrodden a major plank of his papacy , was greatly influenced by claver s story from the days when he was a young jesuit seminarian in his native buenos aires .
there are a lot of similarities that resonate with pope francis and this young , latino jesuit who has this transformative encounter with the poor , said father sean salai , a jesuit priest and author of a book about the saints who influenced francis .
through their encounter with the poor , both men moved into more of a direct relationship with god s people , salai said in a phone interview from his base in san antonio , texas .
in a letter he called himself the slave of the slaves forever , and this encounter with the poor transformed him , much like pope francis , who gave up on the idea of doing a doctorate in theology to be closer to the people , salai said .
while cartagena s colonial historic district is colombia s top tourist destination , the city , like much of the country , has deep socioeconomic and racial divisions .
poor afro-colombian street vendors sell coral and pearl jewelry , coconut milk and tropical fruits to tourists on the steps of the church named after claver and where his remains are kept behind glass in the altar .
francis will pray before the remains , bless participants in two charity programs and visit a home where today s jesuits help some 300 members of the city s poor afro-colombian community .
i came to receive the pope s blessing , to hear him , said liney galindo , 32 , from northern barranquilla .
may god enlighten him to bring a message of forgiveness , reconciliation , and wisdom to us .
francis also will meet homeless people and young girls in a church program to prevent child prostitution in a city where young people are often victims of sex tourism and exploited by well-off locals and foreigners .
cartagena s archbishop , jorge jimenez , hopes the pope s presence will boost the programs .
we need to be able to expand , because here those problems are really big , jimenez said in an interview .