melilla , spain ( reuters ) - in a winding early-morning queue , jemaa laalaoua hunches over with 50 kg ( 110 lb ) of kitchenware on her back , waiting to cross back into morocco from the spanish enclave of melilla .
the 41-year-old mother of eight is one of thousands of moroccans who eke out a living by walking loads of merchandise from melilla into the northern moroccan province of nador .
goods including metal kettles that laalaoua was carrying are counted as personal luggage and are not taxed , allowing for a small mark-up when they are shipped on and sold on across morocco .
on average , i earn about 70 dirhams ( $ 7.40 ) per trip , carrying anywhere between 40 to 70 kg , says laalaoua .
but most days , we never know how much we will make .
the work is backbreaking and fraught with risk .
some traders have died in stampedes through the tight border crossing .
we say our prayers in the morning and brace for the day , not knowing if we will come out dead or alive , laalaoua says .
she lifts undergarments to display bruises on her leg from a spanish civil guard s truncheon .
she says she was beaten for attempting to advance towards the front of the queue .
no one from the civil guard in melilla was available to comment .
when laalaoua finally gets through the narrowly caged border crossing , she weaves through the crowd to drop off her cargo inside the bustling beni ansar market , before rushing back to a melilla warehouse where she will load up for her last trip of the day .
locals with an address in the nador province are allowed to cross through into melilla without a visa , but can not spend more than a day in the spanish enclave .
they can cross for five hours a day , four days a week .
in total , there are between 30,000-40,000 crossings daily , according to the spanish border police .
the practice has been going on for decades .
before , it was dominated by single mothers known locally as mule women , who struggled to make a living elsewhere .
but as unemployment has climbed , the women have increasingly found themselves in competition with young men .
each morning the women report to a boss who tasks them with transporting an assigned quantity of goods , coordinating with warehouse owners and shippers .
by 5 a.m. crowds of hundreds swell to thousands , as people wait for spanish guards to open the border gates .
male traders fight and women shout and scream as the jostle for a place in the crush .
most manage to make two or three crossings before the border shuts again .
the merchandise spans everything from simple household goods such as towels , toilet paper , and soap , to illicit wares including alcohol and plastic bags , which have been banned in morocco since last year .
laalaoua lives nearly 27 km ( 17 miles ) from the border , waking up at 2 a.m. to prepare for her commute , by foot then taxi or bus .
her husband mohammed zoubah , 57 , fell ill six years ago , forcing laalaoua to become the primary breadwinner .
she s strong , she s protecting this household , he says .
may god bless her with patience .