marawi city , philippines ( reuters ) - prayer mats , chequered scarves , black fatigues , and bullet-ridden walls mark the hideout where the emir of islamic state in southeast asia spent months preparing the most brazen and devastating militant attack in the region .
a four-storey house in a quiet alley of marawi city in the southern philippines was the secret lair of isnilon hapilon until late may .
after a botched military raid to apprehend him , a thousand-strong rebel alliance held large parts of the city for five months .
hapilon s death in a military operation elsewhere in marawi on oct. 16 was the catalyst for the end of philippines longest and most intense urban battle in recent history .
security forces moved in on the house on may 23 , trying to capture the country s most wanted man , but came under sustained attack from rebels firing rocket-propelled grenades .
a bomb-battered structure , shattered windows and wall-to-wall holes from machine gun fire tell the story of the ferociousthree-day battle that erupted at hapilon s hideout , and promptedthe call to hundreds of fighters to expedite the plannedtakeover of marawi .
hapilon escaped through a large hole that was blasted out of a rear wall , making his way across a rice field to a mosque next to the vast lake lanao .
from there , he joined the guerrillas .
community volunteers on thursday showed reuters the house in the now empty , narrow street where the military believes hapilon had lain low for several months .
all other properties were intact and neighbors had fled long ago .
at the time , no one knew who these people were .
people saw them about but there was no reason to suspect anything , said mohammed seddick raki , who lived nearby .
other volunteers said women and children stayed at the rented house and visitors were frequent .
children s shoes were scattered amid the debris and a woman s robe was hanging from a window .
inside the house , black shirts , pants and plaid scarves synonymous with islamic state were strewn across rooms littered with broken floor tiles and chunks of rock from blasted walls .
left behind were waterproof boots , a balaclava , medical supplies and camouflage bags and waistcoats typically used by soldiers to carry rifle magazines .
coated in a think layer of dust on floors of every room were pocket-sized copies of the koran , some with pages stained by water leaked through gaping holes in the roof .
a mosque , about 100 meters behind the house , was the venue for an annual gathering in marawi of tablighi jamaat , a sunni missionary movement , just days before the fighting erupted .
military officials say the foreigners who fought in hapilon s alliance - among them indonesians , malaysians and some from arab states - had used that event as a cover to slip into marawi without raising suspicion .
the deputy task force commander in marawi , colonel romeo brawner , said hapilon evaded security forces because rebels had a network of lookouts and gunmen ready to defend him .
they put up heavy resistance .
they were spread across a large area .
they were strategically placed , he said .
they were prepared for it .
hapilon s escape in the last week of may led to anarchy in the city of about 200,000 .
rebels took hostages , set fire to buildings , ransacked churches , broke into the local jail to free inmates and looted an armory .
the government had insufficient security forces in marawi to prevent the fighters from fanning out across the city and seizing hundreds of buildings .
hapilon was wanted by the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) and had a bounty on his head of up to $ 5 million .
he was killed by army rangers in a night operation and his body was retrieved from the battle zone in the heart of the city .
his identity was confirmed by the fbi s dna analysis .
the city of marawi was all but destroyed by government air strikes and shelling that leveled commercial areas and crushed thousands of shops , homes and vehicles .
no one could have known what would happen , said mohamed faisal mama , a resident in the same basak malutlot district where hapilon was hiding .
no one knew them .
they weren t famous then .