brussels ( reuters ) - the european union is set to impose an arms embargo on venezuela and will consider further sanctions in response to the political crisis in the south american country , two eu diplomats said .
the measures will bring the eu more into line with the united states , which imposed sanctions earlier this year , and they signal a change of tone in brussels , which had previously resisted taking a tougher approach toward caracas .
the steps were approved today , paving the way for approval ( by the bloc s foreign ministers ) next monday , an eu diplomat said , adding that the ministers backing was a formality .
spain has long pushed for sanctions on those close to president nicolas maduro , whom washington accuses of installing a dictatorship , but the eu has been divided over whom to target , while britain is a significant arms supplier to venezuela .
diplomats said the turning point for eu governments was regional elections that appeared to favor maduro s ruling socialists last month .
polls had suggested the opposition would easily win a majority but in the end it won only a handful of governorships , according to the pro-government electoral board .
however , the decisions taken by eu ambassadors at a meeting on wednesday only prepare the legal basis for sanctions , without any names .
travel bans and asset freezes would only be imposed on venezuelan officials should the evolution of the situation require it , a second eu diplomat said .
once approved , the arms embargo will be accompanied by a ban on exports of equipment that could be used for internal repression and of surveillance equipment , the diplomats said .
critics said it was hypocritical for the bloc to target venezuela while european countries sold weapons to saudi arabia .
the idea of imposing an arms embargo on venezuela while refusing to impose one on saudi arabia is beyond parody , not least because of saudi arabia s murderous assault on yemen , which has created one of the worst humanitarian catastrophes in the world , said u.s. philosopher and activist noam chomsky .
but it is easily understandable on the assumption that principles and values are intended for oratorical flourishes , while what matters is tens of billions of dollars in arms sales , chomsky said in an email to reuters .
saudi arabia intervened militarily in yemen s civil war starting in 2015 , attacking houthi militia and loyalists of a former president said to be supported by iran .
the war has killed more than 10,000 people .