21st century wire says here s a classic case of problem , reaction , solution how far will the federal government go to dismantle the us constitution ?
back in 2000 , the establishment rigged the us presidential election and made florida and its notorious pregnant chads the centerpiece of that artificial controversy .
predictably , the public reaction is outrage .
suddenly , there are calls nationwide for electronic voting as the solution to the old inefficient paper ballot system.now that electronic voting is all-pervasive in the us , the next problem becomes cyber security which the government is referring to as the next burning national security issue.enter the relatively new and prohibitively expensive department of homeland security ( dhs ) , which ironically ( or not ) was created by one george w. bush a president who was installed into power not by the popular vote , but by a dubious supreme court decision in that very same 2000 us presidential election .
now dhs head and obama appointee jeh johnson , is nudging towards the idea of the domestic military force taking over the election process .
johnson claims that us elections are part of the country s vital infrastructure and therefore it must be under the control of an already bloated federal agency.what is wrong with a decentralized , traditional paper ballot system ?
if you are in the business of fixing elections , the answer is simple : paper is too difficult , sloppy and complicated ... to hack.it s no coincidence at all that this latest power-grab by the federal government comes immediately after a mainstream conspiracy theory that russia was somehow behind this week s election database hack in arizona ( once again , putin did it ) .
no proof has been offered by either politicians or media anchors presently parroting this latest sensational plot.looking back , we can see now that years of excessive lobbying by washington insider firms eager tosecure lucrative contracts by implementing a myriad of fatally flawed electronic voting systems was not a mere accident of nature .
it was designed for this very police state end-run we see now.the only problem is that this would be unconstitutional , but does this government really care about constitutional law ? not when you are erecting a police state barbara hollingsworth cns newshomeland security secretary jeh johnson s suggestion that state and local voting systems be designated as pieces of critical infrastructure so that the u.s. department of homeland security ( dhs ) can protect them from hackers is unconstitutional and would create a dangerous precedent , legal experts said .
the department of homeland security does not have the legal authority to interfere with states election systems without their permission , university of california/berkeley school of lawprofessor john yoo told cnsnews.com .
while the federal government has the general power to protect the nation s cyber infrastructure , it can not intrude into areas of state sovereignty without clear constitutional mandate .
article i , section 4 of the constitution recognizes the authority of the states to regulate the times , places , manner of elections , subject to congressional regulation .
as far as i am aware , congress has not clearly decided to regulate the information systems of state electoral systems or delegated this authority to dhs , yoo noted continue this story at cns newsread more police state news at : 21st century wire police state files