firebrand conservative ann coulter exposed delta airlines who gave away a seat she had to pay extra for in order to accommodate her very long legs.conservative columnist ann coulter flew into a fit of fury saturday after delta airlines booted her from her reserved comfort+ seat which comes with 3 additional inches of legroom and gave it to another passenger.in a two-hour tweeting tantrum , she quoted her exchange with a flight attendant : why are you taking me out of the extra room seat i specifically booked ?
she asked.their answer , she said , was i don t know .
here s an example of one of coulter s tweets exposing delta airlines for giving her pre-paid seat with extra legroom away to a shorter passenger : suckiest @ delta moved me from my pre-booked seat & gave it to some woman , not elderly , child , or sick .
i have pictures so don t lie , @ delta !
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017ann coulter isn t the only person fed up with the shrinking seats on commercial airlines .
taller passengers are tired of traveling with their knees into their chest or being forced to sit sideways to accommodate their longer legs .
and we haven t even discussed the limited room in seats for people who may be a little wider in the caboose .
it appears that the federal government has decided to step in and flex their muscles , as they attempt to control decisions private airlines make about the size of their seats.is it the government s job to determine how much space commercial airlines designate for their customers ? a federal judge has ordered the federal aviation administration to review seat sizes and legroom on commercial airlines.it s a victory for flyers rights , an advocacy group that has pushed for new rules regulating seat sizes.flyers rights says small airlines seats can put people s health at risk with conditions like blood clots in legs.they also say the average size of the seat itself has shrunk , along with space between the one behind.according to a report by business insider , the major airline that has the most space between seats is jetblue , with 34 inches apart.the airline that boasted the least room was spirit , with 28 inches between seats.delta air lines and american airlines were in the middle , with 31 inches between seats .
virgin america and southwest had 32 inches , according to the report .
cbs minnesota