yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s civilian president htin kyaw , a close ally of government leader aung san suu kyi , has authorized the police to proceed with a case against two detained reuters reporters accused of violating the country s colonial-era official secrets act , a senior government spokesman said .
journalists wa lone , 31 , and kyaw soe oo , 27 , were arrested last tuesday evening after they were invited to dine with police officers on the outskirts of myanmar s largest city , yangon .
the ministry of home affairs has already submitted the case to the office of the president , zaw htay , spokesman for aung san suu kyi , said by phone late on sunday .
he added that the president s office had given approval for the case to go ahead .
zaw htay could not be reached on monday to clarify whether htin kyaw or suu kyi had been personally involved in the decision , or if other officials had signed off on the president s behalf .
suu kyi , head of the ruling national league for democracy ( nld ) , is barred from the presidency under a constitution written by the military .
but she effectively runs the country in the role of state counselor .
approval from the president s office is needed before court proceedings can begin in a case brought under the official secrets act .
section 13 of the act states : no court shall take cognizance of any offense under this act unless upon complaint made by order of , or under authority from , the president of the union .
a number of governments , including the united states , canada and britain , and united nations secretary-general antonio guterres , as well as reuters editor-in-chief stephen j. adler and a host of journalists and human rights groups have criticized the arrests as an attack on press freedom and called on myanmar to release the two men .
zaw htay said the journalists legal rights were being respected .
your reporters are protected by the rule of the law , he said .
all i can say is the government can guarantee the rule of law .
but two senior figures in the nld on monday joined the criticism of how the two men are being treated .
nyan win , a member of the nld s central executive committee and one of suu kyi s defense lawyers during her years of house arrest under junta rule , said it was unfair that the families of wa lone and kyaw soe oo were not allowed to contact them or be told where they are being held .
he said the police were being very secretive and called for openness , although said the nld was unable to do anything about the issue as it was not being kept informed .
although an nld-led civilian government took office in april last year the police and home ministry , which are driving the case , remain under the control of the military .
win htein , another senior figure in the nld , who was also critical of the journalists detention , suggested they had probably been set up by the police .
in my opinion this is a trap , he said .
they met with two policemen and then they were arrested somewhere else with the documents .
police lieutenant colonel myint htwe , of the yangon police division , had no comment when asked about the criticism of the men s detention .
asked on mizzima television what he would do for the detained journalists , information minister pe myint said : when i know all the facts of the current case , i will work to do what i can .
pe myint is a former editor of the people s age in yangon and was wa lone s boss when the journalist worked at the paper in his first job as a reporter .
the two journalists had worked on reuters coverage of a crisis that has seen an estimated 655,000 rohingya muslims flee from a fierce military crackdown on militants in western rakhine state .
the ministry of information said last week that they had illegally acquired information with the intention to share it with foreign media , and released a photo of the pair in handcuffs .
it said they were being investigated under the 1923 official secrets act , which carries a maximum prison sentence of 14 years .
the ministry said at the same time that two policemen , police captain moe yan naing and police sergeant khin maung lin , had also been arrested under the same act .
no details have been released on whether a case against them is also proceeding .
the authorities have not allowed the journalists any contact with their families , a lawyer or reuters since their arrest .
the international commission of jurists ( icj ) called on the authorities to immediately disclose the whereabouts of the pair .
all detainees must be allowed prompt access to a lawyer and to family members , said frederick rawski , the icj s asia-pacific regional director , in a statement on monday .
authorities are bound to respect these rights in line with myanmar law and the state s international law obligations .
police told wa lone s wife on thursday that the reporters were taken from htaunt kyant police station in north yangon to an undisclosed location by an investigation team shortly after their arrest .
they added the reporters would be brought back to the station in two to three days at most .
it is now six days since they were detained and there has been no further update on their whereabouts .
lieutenant colonel myint htwe and a second senior officer , lieutenant colonel min han of the criminal investigation department , said on monday they did not know where the journalists were being held .
you don t need to worry for their safety , said lt col myint htwe .
the investigative team will proceed according to the law .