geneva ( reuters ) - a united nations human rights panel called on the russian federation on monday to step up prosecutions of racist attacks by ultra-nationalists and neo-nazis and of hate speech by politicians .
russian authorities must intensify measures to vigorously combat racist behavior in sports , particularly in football , and ensure that sports regulatory bodies investigate manifestations of racism , xenophobia and intolerance , the u.n. committee against racial discrimination ( cerd ) said .
fines or administrative sanctions should be imposed for such cases .
the panel , referring to the upcoming ( 2018 ) world cup , expresses its concern that racist displays remain deeply entrenched among football fans , especially against persons belonging to ethnic minorities and people of african descent .
russia has pledged to crack down on racism and fan violence as it faces increased scrutiny before hosting the world cup finals next summer .
russian premier league champions spartak moscow and rivals dynamo moscow were each fined 250,000 rubles ( $ 4,250 ) over fans racist behavior , the russian football union ( rfu ) said last month .
the 18 independent experts , who reviewed russia s record and those of seven other countries at a session that ended on friday , issued their findings on monday .
igor barinov , head of the federal agency for ethnic affairs of the russian federation , told the panel on aug. 4 that moscow had taken measures against the propagation of racist ideas .
russia consistently combats the glorification of nazism - made a crime in 2014 - the propaganda of nazi ideas and attempts at racial hatred or discrimination , he said .
in 2016 , officials had identified 1,450 extremist crimes , 993 had been sent to court and 934 people were found guilty , he said .
the u.n. panel said violent racist attacks had decreased in recent years , but added : violent racist attacks undertaken by groups such as neo-nazi groups and cossack patrols , targeting particularly people from central asia and the caucasus and persons belonging to ethnic minorities including migrants , the roma and people of african descent , remain a pressing problem .
it called for an end to de facto racial profiling by the police , decrying arbitrary identity checks and unnecessary arrests .
racist hate speech is still used by officials and politicians , especially during election campaigns , and remains unpunished , it said , recommending investigations .
russia still lacks anti-discrimination legislation and the definition of extremist activity in its federal law remains vague and broad , it said .
regarding crimea , seized by russia from ukraine in 2014 , the panel voiced concern at the fate of crimean tatar representative institutions , such as the outlawing of the mejlis , the crimean tatar s semi-official legislature , the closure of several media outlets , and allegations of disappearances , criminal and administrative prosecutions , mass raids , and interrogations .