just when you didn t think the trump campaign could sink any lower , it does .
twitter lit up on wednesday evening , because it appears that lawmakers from numerous countries have been being spammed with emails from the trump camp begging for campaign donations .
none of them are too happy about this .
first , british mp s tweeted out their frustrations and outrage regarding this , and many referenced the horrifying nature of donald trump s campaign trail rhetoric .
australian parlimentarian tim watts tweeted the fact that it was mp s from bunches of countries that were on the receiving end of the trump fundraising email assault to tpm s josh marshall : @ joshtpm @ patrickruffini from what i can see , every australian mp too .
even the left wing ones # imwithher tim watts mp ( @ timwattsmp ) june 29 , 2016can you give us just roughest sense of how many youve received ?
5 ?
10 ?
25 ?
50 ?
https : //t.co/qzok0vv0aq josh marshall ( @ joshtpm ) june 29 , 2016after that , joanne ryan , also of the australian parliament , tweeted the following and indicated she would be deleting : @ timwattsmp maybe it 's a westy thing .
me too .
just what i need popping up in the inbox .
# swiplefttodelete joanne ryan mp ( @ joanneryanlalor ) june 24 , 2016it s not just british and australian mp s either .
parliament members from iceland , denmark and finland report the same .
@ jensschott @ joshtpm yes pic.twitter.com/2cj6mo8hmx ida auken ( @ idaauken ) june 29 , 2016 .
@ joshtpm @ tpm spam mail also received by mp : s in finland .
anders adlercreutz ( @ adleande ) june 29 , 2016they are also angering our canadian friends with this begging spam as well , and former canadian prime minister kim campbell tweeted : rec 'd a fundraising email from trump campaign !
says it is their first .
aside from fact i am cdn , clearly they do n't follow me on twitter ! 1/2 kim campbell ( @ akimcampbell ) june 21 , 2016trump fundraising letter said it wd match funds if i donated w/in 48 hours- ( and wd give me a big discount on the brooklyn bridge !
) 2/2 kim campbell ( @ akimcampbell ) june 21 , 2016it seems that team trump did not heed the week s earlier warnings from uk officials to cease and desist with the email spam .
several lawmakers in the united kingdom tweeted their aggravation .
the best , though was from natalie mcgarry , who actually took the time to respond to donald trump , jr. , who it seems sent the email .
she was kind enough to tweet images of both the email and her absolutely awesome response : may be donald trump bought lists bizarre for grassroots campaign but how does he opt out of foreign donations ?
pic.twitter.com/jvwfdfni6u natalie mcgarry mp ( @ nataliemcgarry ) june 27 , 2016mcgarry said , in part , to trump : quite why you think it appropriate to write emails to uk parliamentarians with a begging bowl for your father s repugnant campaign is completely beyond me .
given his rhetoric on migrants , refugees and immigration , it seems quite extraordinary that he would be asking for money ; especially people who view his dangerous divisiveness with horror .
boom !
the fact that this was the response that mini trump received when he dared to beg for money from foreign leaders should have been a cue to cease and desist .
instead , they expanded the effort to multiple other countries .
it also bears noting that it is illegal for other foreign lawmakers and other political types to donate to u.s. elections .
further , it is also a violation of the law to solicit such donations as well .
trump has already been issued with a federal elections commissions complaint over this activity.trump s campaign is pathetic , but this is a new low .
do the world a favor and leave this race , mr. trump .
you re an embarrassment to americans on the world stage.featured image via ralph freso/getty images