barbra streisand was an obama sycophant and one of the corrupt clinton s most loyal fans .
she is also part of the hollywood liberal resistance movement .
much like rosie o donnell , kathy griffin , and literally hundreds of overpaid celebrities , barbara streisand is obsessed with tweeting about how much she hates president trump .
it s streisand s latest tweet that has conservatives calling her out for her complete and utter stupidity .streisand tweeted : collusion or no collusion , @ realdonaldtrump should be impeached for sheer stupidity .
collusion or no collusion , @ realdonaldtrump should be impeached for sheer stupidity .
barbra streisand ( @ barbrastreisand ) december 30 , 2017twitter users wasted no time destroying the has been entertainer.this tweet suggested her music and acting awards should be recalled due to the sheer stupidity of the recipient.i can think of a lot of oscars , emmy s , tony s and grammy s that should be recalled due to sheer stupidity of the recipient .
particularly this one : https : //t.co/f4ktzlsoqa annemarie ( @ bulliegirl1959 ) december 30 , 2017dan bongino suggested that talent aside , streisand should be mocked for failing constitutional basics 101.singing or no singing @ barbrastreisand should be mocked for failing constitutional basics 101. https : //t.co/eefkkiytob dan bongino ( @ dbongino ) december 30 , 2017 mike truly schooled streisand when he explained to her , you can t impeach a president , because of your feelings , barbra .
you ca n't impeach a president , because of your feelings , barbra .
https : //t.co/vsmuw223pi mike ( @ fuctupmind ) december 30 , 2017barbra got destroyed in one powerful image reminding her that impeachment requires an actual crime pic.twitter.com/bbw1ley9hn chach malone ( @ chachmalone ) december 30 , 2017ouch !
rita replied to barbra that she used to be a fan , but no more .
she even took it a step further , and let barbra know that she was now on her boycott list ! ! !
i was a fan of you ! ! !
now you are on my boycott list ! ! !
rita reisch afd ( @ rita_reisch ) december 30 , 2017finally , this twitter user refers to barbra streisand as a has been vs the president.there ya go ! !
a has been vs the president beaner ( @ cwhitam ) december 30 , 2017