these videos , by james o keefe and friends at project veritas bust the corrupt nature of hillary clinton s campaign , the democratic party and the underbelly of their operations wide open .
james o keefe has taken a sledge hammer to this well-organized criminal machine .
if american voters are not shocked to the core by the level of corruption used to elect hillary , they no longer have a conscience .
watch bob creamer admit to undercover agent for project veritas that obama is trying to make america more like gun-free britain at the 15 min .
mark.bob creamer on obama : he s a pro i do a lot of work with the white house on their issues , helping to run issue campaigns that they ve been involved in like immigration reform campaigns , for the health care bill , for the ah to try to make america more like britain on gun issues .
in the effort to prove the credibility of the undercover donor featured in the videos and to keep the investigation going , project veritas action made the decision to donate twenty thousand dollars to robert creamer s effort .
project veritas action had determined that the benefit of this investigation outweighed the cost .
and it did .
in an unexpected twist , aufc president brad woodhouse , the recipient of the $ 20,000 , heard that project veritas action was releasing undercover videos exposing aufc s activities .
he told a journalist that aufc was going to return the twenty thousand dollars .
he said it was because they were concerned that it might have been an illegal foreign donation .
project veritas action was pleased but wondered why that hadn t been a problem for the month that they had the money.one of the key figures in o keefe s report is convicted felon and husband of rep. jan schakowsky ( d-il ) , robert creamer who oversaw a check-kiting scheme so elaborate that his employees followed a written manual complete with detailed instructions on when and where to float checks totaling millions of dollars.as it turns out , convicted felon robert creamer was a frequent visitor of the white house .
between 11/21/2009 and 6/24/2016 , robert creamer appears to have visited the white house 342 times , 340 times as robert creamer and twice as bob creamer .
he logged in times and was either a guest of barack obama or his lovely wife michelle .
one can only wonder what business michelle had with this criminal .
hmmm