geneva ( reuters ) - syria s opposition must accept that they have not won the six-and-a-half year war against president bashar al-assad , u.n. peace talks mediator staffan de mistura said on wednesday .
de mistura suggested the war was almost over because many countries had got involved principally to defeat islamic state in syria , and a national ceasefire should follow soon after .
the main rebel-held area , the city of idlib would be frozen .
for the opposition , the message is very clear : if they were planning to win the war , facts are proving that is not the case .
so now it s time to win the peace , he told reporters .
asked if he was implying that assad had won , he said pro-government forces had advanced militarily , but nobody could actually claim to have won the war .
victory can only be if there is a sustainable political long-term solution .
otherwise instead of war , god forbid , we may see plenty of low intensity guerrilla ( conflicts ) going on for the next 10 years , and you will see no reconstruction , which is a very sad outcome of winning a war .
de mistura plans to join ceasefire talks in the kazakh capital astana next week , which he said should help resolve the fate of idlib , a city of 2 million where rebels designated as terrorists by the united nations are gaining influence .
i am confident ... there will be a non-conflictual solution - let s say not a new aleppo , that s what we want to avoid at any cost , if we have learned from the past , he said , referring to the greatest battle and humanitarian crisis of the war .
if that takes place idlib may become frozen in a way in order to avoid becoming a major tragic end to the conflict .
meanwhile islamic state was facing imminent defeat in its two main zones of influence - in the city of raqqa and around the city of deir al-zor .
the fact is that deir al-zor is almost liberated , in fact it is as far as we are concerned liberated , it s a matter now of a few hours .
raqqa s fall would follow within days or weeks , leading to the moment of truth for a round of negotiations in october .
since early 2016 , de mistura has overseen a tortuous series of peace talks in geneva that has made almost no visible progress .
he said the next round could see an accelerated and more pragmatic approach .
the issue is : is the government , after the liberation of deir al-zor and raqqa , ready and prepared to genuinely negotiate and not simply announce victory , which we all know , and they know too , can not be announced because it won t be sustainable without a political process ?
will the opposition be able to be unified and realistic enough to realize they did not win the war ?