hillary came out with a heavily edited tv ad yesterday , calling trump s ability to be a role model into question .
here is the video : really hillary ?
you re worried about trump being a role model ?
here are few of hillary s greatest hits that have been revealed by those closest to her while either acting as our first lady or in some capacity as a public servant .
* * * strong language warning * * * * 1 ) where is the god damn flag ?
i want the god damn fucking flag up every morning at fucking sunrise .
hillary to staff at the arkansas governor s mansion on labor day 1991 .
from the book inside the white house by ronald kessler , p. 244 ( 2 ) fuck off !
it s enough i have to see you shit-kickers every day !
i m not going to talk to you , too !
just do your goddamn job and keep your mouth shut .
hillary to her state trooper bodyguards after one of them greeted her with good morning .
from the book america evita by christopher anderson , p.90 ( 3 ) if you want to remain on this detail , get your fucking ass over here and grab those bags !
hillary to a secret service agent who was reluctant to carry her luggage because he wanted to keep his hands free in case of an incident .
from the book the first partner p. 25 ( 4 ) stay the fuck back , stay the fuck back away from me !
don t come within ten yards of me , or else !
just fucking do as i say , okay ! ! ?
hillary screaming at her secret service detail .
from the book unlimited access by clinton s fbi agent-in-charge , gary aldridge , p.139 ( 5 ) where s the miserable cock sucker ?
( otherwise known as bill clinton ) hillary shouting at a secret service officer .
from the book the truth about hillary by edward klein , p. 5 ( 6 ) you fucking idiot hillary to a state trooper who was driving her to an event .
from the book crossfire ~pg .
84 ( 7 ) put this on the ground !
i left my sunglasses in the limo .
i need those fucking sunglasses !
we need to go back !
hillary to marine one helicopter pilot to turn back while in route to air force one .
from the book dereliction of duty p. 71-72 ( 8 ) come on bill , put your dick up !
you can t fuck her here ! !
hillary to gov .
bill clinton when she spots him talking with an attractive female .
from the book inside the white house by ronald kessler , p. 243additionally , when she walked around the white house , no one was permitted to look her in the eye , they all had to lower their heads with their eyes towards the ground whenever she walked by .
clearly she is a class act ! this ill-tempered , violent , loud-mouth , hateful and abusive woman wants to be your next president , and have total control as commander-in-chief of our military , the very military for which she has shown incredible disdain throughout her public life .now it will be clear why the crew of marine one helicopter nick-named the craft , broomstick one via : truthfeedas an added bonus we ve included a clip from an interview that was filmed in africa.hillary shows her true colors when a female student speaking broken english accidentally refers to barack obama as mr. clinton .
her overreaction to this woman s innocent error shows what really happens when you unintentionally displease the queen of the democrat party watch here