a fresno state university professor was recently caught on camera scrubbing pro-life message off of the sidewalk and encouraging several of his students to do the same.here is gregory thatcher s profile on the fresno state college website .
we thought we d post it before they take it down .
his contact information is listed below , if you d like to have a respectful free speech discussion with him .
the whole idea of free speech is that we have a free speech area on campus , kay ?
professor gregory thatcher erroneously declares in a video recorded by the school s students for life chapter .
free speech is free speech in the free speech area .
it s a pretty simple concept , okay ?
this does not constitute a free speech area , okay ?
he and his students go on to argue that it is within their own first amendment rights to actively remove the pro-life messages from campus , and in one instance thatcher claims that since the pro-life group has permission to put it down he has permission to get rid of it .
this is our part of free speech .
do you disagree with our part of free speech ?
thatcher asked while erasing one of the club s messages , after which he proclaimed that college campuses are not free speech areas .
the alliance defending freedom ( adf ) has since filed a lawsuit against thatcher on behalf of the students for life chapter at fresno state , arguing that his efforts to intimidate and harass members of the student for life chapter violated their fundamental right to free speech .
* * * warning * * * the video you are about to see will make your blood boil .
it s pretty hard to watch a full grown man employed by fresno college sending female students out to do his dirty work .
it s even harder to watch the way he aggressively approaches this young female pro-life student , while arrogantly explaining to her that he has the right to deny her free-speech in america fresno state students for life received full permission to chalk pro-life messages near the library .
rather than countering with his own message , dr. thatcher took the illegal approach of censoring speech and inciting students to help in this , kristan hawkins , president of students for life of america , remarked in a press release , claiming that no student should have to endure this kind of intimidation and harassment for simply expressing their views .
for entire story : campus reform