the mother of the 19 year old immigrant blames the murder of the wwii veteran , and the brutal beating of his wife on the violence their son was exposed to in an ethiopian refugee camp .
unfortunately for the 97 year old wwii veteran and his wife , this immigrant family found a safe place in the united states < sarcasm > a des moines man who beat an elderly neighbor to death was sentenced monday in a polk county court.last month , a judge found ngor makuey , 20 , guilty of first-degree murder .
makuey broke into the home of rupert and harriet anderson and attacked the couple , killing rupert with a metal spatula .
via : kcci des moine moments before an elderly man was killed and his wife beaten , the 19-year-old accused killer asked his parents for permission to go for a walk .
when he came home he had blood on his clothes .
now police are trying to figure out why a teen who has never been in trouble with the law could be accused of such a horrible crime.in a desperate plea for help , 94-year old harriet anderson called 9-1-1 after she and her husband were attacked in their home here on east 46th street wednesday evening .
somebody got in the house and attacked me and my husband and i m all bloody .
and i m an old woman , mrs. anderson told the dispatcher .
and i m on the floor and my husband s been hit in the head .
the horrific 911 call can be heard here : help would come too late .
anderson s husband , 97-year-old rupert anderson , a wwii veteran , died after the attack.minutes after police arrived , 19-year-old suspected killer ngor makuey walked past the police car of one of the responding officers with blood on his sweatshirt .
the police car s dash camera caught a shot of makuey .
it was shown to neighbors and he was arrested .
police say what makes this case so disturbing , there didn t seem to be a motive for the attack , and makuey has no criminal history .
zero history .
i mean zero .
there s nothing until last night , said des moines police sergeant jason halifax , ( he ) knocked on the door , and i think the initial request was something about a pet .
no known connection between him and a pet .
we don t believe he has a pet or had a pet there at any time .
she made some comment about what the hours of the business are and then the assault begins .
makuey was found at his parents home about a block away from the andersons .
he in charged with murder and attempted murder .
makuey is not a us citizen .
his parents , who immigrated to the us from ethiopia 12-years ago , think their son is innocent.the 19 yr old ethiopian s mother apparently has a little trouble with the truth : i never seen that kid get in trouble with somebody else , said makuey s father , jinud ruath .
he s a very respectful child .
and he never disrespects anyone .
i ve never seen him get in a fight with other people .
via : whotvmakuey s attorney used the insanity defense during the trial , but witnesses say they saw no signs of mental illness.makuey received a sentence of life in prison plus two years sentence for count 2 as well as ordered to pay a restitution of $ 150,000 .
count 2 is assault with intent to commit serious injury .