manila ( reuters ) - philippine teenager kian loyd delos santos told friends he dreamed of becoming a policeman after graduating from high school .
last week , plain-clothes policemen dragged the 17-year-old to a dark , trash-filled alley in northern manila , shot him in the head and left his body next to a pigsty , according to witnesses whose accounts appeared to be backed up by cctv footage .
the killing has electrified the philippines , sparked multiple investigations and galvanized what had previously been limited opposition to president rodrigo duterte s war on drugs .
thousands of people have been killed since he took office 14 months ago .
police said they shot delos santos in self-defense after he opened fire on officers during an anti-drugs operation .
but there was outrage when the cctv footage emerged showing two officers marching a figure , subdued and apparently unarmed , toward the spot where the youth s body was later found .
three officers , who police say have been confined to quarters in a manila police camp , are now defending their actions in a senate inquiry that began on thursday .
they maintain delos santos fired at them .
the teenager s parents and the philippines public attorney s office , a government legal aid agency , have filed murder charges against the policemen at the justice department .
let us allow the formal criminal investigation to proceed and not rush into conclusion or judgment .
let us allow the personnel involved to have their day in court and defend themselves , philippines national police spokesman dionardo carlos said when asked about the case .
reuters journalists spoke to at least two dozen witnesses , friends and neighbors of delos santos in manila s caloocan area about his killing .
they said he was a kind , popular teenager who liked to joke around and didn t drink or do drugs .
he was too poor to own a gun , they said .
we no longer have our joker , said one of his friends , sharmaine joy adante , 15 .
she said delos santos had wanted to join the police so that his mother , who works in saudi arabia , could afford to live in her own country .
nearby , at the entrance to his family s tiny home , delos santos lay in an open coffin .
among the tributes placed on its lid was a crumpled playing card - a joker - and a live chick to symbolically peck away at the conscience of his killers .
some locals said they feared reprisals from the police for speaking out and asked reuters to withhold their second names .
it was after 8 p.m. on august 16 when erwin lachica , 37 , a welder , said he saw three men in civilian clothes enter the area on two motorbikes .
all three had handguns tucked into their waistbands , he said .
lachica recognized them as officers from previous police operations in the neighborhood .
they were later identified as arnel oares , jeremias pereda and jerwin cruz .
according to a police report issued a day after the killing , when the teenager saw officers approaching , he immediately drew a weapon and shot at them .
oares , who led the operation , returned fire and killed him , it said .
it was dark , he fired at us , pereda told the senate inquiry this week .
we knew it was a gun , there was a loud sound .
we saw a gleam of light .
police have cited self-defense as the pretext for killing more than 3,500 people in drug-war operations since duterte came to power .
lachica had a different version of events .
he said delos santos was standing outside a shop when the men grabbed him , and then slapped and punched him until he started crying .
no gunbattle took place , he said .
he was saying he was innocent , he was not a drug addict , added lachica , who said the men put delos santos in a headlock and dragged him away .
cctv footage from a neighborhood security camera shows two men marching someone , his head bowed , through a nearby basketball court .
a third man follows .
the officers told the senate that they were indeed in the video but were bundling away an informant , not delos santos .
multiple witnesses , however , told reuters they recognized the youth .
one of those witnesses was victor , a teenage student , who said he knew delos santos because he lived in the neighborhood .
he said the men hustled delos santos across the basketball court and down a path to the filthy , flood-prone tullahan river .
victor dared not follow .
we were very scared , he recalled , his eyes filling with tears .
delos santos life ended in a dark nook next to a disused pigsty by the river .
a few paces away , a 39-year-old construction worker called rene was eating dinner with his two daughters in his home .
first , said rene , he heard shouting - a man ordering residents to stay inside their houses - then two bursts of gunfire , perhaps 10 shots in all .
we hid under the table , he said .
we didn t even peek out the window .
three other residents told reuters they heard between seven and nine shots .
others said they heard nothing at all : manila slums are seething , raucous places , where even gunfire can be drowned out .
autopsies by the police and the public attorney s office disagreed on the number of gunshot wounds delos santos sustained , but pathologists for both told the senate that he was kneeling when shot .
you are not allowed to kill a person that is kneeling down begging for his life .
that is murder , duterte said in a speech on wednesday .
duterte s supporters have taken to blogs and social media to express support for the police and raise doubts about delos santos innocence .
but the killing appears to have kindled grave concerns among the public because of the age of the victim and because the video supported witness accounts of his killing .
it has also fueled longstanding public anxiety about the drug war s brutal methods , and could generate wider opposition to a campaign whose critics have so far been largely limited to priests , activists , lawyers and a handful of prominent politicians .
still , duterte remains popular , said ramon casiple , executive director of the manila-based institute for political and electoral reform .
it s not really a tipping point , he said .
but duterte is vulnerable .
his popularity will take a hit .
delos santos death was the culmination of a spike in killings across the philippines main island , luzon .
that same night , police shot dead at least 28 people in manila during multiple operations to crack down on drugs and crime .
two nights before that , in bulacan province , just north of the capital , police killed 32 people .
some rights activists saw the upsurge as a government bid to regain credibility lost after duterte s recent admission that no president could solve the drug problem in a single term .
he had originally vowed to end it within six months of taking office .
many critics question the drug war s focus on killing petty users and dealers from poor communities , rather than nabbing the kingpins who supply them with crystal meth , a highly addictive stimulant known locally as shabu that officials blame for high crime rates and other social ills .
in a speech this week , duterte said he had told his police chief to jail the officers involved in the delos santos killing until an inquiry was conducted .
he also vowed to continue the drug war .
if you want , shoot me .
but i will not change my policy , he said later .
presidential spokesman ernesto abella told reuters that there were lessons to be learned from the events .
kian s case is a wake-up call for the need to reform government institutions , even law enforcement agencies , he said .
for a graphic on death of a schoolboy , click : here