erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi kurds are expected to vote for independence in a referendum on monday that neighboring countries and western powers fear could break up the country and stir broader regional ethnic and sectarian conflict .
kurdish flags - a red , white and green tricolor emblazoned with a golden sun - adorn cars and buildings across the semi-autonomous kurdish region of northern iraq , and billboards announce : the time is now - say yes to a free kurdistan !
massoud barzani , president of the kurdish region since 2005 , has resisted calls by the united nations , the united states and britain to delay the referendum .
neighboring turkey is holding army exercises on the iraqi border to underline its concerns that the referendum could fuel separatism among its own kurds .
turkish prime minister binali yildirim said on live television on friday the vote posed a threat to turkey s national security and that ankara would do what is necessary to protect itself .
he did not elaborate .
but hoshyar zebari , a senior advisor to barzani , struck a defiant tone , telling reuters : this is the last five meters of the final sprint and we will be standing our ground .
many kurds see the vote , though non-binding , as a historic opportunity to achieve self-determination a century after britain and france divided the middle east under the sykes-picot agreement .
that arrangement left 30 million kurds scattered over iran , turkey , syria and iraq .
zebari said delaying the vote for negotiations with baghdad without also securing guarantees that it could then be held on a binding basis would amount to political suicide for the kurdish leadership and the kurdish dream of independence .
the referendum raises most risk of ethnic conflict in the oil city of kirkuk , which lies outside the recognized boundaries of the kurdish region and is claimed by baghdad .
its population includes arabs and turkmen but it is dominated by kurds .
turkey has long claimed a special responsibility in protecting ethnic turkmen .
some of iraq s turkmen are shi ite and affiliated to political parties close to iran .
we expect those who are against the referendum to cause trouble but we are determined not to engage in any kind of violence , we don t want to give them any excuse to intervene or to question the validity of the vote , zebari said .
tensions between the kurdish regional government ( krg ) and baghdad hinge on oil revenue the kurds see as the mainstay of a future kurdish state .
the kurds have long accused baghdad of withholding budget payments to the region , while baghdad has opposed oil deals made by the kurds without its consent .
a regional conflict could threaten oil supply from kurdish and northern iraqi fields to world markets , carried through a pipeline to turkey .
already at least one kurd has been killed in pre-referendum clashes in kirkuk , and security checkpoints have been erected across the city to prevent further violence .
the baghdad government , iraq s neighbors and western powers fear the vote could break up a country that has seen devastating sectarian and ethnic conflict since a 2003 u.s.-led invasion to topple saddam hussein .
for independence we must pay any price needed because we prefer freedom over subordination or oppression , barzani told a rally on friday in erbil , adding that kurdish peshmerga fighters had earned the right to self-determination by battling islamic state .
they praise peshmerga sacrifices but don t let peshmerga and our martyrs families decide their destiny , he said as tens of thousands cheered and waved kurdish flags .
we reaffirm to the un security council that our fight against terror will continue , he said , dismissing concerns that the vote would undermine the drive - which requires cooperation with arabs - to crush islamic state militants .
the militants have now been driven from their northern iraqi stronghold of mosul but are still dug in near kirkuk and are also operating across the border in syria .
any conflict around kurdish northern iraq could have ramifications across the middle east , not least in syria , turkey and iran .
ankara , baghdad and tehran agreed on thursday to consider counter-measures against the kurdish plans .
turkey , which has developed close commercial and political ties with the region , especially in the area of energy , has also threatened to impose sanctions .
condemning the vote as provocative and destabilizing , the united states has urged renewed negotiations .
this followed a week of escalating rhetoric between kurdish leaders and baghdad , where the parliament voted to reject the referendum .
though the general mood seems in favor of independence , many , especially non-kurds , told reuters they questioned the wisdom of holding a referendum now .
we have always lived peacefully and don t want problems , said karima attiyah , an elderly arab woman who has spent her whole life in kirkuk .
i don t support the referendum .
barzani has been a powerful force for more than two decades where the north has been spared the turmoil that has affected much of the rest of iraq .
older generations of iraq s kurds suffered during saddam hussein s 1980s anfal campaign , and want to see their struggle for national independence come to fruition .
( our fathers and mothers ) think it s a betrayal not to vote yes , said muhammed , a researcher from sulaimaniyah who is in his 30s .
their sons and relatives were killed by the baghdad government in the past and they think the referendum is one way to [ take ] revenge .
more than 5.2 million people are registered to vote .
the first electronic ballot for kurds living abroad was cast overseas in china , according to the kurdistan high elections and referendum commission , which is administering the vote .