washington ( reuters ) - the united states is quietly pursuing direct diplomacy with north korea , a senior state department official said on tuesday , despite u.s. president donald trump s public assertion that such talks are a waste of time .
using the so-called new york channel , joseph yun , u.s. negotiator with north korea , has been in contact with diplomats at pyongyang s united nations mission , the official said , at a time when an exchange of bellicose insults between trump and north korean leader kim jong un has fueled fears of military conflict .
while u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson on oct. 17 said he would continue diplomatic efforts ... until the first bomb drops , the official s comments were the clearest sign the united states was directly discussing issues beyond the release of american prisoners , despite trump having dismissed direct talks as pointless .
there is no sign , however , that the behind-the-scenes communications have improved a relationship vexed by north korea s nuclear and missile tests , the death of u.s. university student otto warmbier days after his release by pyongyang in june and the detention of three other americans .
word of quiet engagement with pyongyang comes despite trump s comments , north korea s weapons advances and suggestions by some u.s. and south korean officials that yun s interactions with north koreans had been reined in .
it has not been limited at all , both ( in ) frequency and substance , said the senior state department official .
among the points that yun has made to his north korean interlocutors is to stop testing nuclear bombs and missiles , the official said .
north korea this year conducted its sixth and most powerful nuclear detonation and has test-fired a volley of missiles , including intercontinental ballistic missiles ( icbms ) that , if perfected , could in theory reach the united states mainland .
the possibility that pyongyang may be closer to attaching a nuclear warhead to an icbm has alarmed the trump administration , which in april unveiled a policy of maximum pressure and engagement that has so far failed to deter north korea .
at the start of trump s presidency , yun s instructions were limited to seeking the release of u.s. prisoners .
it is ( now ) a broader mandate than that , said the state department official , declining , however , to address whether authority had been given to discuss north korea s nuclear and missile program .
in beijing , foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said china welcomed any dialogue between the united states and north korea .
we encourage north korea and the united states to carry out engagement and dialogue , hua told reporters , adding that she hoped talks could help return the issue to a diplomatic track for resolution .
nato chief jens stoltenberg has urged all united nations members to fully and transparently implement sanctions against north korea , which he said has emerged as a global threat .
speaking at the united nations on sept. 19 , trump vowed to totally destroy north korea if it threatened the united states or its allies , raising anxieties about the possibility of military conflict .
twelve days later , after tillerson said washington was probing for a diplomatic opening , trump said on twitter that his chief diplomat was wasting his time trying to negotiate with little rocket man - his mocking nickname for the north korean leader .
democratic u.s. senators introduced a bill on tuesday they said would prevent trump from launching a nuclear first strike on north korea on his own , highlighting the issue days before the republican s first presidential trip to asia .
a high-ranking north korean defector said in washington on tuesday that he backed the trump administration s policy of pressuring pyongyang through sanctions , coupled with maximum engagement with the leadership and increased efforts to get information into north korea to educate its people .
i strongly believe in the use of soft power before taking any military actions , thae yong ho , chief of mission at pyongyang s embassy in london until he defected in 2016 , told the center for strategic and international studies .
the new york channel is one of the few conduits the united states has for communicating with north korea , which has itself made clear it has little interest in serious talks before it develops a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the continental united states .
the last high-level contact between yun and the north koreans was when he traveled to north korea in june to secure the release of warmbier , who died shortly after he returned home in a coma , the state department official said .
the trump administration has demanded north korea release three other u.s. citizens : missionary kim dong chul and academics tony kim and kim hak song .
warmbier s death was a factor in the chilling of u.s.-north korean contacts around that time but the biggest impact came from pyongyang s stepped-up testing , the official said .
the official said , however , that the preferred endpoint is not a war but some kind of diplomatic settlement and suggestions that washington is setting up a binary choice for pyongyang to capitulate diplomatically or military action were misleading .
diplomacy , the official said , has a lot more room to go .
but trump s threats against north korea are believed to have complicated diplomatic efforts .