berlin ( reuters ) - the premiers of two regions where the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party made big gains in sunday s national election warned that chancellor angela merkel s conservatives must change course to stop the former east germany s rightward drift .
merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) suffered big losses across much of germany in the election , in which the afd , with its anti-immigration message , became the first far-right party in the national parliament in over half a century .
the calls for a rightward shift add to the challenge merkel faces as she tries to assemble an already tricky three-party coalition including the left-wing greens , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and her own increasingly fractious party .
prospects for a three-way pact nonetheless improved on saturday when the greens voted at a special congress to start exploratory talks on a deal despite reservations about the other parties harder-line immigration policies .
the afd s surge prompted soul-searching within the conservative camp , with many blaming merkel s 2015 decision to open the doors to over a million migrants fleeing war and poverty in the middle east and africa for the far-right s surge .
the conservative premiers of saxony , where the afd topped polls , and of saxony anhalt called for the cdu to move to the right to stem the losses .
people want germany to stay germany , said stanislaw tillich , premier of saxony , in an interview with the funke newspaper network .
they don t want parallel societies and rising criminality .
rainer haseloff , premier of saxony-anhalt , echoed this , telling newspaper die welt : people want to know how germany will preserve its identity .
these calls align the two influential state leaders more closely with the cdu s bavarian sister party , the christian social union ( csu ) , which wants a hard immigration ceiling .
while both premiers stuck to merkel s line that a firm upper limit would be impractical , their calls for the state to take a firmer hand with immigrants could strengthen the csu s hand as the sister parties attempt to thrash out a common position ahead of coalition talks with the fdp and greens .
some warn that a black ( cdu ) -yellow ( fdp ) -green jamaica coalition , risks heightening a sense of alienation among voters in the former east germany .
given the losses all three parties had suffered in the east , a jamaica coalition would be seen as a west german coalition in the east , green mp canan bayram said .
but merkel , in a podcast released on saturday , warned against treating germany s poorer east as a homogenous bloc .
we see these fears of globalisation , of anonymity , about old-age care everywhere , including in the west , she said .
we have to get people listening , to win people over by solving their problems .
that s my task .