brussels ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump sent top u.s. officials to europe with a familiar warning from washington that allies must spend more on defense , this time with the ultimatum “ or else ” .
but europeans have tried to deflect the threats with the argument that a commitment to security is not just about spending targets , which diplomats said that u.s. officials did not challenge , suggesting that the stand-off will continue .
“ things look very different if we add up our defense budgets , our development aid budgets and our humanitarian efforts all around the world , ” european commission president jean-claude juncker told the munich security conference last week .
by current standards , washington funds about 70 percent of nato spending .
standing beside u.s. vice president mike pence on monday at the commission , juncker called for another measure of what counts .
“ we want ... a broader understanding that the word ‘ stability ’ in the world means defense expenditure , human aid and development aid , ” said juncker the eu ’ s chief executive , adding he was against europeans being “ pushed into ” the targets .
allies who do not meet nato targets to spend 2 percent of gdp on military budgets set out to show pence and defense secretary jim mattis how europeans are dealing with crises they trace back , in part , to the u.s. invasion of iraq in 2003 .
“ france has a readiness to deploy that is hard to match .
spain was leading nato ’ s new spearhead force last year .
italy is in afghanistan , ” said one senior european nato diplomat .
“ that isn ’ t already reflected by spending targets. ” while germany says trump has a point about europe ’ s drop in defense spending since the fall of the soviet union , berlin and the european commission also say washington should take note that the eu is the world ’ s biggest aid donor , spending some 56 billion euros ( $ 58.99 billion ) a year .
the united states spends about 1 percent of its federal budget on foreign aid , or about $ 50 billion , but that also includes running diplomatic missions and giving academic grants , according to the u.s. state department .
the european union says most of its aid goes to the world ’ s poorest countries .
germany deserves recognition for the 30 to 40 billion euros ( $ 32 to $ 42 billion ) it is spending to integrate over a million refugees , many of whom were displaced as a result of failed western policy , foreign minister sigmar gabriel said .
at a nato summit in wales in 2014 , months after russia ’ s annexation of ukraine ’ s crimean peninsula , allies agreed to end years of defense cuts that left europeans without vital capabilities , such as refueling airborne fighter bombers .
they agreed all allies should reach the target of spending 2 percent of economic output on defense every year by 2024 , although the goal is not legally binding .
it aims to reverse a trend that saw defense research spending in the european union fall by a third , or more than 20 billion euros , since 2006 .
only the united states , britain , poland , estonia and greece met the target in 2016 , although the cuts have stopped and latvia , lithuania and romania are close , nato officials say .
nato ’ s 22 european allies and canada will spend almost 4 percent more , or some 10 billion euros , on defense this year and germany ’ s increases account for some 20 percent of that .
there is no european push to change the nato target and nato officials say the 2 percent target will remain politically useful , if not economically viable .
reaching the 2 percent target could cost nato ’ s european members $ 96 billion per year , according to think tank bruegel .
u.s. governments have been pressing europeans to increase spending on their armed forces for decades , but trump signaled a much tougher approach , suggesting on the campaign trail to make u.s. support conditional on meeting nato commitments .
he has since given his full support to the north atlantic treaty organization , but complained this month that europeans have “ been very unfair to us ” , for not spending more on defense .
pence maintained the pressure at nato on monday , telling allies they had until the end of this year to show “ real progress ” on spending .
pence cited his spending message as one of the successes of his debut europe trip , diplomats said .
europeans say the biggest issue is how money is spent .
spurred on by britain ’ s decision to leave the european union , germany and france are leading plans to build a so-called european defense union that would allow countries to develop and share military assets together , as well as deploying troops .
collectively the european union is the world ’ s second-biggest military spender .
but fears in britain of an eu army held back collaboration .
governments spent in isolation and missed out on savings worth 25 billion euros a year , according to eu data .
trump ’ s ultimatum is also still “ hypothetical ” , pence said .
asked what if europeans did not spend more , he said : “ i don ’ t know what the answer is to : ‘ or else ’ .
but i know that the patience of the american people will not endure forever. ” ( $ 1 = 0.9493 euros )