rcp in just a few minutes on thursday s edition of hardball on msnbc , host chris matthews compared president trump and his family to saddam hussein and his sons , the ethiopian dictator mengistu haile mariam , italian fascist benito mussolini , and the deposed russian royal family , the romanovs.here s a portion of the transcript : matthews : is it a royal family instead of a democratic or a republican form of government ?
or is it a family running the government ?
is it ivanka and jared and the president sitting around in the white house upstairs ruling the world ? ashley parker : i don t think it s quite that but i think it is run like a family business .
the president and his aides see it publicly and privately and the president s family , his children , especially his daughter ivanka and , you know , jared kushner , they operate with a degree of impunity that does not exist for these other aides .
so , if you look at just jared and tillerson , jared basically emerged as a shadow secretary of state .
you mentioned peace in the middle east .
his portfolio includes not only that , it includes china , it includes mexico , it includes canada and that s just on the foreign policy front .
so , if you re the secretary of state , ambassadors and leaders of foreign nations know that they can directly go to the president s son-in-law and have his ear that deeply undermines you and makes it really difficult for you to do your job.matthews : and then you find out in all these investigations that jared was opening up a tunnel to moscow so he wouldn t have to deal with the state department .
so the son-in-law you know , one good thing mussolini did was execute his son-in-law .
i mean , i m talking about cianofrank bruni : let s be careful here , yeah.much like the vile and repulsive comments made by other leftists in the media or in hollywood , matthews disgusting remarks will be completely ignored by the media , as this type of hateful rhetoric has been deemed perfectly acceptable by their peers , as long as the hate is directed at president trump , his family or his supporters , everything is fair game