varnsdorf , czech republic ( reuters ) - the czech republic and smaller states like it should have a stronger voice in the european union , not brussels officials , the billionaire frontrunner in next month s parliamentary election said .
andrej babis , head of the poll-leading ano party , has been a critic of the eu s migration policy and says prague should not adopt the common currency until the euro zone sorts itself out .
neighboring hungary and slovakia strongly oppose eu plans for migrant resettlement quotas for each member state , calling instead for stronger border controls .
babis has taken a similar tough line on the issue heading into the oct. 20-21 election .
in a campaign trail interview , babis said member states needed more powers at the expense of the bloc s executive , led by european commission president jean-claude juncker .
and he took shots at french president emmanuel macron , who has accused eastern member states of treating the eu like a supermarket .
the heads of government and presidents must have stronger power and not mr juncker , babis told reuters on thursday in varnsdorf , a town on the german border .
mr juncker s ideas are off the mark and that is also why the eu is viewed badly .
( the eu ) is a great project , we certainly need to stay in europe , but we have to play a more active role .
the real solution to the migrant influx was to solve the conflicts driving people to flee their countries .
we will not solve the migration problem without solving problems in libya or syria , he said .
he said brussels could not force member states to accept its policies .
i do not think there is a core europe and that we are on the sidelines , he said .
we need to fight for our czech national interests .
babis s ano party , in a social democrat-led government since 2014 , has a double-digit poll lead , putting him on course to be the next prime minister .
but he is facing possible police charges that he abused eu subsidies almost a decade ago while heading his food , chemicals and media company agrofert .
other parties say babis should not be in the next government if charged .
babis told reuters the investigation was a political ploy , saying there was no reason he should not be in the next government .
the czech republic has enjoyed solid growth in recent years and has the lowest unemployment in the eu .
wages are rising fast and the state posted its first budget surplus for 21 years in 2016 .
babis was finance minister from 2014 until this may .
the businessman , who has placed his assets in a trust fund to meet conflict-of-interest legislation , said the state could be run more efficiently and could help the economy fulfil its potential .
he said it was a paradox that eu states which failed to meet the bloc s rules limiting budget deficits , like france , were not punished .
macron irked eastern states in june by saying countries could not pick and choose which eu rules they followed , referring to clashes including over the policy on migrants .
he is commenting on eastern europe ( but ) should concentrate on france , babis said .
the czech republic pledged when it joined the eu in 2004 to eventually adopt the euro .
babis asked why czechs should be on the hook for greece s debts .
in this moment it is not beneficial .
i certainly don t want the euro , he said .
( for a graphic on the czeck legislative election , click tmsnrt.rs/2vo4hpw )