admitting to the united states something most of the population already knew considering the popular vote went to hillary clinton , donald trump just proved to the nation that he has no principles.he told all of us back in february that he would never settle the trump university lawsuits .
he would never do so out of principle !
trump university has a 98 % approval rating .
i could have settled but wo n't out of principle !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 29 , 2016but , uh oh !
look what just happened ! just in : trump has agreed to settle all 3 trump university cases for $ 25 million , source says .
https : //t.co/kco1gb9ef3 @ aaronkatersky pic.twitter.com/znwlfbmcdn abc news ( @ abc ) november 18 , 2016according to abc news : attorneys for president-elect donald trump have settled all three fraud civil lawsuits against the now-defunct trump university for $ 25 million and no admission of wrongdoing , according to attorneys on both sides .
but you know , you always fork out $ 25 million when you re completely innocent , right ?
c mon now .
he probably settled so there wouldn t be the optics of a president-elect likely being found guilty just before his inauguration .
settling it makes it go away .
it also proves trump to , yet again , be a raging liar , because he did end up settling after all.in fact , trump s lead attorney daniel petrocelli said : we can all put the history behind us and move forward .
that is certainly the view of president-elect trump who looks forward to tackling the problems of our country .
with the trump organization saying they know he would have won but now trump can focus on the nation.oh , what a stand-up guy .
just throwing away $ 25 million for the good of the nation .
yeah .
that s it .
sure.needless to say , a fraud case going into the presidency would not have looked good and now the president-elect can put it behind him , albeit now with no principles .
at least that s what trump said of himself if he settled , which he did , so there you have it.featured photo by zach gibson/getty images