beijing ( reuters ) - china s official xinhua news agency attacked western democracy as divisive and confrontational on tuesday , praising on the eve of a key communist party congress the harmony and cooperative nature of the chinese system .
china s constitution enshrines the communist party s long-term leading role in government , though it allows the existence of various other political parties under what is calls a multi-party cooperation system .
but all are subservient to the communist party .
activists who call for pluralism are regularly jailed and criticism of china s authoritarian system silenced .
in a lengthy english-language commentary , xinhua took aim at the crises and chaos swamp ( ing ) western liberal democracy .
unlike competitive , confrontational western politics , the cpc and non-communist parties cooperate with each other , working together for the advancement of socialism and striving to improve the people s standard of living , it said .
the relationship maintains political stability and social harmony and ensures efficient policy making and implementation .
china s system leads to social unity not the divisions which are an unavoidable consequence of the adversarial nature of today s western democracy , xinhua said .
endless political backbiting , bickering and policy reversals , which make the hallmarks of liberal democracy , have retarded economic and social progress and ignored the interests of most citizens .
xinhua did not name any countries , but state media has previously cited the examples of britain s vote to leave the european union and the election of donald trump as u.s. president as examples of why western democracy is flawed .
when xi jinping assumed office five years ago , his ascendancy gave many chinese hope for political reform , mainly due to his folksy style and the legacy of his father , xi zhongxun , a former reformist vice-premier .
but xi has overseen a sweeping crackdown on civil society , charging or detaining dozens of rights lawyers and activists who authorities say are a threat to national security and social stability .
internet controls have also been tightened .
xi looks set to further cement his grip on power at the once-in-five-years congress that opens on wednesday , promoting key allies and laying out a policy framework for the years ahead .
xinhua said that under the leadership of the party , chinese-style democracy has never been in better shape .
china has absolutely no need to import the failing party political systems of other countries .
after several hundred years , the western model is showing its age .
it is high time for profound reflection on the ills of a doddering democracy which has precipitated so many of the world s ills and solved so few .