i was wondering if i could get a cake that says : gay marriage is wrong .
the tolerant answers that follow this question show the astounding hypocrisy of the left.say that bestiality is wrong or polygamy is wrong and it s not considered hate speech , but if you have the opinion that gay marriage is wrong the whole world jumps up and down screaming racism bigotry and hatred .this is becoming the politically-correct norm , but no matter what one argues , this is suppressing free speech.no one targeted pro-gay bakeries , but gay activists target christian bakeries .
support gay marriage is one christian bakery was sued for refusing to put that slogan on a cake for an event to support the gay agenda .
yet christian bakeries that refuse to make pro-homosexual marriage cakes are getting sued left , right , and center .
they get fined , they get death threats , and they lose their businesses .
this experiment proves beyond doubt that the gay agenda is not just about their freedom to practice a sexual orientation , but the suppression of free speech.to make our case we provided 3 video clips , the third one is a video showing homosexual activists in ireland used the state to force a christian bakery to make a cake with the slogan support gay marriage for a pro-gay marriage event , but he refused which added a tremendous loss to his business .
several christian bakeries were sued in the united states with several who lost their businesses and we said enough is enough.so shoebat.com decided to call some 13 prominent pro-gay bakers in a row .
each one denied us the right to have gay marriage is wrong on a cake and even used deviant insults and obscenities against us .
one baker even said all sorts of profanities against christians and ended the conversation by saying that she will make me a cookie with a large phallus on it.it was all recorded .
it will stun the american people as to how militant and intolerant the homosexual bakers were .
even after we completed our experiment we got a ton of hate messages saying that we were hateful for simply giving them a taste of their own medicine .
they argued that the slogan gay marriage is wrong is not the same thing as support gay marriage as if an opposite view of a view is hateful .
this would mean that the majority of americans who oppose gay marriage are bigoted and hate filled .
support polygamy or polygamy is wrong are views , yet the first which the muslim supports and the second most americans would never support , but both are opinions and are considered free speech.watch what happens when a customer wants to buy a cake for his pro-traditional marriage event : * * * * warning * * * * strong language alert * * * language used by baker to customer on phone is extremely vulgar : https : //youtu.be/ajaror_qtnshttps : //youtu.be/ptgakywihg0the homosexual activist in this third video said you can t choose who you serve , as though he is taking a purely objective position , but when we ask for the reverse of the same message , all of a sudden the saying of you can t choose who you serve , does not apply to us , the christians.our pointhere is our point .
a christian making a homosexual cake with support gay marriage goes against his faith and a homosexual putting gay marriage is wrong goes against his faith as well .
now of course we honor their right to say no , this is not the issue , but what about honoring the christian right to also say no ? conclusionthe big lie of the homosexual agenda is this : they claim that they are only fighting for equality and tolerance.this is false.what then is their agenda ? via : christian patriot