nairobi ( reuters ) - official results from kenya s repeat presidential election on thursday are likely to take several days to collate , election officials told reuters , due to changes in the process to try to make it more transparent .
the supreme court on sept. 1 ordered a repeat of the election after judges annulled the results of an aug. 8 poll , pitting incumbent president uhuru kenyatta against opposition leader raila odinga , due to procedural irregularities .
official results said kenyatta won on aug. 8 by 1.4 million votes , but odinga said the vote was rigged .
odinga has refused to participate in thursday s rerun because he said election officials have not carried out sufficient reforms .
judges criticized the election board for rushing to announce the official results based only on numbers sent from the polling stations , without having the tally forms from all 40,883 polling stations showing the results .
the paper forms are a back-up system meant to help prevent rigging .
the board has up to a week to announce official results .
this time , polling stations will only transmit scanned images of tally forms from polling stations , not numerical results , andrew limo , spokesman for the election commission , said on tuesday .
the scanned images will be posted online .
the election board will collate and publish results by constituency once all polling stations there have reported .
this could take several days in rural constituencies with poor phone networks and far-flung polling stations .
there are 290 constituencies .
without odinga running , kenyatta is the firm favorite to win .
the other six candidates failed to poll more than 1 percent in the august polls ; one has since been disqualified for bankruptcy .
odinga has urged supporters to boycott the ballot and opposition leaders have called for protests on the day of the elections .
the key thing to watch in this election will be turnout , said murithi mutiga , a senior regional analyst for the international crisis group , a global thinktank .
this will really be a referendum on the legitimacy of kenyatta s second term .
just over 79 percent of kenya s 19.6 million registered voters cast a ballot in the last poll .