kisumu , kenya ( reuters ) - kenyan police in the western city of kisumu fired tear gas and bullets in the air on wednesday to disperse young men who broke into a hotel and beat women attending an election meeting , an officer said .
kenya held presidential , legislative and local elections on aug. 8 , but three weeks later the supreme court nullified the presidential result , citing irregularities in the tallying process .
a re-run is scheduled for oct. 17 .
although the ruling ushered in a period of uncertainty , many hope it will restore some faith in kenya s tarnished institutions , reducing the long-term likelihood of political violence .
on wednesday , a christian women s organization was holding a meeting related to the election re-run when the men broke into the hotel where they were meeting , said joseph keitany of the administration police in kisumu county .
the region is a stronghold of opposition leader raila odinga .
we deployed police and they fired tear gas and bullets in the air and chased the group of young boys away , he told reuters .
the youth started beating women and they stole their laptops and money before police arrived .
a reuters witness said the men smashed windows and broke chairs .
another witness said young men attacked participants using the broken chairs .
i was making my presentation when the youths came in , said pastor alice atieno .
they started interrogating us and beating us on claims that we were buying ids .
keitany said he believed the men stormed the hotel because of rumors circulating on whatsapp that the women s meeting was intended to plan the renting of voter identification cards , a rigging tactic alleged by the opposition ahead of last month s election , where online hoaxes and fake stories were alleged from all sides .
participants in the meeting denied that was the purpose and said they were meeting to see how to encourage peaceful voting .
a reuters witness said he saw a red cross ambulance taking three women to hospital .
in 2007 , a disputed presidential vote led to protests and ethnic violence that killed 1,200 people .
following the august election , human rights organizations reported at least 28 deaths , mostly linked to police .
but the protests were quelled when the opposition decided to take its complaints to court .
kenya s vocal civil society organizations have been working hard to plan monitoring and advocacy around the new vote .
the east african nation is the region s richest economy and a stable western ally in a region roiled by conflict .