the swedish identity will be wiped out in 20-30 years .
this is sadly , a look into the future for all of europe as a current resident of sweden , i sometimes find myself questioning my own sanity .
all these problems i blog about are right there in the open for anyone to see and getting worse by the year , yet media and politicians act as if everything is hunky-dory .
most people on the street also appears to be completely oblivious to details like the enormous increase of burning cars in the ghettos , the 1472 % increase in rapes and the ever bolder gangs choking their enclaves with drugs and violence.so i find myself wondering , am i missing something ?
why aren t people reacting ?
is it really reasonable that so many are in a state of denial ?
or am i somehow misinterpreting all this ? that s why it s oddly reassuring that the neighboring nordic countries are in the same boat .
denmark has voiced concerns about the utterly weak background check of immigrants from the middle east , fearing radical islamists entering sweden as asylum seekers with the intent of building scandinavian terror cells .
my very first post on this blog was about a danish politician openly pleading for sweden to come to its senses.norway isn t too pleased either , and they dare speak openly about the problems brewing in the cities of their neighbor.in a new report called oslo 2022 , the norwegian police explicitly use sweden in general and the town of s dert lje as a warning example .
this prompted aftonposten , one of the major norwegian newspapers , to do two articles on sweden s out-of-control immigration.in the first part , norwegian reporters traveled to s dert lje outside stockholm .
entitled we all live in the same town , but not in the same world , the article chronicles a town in complete segregation where the immigrants gain ground every year and everyone who can escapes .
violence , drugs , lawlessness and decay eats away at the town like a cancer .
why is this allowed to happen ?
the reporter asks .
because the swedes are weak , says 36-year old simon melkemichel .
the swedish identity will be wiped out in 20-30 years .
the second part is called sweden has lost control over their immigration and has representatives for the norwegian government comment on the fact that , well , sweden has lost control over their immigration .
what makes it noteworthy is the difference in tone compared to the swedish political debate.as in denmark , the norwegian leftist worker s party have a very different view on immigration than the swedish sister party socialdemokraterna ( currently in power ) .
in norway and denmark , they make a point of restricting the inflow and checking the backgrounds carefully.in sweden , there are literally no limits , and any background check beyond scratching the surface is considered racist and shut down by management as has been repeatedly revealed by bloggers like merit wager.not surprisingly , the police report and the articles have ruffled quite a few feathers in sweden s political and medial elite .
but equally predictably , the swedish response is not to acknowledge the problems , but to whine about the mean norwegian pseudo-fascists having the gall to criticize sweden s enlightened stance.while it doesn t do squat to fix anything , it s at least reassuring that i m not the one losing my mind .
via : sweden report