a 14-year-old boy suffered a gunshot wound to the leg wednesday ( april 8 ) after a woman drove him and five other juveniles to a residence in kenner to continue a fight that had occurred earlier in the day , authorities said.police arrested the woman , lakenya hall , 35 , of kenner , because she instigated the fight by taking over the group of boys , which included her own 11- and 15-year-old sons , said lt. brian mcgregor , spokesman for the kenner police department.the injured teen was taken to nearby ochsner medical center in kenner where he is expected to recover.the shooting occurred just after 5 p.m. wednesday in the 3500 block of west louisiana state drive in kenner .
police learned that the teens had been involved in an earlier fight at a bus stop , mcgregor said .
authorities aren t sure what the teens were fighting about.afterwards , hall , of 225 clemson place , drove six juveniles about a mile and a half away from their lincoln manor neighborhood to west louisiana state drive to continue the brawl , mcgregor said.at some point , a 15-year-old boy being confronted by hall s group pulled out a .22-caliber pistol that had been stored in a backpack and began chasing them , mcgregor said .
he opened fire , hitting the 14-year-old boy.police arrested the 15-year-old boy and booked him with aggravated battery , illegal possession of a handgun by a juvenile , possession of a firearm with an obliterated serial number , illegal use of weapons and disturbing the peace by fighting , mcgregor said.officers arrested hall and booked her with disturbing the peace by fighting and six counts of contributing to the delinquency of juveniles .
just because you ve been in a fight , it doesn t give you the right to go over there and start a whole new fight , mcgregor said .
she s instigating something by taking the group over there in the first place .
police also arrested hall s two sons and booked them with disturbing the peace by fighting .
investigators expect more arrests to come as they identify the other teens who were present at the time of the fight and shooting , mcgregor said.authorities have also been told that video exists of the fight , and police are working to find it .
we re not going to have all these juveniles engaging in a fight in the city of kenner , mcgregor said .