sydney ( reuters ) - australian private security on tuesday vacated an asylum seeker detention center in papua new guinea ( png ) ahead of its planned closure , detainees said , leaving about 600 refugees and asylum seekers barricaded inside and refusing to move .
detainees are defying attempts by australia and png to close the controversial manus island center , saying they fear violent reprisals from the local community if they move to a transit center .
despite threats that water and power supply to the camp would be cut by 5 p.m. ( 0700 gmt ) , asylum-seekers told reuters after the deadline that half the camp still had power at 10.30 p.m. ( 1230 gmt ) , along with access to water .
the manus center has been a key part of australia s controversial sovereign borders immigration policy .
the country refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores , detaining them in camps in png and nauru in the south pacific .
lawyers for some of the 600 men filed a last-minute lawsuit in png to prevent the camp s closure and allow the men to be relocated to a third country .
a ruling is expected on wednesday .
the detainees were left alone for the first time in more than four years after camp staff all left on tuesday morning , sudanese refugee abdul aziz told reuters .
the water and electricity are still on but we are vulnerable now after the staff left us all alone , aziz said .
the camp s impending closure is part of an australian government plan to push refugees and asylum seekers to return to their home country , settle in png or move elsewhere , so dismantling part of the costly and controversial offshore detention program .
the united nations and rights groups have for years cited human rights abuses among detainees in the centers .
detainees have consistently raised concerns over how they are treated by locals and authorities in png , a country that ranks 154th out of 185 on the united nation s human development index .
australian immigration minister peter dutton refused to comment on the departure of the australian-employed security staff on manus , but said the camp s closure would proceed .
all have been informed for a considerable period of time that there is safe and secure alternate accommodation where health and other services will be maintained , dutton said in an emailed statement .
australia has already said it would spend up to a $ 250 million ( $ 195 million ) to house the men for the next 12 months .
just under 200 men have already been moved .
the relocation of the men is designed as a temporary measure , allowing the united states time to complete vetting of refugees as part of a refugee swap deal .
asylum seekers said several unidentified local men had arrived at the camp and taken away furniture from common areas .
videos images shot by the refugees and sent to reuters show vans loaded with furniture departing , though it is not clear where the vehicles were from .
conditions for the refugees were unbearable , said nick mckim , a senator with the australian greens party who is on manus .
i can only describe what is happening on manus now as a humanitarian emergency , mckim told reuters .
it is 31 degrees celsius ( 88 fahrenheit ) today and drinking water will be cut off .
png has sent paramilitary services to oversee the closure .
png s high court ruled last year that the manus center , first opened in 2001 , was illegal .
most of the detainees come from war-torn countries such as afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka and syria .
australia s tough offshore detention policies are backed by its two biggest political parties , although community opinion is divided .
i would be absolutely terrified to be in that situation and i can not understand why the government just simply will not say enough is enough ... we need to bring them here to australia , said refugee advocate dr barri phatarfod , who joined in a small protest against refugee policies in sydney on tuesday .