fox news reporter doug mckelway was doing on-the-scene coverage of the protests in charlottesville when he relayed a comment from one of the police officers who said : we re leaving .
it s too dangerous .
as the truth comes out , we re learning that the mayor and sheriff are responsible for not nipping this thing in the bud so it got out of control .
there were stand down orders given after antifa started throwing soda cans filled with cement ( see video below of police representative ) .
doug mckelway : we are now beginning to hear criticism bubble up on all sides of this event about the initial slow response by the police .
when i got out of my car yesterday in charlottesville about 10:30 in the morning you knew this was a bad scene and bad things were going to be happening because people were congregating at lee park and emancipation park wearing helmets , body armor , carrying big heavy sticks .
nobody was intent on peace here from either side .
people were intent on causing havoc and causing damage .
and even as wounded were being brought out of the park police were sitting idly by .
i was standing off a cordoned off area where the police had set up as a staging area , the state police , and they said you can come in here this is a safe area .
but when the tear gas started to fly , thrown by protesters , the police themselves began to evacuate then .
i asked the guy who was in charge , where you going ?
he said , we re leaving .
it s too dangerous .
they had a chance to nip this thing in the bud and they chose not to.mckelway spoke with a police representative : va police spox corinne geller to @ dougmckelway on @ anhqdc : describes the earlier violence , people throwing `` soda cans with cement in them '' pic.twitter.com/c00uwnygli pat ward ( @ warddpatrick ) august 12 , 2017 the aclu of virginia tweeted this : clash between protesters and counter protesters .
police says `` we 'll not intervene until given command to do so . ''
# charlottesville pic.twitter.com/ukrdlnn2mv aclu of virginia ( @ acluva ) august 12 , 2017