beirut ( reuters ) - the syrian army and its allies have taken full control of deir al-zor city from islamic state , the largest and most important city in eastern syria , the syrian observatory for human rights said on thursday .
there was no immediate comment from syrian state media , but a commander in a military alliance fighting in support of damascus said that while advances had been made , some is-held pockets still remained in the city .
the syrian army launched its attack against islamic state there in september , backed by russian air strikes and fighting alongside iran-backed militias and the lebanese shi ite group hezbollah .
the islamist group had held most of the city since 2014 , except for one large pocket where syrian army troops and 93,000 civilians had been holed up for three years .
the provincial capital is located on the western side of the euphrates river .
the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , backed by the u.s.-led coalition , launched their own attack on islamic state in the province in september , advancing along the eastern side of the river .
the city s strategic significance for islamic state stemmed from its location near the iraqi border , where the group also controlled territory , as well as its importance as the oil-producing province s capital .
the recovery of the eastern province s capital underscores president bashar al assad s re-established control over the eastern part of syria .
as the army has pushed east in recent months , oil and gas fields have once more fallen to the government , as well as to the sdf .
islamic state still controls parts of deir al-zor province , its territory extending across the border to neighboring iraq where iraqi forces are waging a separate offensive against the militant group .
the islamist group also controls a small pocket in hama province in western syria , and a besieged enclave south of damascus where it is fighting rebel factions .
the syrian army is also advancing on albu kamal city in deir al-zor province , located on the iraqi-syrian border .
russian bombers struck islamic state targets in the border town on thursday , ria news agency reported .