melania trump just accepted damages of approximately $ 3 million from daily mail after they published a smut article claiming she prostituted herself during her modeling career .
the false and defamatory claims got the left-leaning tabloid in hot water when they couldn t produce evidence.the daily mail has been anti-trump from the beginning .
they often publish inflammatory and false articles on trump , his family and his administration .
the problem with this is that this publication is read world-wide .
millions of people are reading this slanted news !
talk about fake news ! melania wins bigly ! melania trump has accepted damages and an apology over allegations about her work as a professional model.the action was against associated newspapers , publishers of the daily mail.the amount of damages was not disclosed in court , although the total payment of damages and costs is believed to come to about $ 3 million.an article published in the newspaper and on mail online last august included false and defamatory claims about the first lady which questioned the nature of her work as a professional model , and republished allegations that she provided services beyond simply modelling , the court heard.her lawyer john kelly said the story included statements that mrs trump denied the allegations and that paulo zampolli , who ran the modelling agency , also denied the claims.the article , he said , also said there was no evidence to support the allegations.the article about mrs trump was published last august mr kelly told mr justice nichol : the article also claimed that mr and mrs trump may have met three years before they actually met , and staged their actual meeting as a ruse .
he said the allegations about mrs trump were not true and strike at the heart of the claimant s personal integrity and dignity .catrin evans qc , for the publishers , told the judge : the defendant acknowledges that these claims about the claimant are untrue , and we retract and withdraw them .
the defendant is here today publicly to set the record straight , and to apologize to the claimant for any distress and embarrassment that the articles may have caused her .
the daily mail apology : the mail online website and the daily mail newspaper published an article on 20th august 2016 about melania trump which questioned the nature of her work as a professional model , and republished allegations that she provided services beyond simply modelling.the article included statements that mrs. trump denied the allegations and paulo zampolli , who ran the modelling agency , also denied the allegations , and the article also stated that there was no evidence to support the allegations.the article also claimed that mr and mrs trump may have met three years before they actually met , and staged their actual meeting as a ruse .
we accept that these allegations about mrs trump are not true and we retract and withdraw them .
we apologise to mrs trump for any distress that our publication caused her .
to settle mrs trump s two lawsuits against us , we have agreed to pay her damages and costs.via : sky news