world hijab day is coming up and the capital of canada plans on celebrating it .
it s no secret that the newly elected liberal leader of canada is having a love affair with islam .
there s even talk that he s converted to islam .
a recent youtube video shows him praying at a mosque : canada is a great example of you get what you vote for .
liberal pm justin trudeau has embraced flooding canada with as many muslim refugees as possible .
more , more , more if this continues , canada will soon be like europe .
note that housing and funding is really difficult for some of these refugees .
economies can not and should not have to fund these refugees : hundreds of government-sponsored refugees have struggled to find housing and remain in hotels in toronto , where the housing market is tight and expensive .
canada has taken in nearly 25,000 syrian refugees since november : liberal prime minister justin trudeau was elected in october on a promise to accept more syrian refugees more quickly than the previous conservative government had allowed , but the original deadline for accepting 25,000 by the end of 2015 proved too ambitious and the timeline was extended by two months.during his election campaign , trudeau said a liberal government would work with private sponsors to accept even more than the immediate goal of 25,000 , and immigration minister john mccallum said in december the government could double the intake to 50,000 by the end of 2016.world hijab day : this thursday , february 25 , 2016 , the city of ottawa will be holding a public event celebrating the hijab , islam s physical repression of women.the city for all women initiative ( cawi ) organization , backed by the city council of ottawa , is hosting the ottawa hijab solidarity day celebration , also called walking with our muslims sisters , at city hall .
according to cawi , the main purpose of this event is to encourage non-muslim women to wear a hijab to understand life as a muslim woman.the outrage is that such an event will be taking place under the auspices of the city of ottawa , the capital of canada .
under islamic shari a law , the hijab is an expression of the suppression of women and is used as a tool to persecute women by their male counterparts.here s the information : ottawa hijab solidarity day ( councillor s lounge , city hall ) you are here : home ottawa hijab solidarity day ( councillor s lounge , city hall ) location : councillor s lounge ( 2nd floor ) city hall date : thursday , 25 february , 2016 16:00 to 18:00 event details : a reception where people are welcome to stop by anytime , between 4:00 6:00pm to learn from muslim women about their experience of wearing a hijab and where women from other backgrounds can experience wearing one.join us in celebrating muslim women through cawi s social media campaign .
show messages of support with # hijabsolidarityor hold a hijab solidarity day event in your workplace or community organization .
see here some guidelines for doing so .
join with us in promoting awareness and understanding.via : bcf