21st century wire says a predictable reaction from a pair of increasingly desperate politicians.perennial war hawks senators john mccain and his partner lindsey graham , have expressed their outrage of recent comments by trump administration officials that regime change is no longer a priority for the washington.mccain warned that president trump s downgrading on policy , away from the overthrow of the syrian government , was somehow bad for us interests .
such a policy would only exacerbate the terrorist threat to our nation , said mccain.since at least 2011 , mccain has been intimately involved in helping to foment instability in syria by leading the program to flood illegal arms into syria for what he and many other america politicians claimed was for the moderate rebels who were fighting for freedom and democracy .
it wasn t long before the world finally figured out what the syrian people knew all along the moderate rebel was a public relation tool , invented by washington under the obama administration.sadly for mccain , he hasn t been following the news close enough over the last 3 years to realize that the rest of the world has already figured out the west s transparent proxy terrorist marketing campaign.while mccain s public position is predictable still clinging to the fictional narrative laid down by obama that the syria public do not support their president and is therefore illegitimate in the eyes of nato member states , his partner senator graham s position is even more erroneous ; based on the a long-debunked lie that assad crossed the red line and used chemical weapons against his own people .
mccain with cia-backed fsa commander sam idris and mouaz moustafa of the washington s creation , the syrian emergency task force ( setf ) .what makes mccain s rantings even more obscene , is the fact that he has remained completely pro-war in all its forms , and is in total support of proven international terrorists groups like al nusra , the free syrian army fsa and arar al-sham .
in 2011 , mccain snuck into syria illegally to promise militants weapons and support , as well as a us bombing campaign against the syrian state a war which almost happened under the pretext of a staged false flag chemical attack in east ghouta outside damascus in august 2013 .
busy year : 2011 was a busy year for mccain and graham supporting militants and terrorists .
here they are pictured with florida senator marco rubio showing off with extremists after the assassination of gaddafi and before the eventual implosion of the country following the us-led nato bombing campaign .
supreme military council of syria meeting us rep. adam kinzinger , mouaz moustaf ( setf ) , and cia agent evan mcmullin ( circa 2013-2014 ) since 2011 , john mccain , lindsey graham , hillary clinton , us congressman adam kinzinger and others , in conjunction with romney-backed cia operative turned 2016 presidential candidate evan mcmullin have led calls to support the various terrorist factions within syria under the cia crafted banner of supreme military council of syria and the the syrian revolutionary front have consistently sold the american public a false narrative via by the muslim brotherhood , an extremist political organization supported by obama administration.4 years later , they are still droning on with the same discredited talking points daniel chaitin washington examinersens .
john mccain and lindsey graham are upset with the trump administration signaling that removing syrian president bashar al-assad from power is no longer a top priority.during a trip to turkey , secretary of state rex tillerson said assad s fate will be decided by the syrian people .
that sentiment was echoed by u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley , who told reporters , you pick and choose your battles .
and when we re looking at this it s about changing up priorities and our priority is no longer to sit and focus on getting assad out .
in a statement thursday evening , mccain , who is chairman of the senate armed services committee , said he is deeply disturbed by tillerson s and haley s comments .
their suggestion that assad can stay in power appears to be just as devoid of strategy as president obama s pronouncements that assad must go , ' mccain said .
once again , u.s. policy in syria is being presented piecemeal in press statements without any definition of success , let alone a realistic plan to achieve it .
graham , also a member of the armed services committee , said that such comments would be the biggest mistake since president obama failed to act after drawing a red line against assad s use of chemical weapons .
continue this story at the washington examinerread more john mccain news at : 21st century wire mccain filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv