not a bad imitation of a black pastor from a guy who quit going to church when he entered the white house because according to reverend wright , of the black liberation church where barack and michelle obama attended for several years : church is not their thing .
it never was their thing .
cnn s don lemon : you know , brooke , um this is quite possibly one of the most powerful and extraordinary moments that i ve witnessed ah on television , especially a speech coming from the president .
i ve never really at a loss for words , and i m almost at a loss for words right now .
i mean , van and i couldn t even look at each other.van jones ( racist and self proclaimed communist ) : yeah because this is what happens in the black church every single morning.dl : not only that , this is what many people around the country wanted to hear from this president , for a long , long time .
it s time to step into your legacy.van jones : it really is .
this is a different president , this year , i think has transformed him .
i think a year ago ferguson , then baltimore , now charleston .
i think you re seeing the 3.0 version .
when he first came on the scene , he was trying to talk about race , even his book was about race .
he was trying dl : but he was getting hit.vj : he kept getting hit .
he became a politician .
yeah .. he became the racial pi ata of the blacks saying he wasn t doing enough , the whites saying he was doing too much .
suddenly in this speech he just decides to give over to the cadences.dl : he said it in the podcast man .
he said : i am fearless .
and you know , once you re fearless , and once you don t give a damn no one can stop you .
and i think the president is in that mode now .
he knows this is his legacy.obama was supposed to be delivering a eulogy for pastor clementa pinckney , but instead he chose to turn it into another one of his divisive racist rants .
oh and by the way once the left has removed every trace of the confederate flag , he s coming after your guns .
then , and only then will his legacy be complete .
molon labe https : //youtu.be/fwvq1wnicqyand for anyone who is interested in hearing the most off-key version of amazing grace sung by a muslim , you can see it here : https : //youtu.be/wmraxjia0u8not bad for a guy who quit going to church when he entered the white house because according to reverend wright , of the black liberation church where barack and michelle obama attended for several years : church is not their thing .
it never was their thing .