the media has been giving wall-to-wall coverage of the horrific and violent act that took place in charlottesville , va. by now , every american has seen the face and name of the 20-year old man , james alex fields , jr. , who was allegedly part of a group of white supremacists , that smashed into a large crowd of protesters on the street.just in : booking photo of james alex fields , jr. @ nbc29 pic.twitter.com/9nxtsvqnmt henry graff ( @ henrygraff ) august 13 , 2017as a result of the horrific accident , one woman was killed and several others were injured .
of course , the media is blaming donald trump for the horrific accident that he clearly had nothing to do with .
as a side note , does anyone remember the media blaming former president barack obama when the city of ferguson , mo was burned to the ground by black lives matter rioters ?
yeah , either do we.but what about the black woman who intentionally drove her car into a crowded street on the strip in las vegas with her 3-year old toddler in the back seat ?
does anyone even remember this happening ? in december 2015 , las vegas police say a 24 year old woman , with her 3 year old toddler in the back seat , intentionally drove her vehicle into a crowded las vegas strip with the intention of running people over .
here s the story msnbc published that was written by the associated press .
the ap doesn t waste any time attempting to gain sympathy for the driver , and in only the third paragraph of the story , the ap want to make it perfectly clear that the reader knows she may not be guilt of intentional homicide .
they re quick to quote the murderer s defense lawyer who told them , just because she s charged , doesn t mean she s guilty from the ap article : a woman accused of intentionally plowing a car carrying her child through crowds of pedestrians on a las vegas strip sidewalk is distraught and overwhelmed , her defense attorney said after she briefly appeared in court for the first time.lakeisha nicole holloway , 24 , pursed her lips and blinked as she was led in shackles into a courtroom .
she was not asked to enter a plea but nodded to acknowledge that she would remain in jail through the holidays while both sides investigate sunday s crash that killed an arizona woman and injured dozens of others .
this is sad and tragedy for everybody involved , defense lawyer joseph abood said after the hearing , adding , just because she s charged , doesn t mean she s guilty .
a woman with her 3-year-old daughter in the car smashed into crowds of visitors on the las vegas strip , then drove to a hotel and told a valet to call 911 after killing a woman from arizona and injuring at least 35 others , including at least five canadians , police said.people jumped on the car and banged on its windows , but lakeisha n. holloway , 24 , would not stop driving on the sidewalk , clark county sheriff joe lombardo told reporters .
video appeared to show the crash in front of the paris and planet hollywood casino-hotels was intentional , he said.the 1996 oldsmobile sedan was fully on the sidewalk twice sunday night , including once when it traveled for 200 feet , police said .
the child in the car was not hurt.the 24-year-old told police told she was homeless and tired , and denied using drugs or alcohol .
holloway also told police she had been unable to rest or sleep because security officers kept running her and her daughter and her car off casino properties.here s a look at how msnbc s parent company nbc covered the horrific charlottesville incident yesterday .
by the third paragraph in the part of the article that describes the accident , msnbc interviews a witness from the other side of the protest ( not the alleged perpetrator s defense lawyer , like in the story above ) who clearly states there is no question about the motive or of the driver s guilt : it was very clearly intentional .
nbc : described as a group of anti-racist protesters by a witness who took video of the crash , the group of marchers was packed close together at the end of a street near the intersection of fourth and water streets in downtown charlottesville when the car struck.brennan gilmore , a 37-year-old who works for a start up , shot the footage and said he heard tires squealing before he saw a car build up speed and ram the crowd .
it hit a number of people before plowing into the bumper of another car .
it was very clearly intentional , gilmore told nbc news .
from the far end of the street it accelerated , slowed down right before the crowd and then slammed on the gas through the crowd sending bodies flying .
and then it reversed back into the street dragging bodies and clothes .
and then boom the trump tie-in ( which was not really a tie-in at all ) : fields mother , samantha bloom , told the associated press on saturday night that she knew her son was attending a rally in virginia but didn t know it was a white nationalist rally .
i thought it had something to do with trump .
trump s not a white supremacist , bloom told the ap .
( the last sentence that includes fields mother s statement about trump not being a white supremacist [ bold ] , was omitted from many mainstream media sources , as it didn t fit their narrative .
) in february 2017 , holloway was found mentally competent to stand trial after nearly a year committed at lakes crossing maximum security psychiatric facility .
holloway then pleaded not guilty in the case .
nearly 3 years later , her case has still not been tried .
lakeisha holloway faces 71 felony counts in connection to the dec. 20 , 2015 incident that left a woman dead and injured 34 others .
her trial is scheduled to begin on feb. 5 , 2018.if you want to learn more about this case , you ll have to look for updates in local las vegas news sources .
you won t likely find it being covered by the mainstream media .