marea , syria/beirut ( reuters ) - shaven-headed former jihadists filled a classroom in northern syria as a muslim cleric taught them a more moderate form of islam than the version they had imposed in islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate .
their class was in a new rehabilitation center for islamic state members set up in the town of marea , north of aleppo , in an area controlled by syrian rebel groups backed by turkey .
the center , set up in october , is meant to address a problem emerging across swathes of syria and iraq - how to handle thousands of people living there who joined islamic state as it enforced its brutal rule .
islamic state used public killings and torture to enforce its draconian religious code , sexually enslaved captive women and slaughtered prisoners of war and members of enemy tribes .
its self-styled caliphate is now on the verge of defeat , having lost large tracts of its territory and most of its major towns and cities in both syria and iraq .
although some is members came from abroad out of conviction , many others were local people who joined the group to protect themselves or earn money , according to an official at the center .
there are 25 ex-members now at the center where they take classes in religious doctrine and law .
psychological counseling is mandatory ; some get individual sessions to help wean them off extremist ideology .
the center is funded by the director as well as small donations , and its staff are all volunteers .
marea was besieged , but never captured , by is .
last year , rebels backed by the turkish army drove is out of nearby areas .
judges in rebel-held areas have tried islamic state members who were captured or defected , and their sentences have included time at the center , guarded by a security team .
the center evaluates former jihadists each month and shares its views with local authorities , which base their release decisions on the center s recommendations .
dressed in long-sleeved orange shirts and black vests , the ex-jihadists listened to lecturer sheikh mohammad al-mahmoud , who asked them questions about islamic rulings .
no one answered .
why did you join islamic state and force islam on people if you don t even know these answers ?
he asked .
civilians across syria and iraq often reject former is militants , holding them responsible for killing people from the area and destroying the towns and cities they entered .
but not all former is members at the center were armed insurgents , the center s lawyer said .
in the brutal administrative areas where islamic state was , the overwhelming majority ( joined ) to protect itself or to have the bare minimum to live , ibrahim najjar said .
some people joined just to obtain a canister of cooking gas , he added .
is militants also tended to marry locals daughters , he said , initially targeting the daughters of influential families and in later years marrying daughters of small families , calling on family ties to recruit fathers and brothers as informants .
in an interview with reuters at the center , former is member khalil abdul-ghafur spoke in formal arabic - islamic state s preferred version of the language - until the center director reminded him to switch back to syrian dialect .
the 14-year-old from a village near aleppo said he joined the jihadist group after insurgents arrived .
he took lessons in sharia ( islamic law ) and trained to use both light and heavy weapons , before is dispatched him to al-bab , near marea .
he was wounded twice , both times returning to the militant ranks after he recovered .
he only left is when he found out rebels had detained his father over his membership of the group .
asked why he joined islamic state , abdul-ghafur was at first silent .
i don t know what to tell you .
they used to show us video clips , he eventually said .
and they talk to us about heaven and freedom and all that .
he did not elaborate on life after islamic state , only saying the center has good food , clothes and lessons .
but he intends to go back to school when he is released , having not completed his education because his school was bombed .
ersin khizri , 22 , left his home in ukraine and traveled to syria with his wife and baby daughter to join is ranks , in which he fought in iraq .
he left the group in january because he found it unjust , he said , turning himself in to rebels in syria .
it s over : there is no more daesh left , he said , using an arabic acronym for islamic state .
i don t know what the outside situation is like .
the men in the center watch movies and play chess in their spare time , smoking the cigarettes that were banned under is .
they are divided into three categories : those who did not commit crimes against civilians , those who did , and foreign members .
housed in a former school , the center holds ex-jihadists from the caucasus , uzbekistan , ukraine , tunisia , iraq and other countries .
hussein naser , the center s director , said the men will stay there for no more than a year , mainly because it does not have the capabilities to hold them longer .
the goals of the center are to defeat the extremist ideology of the is members that we have , ensuring their safety when they leave the center and that they can live with civilians , naser said .