sinjar , iraq ( reuters ) - since iraqi forces pushed the kurds out of the yazidis mountainous heartland of sinjar in northern iraq in october , residents are wondering what could happen to them next .
food and money are in short supply since aid organizations stopped delivery after iraq s advance .
buildings collapsed in the fighting and of those still standing , many are marked with bullets and littered with ieds .
water and electricity barely work .
the yazidis , whose beliefs combine elements of several ancient middle eastern religions , have long been viewed with suspicion and repeatedly persecuted by other groups in iraq .
in 2014 , more than 3,000 were killed by islamic state militants in a campaign described by the united nations as genocidal .
now the land they have lived on for centuries is caught up in a tug of war between baghdad and iraq s kurds , who had controlled it since the fall of saddam hussein in 2003 .
we re trapped in this game of political football , between iraq and the kurds , said a yazidi resident of sinjar , kamal ali .
but neither of them cares about our future .
the militias have hoisted iraq s tricolor flag over government buildings and any remaining kurdish flags have been scrawled over with the words iraq and allahu akbar , the blazing sun at its center scribbled over in black marker .
sinjar is politically important because it s in the disputed territories , ethnically mixed areas across northern iraq , long the subject of a constitutional dispute between baghdad and the kurds , who both claim them .
sinjar fell under the kurds control , despite lying outside iraqi kurdistan s recognized borders .
baghdad did little to challenge the arrangement until its october offensive , launched to punish the kurds for their sept. 25 independence referendum .
iraqi forces have seized the disputed areas the kurds had expanded into including sinjar .
the referendum reignited long-simmering tensions over geographic dominance in the oil-rich north , between baghdad and the kurdish regional government ( krg ) , who fought side by side to defeat islamic state .
the yazidis are divided about what should happen now .
some are glad the kurds have gone and see an opportunity for increased autonomy now that they are under federal control following the offensive by iraq s security forces last october .
kurdish forces handed over sinjar without a fight to the lalesh brigades , a yazidi militia backed by baghdad s shiite paramilitary forces ( pmf ) .
most yazidis speak a kurdish dialect , but many don t see themselves as ethnically kurdish .
we re happy the kurds have left , said abu sardar , a 47-year-old yazidi man .
we re yazidis we re not kurds , we do not want to be part of kurdistan .
like others , abu sardar complained that the kurds forced him to vote in the kurdish referendum , accusations the krg denies .
he returned two months ago to the ruins of his home in the sinuni district of sinjar and expressed bitter disappointment that little had changed since he left in 2014 : hospitals and schools remain shuttered while the city is still mostly rubble .
he hopes that baghdad and its militias will rebuild sinjar .
others lament the kurds departure .
the krg and allied yazidi groups hold former iraqi prime minister nuri al-maliki responsible for the campaign by islamic state .
they say his troops desertion of mosul allowed militants to capture billions of dollars in weapons later used to attack the minority .
yazidi commander qassem shesho says iraq s government is too sectarian and dislikes the yazidis as much as islamic state .
like many others , he blames the kurds for the attack by islamic state .
but they re all we ve got , he said .
shesho is allied to iraqi kurdistan s ruling kurdistan democratic party , even though the kurds cut his fighters salaries after the lalesh brigades took over sinjar .
some days , residents say , there are only bones in sinjar .
nearly 50 mass graves have been uncovered outside the town since 2014 .
sinjar is a city of ghosts , said the lalesh brigades leader ali serhan eissa , also known as khal ali .
tens of thousands of yazidis fled the militant onslaught and headed for mount sinjar .
of those who didn t reach the mountain , about 3,100 were killed with more than half shot , beheaded , burned alive and disposed of in mass graves .
others were sold into sexual slavery or forced to fight , according to a report by the public library of science journal plos medicine .
some are still on the mountain , about to spend a third freezing winter in tents .
before the attack , sinjar was home to about 400,000 people mainly yazidis and arab sunnis .
only 15 percent of yazidis have returned home , according to humanitarian estimates .
most yazidis remain in idp camps in the kurdistan region , along with most of the area s displace sunnis .
aid workers worry the camps will be closed if tensions between baghdad and the kurds flare up .
the presence of fighters from turkey s separatist kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) further complicates the picture .
many yazidis credit them with opening up a land route to allow those stranded on mount sinjar to escape the militants in 2014 .
the pkk entrenched itself in the community , even creating a local unit , the sinjar resistance units ( ybs ) which controls multiple checkpoints around sinjar .
turkey and neighboring iran are closely watching the power shift in sinjar .
tehran wants to secure this north-western region of iraq as it sits on the border with syria , while turkey wants the region free of the outlawed pkk .