ankara/baghdad ( reuters ) - turkish tanks carried out drills at the iraqi border on monday , the army said , a week before a referendum across that frontier on kurdish independence that ankara has called a threat to its national security .
the exercises came as turkey , the central government in baghdad and their shared neighbor iran all stepped up protests and warnings about the looming plebiscite in semi-autonomous kurdish northern iraq .
iran , which like turkey fears fuelling separatism in its own kurdish population , warned of unspecified consequences if the vote went ahead .
turkey s prime minister binali yildirim said any threats from inside or outside its territory would face immediate retaliation .
the military command released pictures of the tanks speeding along roads and kicking up dust during exercises .
iraq s supreme federal court ordered kurdistan region to suspend the vote , prime minister haider al-abadi s office said .
baghdad , its neighbors and western powers fear the referendum could distract attention from the fight against islamic state militants across the region .
but the kurdish leadership showed no sign of bowing to pressure to call off the vote , including from the united nations - which urged erbil to resolve disputes with baghdad over land and power sharing through dialogue .
in turkey , around 100 military vehicles , mostly tanks , took part in the drill near the habur border gate , a crossing point into iraq , the private news agency dogan said .
vehicles carrying missiles and howitzers also participated .
turkish military sources said the drill was due to run until sept. 26 , a day after the planned kurdish referendum .
turkey has not spelt out what response it might take if the referendum goes ahead .
it has brought forward meetings of the cabinet and its national security council to friday , three days ahead of the vote , to look again at the situation .
separately , turkey s military said it carried out an air strike in northern iraq on monday and that four terrorists were neutralized .
turkish forces often launch cross-border attacks they say target members of the outlawed kurdish pkk group , which has waged an insurgency in southern turkey for three decades .
those who are chasing dreams in syria and iraq should know very well that any attempt that threatens our national security , from inside or outside our borders , will be immediately retaliated in kind , prime minister yildirim said in a speech in the southern turkish town of sanliurfa .
kurdish forces have , with u.s. backing , been in the forefront of the battle against islamic state in iraq and syria .
the kurdish involvement in syria strains relations between washington and ankara .
the iraqi supreme federal court approved prime minister abadi s demand to consider the breakaway of any region or province from iraq as unconstitutional , his office said in a statement .
the court is responsible for settling disputes between iraq s central government and regions including kurdistan , but has no means to implement its rulings in the kurdish region which has its own police and government , led by massoud barzani .
iran issued a veiled warning to the kurds that their security could be affected if iraq s unity was threatened .
any damage to this strategic principle would lead to the revision of and serious alteration in the existing cooperation between iran and iraq s kurdistan region , said ali shamkhani , the secretary of iran s supreme national security council , according to state-run press tv .
turkey s protests in the build-up to the vote had been relatively muted .
it has built good relations with barzani s semi-autonomous kurdish administration in northern iraq , founded on strong economic links as well as ankara and erbil s shared suspicions of other kurdish groups .
the kurdish regional government , led by barzani s kdp party , exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day to worldmarkets via turkey and said on monday that russian oil major rosneft ( rosn.mm ) would invest in pipelines in the kurdish region to export gas to turkey and europe .