brussels ( reuters ) - the european union has agreed a financial settlement with britain , a senior eu official told reuters on thursday , under which london has committed to paying a set share of eu budgets after britain has left the bloc .
following reports of british offers in recent days , eu negotiators have insisted publicly that work is continuing on the financial deal , as both sides also push to reach accords on two other key divorce conditions before a crunch meeting on monday .
the official offer has not been submitted , but unofficially it has been agreed to such an extent that if no one decides to stage a last minute complete turnaround everything will be ok , the official said .
a spokesperson for britain s department for exiting the european union was not immediately available for comment .
overall , the eu side was optimistic that agreement could be reached on the conditions to allow eu leaders to agree during a dec. 14-15 summit to open talks on post-brexit relations .
the british government dismissed as speculation on wednesday reports in british newspapers that it had more than doubled its offer to the eu to very roughly 50 billion euros .
the eu official said there was no precise figure discussed because the amounts to be paid in future will depend on many imponderable variables , ranging from whether loan guarantees had to be exercised to the vagaries of the sterling-euro exchange rate and relative growth in the british and eu economies .
britain has committed to meeting an agreed share of the vast bulk of the future budget items which the eu asked for , the official said , adding : it is a deal on what percentage share britain will cover and on what items .
the official said the british share would be significantly less than 16 percent - britain s share last year of the total output of the 28-nation union .
in any case , britain s economic weight may decline as the pound has sunk since last year s vote to leave the eu , while even in sterling terms , the british economy has been growing more slowly than others .
the share of the economy used for the eu budget is also calculated somewhat differently and britain has been entitled as a member to a special rebate .
among key budget lines that britain has committed to was covering a share of disbursements from the eu budget in years beyond the current seven-year eu budget ending in 2020 .
we have agreed a certain formula how to calculate that share .
so we take each line in the budget and apply the share to it , the official said .
british prime minister theresa may had said britain would pay its full share of the budget to the end of 2020 - the point at which the eu expects roughly to end a transition period , during which britain will effectively keep all its obligations and most rights in the eu after brexit in march 2019 , while losing its vote on laws .
but the eu , which originally estimated the likely brexit bill at roughly 60 billion euros , had demanded britain also pay its share of items , committed to during that seven-year 2014-2020 budget but not actually disbursed until years later .
all in all , they are ready to pay a suitable , fair price for moving on to the second phase .
this is what they want , the official said of may s push to convince fellow eu leaders to open talks next month on a transition and future trade pact .
they want as soon as possible to solve the transition period issues , because they are afraid companies will start moving , he added , saying that broadly speaking london was going to be paying all the eu wanted .