london ( reuters ) - britain s prince harry and u.s. actress meghan markle announced on monday they were getting married next year , saying their relationship had blossomed incredibly quickly after meeting on a blind date .
harry , 33 , queen elizabeth s grandson and fifth-in-line to the british throne , and markle , 36 , best known for her role in the u.s. tv legal drama suits , said they had got engaged in london this month and will wed in the spring next year .
the fact that i fell in love with meghan so incredibly quickly was confirmation to me that all the stars were aligned , everything was just perfect .
this beautiful woman just tripped and fell into my life , i fell into her life , harry said in a broadcast interview .
[ l8n1nx5ae ] the queen , who had to give her assent for the union , and her husband prince philip were delighted , buckingham palace said , while harry also received the blessing of markle s parents .
we re thrilled .
i hope they will be very happy indeed , his father , heir-to-the-throne prince charles said .
harry and markle , who is a divorcee , met in july 2016 after they were introduced through a mutual friend , with both knowing little about the other .
i had never watched suits , i had never heard of meghan before and i was beautifully surprised when i walked into that room and saw her .
i was like i m going to really up my game here , harry said .
after just two dates , the couple decided to go on holiday together to botswana but it was only months later that the prince , the younger son of charles and his first wife princess diana , publicly confirmed their relationship in a rebuke to the media over its alleged intrusion into markle s private life .
i did not have any understanding of just what it would be like , she said .
both of us were totally surprised by the reaction , added harry , who said they had had a frank conversation about what she was letting herself in for .
it was not until september this year that they made their first public appearance together at the invictus games in toronto , a sports event for wounded veterans .
earlier the couple posed for photographs in the grounds of kensington palace in central london where the couple will live in a cottage .
asked when he knew markle was the one , he replied : the very first time we met .
markle showed off a dazzling three-stone ring , designed by harry himself with at its center a diamond from botswana surrounded by two diamonds taken from the personal collection of his late mother diana .
harry said she would have been thick as thieves with markle .
it s so important to me to know that she s a part of this with us , markle said .
the wedding is likely to attract huge attention across the world , as did the marriage of harry s elder brother william to kate middleton in 2011 .
we are very excited for harry and meghan , william and kate said in a statement .
it has been wonderful getting to know meghan and to see how happy she and harry are together .
in his office s warning to the media , harry referred to the sexism and racism directed at markle , whose father is white and her mother african-american .
we are incredibly happy for meghan and harry .
our daughter has always been a kind and loving person , markle s parents thomas markle and doria ragland said in a statement .
to see her union with harry , who shares the same qualities , is a source of great joy for us as parents .
we wish them a lifetime of happiness and are very excited for their future together .
educated at the exclusive eton college , harry s teenage years were overshadowed by negative headlines , fostering an intense dislike which he and his brother harbored because of the way papers hounded their mother .
she died in a paris car crash in 1997 while being chased by paparazzi .
harry was portrayed as a royal wild child and playboy prince , and in 2002 he admitted smoking cannabis and getting drunk when underage in a pub near the royal family s country estate amid suggestions he had fallen in with a bad crowd .
he later scuffled with paparazzi outside a london nightclub and drew outrage by dressing as a nazi officer at a party .
but he turned around his image after joining the army , where he spent 10 years and included two tours of duty in afghanistan .
he said it was a role where he felt he could be himself without media scrutiny or any other trappings of his gilded upbringing .
even when he was photographed partying naked and playing billiards in a private room in las vegas in 2012 , the response was less critical and more understanding .
he left the army in 2015 to focus on royal duties and charity work , particularly the welfare of military veterans , and continuing his mother s work helping those with aids , and mental health issues .
his easy-going manner with the public has made him one of the most popular members of the windsors .
that has put him at the forefront of a rebranding of the monarchy as modern and relevant , a far cry from the perception of a hopelessly out-of-touch institution following the 1997 death of diana .
to coincide with the 20th anniversary of her death this year , harry opened up about his own trauma at losing his mother at a young age , and was even quoted as saying he wanted out of the royal family altogether .
like william s wife kate , meghan will not become a princess in her own right after marrying harry .
however , harry , like his brother , is likely to be made a duke when he marries , meaning meghan would become a duchess .
markle was born in los angeles in 1981 .
her father was a tv lighting director for soaps and sitcoms and her mother a clinical therapist .
she made her first tv appearance in a 2002 episode of medical drama general hospital has appeared in a number of tv shows and films , such as horrible bosses , but achieved greatest fame for her starring part as rachel zane in the ongoing suits series .
in 2011 , she married film producer trevor engelson but they divorced two years later .
she had her own lifestyle blog thetig.com , which she recently shut down , and like her future husband has become a prominent humanitarian campaigner .
she also criticized u.s. president donald trump in a tv interview before last year s u.s. election , calling him misogynistic .
britain s royals are traditionally supposed to avoid making any political interventions and harry said he had confidence that his wife-to-be would be able to handle the pressures her role would bring .
i know the fact that she ll be unbelievably good at the job part as well is obviously a huge relief to me because she ll be able to deal with everything else that comes with it , he said .
we re a fantastic team .
we know we are .
( this story has been refiled to remove extraneous words in lead )