london ( reuters ) - britain faces the most acute threat ever from islamist militants seeking to inflict mass attacks , often with spontaneous plots that take just days to bring to execution , the head of the mi5 domestic intelligence agency said on tuesday .
after four militant attacks this year that killed 36 people in britain - the deadliest spate since the london 7/7 bombings of july 2005 , mi5 chief andrew parker said the threat was at the highest tempo he had seen in 34 years of espionage .
the threat is more diverse than i have ever known : plots developed here in the uk , but plots directed from overseas as well , plots online , complex scheming and also crude stabbings , lengthy planning but also spontaneous attacks , said parker .
attacks can sometimes accelerate from inception , through planning , to action in just a handful of days , he said in a speech in central london .
the director general of mi5 rarely gives public speeches .
the last was in 2015 .
islamic state militants in syria and iraq have been in retreat for two years : they lost their de facto capital in syria , raqqa , on tuesday and have been forced back into an ever-diminishing foothold along the euphrates river valley .
but as their territory , wealth and swagger decline , the militants have intensified online propaganda which has helped radicalize and inspire extremists to attack civilians in the name of islam across europe , the middle east and africa .
parker said there had not yet been a large influx of british militants returning home from syria and iraq .
britain has foiled 20 plots in the past four years , with seven islamist attacks prevented in the past seven months , parker said .
he said there were 500 live operations involving 3,000 people involved in militant activity .
mi5 , established in 1909 to counter german espionage ahead of world war one , is tasked with protecting british national security and so takes the lead , along with the police , in countering militant attacks .
but after a suicide bomber killed 22 people at a pop concert by u.s. singer ariana grande in manchester , mi5 began a review of how it handled intelligence on the bomber , salman abedi , who was known to the intelligence agencies .
abedi was not among the 3,000 people currently under active investigation by mi5 , although he was one of around 20,000 people known to have some connection to extremism .
when an attack happens , we are determined , using the harsh light of hindsight , to squeeze out every last drop of learning , parker said .
we are constantly evolving to stay ahead .
mi5 , which employs around 4,000 people , says it does not have the resources to monitor every suspicious person .
it works alongside the secret intelligence service , or mi6 , which operates abroad , and gchq , britain s eavesdropping agency .
britain has repeatedly demanded that silicon valley companies do more to suppress extremist content and allow access to online communication .
after british militants rammed a van into pedestrians on london bridge and went on the rampage through packed bars , stabbing revelers in june , prime minister theresa may said britain must be tougher on stamping out islamist militancy and proposed regulating cyberspace .
parker said militants abuse of the internet could slow down the rapid pace of the hunt for attackers .
this pace together with the way in which extremists can exploit safe spaces online can make threats harder to detect and give us a smaller window to intervene .
britain s interior minister , amber rudd , said earlier this month that whatsapp s end-to-end encryption communication services allowed pedophiles and organized crime groups to operate beyond the reach of the law .
but parker refrained from naming any companies directly and called for a nuanced partnership to tackle militants and serious crimes such as child abuse .
i am not somehow king canute trying to hold back the tide of developing technology and wouldn t wish to be heard that way , he said .
technology is not the enemy , indeed it holds many opportunities for us .
when asked directly whether google , facebook and amazon were doing enough to prevent communications among militants , he said : there is a reasonable expectation , i think , from all of us but also from the public at large that these companies would do what they can to help us deal with these worst excesses .