new york ( reuters ) - several relatives of victims of the sept. 11 attacks on new york and washington criticized president donald trump ’ s executive order on immigration on tuesday , saying they did not want the memories of those killed used to justify harming refugees .
trump last friday banned travel into the united states by people from seven muslim-majority countries , leading to protests , confusion and legal challenges .
“ this is totally unacceptable , ” john sigmund , whose sister , johanna sigmund , died inside the world trade center in new york on sept. 11 , 2001 , told reporters on a conference call .
“ it goes against everything we stand for as americans. ” the text of the order specifically made reference to the hijacked plane attacks , which killed about 3,000 people .
but the relatives who spoke on tuesday pointed out that none of the sept. 11 islamist militant hijackers was from any of the seven countries named in trump ’ s order .
trump ’ s order halted travel by people with passports from iran , iraq , libya , somalia , sudan , syria and yemen for 90 days , and stopped resettlement of refugees for 120 days .
fifteen of the 19 hijackers were from saudi arabia , two from united arab emirates and one each from lebanon and egypt .
the white house has described the order as necessary “ to protect the american people from terrorist attacks by foreign nationals admitted to the united states. ” sept. 11 family members said trump ’ s action would sow mistrust among muslim americans and hurt refugees from war-torn countries .
most of the relatives are members of september 11 families for peaceful tomorrows , a group formed in 2002 that opposed the war in iraq .
“ i am actually sickened by president trump ’ s use of 9/11 in this executive order , ” said terry mcgovern , whose mother was killed at the world trade center .
“ don ’ t use our loved ones , and specifically my mother , to turn away refugees. ” not all sept. 11 families may agree , however .
kathleen ganci , the widow of a fire department official killed in the attacks , told the new york times she supported efforts to restrict travel to ensure national security .
“ there ’ s many , many fine muslim people in this world , but there ’ s many many people who want to kill us , and we need to vet them , and we need to find out , ” she was quoted as saying .