seoul/tokyo ( reuters ) - a north korean state agency threatened on thursday to use nuclear weapons to sink japan and reduce the united states to ashes and darkness for supporting a u.n. security council resolution and sanctions over its latest nuclear test .
the korea asia-pacific peace committee , which handles the north s external ties and propaganda , also called for the breakup of the security council , which it called a tool of evil made up of money-bribed countries that move at the order of the united states .
the four islands of the archipelago should be sunken into the sea by the nuclear bomb of juche .
japan is no longer needed to exist near us , the committee said in a statement carried by the north s official kcna news agency .
juche is the north s ruling ideology that mixes marxism and an extreme form of go-it-alone nationalism preached by state founder kim il sung , the grandfather of the current leader , kim jong un .
regional tension has risen markedly since the reclusive north conducted its sixth , and by far its most powerful , nuclear test on sept. 3 , following a series of missile tests , including one that flew over japan .
the 15-member security council voted unanimously on a u.s.-drafted resolution and a new round of sanctions on monday in response , banning north korea s textile exports that are the second largest only to coal and mineral , and capping fuel supplies .
the north reacted to the latest action by the security council , which had the backing of veto-holding china and russia , by reiterating threats to destroy the united states , japan and south korea .
let s reduce the u.s. mainland into ashes and darkness .
let s vent our spite with mobilization of all retaliation means which have been prepared till now , the statement said .
japan s nikkei stock index and dollar/yen currency pared gains , although traders said that was more because of several chinese economic indicators released on thursday rather than a reaction to the north s latest statement .
south korea s won also edged down around the same time over domestic financial concerns .
despite the north s threats , south korean president moon jae-in said he was against having nuclear weapons in his country , either by developing its own arsenal or bringing back u.s. tactical nuclear weapons that were withdrawn in the early 1990s .
to respond to north korea by having our own nuclear weapons will not maintain peace on the korean peninsula and could lead to a nuclear arms race in northeast asia , moon said in an interview with cnn .
south korea s unification ministry also said it planned to provide $ 8 million through the u.n. world food programme and unicef to help infants and pregnant women in the north .
the move marks seoul s first humanitarian assistance for the north since its fourth nuclear test in january 2016 and is based on a longstanding policy of separating humanitarian aid from politics , the ministry said .
the north s latest threats also singled out japan for dancing to the tune of the united states , saying it should never be pardoned for not offering a sincere apology for its never-to-be-condoned crimes against our people , an apparent reference to japan s wartime aggression .
it also referred to south korea as traitors and dogs of the united states .
japan criticized the north s statement harshly .
this announcement is extremely provocative and egregious .
it is something that markedly heightens regional tension and is absolutely unacceptable , japanese chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters .
japanese prime minister shinzo abe , visiting india , called for strict enforcement of the u.n. resolution , saying the world must force a change .
the 15-member security council voted unanimously on a u.s.-drafted resolution and a new round of sanctions against north korea on monday in response to its latest and most powerful test , banning north korea s textile exports that are the second largest only to coal and mineral , and capping fuel supplies .
north korea had already rejected the security council resolution , vowing to press ahead with its nuclear and missile programs .
a tougher initial u.s. draft of monday s resolution was weakened to win the support of china , the north s lone major ally , and russia .
significantly , it stopped short of imposing a full embargo on oil exports to north korea , most of which come from china .
the latest sanctions also make it illegal for foreign firms to form commercial joint ventures with north korean entities .
u.s. president donald trump has vowed that north korea will never be allowed to threaten the united states with a nuclear-tipped missile , but has also asked china to do more to rein in its neighbor .
china in turn favors an international response to the problem .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said the international community had reached a high consensus on trying to realize a peaceful solution .
we urge the relevant directly involved parties to seize the opportunity and have the political nerve to make the correct political choice as soon as possible , hua told a regular press briefing .
the north accuses the united states , which has 28,500 troops in south korea , of planning to invade and regularly threatens to destroy it and its asian allies .
the united states and south korea are technically still at war with north korea because the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce and not a peace treaty .
( for a graphic on north korea 's missile and nuclear tests , click tmsnrt.rs/2vxbj0s )