when the fence keeps them from making it to the polls , the democrats start complaining a mainstream arizona newspaper is decrying the small section of the arizona-mexico border that has a 14-foot-high primary fence because it is too high for illegal immigrants to safely cross .
the article , border fence jumpers breaking bones , includes the claim that sections of the border with a 14-foot-high fence are as tall as a two or three-story house and tells the stories of several women who broke bones and were treated extensively to healthcare and surgeries at the expense of u.s. taxpayers .
the writer never mentions any lives directly lost as a result of there not being a border fence in most sections , such as when mexican nationals crossed into the u.s. and murdered father and husband robert rosas , a u.s. border patrol agent.the article in question was written by perla trevizo for the arizona daily star .
in the excerpt below , note the section s subtitle and the casual mention that the foreign woman had been deported multiple times prior : a dream endsfor some , the fence is a last resort.maria ibarra , 28 and also from oaxaca , had tried crossing through nogales and el paso in april , but both times she was sent back to mexico.this time she was determined to get through .
she left her 10-year-old son with her parents in oaxaca .
he was born in south carolina , where she lived for two years before going back to mexico in 2006 so her parents and siblings could meet her son.once there , she said , her son started losing his hearing in one ear and having seizures .
all i wanted was an opportunity to fight my case , she said .
she hoped her son could join her or maybe she could get a permit to visit the hospitals where he was first treated .
but she already had a couple of deportations and a voluntary return to mexico.interestingly , the part about the woman hoping her son could join her is errant in not mentioning that once her son does join her in the u.s. , the woman and her son would likely be permitted to stay because they would then be an incomplete family unit.the assertion that the border fence is as tall as a two or three-story house came from fernando valdez , mexico s deputy consul general in nogales , arizona .
he was quoted as stating , what surprises us is that people continue to jump from heights that can be the equivalent of a two- or even three-story house , he said .
but we hear they feel pressured to do it because they are holding the line or they start insulting them , telling them to jump .
the second part of his statement appears to be directed towards u.s. border patrol agents , but the writer left the intended direction of the assertion ambiguous .
of course , if that be the case , the border patrol routinely saves illegal immigrants lives , as the article inadvertently makes clear .
mexican authorities routinely demonize and attack u.s. border patrol agents , even in cases where agents have acted in self-defense against the violent narco-traffickers or other violent individuals.perhaps the most disturbing aspect of the advocacy article is that the writer did not mention why a segmented border security fence exists .
the fence , which contrary to left-of-center media assertions does not encompass most of the border , was built largely to stop violent criminals from their routine entering and existing of u.s. communities .
two instances come to mind , though in both cases the wall has yet to be built in those specific segments .
in 2002 , the fbi engaged in a sting operation in sunland park , new mexico along the u.s.-mexico border .
the effort was spurred by mexicans routinely crossing the border and robbing trains of cargo .
mexicans would jump the small chain-link fence that served as the area s only border security and rob the train cars .
they would then simply jump back across the fence and u.s. authorities were powerless to stop them .
mexican authorities , often corrupted by the criminal organizations behind the robberies and thefts , did nothing to stop the crimes.two fbi special agents got separated from their group in the sting .
one of them was a woman .
the two agents were surrounded by dozens of mexican nationals who beat them unconscious and caused severe injuries , including broken facial bones .
a federal agent with knowledge of the incident spoke to breitbart texas on the condition of anonymity and said , there were indicators that the mexican nationals were trying to drag the unconscious body of the female fbi agent back with them into mexico .
this writer previously covered the issue in 2013 and wrote , only a few of the men were eventually prosecuted , as most were deported back to mexico prior to prosecution .
unless something else happened or they moved , the men are still free and presumably operating in the area .
the very nature of a fence is that it poses a difficulty or risk to unauthorized crossings in an area , such as in the recent issue of barack obama s white house raising the height of their fence to keep unwanted people from crossing .
in arizona s specific border situation , there exist two border sectors : the tucson sector and the yuma sector .
though the yuma sector is largely locked down with significant coverage of technology and a primary and secondary fence , the tucson sector is largely open .
most of the sector has no fence at all and can be freely crossed at the whim of any person in mexico wishing to enter the united states .
the video embedded below shows the reality of most of the arizona-mexico border.via : breitbart news