wait until you read this woman s biography and past quotes about conservatives !
popular myth-busting website snopes originally gained recognition for being the go-to site for disproving outlandish urban legends -such as the presence of ufos in haiti or the existence of human-animal hybrids in the amazon jungle.recently , however , the site has tried to pose as a political fact-checker .
but snopes fact-checking looks more like playing defense for prominent democrats like hillary clinton and it s political fact-checker describes herself as a liberal and has called republicans regressive and afraid of female agency .
snopes main political fact-checker is a writer named kim lacapria .
before writing for snopes , lacapria wrote for inquisitr , a blog that oddly enough is known for publishing fake quotes and even downright hoaxes as much as anything else.while at inquisitr , the future fact-checker consistently displayed clear partisanship.she described herself as openly left-leaning and a liberal .
she trashed the tea party as teahadists .
she called bill clinton one of our greatest presidents .
she claimed that conservatives only criticized lena dunham s comparison of voting to sex because they fear female agency .
she once wrote : like many gop ideas about the poor , the panic about using food stamps for alcohol , pornography or guns seems to have been cut from whole cloth or more likely , the ideas many have about the fantasy of poverty .
( a simple fact-check would show that food stamp fraud does occur and costs taxpayers tens of millions .
) lacapria even accused the bush administration of being at least guilty of criminal negligience in the september 11 attacks .
( the future fact-checker offered no evidence to support her accusation .
) her columns apparently failed to impress her readership , oftentimes failing to get more than 10-20 shares.after blogging the inquisitr , lacapria joined snopes , where she regularly plays defense for her fellow liberals.she wrote a fact check article about jimmy carter s unilateral ban of iranian nationals from entering the country that looks more like an opinion column arguing against donald trump s proposed muslim ban.similarly , lacapria in another fact check article argued hillary clinton hadn t included benghazi at all in her infamous we didn t lose a single person in libya gaffe .
lacapria claimed clinton only meant to refer to the 2011 invasion of libya ( but not the 2012 benghazi attack ) but offered little fact-based evidence to support her claim.after the orlando terror attack , lacapria claimed that just because omar mateen was a registered democrat with an active voter registration status didn t mean he was actually a democrat .
her fact check argued that he might have chosen a random political affiliation when he initially registered .
lacapria even tried to contradict the former facebook workers who admitted that facebook regularly censors conservative news , dismissing the news as rumors .
in that fact check article , lacapria argued that facebook trending s blacklisting of junk topics was not only not a scandalous development , but to be expected following the social network s crackdown on fake news sites .
the opinion-heavy article was mockingly titled : the algorithm is gon na get you.lacapria again played defense for clinton in a fact check article when she claimed : outrage over an expensive armani jacket worn by hillary clinton was peppered with inaccurate details .
one of the inaccurate details cited by lacapria was that , the cost of men s suits worn by fellow politicians didn t appear in the article for contrast .
she also argued the speech clinton gave while wearing the $ 12,495 jacket , which discussed raising wages and reducing inequality , wasn t actually about income inequality.read more : daily caller