bangkok ( reuters ) - it will be business as usual this month for thailand s lucrative tourism industry as the country gears up for the lavish funeral of its revered king bhumibol adulyadej , the tourism agency said on monday .
tourism accounts for about 10 percent of thailand s gdp and has been one of the few bright spots for southeast asia s second-largest economy , which has struggled since a 2014 coup by the military .
one of the world s most popular travel destinations has observed a year-long period of mourning after the death in october last year of king bhumibol , who ruled for seven decades , and will be cremated on oct. 26 in a ceremony lasting five days .
tourism activities will continue as normal around the country , even though thai people will be in mourning , tanes petsuwan , a deputy governor of the tourism authority of thailand , told reuters .
there are no restrictions on tourists at all and they can still enjoy amazing thailand while they are here , he said , referring to a tagline trumpeted in tourism advertisements .
however , bangkok s grand palace and the temple of the emerald buddha , two key landmarks in the capital , will be closed for most of the month to host the cremation .
in a travel advisory last month , the tourism agency asked tourists to behave appropriately and respect thai sensitivities during what promises to be an emotionally-charged time for many .
we would like to request that the solemnity of the royal cremation is observed , and visitors should refrain from any inappropriate or disrespectful behavior , it said .
while not required to wear black , tourists should stick to respectful clothing , it added .
with its beaches , buddhist temples and infamous night life , thailand remains a magnet for travelers despite weathering more than a decade of unrest , including two coups , deadly floods in 2011 and a wave of bombs in tourist towns last year .
it expects to welcome a record 32.4 million visitors this year .
king bhumibol was succeeded by king maha vajiralongkorn , who ascended the throne in december last year .
king vajiralongkorn has since overseen several shake-ups of palace staff and moved some agencies under his direct control , including the crown property bureau , which manages most of the royal family s wealth .