pretoria ( reuters ) - south african president jacob zuma has asked the high court to reject a call by an anti-corruption watchdog for an official inquiry into alleged influence-peddling in his government .
a report a year ago by south africa s anti-graft agency known as public protector recommended a judicial probe be held to look into allegations of systemic corruption by zuma , some of his ministers and heads of state-owned companies .
the report focused on allegations that zuma s friends , businessman brothers ajay , atul and rajesh gupta , had influenced the appointment of ministers .
the 75-year-old zuma , whose rule has long been dogged by scandal , and the gupta brothers have denied the accusations .
the president , who previously described the state of capture report as unfair in parliament , wants the court to send it back to the watchdog for further investigations .
he questioned the right of the report s author , public protector former head thuli madonsela , to call for a judicial inquiry .
the report , whose public release zuma had sought to block through the courts , called for an inquiry be set up by the president and for a judge to be appointed within 30 days of its release .
is she competent to then direct the president to hold a commission on inquiry ?
with respect to this submission , she s not , zuma s lawyer ishmael semenya told the court , referring to madonsela .
the hearing is expected to continue until thursday and a ruling is expected at a later date .
zuma this year faced a series of corruption allegations , most recently over leaked emails that suggest the gupta brothers may have used their influence to secure state contracts for their companies .
zuma and the gupta brothers have denied these allegations .
separately , zuma is facing the possibility of more court charges .
the supreme court this month upheld a high court ruling to reinstate 783 corruption charges filed against him before he became president in 2009 .
the national prosecuting authority is expected to make a decision on whether to charge zuma .