beijing ( reuters ) - china has reasonably expanded its islands in the disputed south china sea and this year construction projects there including radar facilities covered about 290,000 square meters ( 72 acres ) , according to a new government report .
the number was broadly similar to one provided by a u.s. think tank earlier this month .
china has conducted extensive land reclamation work on some of the islands and reefs it controls in the south china sea , including building airports , alarming its neighbors and washington .
beijing says the work is help provide international services such as search-and-rescue but admits there is a military purpose too .
china also says it can do whatever it wants on its territory .
the new report , posted on a website run by china s national marine data and information service and the overseas edition of the ruling communist party s people s daily , says china has enhanced its military presence there and reasonably expanded the area covered by the islands .
apart from what it termed large radar - it was unclear if the report was referring to more than one - construction this year has included facilities for underground storage and administrative buildings .
there has been an increase in military patrols too , the report added , without giving specifics .
the report was released on friday but appeared in the state-run newspaper the global times on monday .
while attention in asia has been distracted by the north korean nuclear crisis in the past year , china has continued to install high-frequency radar and other facilities that can be used for military purposes on its man-made islands in the south china sea , a u.s. think tank said this month .
that report , by the asia maritime transparency initiative of washington s center for strategic and international studies , said chinese activity has involved work on facilities covering 72 acres ( 29 hectares ) of the spratly and paracel islands , territory contested with several asian neighbors .
more than $ 5 trillion of world trade is shipped through the south china sea every year .
besides china s territorial claims in the area , vietnam , malaysia , brunei , the philippines and taiwan have rival claims .