a plea deal for this punk will really make another terrorist think twice before attacking a major subway system or harming innocent americans in the name of allah the federal government s case against suspected islamic state adherent nicholas teausant may have moved one step closer tuesday to resolution without a trial , as a prosecutor said she will seek permission from washington , d.c. , to offer a deal to the defendant.in a brief hearing tuesday morning in sacramento s downtown federal courthouse , assistant u.s. attorney jean hobler said prosecutors must seek approval from the justice department s national security division before making an offer to teausant and his lawyers.that offer is expected to be made to teausant s defense team within a week , hobler told u.s. district judge john a. mendez , who agreed to push the case back until nov. 17 , with the possibility of a guilty plea to an as-yet-undefined charge.assistant federal defender matthew scoble told the judge lawyers are cautiously optimistic a resolution of the case can be reached.documents filed in the case since teausant s march 2014 arrest have teased out the notion that both sides were seeking a way to settle the matter without going to trial.teausant , whose 22nd birthday is on monday , is charged with one count of attempting to provide material support to a foreign terrorist organization , a charge that could net a 15-year prison sentence and $ 250,000 fine.he appeared in court tuesday in an orange jail jumpsuit but did not speak during the hearing.teausant said in a jailhouse interview with the sacramento bee in august 2014 that he hoped for a plea bargain that would incorporate some leniency .
he denied wanting to stage any attacks against americans.a former community college student and national guard washout who lived in acampo , near lodi , teausant was arrested as he tried to cross the border into canada near blaine , wash.the fbi and prosecutors say his trip was part of a plan to travel to syria to join the islamic state , which has become the obama administration s primary focus in its efforts against worldwide terror attacks.court documents say he was tripped up by an informant and undercover fbi agent.teausant s case has been delayed in part by questions about his mental state .
in december 2014 , the court found he was not competent , but after subsequent evaluations , he was found competent in august and the case proceeded.another reason for some delay is that the prosecution includes evidence classified as secret by the government.teausant , who is being held without bail at the sacramento county jail , has been described in court papers as boasting of wanting to bomb the los angeles subway system and blow up his infant daughter s day care center because it was a zionist reform church .
he allegedly boasted of wanting to train islamic state fighters .
i m going to be a commander and i m going to be on the front of every single newspaper in the country , he allegedly told the informant .
via : creeping sharia