unfortunately , in this day and age , it doesn t really matter if the story is true or not .
the propaganda driven media , and americans who hang on their every word ( especially the anti-god left ) , are so anxious for red meat on one of the top gop presidential candidates , the story will stick regardless of its validity here s trump s spokesperson , katrina pearson on the tabloid story : what 's worse ?
people who actually believe the trash in tabloids , or the ones who know it 's false & spread it anyway ?
# stupidity on all levels katrina pierson ( @ katrinapierson ) march 25 , 2016one thing i ve learned from writing about politics for 10 years is that you ll never talk someone out of believing something they really want to believe .
( at least you won t if you re a mediocre writer .
maybe great writers are different . )
another thing i ve learned is that there s no way to cover ratf * cking without participating in it .
an accusation is made , it reaches a critical mass of public awareness , then you re forced to choose between ignoring a matter of public interest and spreading the accusation by addressing it .
it s a testament to how far this has spread already that cruz himself felt obliged to say something.here s the national enquirer story alleging that cruz has had affairs with at least five women .
wait , let me rephrase : here s the national enquirer story alleging that there are claims that private detectives are investigating affairs with at least five women that cruz has supposedly had .
two possibilities here:1 .
it s all true .
better men than cruz have exploited their stature in washington for sexual conquests .
and the enquirer s been right before about political sex scandals that no one else would touch .
as every trump fan on twitter will eagerly tell you today , they got the john edwards story right .
meanwhile , we re still waiting for further details on the 12 mistresses barack obama supposedly has .
or how it could be that hillary clinton had six months to live six months ago .
or why no major mainstream newspaper has yet exposed the fact that antonin scalia was assassinated by a hooker hired by the cia .
personally , i m more interested in that one than this cruz business.2 .
it s a smear .
as it turns out , the enquirer is emphatically pro-trump .
they endorsed him a few weeks ago .
he s been friends with the paper s ceo , david pecker , for years .
and this wouldn t be the first time they ve done him a solid by publishing a spoonfed attack on one of his opponents , according to gabriel sherman .
supposedly it was team trump that handed the enquirer a story last year about ben carson leaving a medical sponge inside a patient .
it s also noteworthy , as cruz himself mentions in the clip , that trump advisor turned trump cheerleader roger stone is the only quoted source in the enquirer piece.whether or not the target denies the claim is unimportant .
the point is to plant the possibility that it s true in the audience s minds , knowing that some will believe it .
so here we have with the cruz accusation a publication that s in the tank for trump , that s allegedly willing to fling sh * t for him , and that s in contact with people renowned for their own willingness and ability to supply sh * t to the media .
could it be that the accusation is sh * t itself ? in a weird twist , trump s own spokeswoman , katrina pierson a former spokeswoman for cruz is identified in the enquirer piece as one of the alleged mistresses via a partially distorted photo that s nonetheless clear enough .
pierson denies any relationship with cruz : of course the national enquirer story is 100 % false ! ! !
i only speak to myself , however.carry on katrina pierson ( @ katrinapierson ) march 25 , 2016certain publications were eager to use a supposed threat against ted cruz by worldwide hacker group anonymous as proof that he was guilty as charged .
a threat from a hacker group anonymous must mean cruz is guilty right ?
unfortunately , the video they re using is not even from the official anonymous official account .
how about doing a little homework guys ? here s the video they re using : the publications who are using billy anderson s video as proof that anonymous is threatening ted cruz , as a way to prop up donald trump , might want to look up a video the official anonymous account posted about donald trump : https : //youtu.be/pvcc2qonqfglastly , before voters fall for a video from anonymous posted by billy anderson ( who has only 2 videos on his account ) they may want to better understand how anonymous really feels about the upcoming elections .
here s a clip from their official account : there s a reason these anonymous masks were frequently seen at occupy events and most recently at the anti-trump rally in chicago .
they tend to be worn by anarchists.via : hot air