what catholic college campus would be complete without students who bastardize the lyrics to songs about the birth of jesus christ tis the season to protest , apparently.a group of boston college student activists that go by eradicate boston college racism recently perverted the christmas carol walking in a winter wonderland to fit its twelve days of bc racism campaign , boston.com reports.the students distributed lyrics to their re-worked carol and attempted to deliver their rendition to the college s board of trustees during a luncheon friday , dec. 5 .
rejected , they resorted to singing in the atrium in front of the building .
and now we carol for accountability !
the group posted to twitter dec. 4 , along with a video of their stunt.and now we carol for accountability !
# 12days # bostoncollegeracism # cjbc @ bostoncollege pic.twitter.com/7dkuoonzhx eradicate bc racism ( @ bcracism ) december 4 , 2015here are the lyrics to the song that is being sung by a mostly white chorus : dear trustees are you listenin ?
a real plan you are missin .
until you agree , and change we do see , we re walking through a white man s wonderland.gone away , is our patience .
here to stay : demonstration .
deas tell us to trust but we know we must keep walkin through a white man s wonderland.in your meeting you can do some planning , decide how you ll get us to settle down .
if you say , there s no problem .
we ll say , no , man ?
try living on this campus if you re brown .
more bad press you ll inspire if reforms , you do mire in mounds of red tape .
you ll never escape .
you re walkin through a white man s wonderland .
at the end of the demonstration , the members read a wish list for the board , which asked that a faculty member of color , a staff member of color , and a student of color be added to the board and given voting power , boston.com reports.eradicate boston college racism s webpage also detailed the confrontation .
after being denied permission to address the board directly , students sang anti-racist carols from outside the doors to the luncheon in gasson hall 100 and presented three demands : 1 .
one voting student of color on the board , one faculty , one staff ; 2 .
an action plan to address institutional racism supported by a budget ( similar to those created at yale university or brown university ) ; and 3 .
the presentation of the plan by representatives of the university at a town hall on january 19th , 2016 ( the deadline set forth previously by the executive council of the undergraduate government of boston college ) , according to the site .
`` white emotional fragility has long been prioritized over black pain & anger in the american public sphere '' # bcracism https : //t.co/6bloxu79v9 eradicate bc racism ( @ bcracism ) december 17 , 2015no leftist group in their right mind would ignore the incoming class of freshman .
here , the eradicate bc racism group sends out a tweet in hopes of getting a jump on indoctrinating the young and malleable minds who ve been accepted to this prestigious catholic college : hey # bc2020 , congrats on your early acceptance !
if you choose to attend , we hope you 'll join our work to eradicate # bostoncollegeracism !
eradicate bc racism ( @ bcracism ) december 17 , 2015the left has managed to find a way to tie phony climate change to racism .
what protest about racism would be complete without addressing climate change ?
.
@ bclimatejustice `` what many have received as the issue of our time : a 21 century color line drawn by climate change '' https : //t.co/jrfriorwpz eradicate bc racism ( @ bcracism ) december 14 , 2015the racial justice warriors also posted a video and full text of a speech delivered by student kwesi aaron , as well as links to its other christmas celebrations , including bcpd is comin to town , come all ye faithful , i m dreaming of whiteness in academia , we wish you a day of raciam ( sic ) healing & white accountability , have yourself a bureaucratic christmas , roasting admissions on an open fire , leahy baby , slip a present under the tree , for me , and it s beginning to look a lot like justice .
via : eag news