berlin ( reuters ) - the european union s chief brexit negotiator told german industry on wednesday that it was his responsibility to help european companies weather the exit of britain from the eu , and he warned britain that its economy had much to lose .
in a series of speeches , michel barnier also said work remained to be done on how much britain would pay the eu to cover its share of the eu budget after it leaves .
british newspapers have reported his team has broadly agreed on a payment of around 50 billion euros ( 44 billion ) .
the eu has given britain until monday to make an acceptable offer for a financial settlement , agree on the rights of eu citizens in britain and ensure no hard border is set up with ireland .
only then will it start talks on a future trade pact .
german business is worried about the impact of brexit - britain is germany s third-largest export destination and its fifth-biggest overall trading partner .
the future of the eu is more important than brexit , barnier told the bda employers association and the bdi industry group and dihk chambers of commerce .
barnier said he wasn t sure if the whole truth had been explained to british business on the impact of brexit .
my responsibility before you and everywhere in europe is to tell the truth to european businesses , he said in the speech to the bda employers association .
a trading relationship with a non-eu member inevitably involved friction , he said .
whatever the outcome of the current negotiations , there will be no business as usual , he said .
some politicians in britain have argued that german companies depend on them for business , so berlin under chancellor angela merkel may help london get a deal .
but only about 6 percent of germany s trade in goods is with the united kingdom , compared with 56 percent with the other eu countries , barnier said - making it clear britain had the most to lose .
barnier also pointed to value-added tax returns and the imports of animals and animal projects that are subject to checks at the eu s borders as potential problems .
and he warned there was no guarantee that judgements by uk courts on trade disputes would automatically be recognised across the eu after brexit .
the bdi industry association and dihk chambers of commerce stressed that the onus was on the british government to shift in its negotiations .
the british government must move so that the eu can give the green light in two weeks for phase two of the talks , said the bdi and dihk groups .
there can be no cherry picking for london .
it is clear : our priority is to strengthen the eu and develop it further , they said , stressing that the freedoms of the internal market would not be diluted for britain during any transition phase .
barnier also warned that companies should prepare for a possible no deal , which implies returning to trade tariffs under world trade organisation rules , and border controls .
that scenario would lead to higher transport and storage costs , hitting companies operating on a just-in-time basis , he said .
the no-deal scenario is not our scenario , but since it can not be ruled out , we have to prepare for it , he said .