meanwhile , most americans can t afford to take a single vacation judicial watch announced today that it has obtained records from the u.s. department of the air force revealing that barack obama s february and march 2015 travel for golf vacations and fundraisers totaled $ 4,436,245.50 in taxpayer-funded transportation expenses .
the documents regarding the obama travel expenses came in response to two freedom of information act ( foia ) requests filed by judicial watch.to date , the secret service has not provided requested information , as required by foia , regarding security costs.using the air force s official cost estimate of $ 206,337 per hour , the newly released records obtained by judicial watch show : obama s february 14 , 2015 , golf outing to palm springs required a five-hour flight , costing taxpayers a total of $ 1,031,685 .
transportation for obama s february 19 day trip to chicago cost taxpayers $ 619,011.00 .
transportation for obama s march 2015 fundraising trip to los angeles cost taxpayers $ 1,980,835.20 .
obama s march 28 , 2015 , golf outing to palm city required a 3.9-hour flight , costing taxpayers $ 804,870.30 .
in palm springs , obama played golf at the luxurious sunnylands country club , located on the former estate of the late ambassadors walter and leonore annenberg .
obama reportedly spent the weekend on the exclusive , gated property , where he has twice stayed before.obama s february trip to chicago was billed by the white house as a non-political event to declare the pullman historic district a national monument .
but , press reports indicated that the trip was heavily political .
in a cnn story entitled , obama gives emanuel re-election boost : president barack obama went to chicago bearing gifts thursday for his former chief of staff , mayor rahm emanuel but the day had all the trappings of a campaign and obama even made an unannounced stop at a kenwood campaign office for emanuel on his way out of town .
i m glad he s my mayor , and i m glad he s going to be my mayor for another four years , obama told volunteers.obama s travel to california was solely to raise money for the democratic national committee and to show his support for fellow democrats nationwide .
his visit to los angeles began with an appearance on abc s late night comedy program jimmy kimmel live , and continued on to include a roundtable discussion fundraiser hosted at the santa monica home of icm partners cofounder chris silbermann and his wife julia franz .
guests paid up to $ 33,400 per couple for attendance , donations that will be used to aid dnc activities during the approaching 2016 election cycle .
obama s march 12 fundraising trip to los angeles was his 32nd fundraiser in l.a. county since he became president.in palm city , obama played golf at the spectacular floridian national golf club , where members pay a $ 50,000 initiation fee and $ 15,000 in annual dues .
according to the resort s website , this stunning , yet formidable par 71 will certainly impress .
at 7,114 yards , the 18-hole course offers perfectly manicured rolling fairways and greens , demanding hazards , breathtaking views of the st. lucie river , and is surrounded by natural preserve and native wildlife .
taxpayers should be outraged that barack obama s wastes 4.4 million of their precious tax dollars on golf vacations and political fundraising , said judicial watch president tom fitton .
and to make matters worse , the secret service has simply refused to respond to our requests for documents about the security costs of these controversial trips .
the obama travel scandal is about abuse of office , abuse of the taxpayer , and contempt for the rule of law .
records released earlier this year by judicial watch showed that michelle obama s 2014 trip to china cost more than $ 360,000 in air transportation costs .
judicial watch uncovered an expensive combination of trips by the obamas to africa and honolulu , which cost taxpayers $ 15,885,585.30 in flight expenses .
the single largest prior known expense for accommodations was for michelle obama s side-trip to dublin , ireland , during the 2013 g-8 conference in belfast , when she and her entourage booked 30 rooms at the five-star shelbourne hotel , with the first lady staying in the 1500 square-foot princess grace suite at a cost of $ 3,500 a night .
the total cost to taxpayers for the obamas ireland trip was $ 7,921,638.66 .
to date , the known travel expenses of the obamas and vice president joe biden exceed $ 61million .
via : judicial watch