dr. cynthia mckinney reveals hillary s murderous past with benghazi , and how the globalists will attempt to fuel race wars to further divide americans.help us spread the word about the liberty movement , we re reaching millions help us reach millions more .
via : infowarsdr .
cynthia mckinney has made a career of speaking her mind and challenging authority .
with her opinions , actions , and even her sense of style , mckinney has inspired both admiration and controversy.mckinney s political career began unofficially in 1986 when her father , georgia state representative billy mckinney , put her name on the ballot as a write-in .
cynthia mckinney was living in jamaica at the time and did not take the matter seriously ; still , she garnered a large percentage of votes without even trying .
two years later , mckinney ran for and won the seat , creating the first father/daughter combination to serve together in the georgia state house of representatives .
cynthia immediately began making her own mark , defying house dress codes for women by wearing trousers instead of dresses .
she spoke out against the first persian gulf war , and despite being in the house with her father , she often disagreed and voted against him.in 1992 , mckinney won a seat in the us house of representatives in georgia s newly created 11th district .
she was the first african-american woman to represent georgia in the us congress .
though a democrat during president clinton s tenure , mckinney voted against nafta , showing that she was not one to simply follow the party line .
mckinney worked hard in washington to clean up pollution in her district and improve its rural roads.during her second term , mckinney earned distinctive committee assignments with the national security committee and the international relations committee s international operations and human rights subcommittee .
a supporter of a palestinian state in israel-occupied territory , she sparked controversy by criticizing american policy in the middle east .
after the 9/11 attacks , mckinney suggested the president might have had prior knowledge of 9/11 .
the criticism she received from this highly controversial idea probably contributed to her defeat in the 2002 election ; however , she ran for the seat again and was re-elected in 2004.between terms in office , mckinney traveled the country and europe , speaking against the war in iraq war and also about her 2002 defeat , which she attributed to republicans being organized to cross over to vote against her in the democratic primaries .
her career , including this episode of her defeat , was made into a documentary film titled american blackout.once back in office , she continued her criticism of the bush administration on the first anniversary of the 9/11 commission report by gathering victims families and intelligence experts together on panels to address the flaws in the report and critique its recommendations regarding foreign and domestic policy .
in 2007 , mckinney left the democratic party to become a presidential candidate for the green party .