judge sri srinivasan is a possible pick for obama to replace justice scalia on the supreme court .
we only know one particular case where he paved the way for gay marriage .
social issues like abortion and gay marriage are big sticking points for conservatives .
could a judge who has no track record on social issues be appointed by obama ?
this would be a smart move on obama s part because there would be no ammunition for declining this nominee .
one possible contender to replace justice antonin scalia on the u.s. supreme court is an indian-american appeals court judge , sri srinivasan , who has pro-business credentials and a stellar resume.if he was nominated his background may make it more politically challenging for republicans as they plan to block anyone put forward by president barack obama.srinivasan , 48 , has served on the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit since he was confirmed on a 97-0 bipartisan vote in the u.s. senate in may 2013 .
republican senators who supported him then would likely be asked to justify why they couldn t back him for the supreme court.many names are likely under consideration and the white house has not tipped its hand , but recent supreme court appointments have tended to be appeals court judges and the appeals court in washington on which srinivasan serves has often been a springboard to the high court .
scalia himself served on the court , as did other supreme court members chief justice john roberts , justice clarence thomas and justice ruth bader ginsburg.the white house said on sunday that obama will wait until the u.s. senate is back in session before making a nomination .
the senate returns from recess on feb. 22.republicans have called for scalia s seat to remain open so that the next president , who would take office in january 2017 , can nominate a replacement .
other judges obama could consider appointing include paul watford , a black man who serves on the 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals , and jacqueline nguyen , a vietnamese-american woman who serves on the same court as watford.little is known about srinivasan s views on divisive social issues like abortion and affirmative action .
but as a senior justice department lawyer in 2013 , he was part of the legal team that successfully urged the high court to strike down the defense of marriage act , a law that restricted the definition of marriage to heterosexual couples for the purposes of federal benefits .
the ruling helped pave the way for the court s ruling in june 2015 that legalized gay marriage nationwide.via : reuters