washington ( reuters ) - u.s. vice president mike pence will underscore the u.s. partnership with israel during a trip to the middle east next week while seeking to shore up u.s. relations with the arab world after president donald trump recognized jerusalem as the capital of israel .
pence , a strong supporter of trump s decision , will spend three days in the region with stops in israel and egypt , the first high-level official to visit after the president reversed decades of u.s. policy and announced the united states would start the process of moving its embassy from tel aviv .
the status of jerusalem , which holds muslim , jewish and christian holy sites , is one of the thorniest obstacles to a peace deal between israel and the palestinians , who were furious over trump s move and have declined to meet with pence .
the international community does not recognize israeli sovereignty over the full city .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal capital , while palestinians want the capital of an independent state of theirs to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
pence , an evangelical christian who had planned to highlight the plight of christian minorities during his trip , will not meet with palestinian christians or with officials from the coptic christian church , who declined a meeting in response to the u.s. move .
officials said pence still would discuss the persecution of christians as well as the jerusalem decision , countering iran , defeating islamic state militants and fighting extremist ideology .
the dates of his trip have been in flux because of trump s u.s. tax overhaul push and the possibility that pence would be needed to provide a tie-breaking vote in the senate .
he is now scheduled to depart washington on tuesday , arriving in cairo on wednesday for a meeting with egypt s president abdel fattah al-sisi .
he flies to israel later on wednesday and will meet with prime minister benjamin netanyahu and president reuven rivlin , deliver a speech to the israeli parliament , and visit jerusalem s western wall .
we can t envision a scenario under which the western wall would not be part of israel , one administration official told reporters on a conference call .
the trip will be dominated by the continuing fallout from trump s announcement .
the last couple weeks in the region have been a reaction to the jerusalem decision , another administration official said .
this trip is part of ... the ending of that chapter , and the beginning of what i will say is the next chapter .
that view may not be shared by arab leaders .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas said the united states abdicated its responsibility as a mediator on peace and pence s planned visit to bethlehem was scrapped .
pence does not plan to encourage egypt to pressure the palestinians to return to the negotiating table , an official said .
we think it s appropriate for the palestinians to digest what has happened .
and once they review the president s remarks clearly , they will realize that nothing has changed in terms of being able to reach an historic peace agreement , he said .
arab legislators have announced they will stay away from pence s speech to the knesset .
in egypt , the sisi government will have a chance to discuss the recent u.s. decision to suspend some of egypt s military aid package because of washington s concerns over civil liberties .
egypt is a strategic u.s. partner because of its control of the suez canal and sisi presents himself as a bulwark against islamist militants in the region .
on friday pence departs israel for germany , where he will visit u.s. troops on his way back to washington .