amsterdam/nairobi ( reuters ) - burundi said on friday it will refuse to cooperate with an international criminal court ( icc ) investigation into war crimes prosecutors suspect were committed by forces loyal to president pierre nkurunziza s government against their political opponents .
the court ordered a formal investigation on thursday into crimes committed between april 2015 to october 2017 .
but experts say it will be hard for icc prosecutor fatou bensouda to gather evidence without support from burundi s government , which last month became the first to withdraw from the hague-based court amid waning support from african nations .
an earlier icc case in kenya fell apart due to opposition from the government of president uhuru kenyatta .
like burundi , kenya and south africa have threatened to withdraw from the court , arguing that it disproportionately targets africans .
the government rejects that decision ( to investigate ) and reiterates its firm determination that it will not cooperate , said burundi s justice minister aimee laurentine kanyana .
unrest has gripped burundi since nkurunziza said in april 2015 he would seek a third term in office , triggering protests and a crackdown by security forces .
he won re-election that july but opponents boycotted the vote , saying his decision to stand violated the constitution and the terms of a peace agreement that had ended a war in the central african country .
the icc says that under international law it still has jurisdiction over crimes committed while burundi was a member .
judges said bensouda should investigate whether crimes against humanity were committed including murder , torture , rape and persecution .
government forces are suspected to have killed more than 1,000 people and displaced 400,000 during the crackdown .
human rights groups say the number killed could be far higher .
human rights groups and opposition politicians in burundi welcomed the court s decision .
charles nditije , the exiled head of burundi s opposition platform cnared , called the move a victory for justice .... for those who want the return of peace and rule of law to burundi .
armel niyongere , a burundian lawyer representing families of the victims , said he would assist bensouda s investigation .
legal experts said bensouda may be unable to bring any suspects to the hague as long as nkurunziza remains in power .
i suspect that it will be very challenging for the icc to access ... evidence in burundi said berlin-based international criminal justice lawyer angela mudukuti .
bensouda s decision was courageous and she will likely seek to use evidence obtained by interviewing refugees who have fled to neighboring tanzania and rwanda , said karine bonneau , a senior official at the paris-based international federation for human rights .
she had very little choice but to open an investigation given the gravity of the crimes , she said .
others said the prosecution was largely symbolic .
bensouda s job is in part to deter future crimes , said thijs bouwknegt , an africa expert at the netherlands institute for war , holocaust and genocide studies .
if she acts like some super human rights watchdog and names and shames people i think this may be effective , he said .