santiago ( reuters ) - chile s frontrunning center-right presidential candidate , sebastian pinera , on monday unveiled a $ 14 billion , four-year spending plan focused on proposed reforms to the country s tax and pension systems and new investments in infrastructure and hospitals .
the former president , who governed from 2010 to 2014 , said he would pay for his proposals by cutting unnecessary government spending and simplifying the tax code to encourage investment and boost growth and the country s coffers .
recent opinion polls show pinera , 67 , with a wide lead over his seven rivals in the nov. 19 first-round election .
pinera would also beat his two closest contenders , leftists alejandro guillier and beatriz sanchez , in a runoff if no candidate receives at least 50 percent of the vote , according to pollster cep last week .
guillier , the frontrunner on the left , has yet to put a pricetag on his proposals , which track the policies of outgoing center-left president michelle bachelet .
sanchez has proposed a $ 13.4 billion plan of deeper social and economic reforms , paid for in part by a tax on the super-rich .
the 67-year-old pinera , a billionaire who has campaigned on a program of fiscal austerity , is benefiting from disenchantment with bachelet , whose program of progressive reforms coincided with a downturn in the price of copper , which can account for as much as 15 percent of gross domestic product in chile , the world s top producer .
half of the financing for my program will come from reallocations drawn from ineffective government programs ... and a reduction of unnecessary spending in the public sector , pinera said in a 124-page paper detailing his proposals .
pinera s plan to reform the pension system would cost about $ 3 billion and include new subsidies to raise pensions for women and the middle class , as well as incentives to encourage workers to retire later , pinera said in the document .
the current retirement system , introduced in the 1980s during augusto pinochet s dictatorship , was historically seen as a model by many economists , but it has been criticized in recent years on a number of fronts , including what many see as insufficient payouts .
pinera , a businessman-turned-politician , has also called for a $ 2.7 billion overhaul of bachelet s tax reform , to provide more certainty and incentives for saving and investment , as well as $ 3 billion of investment in hospitals and infrastructure .