geneva ( reuters ) - peace and stability must be restored in myanmar s northern rakhine state before any rohingyas can return from bangladesh , under international standards on voluntary repatriation , the united nations refugee agency ( unhcr ) said on friday .
some 20,000 rohingya fled myanmar to bangladesh in november , and at least 270 so far in december , bringing the total since violence erupted on august 25 to 646,000 , according to the unhcr and international organization of migration ( iom ) .
the two countries have signed an agreement on voluntary repatriation which refers to establishing a joint working group within three weeks of the nov. 23 signing .
unhcr is not party to the pact or involved in the bilateral discussions for now .
it is critical that the returns are not rushed or premature , unhcr spokesman adrian edwards told a briefing .
people can t be moving back in into conditions in rakhine state that simply aren t sustainable .
htin lynn , myanmar s ambassador to the u.n. in geneva , said on tuesday that his government hoped returns would begin within two months .
he was addressing the human rights council , where the top u.n. rights official said that myanmar s security forces may be guilty of genocide against the rohingya muslim minority .
the unhcr has not been formally invited to join the working group , although its deputy high commissioner for refugees kelly clements is holding talks in bangladesh , edwards said , adding that discussions were still at a very preliminary stage .
he could not say whether unhcr was in talks with myanmar authorities on its role , but hoped the agency would be part of the joint working group .
edwards , asked whether the two-month time was premature , said : the return timeline of course is something that we are going to have to look closely at ... we don t want to see returns happening either involuntarily or precipitously and before conditions are ready .
in all , bangladesh is hosting a total of more than 858,000 rohingya , including previous waves , iom figures show .
we have had ... a cycle of displacement from rakhine state over many decades , of people being marginalized , of violence , of people fleeing and then people returning , edwards said .
now this cycle has to be broken , which means that we have to find a way to ensure that there is a lasting solution for these people .
wfp spokeswoman bettina luescher said that it had distributed food to 32,000 people in northern rakhine in november .
everybody agrees that the situation is very dire on ground , that all of the u.n. agencies need more access , that the violence has to stop and that these people can live in safety where they want to live , she said .