you can believe that if this incident with iran kidnapping our sailors had happened under a republican president , you would be hearing 24/7 about this .
i digress , this wouldn t have happened if we had a president who had the least bit of a backbone .
the entire incident is simply unbelievable !
here s a little background into the female sailor who is seen in the photos wearing a headscarf : this photograph violates international law .
article 13 of the geneva convention ( iii ) , governing the treatment of prisoners of war , requires iran to protect prisoners against insults and public curiosity .
this photograph including a female sailor apparently forced to wear a headscarf is a quintessential example of public curiosity and would be interpreted as insulting throughout the muslim world .
( and if you don t think iran is in a state of armed conflict against the united states , tell that to the families of hundreds of american soldiers who ve lost their lives to iranians and iranian-backed terrorists .
) female sailor in the corner in this picture : the sight of members of the american military , disarmed and under iranian control , is of enormous propaganda value in iran s ongoing war against the united states .
to its allies in the middle east , the photo demonstrates iran s strength how many jihadist countries have had this many american servicemembers under their power ?
and it demonstrates american weakness.then there s this : this time , the americans were cooperative in proving their innocence , and they quickly accepted their faults without resistance , the analyst , hamidreza taraghi , said in a phone interview .
the marines apologized for having strayed into iranian waters .
never fear , john kerry made friends with the iranians , and that made all the difference : also playing a role was the strong relationship that has developed between mr. kerry and the iranian foreign minister , mohammad javad zarif , during negotiations on the nuclear deal , mr. taraghi said.john kerry and zarif were on the phone during the past hours , and this helped the problem to be resolved quickly due to their direct contact , he said.nations that take illegal propaganda photos , crow about their seizure of american boats , confiscate part of their equipment , and then point to our allegedly admitted faults aren t easing tensions , they re flexing their muscles .
i m glad our sailors and boats are back in american hands minus , apparently , their gps equipment but once again iran has thumbed its nose at the u.s. , demonstrating that it does what it wants whether it s testing missiles , launching rockets near u.s. warships , or taking , questioning , and photographing american sailors who ( allegedly ) stray into iranian waters.read more at : national review