whatever happened to innocent until proven guilty ?
the government bullies are playing judge , jury and executioner when they take assets in civil forfeiture .
policing for profit mark brewer is a decorated air force veteran who fought in the global war on terror .
but last month , he became a casualty in the drug war.in late march , the u.s. 8th circuit court of appeals ruled that the federal government could take more than $ 60,000 of brewer s cash with civil forfeiture , even though he was never charged with a crime .
the decision lets many midwestern states continue to take property from people who have done nothing wrong.a former military police officer and weapons specialist , brewer earned several medals during his service in the air force , before he was medically discharged in 2008 .
brewer said he developed posttraumatic stress disorder after a deployment in afghanistan.in november 2011 , brewer was driving on interstate 80 in nebraska , when douglas county sheriff s deputy dave wintle pulled brewer over for crossing traffic lanes without signaling .
during the stop , wintle performed a criminal background check , which revealed no major violations .
after gaining brewer s consent , wintle walked around the car with a canine unit ; the dog alerted to the trunk .
when he searched the trunk , wintle found two backpacks that had a strong odor of raw marijuana and $ 63,530 in cash.brewer said he was travelling to los angles to visit his uncle and planned to use the money as a down payment for a house .
according to brewer , he had been saving that cash during his military service and from disability payments .
wintle did not believe his story , so brewer s cash was seized and his car was towed .
at the douglas county sheriff s office , a later search located disability documents , old paystubs and tax returns in the vehicle , along with two articles entitled how to make wicked hash and how to make weed oil without blowing yourself up .
but deputies never found any drugs in the car .
nor did the government ever charge brewer with a crime .
deputy wintle didn t even issue brewer a traffic citation the basis for the stop.read more : forbes