pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo s government considers the possibility of attacks by islamic state fighters returning from iraq and syria one of the main threats to national security , according to a new strategy document .
around 300 kosovars have gone to syria and iraq since 2012 to fight with the islamic state group for the establishment of a caliphate ruled by islamic law .
some 70 have been killed but many , including women and children , are still believed to be in the conflict zone , despite the group s expulsion from almost all the population centers it had held .
the document , state strategy against terrorism and action plan 2018-2022 , was posted on a government website on friday .
it said potential threats included attacks by members of terrorist organizations through foreign terrorist fighters , inactive cells , but also by sympathizers and supporters who may be inspired to commit violent acts .
international and local security agencies have previously warned of the risk posed by returning fighters , and in 2015 , kosovo adopted a law making fighting in foreign conflicts punishable by up to 15 years in jail .
the report said there had been public calls for terrorist attacks in kosovo and the region and called terrorism one of the biggest threats to national security .
kosovo s population is nominally 90 percent muslim , but largely secular in outlook .
there have been no islamist attacks on its soil , although in june , nine kosovar men were charged with planning attacks at a soccer match in albania against the visiting israeli national team and its fans the previous november .
the state prosecutor said some of the men had been in contact with lavdrim muhaxheri , a prominent islamic state member and the self-declared commander of albanians in syria and iraq , from whom they had received orders to attack .
muhaxheri was reported to have been killed in the syria the same month .
the government strategy , compiled by the interior ministry , said that a form of radical islam had been imported to kosovo by non-governmental organizations from the middle east after the end of its 1998-99 war of secession from serbia .