houston ( reuters ) - several caribbean oil storage terminals that temporarily closed ahead of hurricane irma earlier this month have started making preparations in case they have to shut again due to hurricane maria , which was a rare category 5 storm on tuesday .
shippers and traders in the atlantic basin are struggling amid this year s very active storm season , which has seen seven hurricanes so far , four of them major hurricanes , defined as at least a category 3 on the five-step saffir-simpson scale .
hurricane harvey hit the u.s. gulf coast s energy infrastructure at the end of august , halting a large portion of fuel exports to latin america .
this month , hurricanes irma and maria have forced caribbean oil terminals and refineries to shut or slow operations , locking down millions of barrels stored .
the scramble for shipments has led some shippers to divert tankers away from venezuela to feed latin american and caribbean countries desperate for fuel .
maria on tuesday evening churned in the eastern caribbean about 60 miles ( 190 km ) southeast of st. croix in the u.s. virgin islands , where a 13-million-barrel oil storage facility is located .
operators of other terminals in neighboring islands were monitoring the storm before making operational decisions .
the hurricane brushed north of st. lucia and its path could also include st. eustatius , puerto rico and parts of the bahamas , islands where most of caribbean s 100-million-barrel storage capacity is located .
nustar energy s 13-million-barrel statia terminal in st. eustatius remains shut since earlier this month after some of its tanks suffered damage from irma , according to the company .
it also activated a hurricane response plan ahead of maria .
statoil s south riding point terminal in the bahamas remained open on tuesday , though the company is monitoring the hurricane , it said in an email to reuters .
u.s.-based buckeye partners , the largest terminal operator in the caribbean , said in an emailed statement that it initiated full plant shutdown procedures and suspended all marine terminal operations for its operations in yabucoa , puerto rico per our established hurricane preparedness plan .
buckeye temporarily shut its 23-million-barrel bahamas terminal , its 6-million-barrel puerto rico facility and its florida pipeline and terminal system earlier in september due to irma , but all of them were in the process of resuming operations last week .
maria caused mind boggling damage in dominica , where it ripped off roofs across the island before pushing on toward the u.s. virgin islands and puerto rico on tuesday .