( reuters ) - after weeks of discussions behind closed doors , the u.s. senate unveiled a draft of its healthcare bill on thursday that would overhaul the affordable care act , commonly known as obamacare .
the house of representatives narrowly passed its healthcare bill last month .
if the senate passes its bill , the house will either have to vote on the senate version of the legislation or the two chambers will have to reconcile their differences in a conference committee .
obamacare extended coverage to some 20 million additional americans through both subsidized private insurance and an expansion of medicaid .
since its passage in 2010 , republicans have campaigned on repealing the program and argued that the law is too costly and represents undue government interference in americans ’ healthcare .
here is how the two bills compare on their main provisions : under obamacare , more than 30 states , including about a dozen states with republican governors , expanded the medicaid government health insurance program for the poor and disabled .
both bills would roll back the expansion and significantly overhaul the program , which provides insurance to nearly 70 million people .
senate : the draft legislation would phase out obamacare ’ s expansion of medicaid over three years , from 2021 to 2024 .
it would then overhaul the program and reduce its federal funding more than the house bill would , beginning in 2025 .
house : the bill would allow the medicaid expansion to continue until jan. 1 , 2020 .
after that date , expansion would end , and people who enrolled in the expansion could not re-enroll once they leave .
medicaid funding would be capped on a per-person basis .
senate : the bill would repeal most obamacare taxes beginning after dec. 31 , 2016 , including the 3.8 percent net investment income tax on wealthy americans .
the tax on branded prescription brands would be repealed in 2018 , and the legislation would delay the so-called cadillac tax on high-cost employer-provided insurance .
it would also provide more generous tax credits for the purchase of private health insurance for people between zero and 350 percent of the federal poverty level based on income .
under obamacare , those between 100 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level were eligible for tax credits .
house : the bill would repeal most obamacare taxes retroactively after dec. 31 , 2016 , and delay the cadillac tax to 2026 .
it would provide flat age-based tax credits for the purchase of private health insurance ranging from $ 2,000 to $ 4,000 per year that would be capped at upper-income levels .
both bills would repeal the penalties associated with the individual mandate that nearly everyone purchase health insurance or else pay a fine , and the mandate that employers provide insurance to employees .
senate : the legislation would maintain the popular obamacare provision that young adults be allowed to stay on their parents ’ health insurance until age 26 .
it would also prevent insurers from discriminating against those with pre-existing conditions , but would give states flexibility to opt out of so-called essential health benefits , such as maternity care and prescription drug coverage , that experts said could make it harder for some sick people to find affordable plans .
the bill would also allow insurers to charge older americans up to five times more than younger americans .
house : the bill would allow young adults to remain on their parents ’ insurance until age 26 .
it would allow states to opt out of essential health benefits and obamacare ’ s requirement that insurers charge sick and healthy people the same rates .
it would also let insurers mark up premiums by 30 percent for those who have a lapse in insurance coverage of about two months or more .
insurers could charge older americans up to five times more than younger americans .