tokyo ( reuters ) - the united states , japan and south korea will hold two days of missile tracking drills starting on monday , japan s maritime self-defence force said , as tensions rise in the region over north korea s fast-developing weapons programmes .
the united states and south korea conducted large-scale military drills last week , which the north said made the outbreak of war an established fact .
north korea has fired missiles over japan as it pursues nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles in defiance of u.n. sanctions and international condemnation .
on nov. 29 , it test-fired an intercontinental ballistic missile which it said was its most advanced yet , capable of reaching the mainland united states .
this week s exercises will be the sixth drills sharing information in tracking ballistic missiles among the three nations , the defence force said .
it did not say whether the controversial thaad system would be involved .
the installation of the u.s. terminal high altitude area defense system in south korea has angered china , which fears its powerful radar could look deep into china and threaten its own security .
north korea s missile test last month prompted a u.s. warning that north korea s leadership would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out .
the pentagon has mounted repeated shows of force after north korean tests .
the united states has also pressured china and other nations to cut trade and diplomatic ties with north korea , as part of international efforts to dry up pyongyang s illegal cash flows that could fund its weapons programmes .
on sunday , south korea said it would impose new unilateral sanctions on 20 institutions and a dozen individuals in north korea , barring any financial transactions between those sanctioned and any south koreans .
this unilateral sanction will prevent illegal funds flowing to north korea and contribute to reinforce international communities sanctions against north korea , south korea s finance ministry said in a statement .
the move is largely symbolic as trade and financial exchanges between the two koreas have been barred since may 2010 following the torpedoing of a south korean warship , which the north denied .
japanese defence minister itsunori onodera said the ministry plans to include 730 million yen ( $ 6.4 million ) to help build a new missile interceptor system , the aegis ashore , in its next fiscal year budget request , public broadcaster nhk reported .
north korea regularly threatens to destroy south korea , japan and the united states and says its weapons programmes are necessary to counter u.s. aggression .
the united states stations 28,500 troops in the south , a legacy of the 1950-53 korean war .
( $ 1 = 113.4800 yen )