brussels ( reuters ) - amid a rising babble of advice from european neighbors on how to handle catalonia , spanish prime minister mariano rajoy might pay attention to one country that knows something about fending off separation belgium .
the belgian prime minister , charles michel , took a lead among european governments on sunday after police used force to prevent voting in a unilateral independence referendum by calling for leaders in madrid and barcelona to start talking .
violence can never be the answer !
we condemn all forms of violence and reaffirm our call for political dialogue , michel tweeted on a day when most european leaders , and the european union authorities in brussels , stayed silent on events in spain .
belgium has rejigged its constitution six times in the past half century to hold together its two halves : french-speaking wallonia and dutch-speaking flanders .
three centuries after spanish rule ended in the lands that make up modern belgium , a belgian government in which flemish nationalists play a major role feels it has something particular to say about the virtues of conversation .
just get around the table and talk , a belgian government official told reuters , summing up advice to barcelona and madrid .
we strongly believe that full negotiations in which all parties are included can take away that sense of frustration .
reflecting on the three years in which michel , a 41-year-old french-speaking walloon centrist , has governed in coalition with the right-wing flemish nationalist n-va , the official said an important lesson for belgians had been that dialogue with the separatists had substantially reined in secessionist sentiment .
the separatist tendency has declined considerably when people see that their community is being treated with respect .
rooted in part in a history of domination by the industrial , french-speaking south during belgium s first century or so after independence from the netherlands in 1830 , flemish nationalism flourished as heavy industry declined and flemings , prospering , started to resent funding welfare transfers to the walloons .
frictions over language in universities broke out into riots in 1968 but mostly belgium has kept a lid on communal violence , thanks in part to constitutional gymnastics that have left it a complex federal state with huge autonomy for the regions .
the n-va has muted calls for more devolution and support for independence is in single figures , polls indicate , easing fears that a catalan secession could revive flemish aspirations .
the pressure which has now built up in catalonia has been negotiated away over the years in belgium , said carl devos , politics professor at the university of ghent in flanders .
that willingness to talk endlessly over legal reforms is in contrast to what many belgians see as an inflexibility by rajoy to accept changing spain s 1978 post-dictatorship constitution and hence to negotiate a more devolved status for catalonia .
michel made his heartfelt plea for an end to violence and for new dialogue after talking to some eu counterparts and to flemish government allies on sunday , the official said .
it was not intended as an attack on rajoy or the spanish legal system , he said , but a response to a fear positions were hardening .
it is our trademark to deal with pressure from regions wanting more autonomy peacefully , devos said .
so it is not surprising that the prime minister felt the need to speak out .