washington ( reuters ) - qatar s foreign minister on friday criticized reckless leadership in the gulf for a number of crises including the gulf rift and lebanon , taking apparent aim at saudi arabia .
the diplomatic crisis , in which saudi arabia , bahrain , the united arab emirates and egypt have boycotted qatar , has been brewing since the summer after the four countries cut diplomatic , transport and trade ties with qatar , accusing it of financing terrorism .
doha denies the charges .
saudi arabia and its allies are fighting for sway across the region against a bloc led by iran , which includes the heavily armed lebanese shi ite hezbollah group .
attention on the dispute has shifted recently especially in the wake of lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri s shock resignation announcement this month while in saudi arabia .
hariri s abrupt resignation and his continued stay in riyadh have caused fears over lebanon s stability and thrust it into the bitter rivalry between riyadh and iran .
saudi arabia and hariri - whom riyadh backs - say his movements are not restricted .
riyadh also denies accusations it forced hariri to resign .
we see a pattern of irresponsibility and a reckless leadership in the region which is just trying to bully countries into submission , qatari foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani said in washington .
what we are witnessing now in the region ... it s something we just witness ( ed ) in recent history , bullying small countries into submission .
exactly what happened to qatar six months ago is happening now to lebanon .
the leadership in saudi arabia and the uae need to understand ... there is no right for any country to interfere in other countries affairs , he told a group of reporters .
asked to comment on those remarks , the saudi embassy in washington s spokeswoman , fatimah baeshen , said : the kingdom of saudi arabia s foreign policy has always been premised on regional stability , peace , and security .
the kingdom does not interfere with its neighbors domestic affairs .
riyadh says qatar backs terrorism and cozies up to iran .
qatar rejects the accusation and says it is being punished for straying from its neighbors backing for authoritarian rulers .
since crown prince mohammed bin salman rose to power less than three years ago , riyadh has struck a more aggressive posture towards iran , launching a war in yemen , leading the boycott of neighboring qatar , and ratcheting up its rhetoric against hezbollah .
u.s. efforts to bring an end to the dispute have yet to bear fruit .
qatar hosts the largest u.s. air base in the region which is used in the international coalition fighting islamic state .
thani said qatar s boeing c-17 transport aircraft , used by doha for logistical support within the coalition , were forced to fly over iran given that saudi arabia and the uae have blocked qatari planes from flying over their airspace .
so if we imagine that any emergency will happen , those c-17 planes which might have u.s. troops will land in iran .
so this is the impact of this blockade ... on the global coalition and on u.s. military operations there , thani said .
a spokesman for the u.s. air forces central command said the qataris have flown nearly 30 mobility missions in support of coalition operations to defeat isis , moving more than a million pounds of cargo , including parts and supplies since doha recommitted its c-17 fleet to operation inherent resolve in july .
at this time , we are aware of no qatari c-17 flights having traversed iranian airspace while carrying coalition cargo , lt .
colonel damien pickart told reuters .