how does a refugee who is facing trial for the rape of a school aged girl board a plane in america and fly overseas to another country ?
the little girl who was allegedly raped by this man probably wishes she had a plane she could ve boarded to get away from him .
a 49-year-old man reportedly boarded a flight for the united arab emirates two days before he was to stand trial in kennewick on charges of raping and molesting a grade-school girl.a nationwide arrest warrant was issued this week for khalid a. fathey after he was a no-show at his benton county superior court trial.the u.s .
marshals service then discovered that fathey left seattle on july 23 on a plane bound for dubai , said deputy prosecutor anita petra.fathey was free on his personal recognizance since being charged with the sex crimes in may 2015 .
he now faces a new charge of bail jumping.judge vic vanderschoor waited 1 1/2 hours monday in case fathey had car trouble or another problem before calling off the trial , releasing the jurors and ordering the arrest warrant.kennewick attorney kevin holt , who was hired by fathey , said he met with his client for about eight hours on july 21 and then prepared for the trial .
he assured me that he would be here monday morning , holt said.holt said his client is from northern iraq .
fathey had been in the military and worked with the united states government after the 2003 invasion , he said.since fathey was no longer welcome in iraq under the new regime , he sought political asylum and came to the united states with his wife and children as political refugees , holt said.fathey and his wife were paid by the state for four years to be full-time caregivers for a tri-city woman who had medical issues , he said.fathey contends the sex crimes did not happen and were made up by the girl s family .
fathey and his family had to move to spokane from kennewick about six months ago because they were afraid for their safety in the tri-cities , especially after someone reportedly set fire to their car , said holt.prosecutors allege the girl s mother became suspicious in december 2014 when she found the girl and fathey together , and fathey appeared nervous .
the girl later disclosed to her mother that fathey allegedly kissed her and touched her sexually several times over a six-month period .
fathey told ( the girl ) never to tell or she was going to get in trouble , documents said.before the police were involved , fathey called his religious leader , who had them sit down together with the girl s parents , court documents said .
fathey admitted to the inappropriate touching but would not elaborate , documents said.the girl s mother fainted during the meeting , and police were called.fathey is charged with one count of first-degree rape of a child and two counts of first-degree child molestation .
all three counts include the aggravating circumstance that he used a position of trust to commit the crimes.read more here : tri-city herald