lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - the wife of ousted pakistani prime minister nawaz sharif on sunday captured his parliamentary seat with a reduced majority in a by-election seen as a test of support for the sharif dynasty ahead of the 2018 general election .
sharif s daughter maryam said her mother kulsoom won despite pakistan muslim league-nawaz ( pml-n ) party workers being threatened and kidnapped .
although she did not name anyone , pml-n sources said she was referring to alleged intimidation by parts of pakistan s powerful military .
the military could not be reached for comment .
this is not an ordinary victory , maryam said in a speech to jubilant pml-n supporters .
you have defeated not only people who were in the field but also those who are invisible .
the main opposition pakistan tehreek-e-insaf ( pti ) party made gains but alleged voter irregularities in the eastern city of lahore , the electoral heartlands of the sharif family since 1980s .
official results are yet to be announced but party officials who also tallied the numbers say kulsoom , who did not campaign as she is receiving treatment for cancer in london , scooped about 53.5 percent of the vote , with the party s majority reduced from about 61 percent in the 2013 general election .
the pml-n wanted to demonstrate that support for the sharif family was undiminished despite the supreme court s removal of nawaz , who has kept control of the party and installed long-term ally shahid khaqan abbasi as prime minister .
maryam said dozens of pml-n activists were blindfolded and picked up from their homes at night , while others received threatening phone calls from unknown numbers during the campaign .
this victory is a message to the forces hatching conspiracies against nawaz sharif that there would be only rules of people and democracy , added maryam .
maryam , who some pml-n leaders see as a future leader , spearheaded the pml-n campaign for her mother with fiery speeches denouncing the judiciary .
in an interview with reuters before the vote , she hinted at military involvement in her father s ouster .
nawaz , who served two stints in power in 1990s until he was deposed in a military coup in 1999 , had strained ties with the military during his third stint in power that ended in his ouster , when the supreme court disqualified him for failure to declare a monthly salary , equivalent to around $ 2,700 , from a company owned by his son .
sharif denies receiving the salary .
tensions between civilian governments and the military have been a constant source of instability in pakistan , with the military staging coups and running the country for nearly half the time since independence from british colonial rule in 1947 .
militants-linked party opposition leader imran khan - whose threats of street protests pushed the supreme court to launch a probe into nawaz s wealth - had sought to build on the success of his anti-graft crusade by making inroads into sharifs power base in punjab .
khan turned the by-election into a plebiscite about corruption and has accused the provincial punjab government , which is run by nawaz s brother shahbaz , of abusing state resources to help the pml-n campaign .
pti candidate yasmin rashid , a local gynaecologist , saw her share of the vote rise from about 35 percent to 41 percent but she afterwards said about 29,000 voters did not have fingerprint identification with the national database .
pml-n s lead was reduced in part by the strong showing of yaqoob sheikh , who the united states in 2012 designated a terrorist .
sheikh received 4,174 votes , or nearly 4 percent of the total vote after being backed by a new milli muslim league party led by an islamist firebrand who is the subject of a $ 10 million bounty offered by the united states .
hafiz saeed heads the jammat-ud-dawa ( jud ) charity , having founded and formerly led the lashkhar-e-taiba ( let ) militant group that carried out the 2008 attacks on the indian city of mumbai that killed 166 people .
the united states has placed saeed , the charity and let on its terrorist list .
the united states , in 2012 , said sheikh was a senior let leader .