cox s bazar , bangladesh/united nations ( reuters ) - more than 60 rohingya muslim refugees from myanmar are believed to have drowned when their boat capsized , the latest victims in what the united nations says is the world s fastest-developing refugee emergency .
the refugees drowned in heavy seas off bangladesh late on thursday , part of a new surge of people fleeing a myanmar military campaign that began on aug. 25 and has triggered an exodus of some 502,000 people .
international anger over the crisis is growing .
in new york , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley called on countries to suspend providing weapons to myanmar over the violence .
it was the first time the united states had called for punishment of myanmar s military , but she stopped short of threatening to reimpose u.s. sanctions which were suspended under the obama administration .
buddhist-majority myanmar rejects accusations of ethnic cleansing and crimes against humanity and has denounced rights abuses .
its military launched a big offensive in response to coordinated attacks on the security forces by rohingya insurgents in the north of rakhine state on aug. 25 .
u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres told the security council the violence had spiraled into the world s fastest-developing refugee emergency , a humanitarian and human rights nightmare .
colonel anisul haque , head of the bangladeshi border guards in the town of teknaf , told reuters more refugees had arrived over the past day or two after the number had seemed to be tailing off , with about 1,000 landing at the main entry point on the coast on thursday .
the refugee boat capsized in driving rain and high seas as darkness fell .
an official with the international organization for migration said 23 people were confirmed dead and 40 were missing .
seventeen survived .
we re now saying 40 missing , which suggests the total fatality rate will be in the range of 63 , the official , joe millman , told a news briefing in geneva .
one survivor , abdul kalam , 55 , said his wife , two daughters and a grandson were among the dead , who were buried at tearful funerals on friday .
kalam said armed buddhists came to his village about a week ago and took livestock and food .
he said villagers were summoned to a military office and told there were no such people as rohingya in myanmar .
after that he decided to leave and headed to the coast with his family , avoiding military camps on the way .
a spokesman for the u.n. refugee agency said a fifth of new arrivals were suffering from acute malnutrition .
the bangladeshi red crescent said its clinics were treating increasing numbers of people with acute diarrhea .
the world health organization has said one of the diseases it is particularly worried about is cholera .
we re seeing the absolute perfect breeding ground for a major health crisis , said unni krishnan , director of save the children s emergency health unit .
in a ramping up of the pressure on myanmar , also known as burma , haley echoed u.n. accusations that the displacement of hundreds of thousands of people in rakhine state was ethnic cleansing .
we can not be afraid to call the actions of the burmese authorities what they appear to be - a brutal , sustained campaign to cleanse the country of an ethnic minority , haley told the u.n. security council .
the united states said earlier the army response to the insurgent attacks was disproportionate and the crisis raised questions about myanmar s transition , under the leadership of nobel laureate aung san suu kyi , after decades of military rule .
suu kyi has no power over the generals under a military-drafted constitution .
she has nevertheless drawn scathing criticism from around the world for not stopping the violence .
the public in myanmar , where buddhist nationalism has surged over recent years , largely supports the offensive against the insurgents .
haley said the military must respect rights and fundamental freedoms , and those who had been accused of abuses should be removed from command and prosecuted .
and any country that is currently providing weapons to the burmese military should suspend these activities until sufficient accountability measures are in place , she said .
there was no ethnic cleansing or genocide in myanmar , its national security adviser , thaung tun , said at the united nations , adding that myanmar had invited guterres to visit .
china and russia , which have veto powers in the security council , expressed support for myanmar .
the u.n. human rights council extended the mandate of a myanmar fact-finding mission by six months , until september 2018 , over the objections of myanmar , china and the philippines .
myanmar s representative said the mission was not helpful , was not in line with the situation on the ground and would do no good to finding a solution to rakhine issues .
myanmar says it will not grant visas to mission investigators .