who knew that in our first black president s second term killing cops would be all the rage in the black community ?
a houston community college police officer has survived an assassination attempt after being stabbed by her assailant 14 times .
the officer was saved by civilians who stepped in and stopped the attacker .
the attacker told investigators he did this to get back at police for their brutality .
a spokesman from the family said it might be related to the baltimore riots.officer april pikes remains in critical condition at houston s ben taub hospital , a public relations official at the houston police department said to breitbart texas .
her alleged attacker , jeremiah m. matthews , 23 , was pulled off of her by a group of men while he was stabbing her and attempting to grab her pistol , according to a statement from hpd obtained by breitbart texas.harris county prosecutors said that matthews told them he had the intent to attack a police officer and his desire to kill a police officer , according to a click2houston.com report .
one of the witnesses , abe baker , who helped stop the attack said , i saw him on her , just stabbing her .
i wasn t really thinking , baker said .
his arm was just up getting ready to stab her and i just grabbed his arm and took him down , and that s when everybody else came over and we all just took him down .
the hpd statement revealed that matthews stabbed her several times before he was tackled and disarmed .
the statement says he was attempting to gain control of her duty weapon .
after taking down the suspect , the good samaritans used the officer s handcuffs to detain matthews until other police officers arrived and arrested him.the click2houston report states that pike may lose her right arm .
she was stabbed repeatedly in her right arm and torso.the scene of the attack was a walmart located in meyerland ( southwest houston ) , where pikes was working an approved off-duty security job .
pikes was in uniform when she was attacked .
he was in an upbeat mood , whistling and he had a fast pace , walking fast , baker said of the assailant , who was smiling and cheerful right up until the moment he began his surprise attack .
he does have a diagnostic history of mental illness in the past .
to what degree that played into what happened , we don t know , local community activist deric muhammad said , speaking on behalf of the matthews family .
he said it is possible that matthews was inspired by the riots in baltimore monday night.the weapon was described as a hunting knife in a report by fox26houston s kristine galvan .
that was an innocent woman .
she had family , loved ones , abe baker told galvan .
that s someone s life and everyone s life counts and matters .
baker said he stopped by the walmart on a late-night errand to pick up some laundry soap , and came to the rescue when he heard pikes screams .
his quick action , and the response of the other men , probably saved her life .
i want to offer my condolences to the victim , said vanessa johnson , matthews mother , in the fox26 video .
as a mother this is painful .
i wish her a speedy recovery .
my heart and prayers are going out to her and their entire family .
the hpd statement from wednesday morning states that matthews has been charged with attempted capital murder .
his case has been assigned to the 182nd state district court , which is presided over by judge jeannine barr.via : breitbart news