caracas ( reuters ) - venezuela s opposition said on tuesday it will not join scheduled talks with president nicolas maduro s government , undercutting a dialogue effort that has been viewed with suspicion by many adversaries of the ruling socialist party .
the government has eagerly promoted the talks amid global criticism that maduro is turning the country into a dictatorship , while the opposition has always insisted the talks should not distract from the country s economic crisis .
the two sides held separate exploratory conversations with the president of the dominican republic earlier this month .
but the opposition said the government has not made enough progress on issues such as human rights to warrant full bilateral talks .
negotiation is not to go and waste time , to look at someone s face , but rather so that venezuelans can have immediate solutions , opposition leader henrique capriles told reporters .
we can not have a repeat of last year s failure , he said , referring to vatican-brokered talks in 2016 that fell apart after the opposition said the government was simply using them as a stalling tactic .
the information ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
the opposition wants a date for the next presidential election , due by the end of 2018 , with guarantees it will be free and fair .
it is also calling for freedom for hundreds of jailed activists , a foreign humanitarian aid corridor and respect for the opposition-led congress .
with spain pushing for the european union to adopt restrictive measures against members of the venezuelan government , maduro may be hoping to dodge further sanctions .
the united states has issued several rounds of sanctions against venezuela , primarily in response to the creation of an all-powerful super body called the constituent assembly that was elected in a july vote the opposition labeled fraudulent .
many countries have refused to recognize the assembly , which maduro insists has brought peace to the country of 30 million .
he says opposition leaders are coup-plotters seeking to sabotage socialism in oil-rich venezuela under the guise of peaceful protests .
amid a fourth straight year of recession , millions of venezuelans are suffering food shortages and rampant inflation , which the government blames on an economic war led by the opposition and fueled by recent sanctions .