philadelphia ( reuters ) - pennsylvania gun control advocates on wednesday asked the state ’ s top court to knock down a 2014 law allowing gun-rights lobbying groups to sue cities that adopt gun restrictions and recoup legal costs if they prevail .
firearms advocates , including the national rifle association , contend the law is necessary to prevent gun owners from becoming ensnared by a patchwork of municipal ordinances that violate their right to bear arms .
gun control advocates challenged the law on a technicality - that it passed as part of what they called an unrelated piece of legislation .
“ these two bills were cobbled together for political expediency at the end of the legislative session , ” martin black , representing five democratic lawmakers who sued to overturn the law , told the pennsylvania supreme court.more than 80 towns across pennsylvania repealed gun laws - ranging from requirements that owners report lost or stolen firearms to bans on guns in public parks - rather than face hundreds of thousands of dollars in legal bills to defend ordinances that were seldom enforced .
five municipalities , including philadelphia and pittsburgh , have faced lawsuits under the law .
the second amendment of the u.s. constitution protects the right to bear arms , and efforts to regulate gun ownership are often fiercely contested .
wednesday ’ s arguments focused on the tortured legislative history of the bill and whether its passage violated a provision of the state ’ s constitution that specifies that laws must focus on a single issue .
a lower court found last june that the passage was unconstitutional because republican lawmakers tucked the firearms legislation into a bill dealing with scrap metal .
that bill passed on the final day of the 2014 legislative session and was so rushed that republican governor tom corbett signed the wrong bill .
republican legislators said at the time that the language was necessary because towns were ignoring laws that made it a criminal offense for towns to pass gun restrictions .
“ what does suing the city over a firearms matter have to do with the theft of copper wire ? ” asked a skeptical justice david wecht .
attorney nick orloff , arguing on behalf of republican legislators , said both bills dealt with crime prevention .
“ it ’ s meant to deter crime , ” orloff said .
but shira goodman , executive director of ceasefire pa , scoffed at that idea .
“ say the city of philadelphia passes a soda tax , ” goodman said .
“ if i don ’ t drink soda , i don ’ t get to sue because i didn ’ t pay the tax . ”