beirut ( reuters ) - russia has invited the kurdish-led authorities in northern syria to its proposed congress of syria s rival parties in november , a senior kurdish official said on tuesday , as moscow seeks to launch a new initiative to end the syrian conflict .
we are studying the issue and our stance has been positive so far , badran jia kurd , an adviser to the administration that governs kurdish-led autonomous regions of syria , told reuters .
it would mark the first time syria s main kurdish groups have been brought into peace talks .
although they now control at least a quarter of syria , kurdish authorities have so far been left out of international talks in line with turkish wishes .
after intervening decisively in favor of syrian president bashar al-assad , russia has sought to spearhead diplomatic efforts among the various combatants over the past year .
moscow has said the congress will focus on compromise solutions towards ending the conflict , which began more than six years ago with street protests against the syrian leader .
a spokesman for the syrian opposition , which wants peace talks to take place under u.n. supervision , described the proposed congress as really worrying .
it was unclear what the aims were and who would join , said yahya al-aridi .
aridi also said he feared the congress would be used as fabricated evidence of reconciliation to mislead both the syrians and foreign countries .
several rounds of u.n. talks in geneva between the damascus government and the anti-assad opposition have gone nowhere .
russia invited 33 syrian groups and political parties on tuesday to a syrian congress on national dialogue which it will host on nov. 18 in the black sea resort of sochi .
they include kurdish groups and anti-assad rebel factions .
the kurdish-led administration received the invitation at meetings with russian officials in northern syria last month and favor the idea as it strives for a political solution , jia kurd said .
kurdish officials say they have been in talks with russia to assess the prospects for dialogue with the syrian government .
since 2011 , the syrian kurdish ypg militia and its allies have carved out autonomous cantons in the north .
their territorial grip has expanded since they joined forces with the united states to fight islamic state militants .
but turkey views syrian kurdish power as a national security threat along its border .
ankara considers the ypg as an extension of the outlawed kurdish pkk movement that has waged a three-decade insurgency inside turkey .
russian president vladimir putin , who sent warplanes to help assad s military against mostly sunni rebels in 2015 , first mentioned the congress earlier this month .
putin has said it would include all ethnic and religious groups , and the government , and the opposition .
syria s u.n. ambassador , bashar al-jaafari , said damascus was ready to take part in the congress and that the time was now more appropriate to join such talks after its military victories .
since russia s intervention in 2015 , the government has taken back significant territory from rebels opposed to assad and has this year recaptured swathes of central and eastern syria from islamic state .
alexander lavrentyev , a senior russian negotiator on syria , urged syrian rebel groups to join the congress , provided they support syria s integrity and sovereignty and status as a secular , democratic state .
if someone is against these principles , .. they will of course not go there , he told reporters after a round of talks with turkish and iranian delegations in kazakhstan .
but then we think they will risk being sidelined in the political process .
the kazakhstan talks did not produce an anticipated document on prisoner swaps .
lavrentyev said the sides had spent a lot of time discussing the situation in idlib where damascus accuses ankara of acting in coordination with islamist militants .