what in the world is it with obama and criminals ?
he releases them early and acts as if they were wrongly accused .
perhaps , in his eyes they were wrongly accused but he s not judge , jury and executioner .
he s said he feels like african american males have been wronged in the criminal justice system when it comes to drug charges .
in other words , they are the victims !
about one in every 35 african american men , one in every 88 latino men is serving time african americans are more likely to be arrested .
obamaa new federal audit just came out and it looks like obama favors criminals over just about everyone in the military and our senior citizens too !
president obama has repeatedly demonstrated that there s an extra special place in his heart for incarcerated criminals , but this is a bit much .
the administration spends a lot more money on the medical care of jailed convicts than retired seniors on medicare , active u.s. military personnel or veterans , including an extra $ 100 million in one year alone , according to a federal audit released this month.the federal bureau of prisons ( bop ) consistently pays outside doctors and hospitals more to treat inmates than medicare or other federal agencies would pay for the same services , according to the report which is the result of a department of justice ( doj ) inspector general investigation .
we found that the bop is the only federal agency that pays for medical care that is not covered under a statute or regulation under which the government sets the agency s reimbursement rates , usually at the medicare rate , the report states .
instead , the bop solicits and awards a comprehensive medical services contract for each bop institution to obtain outside medical services .
this means the bop negotiates its own rates for medical services , which is outrageous and ends up costing american taxpayers tens of millions of dollars annually .
without the cost regulations that apply to all other federal agencies , the bop pays a premium above applicable medicare rates for medical care .
in fiscal year 2014 , for instance , the bop spent at least $ 100 million more for medical care than it would have if it had paid medicare rates .
other law enforcement agencies , including those within the doj like the u.s .
marshals service and the federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) , stay within the medicare rates to provide outside medical services for individuals in their custody .
so does the department of defense ( dod ) , the department of veterans affairs ( va ) and the indian health service to treat members of the military and their dependents , veterans and native americans.in many cases the same medical providers that work for other federal agencies , charge the bop a premium above the medicare rate when treating inmates , the doj watchdog reveals .
from fiscal year 2010 to 2014 , bop spending for outside medical services increased 24 % , from $ 263 million to $ 327 million and the figure is only going to increase .
medical spending constitutes a significant and increasing portion of the bop s budget , the ig found .
specifically , the agency spent $ 905 million of its $ 6.2 billion budget on inmate medical care in one year alone , according to the figures provided in the report .
this includes salaried bop medical staff , prescription drugs , medical supplies and outside providers .
in all , the agency purchases outside medical care at inflated rates for more than 170,000 inmates nationwide at a cost of more than $ 300 million annually .
the contracts have reimbursement rates at least 15 % above the medicare benchmark rate , the report says.read more : judicial watch