washington ( reuters ) - as the senate began a two-week recess on friday , the white house and its allies sought to turn up the heat on republicans to reverse course and act on president barack obama ’ s supreme court nominee .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky has pledged not to hold confirmation hearings or a vote on obama ’ s nomination on wednesday of merrick garland , a centrist appeals court judge and former prosecutor , to the high court .
not all senate republicans want to block a vote on garland .
senator mark kirk , locked in a tough re-election battle in illinois , told wls radio in chicago that senators should “ just man up and cast a vote ” on the garland nomination .
kirk broke with mcconnell last month , calling for hearings and a vote on obama ’ s nominee .
conservative activists , however , vowed to fight in support of republican leaders who insist that the next president , to be elected on nov. 8 and take office in january , make the appointment , hoping their party ’ s candidate wins .
the conservative group judicial crisis network said it would start a $ 2 million , three-week television , radio and digital advertising campaign in six states starting on monday backing mcconnell ’ s stance .
garland , 63 , would replace conservative justice antonin scalia , who died on feb. 13 , on the nine-seat court .
his appointment could tip the court leftward for the first time in decades .
liberal groups , including credo action and moveon.org civic action , said they would rally at various locations on monday calling on senate republicans to “ do your job ” and put garland through a full confirmation process .
one rally was planned for outside the des moines , iowa office of senator chuck grassley , chairman of the judiciary committee that would convene any hearings .
the iowa senator has said he opposes hearings but is open to meeting with garland .
the conservative ad campaign also is targeting grassley .
one senior senate republican aide , referring to pressures grassley faces over the recess , speculated on the possibility he would return to washington on april 4 more open to holding confirmation hearings .
“ two weeks in iowa with iowans screaming at him ? ” the aide said .
white house spokesman josh earnest indicated vice president joe biden , a former senate judiciary committee chairman , would lend his voice next week to administration efforts pressing for garland ’ s confirmation .
while earnest said biden “ can be a pretty persuasive advocate , ” republicans have noted that biden , as judiciary committee chairman in 1992 , argued for postponing action on supreme court nominees during an election year .