new york ( reuters ) - a judge will decide by the end of this month whether to proceed with a proposed class action lawsuit filed by a jamaican fashion model against republican presidential front-runner donald trump ’ s modeling agency , the judge ’ s office said .
alexia palmer accuses trump model management llc of lying to the federal government in its work-visa application that said she would be paid a $ 75,000-a-year salary while living in the united states , according to court documents.recommended : iran tests more missiles , says capable of reaching israel instead , according to court papers , palmer received a total of $ 3,880.75 during the three years she was under contract with the agency .
the complaint alleges “ fraudulent misrepresentation ” and violations of u.s. immigration and labor laws .
it asks for $ 225,000 in back pay .
the suit was originally filed in october 2014 .
a decision on a pending motion by trump model management to dismiss is expected by the end of march , the clerk for judge analisa torres , who is presiding over the case in the u.s district court , southern district , told reuters .
if torres rules the case can proceed , it could revive attention on trump ’ s foreign labor practices at a time when the celebrity billionaire ’ s rise in american politics has riveted the world ’ s attention .
trump ’ s lawyers have called the case “ frivolous ” and “ without merit. ” in court documents , they said palmer wasn ’ t an employee and was more than adequately compensated for a “ very brief stint as a fashion model , ” which they say amounted to less than 10 days of work over three years .
reuters could not independently confirm that assertion .
“ at the end of the day , this model just didn ’ t have a successful career , and we fully expect to win , ” said lawrence rosen , a lawyer for trump model management .
although trump owns the modeling agency , the suit does not name him .
trump ’ s campaign spokeswoman , hope hicks , said in a statement that trump model management ’ s treatment of palmer was in line with “ standard practice in the modeling industry. ” palmer ’ s lawyer , naresh gehi , says his client was cheated of earnings and seduced by a life of glamour that never materialized .
“ the visa application the company filed with the government requires that people are paid the full amount , ” gehi said .
“ it ’ s a requirement. ” palmer , who was 17 when she came to new york in 2011 , was not available to comment .
sylvia ayass , a lawyer who has worked with models on visas like palmer ’ s , said agencies typically pay what they state on visa applications .
trump has won republican frontrunner status in the 2016 election in large part by positioning himself as a champion of the american worker who will deport illegal immigrants , build a wall with mexico and do away with the off shoring of u.s. jobs .
this is not the first time trump ’ s labor practices have drawn criticism .
a reuters story published in august revealed that trump ’ s companies sought to import at least 1,100 workers on temporary visas since 2000 .
of those , 250 were filed for foreign fashion models , according to the reuters analysis of federal department of labor data .
using a federal visa program called h-1b that allows u.s. employers to hire “ specialized ” foreign labor , trump ’ s modeling agency offered palmer “ at least $ 75,000 per year ” for three years .
it listed that salary on her h-1b visa application in 2011 , according to the court documents reviewed by reuters .
it ’ s not the industry norm to use h-1b visas , which are usually reserved for highly skilled specialized labor like engineers , programmers and medical specialists .
o-1 visas are more common , modeling agency lawyers and executives said .
the o-1 is typically used by artists and athletes .
though h-1b use is rare , a reuters analysis found that in the past three years , modeling agencies have submitted 181 applications for h-1b visas for foreign models .
of those , 173 stated that the model would be paid an hourly wage , ranging from as little as $ 8.40 an hour to as much as $ 500 an hour .
the trump model yearly salary listed in the federal database of h-1b applications was the outlier .
rosen , the lawyer for trump model management , said the $ 75,000 a year figure was simply a guess , not a guarantee .
under that contract , palmer agreed “ to promptly reimburse ” trump model management “ for any and all costs and expenses ” that the agency incurred relating to her modeling .
according to the suit , the agreement stipulated that trump model management would take a 20 percent cut of palmer ’ s earnings but instead took 80 percent by deducting charges for everything from postage to walking lessons to mobile phone costs and limousine rides , as well as $ 4,000 in “ administrative fees , ” according to court documents .
the suit said it was seeking class-action status to represent other models who believe they were misled and underpaid after coming to the united states with sponsorship from trump ’ s modeling agency .