mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico city s infamous traffic jams were back on monday as offices re-opened after last week s deadly earthquake , but closed schools and clusters of homeless people served as reminders that life in the megalopolis has not yet returned to normal .
the 7.1 quake on sept. 19 killed at least 325 people and left thousands homeless , with many of them living in tents in the streets or emergency housing .
others among the 20 million people who live in greater mexico city were gradually resuming their routines , however .
you can t say that everything has totally returned back to being normal , but we do feel more safe that we did last week , said market researcher diego sandoval , 27 , back at work in an office in trendy condesa , one of the worst hit areas of town , and lining up at a taco stand with a dozen other office workers and laborers .
the most visible sign of the city coming back to life were the rush hour queues after a week of eerie quiet along the avenues and highways that criss-cross the capital , known for its gridlock .
we just opened up today , getting things back on track .
we ve been closed since the earthquake , said martha bertha martinez , 70 , who along with her sister runs a small grocery store in tlalpan , a southern neighborhood .
life goes on , she said .
more than 44,000 schools in six states were due to reopen on monday , but only 103 in mexico city , or barely 1 percent of its schools , were set to resume classes after they were certified as structurally safe .
officials said they did not want to impede relief efforts , so more than 4,000 public schools and nearly as many private schools in the capital will remain closed for now .
the national autonomous university of mexico , with 350,000 students at campuses in and around mexico city , resumed classes on monday .
of 6,000 damaged buildings , some 1,500 have yet to be inspected , said horacio urbano , president of centro urbano , a think tank specializing in urban issues and real estate .
urbano said 10 percent of the damaged buildings were constructed after 1990 , by which time strict building codes had been enacted in the wake of the 1985 earthquake that killed some 10,000 people .
search operations for quake survivors in mexico city were narrowed to five buildings , using advanced audio equipment to look for signs of life beneath tons of rubble , with help from teams from as far afield as israel and japan .
at a school in southern mexico city where 19 children and six adults had previously been reported killed , officials recovered another body on sunday , that of an adult women .
the search for survivors and bodies also carried on at a ruined office building in the roma neighborhood and in a five-story apartment building in historic tlalpan .
even with offices and businesses opening up again , it will take months or years for neighborhoods like condesa to recover emotionally and physically from the quake and aftershocks , with numerous residents packing up belongings and moving out .
our neighborhood is in mourning , said deborah levy , 44 , in condesa .
some neighbors and friends got together ( sunday ) .
we went to eat to cheer ourselves up , looking for a little normality .
florist josue castillo reopened the stall he has been tending for 15 years the day after the quake , so people could see something pretty , he said , between the ruins of buildings and cordoned off streets .
but he said residents and businesses still did not feel safe in the area , which became the heart of mexico city s hip revival over the past decade .
people are leaving their homes and offices in condesa .
leaving with their families .
it was horrible yesterday to see people filling their cars with belongings and moving elsewhere out of fear of aftershocks , he said .
( graphic : earthquake strikes mexico - tmsnrt.rs/2jj1wa0 )