( reuters ) - from the basement to the third floor of democratic party headquarters in washington , dozens of election campaign workers are glued to screens playing back videos of donald trump and other republicans , digitally documenting their policy positions on everything from torture to climate change .
the newly bulked up operation , including research , of more than 70 people is central to the democrats ’ strategy to sink whoever the republicans nominate to run for the white house in the nov. 8 u.s. presidential election .
party officials who provided reuters with details of the operation increasingly think their target will be trump , the new york businessman and former reality tv star who is the surprise republican front-runner .
the video clips will be used as grist for attack ads that will be deployed rapidly on social media sites any time trump , or either of his rivals , u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas and ohio governor john kasich , strays during the general election campaign from policy proposals they touted in the nominating contests across the country .
that could , in theory , hinder them from appealing to the millions of more moderate voters needed to beat former secretary of state hillary clinton or u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , the two competitors for the democratic nomination .
democratic national committee ( dnc ) spokesman luis miranda , who provided reuters with a partial tour of the research operation , said voters in the run-up to november ’ s election were “ not going to be as responsive to the divisive rhetoric ” that trump used in the republican campaign and that was a “ key part of our general election strategy. ” trump ’ s campaign did not respond to requests for comment on the democratic party operation .
trump leads cruz with 678 delegates to the texan ’ s 423 delegates and kasich at 143 as of this week after a string of wins in states where his supporters favored his flamboyant rhetoric and plans to wall off the u.s. border with mexico , deport millions of undocumented immigrants and temporarily ban muslims from entering the country .
trump has also called for a revision of laws that ban torture , and wants to scrap trade deals he blames for job losses .
there are two more republican nominating contests on tuesday .
a candidate needs to accumulate at least 1,237 delegates to win the nomination at the republican convention in july .
news and video monitoring have been election staples for years , but the latest operations bear little resemblance to the lower-tech past because of leaps in technology and the speed with which a candidate ’ s remarks are distributed .
“ everything is on steroids , ” said jamal simmons , a democratic consultant , who recalled campaigns continuously taping news channels on vhs tapes - a tedious process that limited how much could be monitored .
other new technology , such as the live streaming application periscope , makes news from around the world available almost instantly , said holly shulman , a democratic strategist and former dnc official .
“ halfway around the world we were able to respond to something before the reporters looked at it even , ” she said .
the republican national committee ( rnc ) said it has also ramped up its video monitoring efforts , with a focus on clinton , adding staff and using newer technology .
eight people on the rnc staff are devoted to monitoring news coverage , and the party said it was building a searchable digital library of clinton speeches , interviews and other events going back to 1991 , the year before her husband bill clinton won the presidential election .
attacks on trump by republican rivals and super pacs , independent political action committees that may raise unlimited sums of money , have failed to stop his campaign ’ s momentum .
but the dnc said it believes its strategy will be effective .
for one , the democrats believe the republican establishment ’ s efforts to block trump ’ s nomination have been slow and disorganized - and hampered by a fear of tearing the party apart .
the democratic party is also betting the general electorate will be more easily persuaded to counter trump than registered republicans have been .
clinton has a nearly 10-point lead over trump in a hypothetical general election match up , according to an average of polls gathered by real clear politics .
the effort to hobble the former reality tv star takes a page out of reality television itself , where producers comb through thousands of hours of candid video , index it into an easily searchable library , and then paste together coherent narratives .
the project helps address recommendations from the democratic victory task force , commissioned by dnc chair debbie wasserman schultz , which in february 2015 suggested the party prepare for the 2016 election and promote the party ’ s messaging .
the dnc did similar work during the 2012 presidential election , but on a much smaller scale .
its digital and social media staff went from 5 to 25 people over the past 18 or so months , spokesman miranda said .
the current team divides its time on video from a wide range of sources - from national news to local channels , clips put up on youtube by individual users and campaigns , and events webcast by the campaigns themselves .
it also has scouts that record in the field .
the work has yielded a number of attack videos already , many prepared and sent out at a moment ’ s notice .
on feb. 28 , for example , the party released a video slamming republican presidential hopefuls for their opposition to action on climate change , featuring them denying man-made global warming alongside images of u.s. flooding , wildfires , droughts and heat waves .
earlier in march , after trump cruised to victory in several state nominating contests , the dnc put out another 40-second video , mixing news clips talking about how trump is dominating his party .
“ these videos are getting tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of views across our various platforms , ” miranda said .
“ he ’ s not going to get off as easy with us as with the rest of the republican field .
we know what he ’ s said , we know where he ’ s flip-flopped , where he ’ s made mistakes . ”