president donald j. trump proclaims june 18 , 2017 , as father s dayfather s day , 2017 by the president of the united states of americaa proclamationfather s day is a special occasion that reminds us to pause and thank the men in our lives who have taken on the responsibility of raising children .
as sons and daughters , we recognize the love they have given and the sacrifices they have made , and we celebrate the indispensable role fathers play in our lives and communities.fathers have the ability and responsibility to instill in us core values we carry into adulthood .
the examples they set and the lessons they impart about hard work , dedication to family , faith in god , and believing in ourselves establish the moral foundation for success that allows us to live up to our full potential .
we remember those fatherly moments big and small throwing a baseball , writing an essay , driving a car , walking down the aisle that have shaped us , and we thank our dads for being there with a helping hand and an open heart.day in and day out , fathers put their children first , creating loving and supportive environments .
whether by birth , adoption , or foster care , today we honor the incredible fathers in our lives for all they have done and continue to do for us .
fathers inspire us to better ourselves and to be men and women of outstanding character .
we recommit ourselves as individuals , families , and communities to promoting and supporting fatherhood , and take this day to express our love and appreciation for fathers across our country.now , therefore , i , donald j. trump , president of the united states of america , in accordance with a joint resolution of the congress approved april 24 , 1972 , as amended ( 36 u.s.c .
109 ) , do hereby proclaim june 18 , 2017 , as father s day .
i call on united states government officials to display the flag of the united states on all government buildings on father s day and invite state and local governments and the people of the united states to observe father s day with appropriate ceremonies.in witness whereof , i have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day of june , in the year of our lord two thousand seventeen , and of the independence of the united states of america the two hundred and forty-first.donald j. trump