just so we have this straight a somali cab driver had already repeatedly threatened to decapitate police officers earlier in the year , yet he may still be driving a cab ?
we re gon na go out on a limb here and speculate that this somali cab driver is a muslim and further speculate that he may even be a racist a st. louis cab driver faces hate crime charges after attacking a man and saying he was going to kill him because you re white .
mahad abdinoor abdi , from somalia , threatened to decapitate police officers earlier this year.a renegade cab driver now faces hate crime charges after reportedly attacking a man for being white .
mahad abdinoor abdi is the same suspect we exposed in a fox 2 report after witnesses said he threatened to decapitate police officers .
these are extremely rare charges because prosecutors say hate crimes can be very hard to prove .
in this case , according to this probable cause statement , the victim reports that abdi attacked him wednesday only because the victim was white.the cab commission revoked his license after abdi reportedly threatened to chop the heads off police officers .
he is already facing assault charges for threats .
abdi now faces two hate crime charges property damage and assault motivated by discrimination.court documents say the victim did not know abdi .
he was sitting on the tailgate of his truck when abdi put him in a headlock and said .
he wanted to kill the victim because ( he ) was white .
in july , we followed abdi for 45 minutes , in his unauthorized cab , and tipped off cab commission investigators we were following him .
based on our tip , they stopped him and stripped his cab plates.abdi drove off that day , without plates , but with the unauthorized wilson taxi logos remaining .
it s unknown if he ` s still driving that vehicle today .
via : gateway pundithere s a video of muslim nation immigrant advocate and democrat presidential candidate joe biden talking about his great relations with somali immigrant cab drivers :