dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh has proposed creating safe zones run by aid groups for rohingya muslims in myanmar s rakhine state to stop hundreds of thousands of refugees crossing into its territory following a military crackdown .
the plan , the latest in a string of ideas floated by dhaka , is unlikely to get much traction in myanmar , where many consider the rohingya community of 1.1 million as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
that will leave bangladesh , one of the poorest nations in the world , with little choice but to open new camps for refugees .
dhaka sent the proposal to the myanmar government through the international committee of the red cross to secure three areas in rakhine , home to the rohingya community , suggesting that people displaced by the violence be relocated there under the supervision of an international organization , such as the united nations .
the logic of the creation of such zones is that no rohingya can come inside bangladesh , said shahidul haque , bangladesh s foreign secretary , the top civil servant in the foreign ministry .
the red cross confirmed that it had passed on the request to myanmar but said that it was a political decision for the two countries to make .
a myanmar government spokesman did not respond to a request for comment .
hundreds of thousands of rohingya have fled to bangladesh , a mostly muslim nation of 160 million , from buddhist-majority myanmar in recent years .
the decades-old conflict in rakhine flared most recently on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked several police posts and an army base .
since then , an estimated 270,000 rohingya have fled to bangladesh , according to the u.n. high commissioner for refugees , joining more than 400,000 others already living there in cramped makeshift camps since the early 1990s .
there are widespread fears that tens of thousands more could try to cross if the violence doesn t abate .
recent pictures from the border between the two countries show hundreds of rohingya men , women and children trying to cross over into bangladesh on foot and by boat .
the humanitarian crisis next door has left bangladesh scrambling to deal with people that it does not welcome either .
in recent days , bangladesh officials have said they plan to go ahead with a controversial plan to develop an isolated , flood-prone island in the bay of bengal to temporarily house tens of thousands of refugees , drawing fresh criticism from the international community .
it bowed to pressure on thursday , with government officials saying that dhaka would now make another 1,500 acres ( 607 hectares ) of land available for camps to house refugees near cox s bazar , where many refugees already live as it is near the border with myanmar .
they will be given temporary shelter , said kazi abdur rahman , additional deputy commissioner of cox s bazar .
but rahman added that the refugees would be fingerprinted and confined to the camp so that they did not mix with the local community .
these measures , however , do not offer a long-term solution to the crisis , and dhaka says it is getting little support from its neighbor , which has been accused of trying to engineer ethnic cleansing within its borders .
bangladesh officials said they had proposed joint patrolling along the border but did not receive a response from myanmar .
earlier this week , bangladesh lodged a protest after it said myanmar had laid landmines near the border between the two countries .
myanmar leader aung san suu kyi , a nobel laureate , has come under pressure to halt violence against rohingya .
she has said that her government was doing its best to protect everyone in rakhine but did not refer specifically to the rohingya exodus .
the solution lies in myanmar .
the un hopes that myanmar can address the root causes of the problem , said shinji kubo , head of the united nations high commissioner for refugees in bangladesh .
kubo said the bangladesh government was doing its best by accepting the refugees instead of sending them back .
bangladesh officials are turning to the international community for help , claiming support from countries such as turkey , which has promised aid .
on friday , a malaysian coast guard official said the country will not turn away rohingya muslims and is willing to provide them temporary shelter .
but any such voyage would be hazardous for the next few months , because of the annual monsoon .
the world community must come forward to help them , not by putting pressure on bangladesh but by putting pressure on myanmar not to resort to these atrocities and violence , said h.t .
imam , a senior aide to bangladesh prime minister sheikh hasina .
the only solution is to force myanmar to take back their citizens through international pressure .
and we are working with our partners on that , imam said .
besides the creation of internationally-controlled safe zones in rakhine state , bangladesh has also mooted creating a buffer zone along the border , where the international community could set up camps and provide for the refugees , the officials said .
further details of the plan could not be learned .
we will give aid agencies access .
but we are not interested to give them shelter here .
we are already overburdened , said mostafa kamal uddin , bangladesh s home secretary .