denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesian police have arrested an australian , an american and a malaysian on the holiday island of bali for drugs offences , the latest foreigners to run afoul of some of the world s strictest laws against narcotics .
the three men , who were arrested in separate cases , appeared before the media at a briefing , dressed in orange prison garb , their faces concealed by balaclava , with armed police officers standing guard .
it was not immediately clear if any of the three , who were identified only by their initials , would face the death penalty if convicted .
authorities found methamphetamine and the party drug ecstasy hidden in a plastic bottle and another container in the luggage of the australian after he arrived on a flight from bangkok on monday , the customs office said .
based on the results of the inspection , our officers found five packages containing clear crystals weighing 19.97 grams and 14 tablets weighing a total of 6.22 grams , bali airport customs office chief himawan indrajono said in the statement .
australia s department of foreign affairs and trade said it was providing consular assistance to an australian man detained in bali in response to emailed questions on the arrest .
it declined to comment further .
the u.s. citizen was arrested at a bali post office on nov. 30 in connection with a package sent from the united states containing 336.6 grams of e-cigarette liquid containing thc , or tetrahydrocannabinol , the active ingredient in cannabis .
the malaysian was arrested on nov. 8 after being found with 3.03 grams of leaves thought to be marijuana and 0.65 grams of a white powder suspected to be narcotics , idrajono said .
possession of small amounts of drugs can incur lengthy jail sentences in indonesia and larger amounts can result in a death sentence .
the execution by firing squad of two australians in 2015 , along with six other drug convicts from several other countries , strained relations between jakarta and canberra .
indonesia says it is facing a drug crisis with an estimated 6.4 million drug users in the country of 250 million people , and needs to impose tough punishments to contained the problem .
president joko widodo has called for a merciless crackdown on narcotics , and told law enforcers to shoot drug traffickers if they resisted arrest .
that echoes a tough stand taken by philippine leader rodrigo duterte who has ordered a war against drugs in which several thousand people have been killed since mid-2016 .