new york ( reuters ) - former pharmaceutical executive martin shkreli was on a collision course with congress on thursday as lawmakers warned he could be prosecuted for contempt if he does not appear next week for a hearing about drug prices .
a lawyer for shkreli informed the u.s. house committee on oversight and government reform of his intent not to answer questions and asked that he be excused from appearing , committee chairman jason chaffetz wrote in the letter dated wednesday .
the plan to remain silent contrasts with shkreli ’ s prolific use of social media , where he has been outspoken on twitter and livestream video even after his indictment last month on criminal charges of securities fraud .
the oversight committee subpoenaed shkreli to appear on tuesday to discuss his decision as chief executive of turing pharmaceuticals to raise the price of a life-saving medicine , daraprim , by more than 5,000 percent .
shkreli , 32 , has said he would invoke his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination .
on twitter , he told followers it was “ disgusting and insulting ” for lawmakers to try to subvert that right .
the fifth amendment of the u.s. constitution says that no person shall be compelled in any criminal case “ to be a witness against himself. ” the dispute appeared likely to end in one of two ways : with shkreli appearing in washington on tuesday to invoke that right , or with shkreli staying home in new york , prompting the committee to vote to hold him in contempt and setting off a potential criminal prosecution .
shkreli resigned as chief executive officer of turing last month after his arrest on the fraud charges .
turing had acquired daraprim , a 62-year-old drug , and caused a public furor when it drastically increased the price .
fights over congressional testimony are common , especially when potential witnesses are facing criminal prosecution and their testimony could later be used against them .
some well-known witnesses , such as former irs official lois lerner and former enron chief financial officer andrew fastow , refused to answer questions from congress but were required to appear in person in front of lawmakers and cameras before invoking that right .
it was unclear on thursday whether shkreli would make the trip to do the same .
his release on bond restricts him to certain parts of new york state , and he is required to ask a judge for a waiver to travel .
one of shkreli ’ s lawyers has informed the oversight committee that shkreli has taken no steps to seek a travel waiver , said rep. elijah cummings of maryland , the committee ’ s top democrat .
“ if he plans on trying to use his own intentional inaction as some kind of bogus excuse for not showing up at tuesday ’ s hearing , people will see right through such a juvenile tactic , ” cummings said in a statement on thursday .
chaffetz , a utah republican , warned in his letter to shkreli defense attorney baruch weiss that shkreli could face criminal prosecution for contempt if he fails to appear .
“ mr .
shkreli is uniquely qualified to answer questions about rising prescription drug prices , ” chaffetz wrote .
the threat of prosecution is more than theoretical .
in 1952 , mobster frank costello was convicted of contempt of congress for failing to appear as a witness when he said he had laryngitis .
chaffetz in his letter held out the possibility of a compromise , writing that the committee may agree to hear testimony in a non-public session or to immunize the testimony so that it could not be used in the criminal prosecution .
immunizing the testimony , though , would require the support of two-thirds of the committee .
complicating the dispute is shkreli ’ s decision this week to seek new lawyers , replacing a team from the law firm arnold & porter with others still to be named .
the criminal charges against shkreli stem from his prior management of hedge fund msmb capital management and biopharmaceutical company retrophin inc ( rtrx.o ) .
prosecutors said shkreli engaged in a ponzi-like scheme , defrauding hedge fund investors and then misappropriating $ 11 million in assets from retrophin to repay them .
shkreli , who was also until recently chief executive of kalobios pharmaceuticals inc kbioq.pk has pleaded not guilty , and on twitter has called the allegations “ baseless and without merit . ”