after evidence has been uncovered that could point to donald trump and/or the russians rigging the presidential election , a group of activists is encouraging hillary clinton to demand an audit of three states.voter rights attorney john bonifaz and director of the university of michigan center for computer security and society , j. alex halderman , says they ve found persuasive evidence that the election results in wisconsin , michigan and pennsylvania have been hacked or otherwise manipulated .
they are privately lobbying the clinton campaign to do something about it.last thursday , the activists held a conference call with clinton campaign chairman john podesta and campaign general counsel marc elias to make their case , according to a source briefed on the call .
the academics presented findings showing that in wisconsin , clinton received 7 percent fewer votes in counties that relied on electronic-voting machines compared with counties that used optical scanners and paper ballots .
based on this statistical analysis , clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes ; she lost wisconsin by 27,000 .
while it s important to note the group has not found proof of hacking or manipulation , they are arguing to the campaign that the suspicious pattern merits an independent review especially in light of the fact that the obama white house has accused the russian government of hacking the democratic national committee.source : ny magazinethose three states were the determining factor in this year s election .
in total , trump won pennsylvania by about 68,000 votes , wisconsin by 27,000 votes and michigan by just 11,000 votes .
clinton won the popular vote .
according to their research , clinton may have been denied as many as 30,000 votes in wisconsin , which is enough to swing it to her.according to current tallies , trump has won 290 electoral college votes to clinton s 232 , with michigan s 16 votes not apportioned because the race there is still too close to call .
it would take overturning the results in both wisconsin ( 10 electoral college votes ) and pennsylvania ( 20 votes ) , in addition to winning michigan s 16 , for clinton to win the electoral college .
there is also the complicating factor of faithless electors , or members of the electoral college who do not vote according to the popular vote in their states .
at least six electoral voters have said they would not vote for trump , despite the fact that he won their states.this is far from a sure thing .
nate silver doesn t see problems : run a regression on wisc .
counties with > =50k people , and you find that clinton improved more in counties with only paper ballots .
however : pic.twitter.com/4swuu70nay nate silver ( @ natesilver538 ) november 23 , 2016 the effect completely disappears once you control for race and education levels , the key factors in predicting vote shifts this year .
pic.twitter.com/nyoinx9lez nate silver ( @ natesilver538 ) november 23 , 2016it s not just democrats who are crying foul , though .
south carolina republican senator lindsay graham wants a congressional investigation into election tampering by the russians.it s doubtful this will happen .
the deadline to file for a recount in wisconsin is friday .
wisconsin s and pennsylvania s deadlines are next week .
there are several petitions , though and there s a campaign to call the department of justice .
their number is 202-353-1555 .
keep calling .
their number is often busy.featured image via drew angerer/getty images .