( reuters ) - three of the women who have accused u.s. president donald trump of sexual misconduct called on monday for a congressional probe of his behavior amid similar accusations against powerful men in hollywood , the media and politics .
over the past two years , more than a dozen women have accused trump of making unwanted sexual advances against them long before he entered politics .
trump has denied the accusations , and the white house has accused the women of lying .
among his accusers are a miss utah beauty pageant winner , a businesswoman , a reporter and a receptionist .
the following are the three women who on monday renewed their call for action : * * jessica leeds recounted in a video interview posted on the new york times website in october 2016 that trump grabbed her breasts and tried to put his hand up her skirt on a flight on which she was traveling to new york in or around 1980 when she was a 38-year-old businesswoman .
* * rachel crooks , formerly a receptionist at a real estate firm in trump tower , told the new york times in a report published in october 2016 that trump “ kissed me directly on the mouth ” in 2005 at trump tower in manhattan when she was 22 .
* * samantha holvey , the 2006 miss north carolina and a former contestant in the miss usa pageant , told nbc ’ s “ today ” program on monday that trump walked into the pageant dressing room in 2006 while contestants were naked and in bathrobes .
she told cnn in an october 2016 report that trump personally inspected each woman prior to the contest , “ eyeing us from head to toe like we were meat , we were sexual objects. ” here are other women who have made accusations against trump : * * summer zervos , a contestant on trump ’ s reality show “ the apprentice ” in 2006 , told an october 2016 news conference that trump tried to get her to lie down on a bed with him when she met him in 2007 to discuss a possible job .
zervos said she complied with a request to sit next to trump and , “ he then grabbed my shoulder and began kissing me very aggressively and placed his hand on my breast. ” trump has denied the allegation .
zervos sued trump in january , contending that his denials of her accusations amounted to false and defamatory statements and that being “ branded a liar ” by trump has harmed her and her business .
* * in a video posted on the washington post website in october 2016 , kristin anderson accused trump of putting his hand up her skirt in a crowded new york nightclub in the early 1990s in an unwanted advance .
“ he did touched my vagina through my underwear , absolutely , ” anderson said in the video interview .
* * lisa boyne said in a short film titled “ 16 women and donald trump ” that she met trump in the early 1990s at a dinner party he hosted in new york .
boyne said that trump picked up her and another person in his limousine , and he made inappropriate remarks about famous actresses .
“ he asked us to rate them from 1 to 10 , ” boyne said .
boyne said that at the party , trump “ used his table as a ‘ casting couch , ’ instructing women who attended to model above the table .
he then looked under the dresses of each women and made comments of what he saw. ” * * jessica drake , an adult film actress , told a news conference in los angeles in october 2016 that trump pressured her to have sex with him 11 years ago when they met at a golf tournament .
trump ’ s campaign said the accusations were false .
* * jill harth , a former trump beauty pageant business associate , filed a $ 125 million lawsuit in 1997 against trump alleging that on jan. 24 , 1993 , at trump ’ s florida estate , mar-a-lago , trump “ forcibly removed plaintiff to a bedroom , whereupon defendant subjected plaintiff to defendant ’ s unwanted sexual advances. ” a trump spokesperson was quoted by the new york times in october 2016 as saying , “ mr .
trump denies each and every statement made by ms. harth. ” the lawsuit was dropped in may 1997 .
* * cathy heller said that in 1997 trump tried to kiss her during a mother ’ s day brunch at mar-a-lago .
heller , her husband , her three children and her in-laws attended the event .
when she was introduced to trump , “ he took my hand , and grabbed me , and went for the lips , ” she told the guardian newspaper in october 2016 .
she said she turned her head and trump kissed her on the side of the mouth .
* * ninni laaksonen , a former miss finland , accused trump of groping her in 2006 when she was representing her country in the miss universe beauty contest .
laaksonen told the ilta-sanomat newspaper in october 2016 that he had grabbed her behind before she appeared on a television show in new york with other contestants .
“ he really grabbed my butt .
i don ’ t think anybody saw it but i flinched and thought : ‘ what is happening ? ’ , ” she was quoted as saying in the newspaper .
* * in october 2016 mindy mcgillivray told the palm beach post that she was a 23-year-old photographer ’ s assistant at a jan. 24 , 2003 , event at mar-a-lago when trump grabbed her buttocks .
* * natasha stoynoff , a reporter , wrote a first-person account that described trump kissing her without her consent in december 2005 at mar-a-lago while she was working on an article about him and his third wife , melania , for people magazine .
in the account published by people in october 2016 , stoynoff said “ he was pushing me against the wall and forcing his tongue down my throat. ” * * temple taggart , a former miss utah , said trump twice kissed her on the lips while she was a contestant for the miss usa pageant in 1997 when she was 21 years old .
“ what he did made me feel so uncomfortable that i ended up cutting my trip short , bought my own plane ticket , flew home and never spoke to him again , ” taggart said at an october 2016 press conference with her attorney , gloria allred .
* * at an october 2016 news conference , yoga instructor karena virginia said trump approached her outside the u.s. open tennis tournament in 1998 when she was 27 years old .
she alleged that trump commented on her legs and then touched her breast before she was able to get into a car and be driven away .