berlin ( reuters ) - swept into parliament by those germans angered at the arrival of more than a million refugees and migrants , the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) had a stark message for chancellor angela merkel on sunday .
we will hound her .
we ll get our country and our people back , alexander gauland , 76 , one of the party s two leading candidates , told supporters to wild applause at a post-election celebration in a berlin nightclub .
the first far-right party to enter germany s parliament in more than half a century , the afd - which has been likened by germany s own foreign minister to the nazis - won around 13 percent of sunday s vote , according to early projections .
that puts it on course to be the third biggest party in the new parliament after merkel s conservatives and the centre-left social democrats , both of whom saw their share of the vote fall amid the afd surge .
its campaign provoked controversy with posters featuring a pregnant women under the slogan : new germans ?
we ll make them ourselves and women in traditional bavarian dress holding wine glasses with the words : burqa ?
i m more into burgundy .
the party did particularly well in the former communist east germany , where it won 22.9 percent of the vote - up 17 points from the last election in 2013 , according to projections .
in the west it won 11.3 percent , up 6.8 points from back then .
although all established parties refuse to work with the afd , its forecast 87 parliamentary seats mean it will now have a voice in the lower house of europe s richest country and become eligible for government funding tied to the size of its vote .
it rejects any comparison to the nazis , instead insisting it raises valid concerns about immigration and what it calls the islamisation of the west which are not being addressed by europe s mainstream politicians .
alice weidel , the afd s other leading candidate , promised supporters the afd would do constructive work in opposition .
the first thing we ll do is keep our first promise to launch a committee to investigate angela merkel , said the 38-year-old former investment banker , who argues merkel s 2015 decision to allow one million migrants into germany was illegal .
georg pazderski , a member of the afd s executive board , told reuters before sunday s election his party would use parliament speeches to draw attention to the cost of immigration and the shortcomings both of the single currency euro zone - which the afd wants germany to leave - and of the european union .
he said he expected other parties to shun the afd for a year or two but ultimately to work with it .
he pointed to the regional assembly in the eastern state of saxony-anhalt where the afd and merkel s christian democrats together voted to set up a committee to investigate left-wing extremism .
a recent study by the ruhr university bochum found that of the 235 candidates running for the afd , 98 belonged to the wing that supports party official bjoern hoecke , who has courted controversy by denying that adolf hitler was absolutely evil .
it found 40 candidates were part of the party s more moderate wing around co-leader frauke petry .
she herself was once considered radical for overseeing the afd s transformation from a party set up by academics in 2013 to protest euro zone bailouts into a staunchly anti-immigrant party .
the other 97 candidates have been so inconspicuous up until now that their political orientation was not known , it said .
the afd s candidates include a judge who called germany s remembrance of the nazi murder of six million jews a cult of guilt , a 77-year-old who once called the holocaust an effective tool for criminalizing germans and a lawyer who said police should be allowed to shoot at illegal migrants .