a pair of high school students who take classes at suny oswego via a specialized program are upset at an assignment their principles of literary representation class received : defend hitler s final solution.citi/boces new vision program teacher michael denobile handed out a top secret memorandum to the class addressed to senior nazi party members .
it asked students to put themselves in the shoes of adolf hitler s top aides , according to a report at syracuse.com.students archer shurtliff and jordan april , who ended up on opposite sides of the , er , debate wondered : does denobile really want students to argue in favor of the nazis justification for genocide ?
although the lesson does tell students it is not for you to be sympathetic to the nazi point of view , and is just an exercise on expanding your point of view , shurtliff and april allege it created a rather intolerant atmosphere.one student did a nazi salute in class , they say , and another said he wished he d been assigned the pro-holocaust side because heil hitler , duh .
from the story : the students brought their concerns over the assignment to denobile , administrators in the new vision program and educators at their home schools.the classroom assignment took them on a mission : to make sure no other student would be asked to argue in favor of killing jews again.they carefully documented each meeting and conversation with their teachers .
they researched other cases , including one in which a teacher was disciplined.they came up with dozens of alternate assignments and materials that didn t force kids to argue on behalf of mass killings .
they contacted the anti-defamation league , which advocates for jews.within a few days , an alternative assignment was offered .
jordan wrote about america s aids crisis and response .
archer wrote about the internment of japanese-americans and compensation paid to survivors.the students said they weren t satisfied with the administration s response.they are calling for an apology , for the program to retract the assignment completely , and agree to never give it again.despite the alternative assignment offered , many chose to stick with the original.archer and jordan say denobile and administrators defended the assignment , claiming they were told the essay was a lesson in having to do things you don t like , and in seeing the other side of an argument .
but shurtliff shoots down this rationalization rather easily : it s settled opinion .
you can t say that jews deserve to die .
it should be a settled thing .
in a letter to new vision officials , anti-defamation league education director beth martinez wrotethere is no assignment that could ever be given to students that even hints at their [ sic ] being two sides to the final solution /holocaust that would be pedagogically or morally sound , and we are very disturbed that students are reportedly being asked to be a part of this.indeed , the assignment says the objective is for students to go outside [ their ] comfort zone and to train their brains to logistically find the evidence necessary to prove a point .
high schoolers vouching for the annihilation of an entire people is merely going outside their comfort zone ?
lovely.for entire story : college fix