tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - at least one protester died , over 20 people were injured and more than 100 others were arrested for looting in honduras after a delayed and disputed presidential vote count sparked unrest amid opposition accusations of electoral fraud .
honduras was due to publish the final result of last sunday s presidential election at 9 p.m. local time ( 0300 gmt ) on friday , the electoral tribunal said , but opposition complaints about the count appeared set to impede that .
election results initially favored opposition candidate and tv star salvador nasralla by five points with more than half the votes counted .
they then swung in favor of u.s.-backed center-right president juan orlando hernandez after the count came to a halt on monday and resumed over a day later , sparking protests .
the tribunal has said it will hand-count some 1,031 outstanding ballot boxes with irregularities - or nearly 6 percent of the total - after the count halted with hernandez ahead by less than 50,000 votes , or about 1.5 percentage points .
however , nasralla s center-left alliance has called for votes to be recounted in three of honduras 18 departments , or regions , and refused to recognize the tribunal s special count until its demands for a wider review were met .
if juan orlando wins , we re ready to accept that , but we know that wasn t the case , we know that salvador won and that s why they re refusing the transparency demands , said marlon ochoa , campaign manager of nasralla s alliance .
international concern has grown about the electoral crisis in the poor central american country , which struggles with violent drug gangs and one of the world s highest murder rates .
police sources said at least one man had been shot and killed at a protest in the city of la ceiba , while about 12 members of the military and police force had been injured in demonstrations that snarled traffic outside honduras main port on friday and around the country .
at least 10 protesters were injured in the capital of tegucigalpa , according to the city s hospital escuela .
military officials called for peaceful protests after police reports of looting in the capital and other cities .
in the country s second-biggest city of san pedro sula , thick plumes of black smoke clouded the air as protesters burned tires and police tried to disperse the crowds with tear gas .
more than 100 people were also arrested on suspicion of looting in san pedro sula on friday , a police spokesman said , and local media carried footage of shops being plundered .
people flocked to supermarkets on friday , stocking up on food and provisions as major roads and supply routes were blocked across the country by angry protesters .
lines appeared outside gas stations and cash machines .
banks clogged up with people wanting to withdraw or deposit money .
i m filling the tank with gas in case anything happens , the situation looks bad and there are protests all over the city , said carlos valle , a 61-year-old pensioner , as he joined a long line of vehicles waiting at a fuel pump in tegucigalpa .
both hernandez and nasralla , a television game show host allied with leftists , claimed victory after the election , and the challenger has said he will not accept the tribunal s result because of doubts over the counting process .
leading a center-left alliance , the 64-year-old nasralla is one of honduras best-known faces and backed by former president manuel zelaya , a leftist ousted in a coup in 2009 .
zelaya weighed into the debate on thursday in a letter in which he accused the tribunal of electoral crimes on behalf of hernandez , who himself was standing for re-election enabled by a contentious 2015 supreme court ruling .
one of the four magistrates on the electoral tribunal on thursday flagged serious doubts about the counting process .
the organization of american states ( oas ) on wednesday convinced both candidates to vow to respect the final result once disputed votes had been checked .
but a few hours later nasralla rejected the oas accord , saying his opponents were trying to rob him .
he urged supporters to take to the streets in protest .