buenos aires ( reuters ) - argentine president mauricio macri s favored candidate is gaining ground against former populist leader cristina fernandez in a closely watched senate race in the country s largest province of buenos aires , sources from both parties and two analysts said .
macri s former education minister esteban bullrich of his let s change coalition appears to have reversed the trend since last month when fernandez narrowly beat him by 0.08 percentage points in a nonbinding primary vote .
while a second-place finish would still guarantee fernandez a senate seat , the number of votes she gets is being closely watched by investors who see the oct. 22 vote as a gauge of her potential to stage a comeback in the 2019 presidential election .
analyst ricardo rouvier has not finished his latest poll but estimated that bullrich was leading fernandez by about 3 percentage points in buenos aires province , home to nearly 40 percent of argentine voters .
cristina has a large number of votes , but she is stuck there , she has a ceiling , he said in an interview .
fernandez s 2007 to 2015 presidency saw latin america s no .
3 economy cut off from international capital markets and several companies nationalized .
fernandez was indicted for corruption last year , though she dismisses the charges as politically motivated .
a seat in congress would give her immunity from arrest though not from trial .
we have registered our growth in the polls , said a high-level government source who asked not to be identified .
citizen s unity , the party fernandez founded before launching her candidacy in june , confirmed the trend but said bullrich had a smaller lead .
what we have is an advantage of half a percentage point ( for bullrich ) ; we have a tied election again , said a campaign spokesman who declined to be named .
a representative for another argentine pollster , who asked not to be identified because the firm is currently only surveying for private clients , said bullrich has a four percentage point lead over fernandez .
the polarized show-down between fernandez , who says macri s economic austerity has hurt the provincial poor , and bullrich has largely left out other parties and moderate candidates .
fernandez broke with peronism , argentina best-known political movement , for the election and her former transportation minister florencio randazzo attracted few votes in the primary .
sergio massa , a presidential candidate in the 2015 election against macri , finished a distant third behind fernandez .
seeking to unify the opposition against bullrich , fernandez on monday published a letter on facebook asking for the support of those who did not vote for her .
we hope that the peronist voters who accompanied proposals such as randazzo or massa join this majority , said jorge taiana , fernandez s former foreign minister and senate candidate , in an interview .
the citizen s unity spokesman said the party is in talks with peronist mayors who support randazzo to try to convince them to back fernandez .
four have switched over and the party has high hopes for three more , he said .
no matter how many seats his coalition picks up in october - when argentines elect one-third of the senate and half the lower house of congress - macri will still lack a majority and will need to negotiate tax and other reforms he hopes to pass in the second half of his term .