clock boy part ii .
when you peel back the rotten clinton onion , you usually find the scary truth .
in the case of the poor believed parents hillary and the dnc held up as model immigrants , the truth could not be any more damning .
we published a letter from a us marine and navy veteran earlier today .
if you want to know how military members feel about this fraud , check out the letter here.khizr muazzam kahn moved from pakistan to the united arab emirates prior to emigrating into the u.s. kahn is directly affiliated with the advancement of muslim immigration into the united states.mr .
kahn runs a law firm in new york called km kahn law office : kahn s primary area of expertise -as advertised- is legal aide and legal services for muslim immigration assistance.attorney khizr kahn also used to work for hogan , hartson and lovells law firm within washington dc which has direct ties to the clinton foundation.hogan , hartson , lovells are one of the lobbying entities for saudi affairs in washington dc .
[ ] hogan lovells llp , another u.s. firm hired by the saudis , is registered to work for the royal embassy of saudi arabia through 2016 , disclosures show .
robert kyle , a lobbyist from the firm , has bundled $ 50,850 for clinton s campaign many lawyers at hogan lovells remember the week in 2004 when u.s. army capt .
humayun khan lost his life to a suicide bomber .
then-hogan & hartson attorneys mourned the death because the soldier s father , khizr khan , a muslim american immigrant , was among their beloved colleagues mr. khizr kahn is not some arbitrary muslim voice called upon randomly to speak at the democrat national convention on behalf of former secretary of state hillary clinton.attorney kahn is a well documented , and well compensated , conscript and activist for the advancement of islamic interests into the united states .
so it should come as no surprise to see the clinton machine use kahn to serve both of their interests in this political election season .
the conservative treehousewell , will you look at that !
what a coincidence loretta lynch was also employed by hogan and hartson : it s well known that if the fbi recommends prosecution in the hillary clinton email case , the decision will be put in the hands of attorney general loretta lynch.but little known is the fact that lynch was a litigation partner for eight years at a major washington law firm that served the clintons .
lynch was with the washington-headquartered international law firm hogan & hartson llp from march 2002 through april 2010.according to documents hillary clinton s first presidential campaign made public in 2008 , hogan & harrison s new york-based partner howard topaz was the tax lawyer who filed income tax returns for bill and hillary clinton beginning in 2004 .
grthe muslim who attacked donald trump , khizr muazzam khan , is a muslim brotherhood agent , working to bring muslims into the united states .
after reading what we discovered so far , it becomes obvious that khan wanted to trump trump s muslim immigration policy of limiting muslim immigration into the u.s.khizr muazzam khan graduated in punjab university law college , as the new york times confirms .
he specialized in international trade law in saudi arabia .
an interest lawyer for islamic oil companies khan wrote a paper , called in defense of opec to defend the organization of the petroleum exporting countries ( opec ) , an intergovernmental oil company consisting of mainly islamic countries.but more than this , khan is a promoter of islamic sharia law in the u.s .
he was a co-founder of the journal of contemporary issues in muslim law ( islamic sharia ) .
khan s fascination with islamic sharia stems from his life in saudi arabia .
during the eighties khan wrote a paper titled juristic classification of islamic [ sharia ] law .
in it he elucidated on the system of sharia law expressing his reverence for the sunnah [ the works of muhammad ] authentic tradition of the prophet muhammad ( peace be upon him ) .
a snapshot of his essay can be seen here : but khan s fascination with islam isn t the only issue .
what is more worrisome is that at the bottom of the intro , khan shows his appreciation and the source of his work and gives credit to an icon of the muslim brotherhood : the contribution to this article of s. ramadan s writing is greatly acknowledged .
this alone speaks volumes .
khan used the works of s. ramadan to lay his foundation for his inspiration regarding the promotion of sharia .
s. ramadan is said ramadan , head of the islamic center in geneva and a major icon of the muslim brotherhood , the grandson of hassan al-banna the founder and hero of the muslim brotherhood which spread terrorism throughout the world.in regards to his son and his sacrifice , on the other side of the coin , many were the muslim martyrs who joined the us military .
ali abdul saoud mohamed , for example , enlisted in the special forces of the us army ; he was a double agent for al-qaeda .
how about hasan k. akbar , a muslim american soldier who murdered and injured fifteen soldiers .
there was bowe bergdahl , an american muslim soldier who deserted his men to join the taliban , a desertion which led to six american being ambushed and killed while they were on the search looking for him .
and of course the example of nidal malik hassan , who murdered fourteen americans in cold blood in fort hood .
what about infiltration into the u.s. military like taha jaber al-alwani , a major muslim thinker for the muslim minority affairs , an icon of the abedin family ( hillary s aid human ) who , while he served in u.s. military , called on arming muslims to fight the u.s ?
al-alwani is an imma ( institute of muslims minority affairs ) favorite , taha jaber al-alwani , whom the abedins say is the source for their doctrine ( see abedins-meii-kampf ) is an ardent anti-semite who by the way , runs the united states department of defense program ( out of all places ) for training muslim military chaplains in the u.s. military .
via : shoebat.com