more bad news for lyin loretta or lyin lizzie , depending upon who obama s former ag ( the chief law enforcement officer and chief lawyer of the united states government ) decided she needed to be on any given day.so much for obama s most transparent government ever lol ! on friday internet sleuth kim dotcom dropped a bomb on twitter.kim posted an email friday showing loretta lynch using an alias to contact doj officials.yesterday , we reported about the new doj emails that were released to the american center for law and justice ( aclj ) as part of an ongoing investigation into the secret meeting between former ag loretta lynch and former president bill clinton , whose wife hillary clinton , was under investigation by the fbi at the time of the meeting.one of those emails reveals that obama s crooked ag loretta lynch , was hiding her name , and using her grandmother s name ( elizabeth carlisle ) as an alias : melanie newman from the department of justice leaked it in the email .
and ag lynch ( elizabeth carlisle ) then responded with a thanks to all who worked on this .
here is kim dotcom s tweet : breaking : did loretta lynch use an alias to communicate with doj officials and why ?
who is elizabeth carlisle ?
dear internet , investigate !
pic.twitter.com/oqngtkdhly kim dotcom ( @ kimdotcom ) august 5 , 2017here s another example of an email where lyin lynch used her grandmother s name : doj foia request dump , on page 210 , it appears doj employees are sending someone named elizabeth carlisle email messages meant for lynch .
pic.twitter.com/wshcrpwgd6 washington 's ghost ( @ solight111 ) august 5 , 2017now this reddit the donald users discovered that loretta lynch used her grandmother s maiden name lizzie carlisle as her alias.loretta s grandmother s name is lizzie carlisle harris .
loretta s mother s name is lorine harris lynch.here is her grandmother s death certificate.h/t gateway pundit as it turns out , lyin loretta wasn t the obama s only ag to use an alias while conducting government business .
according to buzzfeed investigative reporter jason leopold , obama s first crooked ag eric holder also used the alias lew alcindor in his official government capacity:3 yrs later .
doj responds to my # foia re : media leaks .
here 's a few emails from `` lew alcindor '' aka eric holder https : //t.co/mzfqnnw4hz jason leopold ( @ jasonleopold ) march 3 , 2017