cairo ( reuters ) - six months before egypt s election , president abdel fattah al-sisi s supporters are petitioning for him to run , rallying around the former military commander whose popularity critics say has been dimmed by austerity reforms , security problems and a crackdown on dissidents .
four years ago , sisi won a landslide victory after he led the military ouster of then president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood , promising stability following egypt s 2011 arab spring uprising .
sisi , 62 , has yet to declare if he will run , though he is unlikely to face strong opposition .
he says he will follow the people s will , and many in egypt still see him as key to stability in a country where unrest since 2011 has battered the economy .
but some critics say that narrative has been undercut by tough austerity reforms and a currency flotation that has made even the middle-class poorer , and an islamic insurgency that has extended outside its battleground in the northern sinai , the so you can build it petition campaign launched by a businessman , professors and pro-sisi independent lawmakers is looking to whip up turnout for sisi and show he still has the legitimacy of a popular mandate .
less than a month into the campaign , its founders claim they will rally massive support .
a host of celebrities have signed up , posing on social media with petition forms that show egypt s red , white and black flag , and a silhouette of the pyramids .
we will find out from the numbers we have collected what the egyptian people s support looks like ... especially since there are rumors that there s been a decline in popular support , said mohamed shaaban , the campaign s co-founder and an independent lawmaker allied with sisi .
some sisi opponents say the scale of the campaign shows that egyptians have few viable opposition candidates to choose from in the election likely to happen around april .
all this negatively affects the political climate in egypt and increases reluctance to run against sisi , mohamed anwar al-sadat , nephew of a former president who once backed sisi but is now considering running against him , said last week .
it will discourage voters and make them more reluctant to go out and vote in the upcoming elections .
detractors have taken to social media to poke fun at the petition , posting pictures of aliens and u.s. president donald trump signing the form .
others have suggested a counter-movement calling instead for sisi to step down .
under sisi s presidency , thousands of dissidents have been jailed , the government has shut down independent media and heavily restricted the conducting of opinion polls .
there have been no official polls on the upcoming election yet .
however , many egyptians are wary of challenging the status quo after six years of living through a pro-democracy revolt , a military takeover and a prolonged state of emergency that has left people unwilling to protest or looking for stability .
only two people sadat and khaled ali , a lawyer who challenged sisi over a dispute about two islands in the red sea have publicly aired the idea of challenging him and even they say sisi is likely to win .
last election , sisi won about 97 percent of the vote on a turnout of 47.5 percent , after voting was extended for a day .
this time , his backers want to show his legitimacy not been tarnished by economic and security problems .
the issue is not whether sisi will win the 2018 election ; rather , it is about how much interest and buzz can be generated about the process , said h.a .
hellyer , senior non-resident fellow at the atlantic council .
the more public interest , the better - if turnout and interest is minimal , that won t be catastrophic for the authorities , but is certainly not the image they wish to project domestically or internationally , he added .
the campaign was inspired by the 2013 tamaroud , or rebellion , petition , that sisi used as a mandate to topple the muslim brotherhood , said shaaban .
the tamaroud movement encouraged millions of egyptians to take to the streets demanding the overthrow of mursi .
sisi then led the military ouster of mursi after those protests .
organisers says they are already seeing results .
what started off with only 10 offices has mushroomed into a large-scale operation with 178 offices nationwide , said shaaban , and close to half a million likes on the campaign s official facebook page .
the numbers are changing by the moment , said parliamentarian karim salem , campaign spokesman and co-founder .
organisers say the campaign is run by volunteers and funded by private donations .
egypt s state news agency reported that 14,000 people had signed the petition in the nile delta province of al-beheira .
reuters could not independently confirm these numbers .
the petition form lists five reasons why sisi should seek a second term cleansing the country of terrorism , completing his megaprojects , ending corruption , education , and protecting its leadership .
even some of sisi s supporters who helped propel him into power , such as former campaign officials hazim abdelazim and nour al-huda zaki , have turned against him over his handling of the economy and security .
critics point to a dispute that saw his government hand over two red sea islands to saudi arabia , touching a nationalistic nerve .
egypt has fought an insurgency waged by an islamic state affiliate in north sinai since 2013 .
hundreds of members of the security forces have been killed .
but the group has begun turning its guns towards the mainland in attacks this year .
sisi has inaugurated mega infrastructure projects he promised would turn around the economy , and the imf has praised the progress of measures it has backed that are meant to curb deficits and create long term growth .
but many egyptians say they are frustrated with the immediate fallout of reforms .
the currency devaluation a year ago has cut the egyptian pound s value in half though it has stabilised now - and inflation is just off record highs of above 30 percent .
in shaaban s home district in cairo , middle-class sayeda zeinab , where a petition campaign banner with an image of the smiling president hangs above a main square , essam moahmed , a baker , expressed discontent over the economy .
now things are even more expensive than under the brotherhood .
but people can t stand against sisi , he said .
sisi acknowledges the tough economic situation many egyptians face , saying sacrifices like imf-backed austerity reforms are needed so we can take our true place .