start counting .
keep counting .
stop counting ?
michigan 's election recount hearing set to start in detroit .
will judge change course ?
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016hallroom chatter in michigan recount : some think the judge has been cornered & he ll have to end the recount ; some say he ll keep pushing.u.s .
district judge mark goldsmith is ready to take the bench in # michiganrecount .
and we are off !
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016michigan recount schuette s lawyer john bursch up first : 6th circuit couldn t have been more clear , this is case about michigan election lawschuette lawyer talking about bush v gore case ; says us supreme ct. clear on this : federal courts must defer to state in election matters.judge just asked ag atty john bursch : has the mich. supreme court ruled on this ?
his answer : not yet .
state high court hasn t heard case.ag atty bursch : this is the law of michigan , there is no dispute about that .
unless , of course , stein appeals to mi supreme ct.ag atty bursch shifts to jill stein , and whether she s an aggrieved party .
appeals ct. says no , so do republicans & trump.ag atty bursch : purpose of recount law is to change the outcome of the election .
judge : how do we know that ?
ag atty bursch : state 's top election official says goal of recount law is to change outcome , not to see if there 's a problem ; tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016ag atty bursch : court has already held that it 's not right to make taxpayers pay millions for a recount that 's not justified tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016ag atty bursch : stein s entire purpose is to audit the michigan system .
that s not what our recount law is for.michigan recount hearing : judge : how do we know that stein only got 1 % ; what if she got more but fraud took place ? judge to ag atty : what if stein got 20 % of the vote ; is that enough for her to say she was aggrieved ? mi rep party atty now up : the michigan courts have ruled , he says , urges judge to end the recount.mi rep party atty : state court has concluded : `` it 's very unlikely that 2 million mistakes have been made '' tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016judge continues to press : is there any court case that says recounts must produce a change in the outcome in order for them to be allowed ? michigan rep. atty : recounts should be used to figure out who should have won the election .
aggrieved means someone who has been harmed mich. rep. atty : aggrieved does not apply to someone who came in 4th place .
# michiganrecount law is being misused by jill stein .
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016 this candidate is not aggrieved in any sense of the word mich. rep atty says of jill stein ; urged judge to dissolve ruling & end recount.pro-recount atty up : it s quite possible that a recount ( in michigan ) would reveal a winner .
not stein .
she doesn t expect that.pro-recount atty : michigan recount law isn t just about changing outcome ; can also be used to show fraud in election system.judge goldsmith discusses cost of recount to taxpayers .
asks stein atty what she thinks of that ?
answer : the law explicitly allows for that.stein atty notes # michiganrecount battle not over .
the state court decision is not final .
going back to appeals court.judge asks stein atty : what do you want now ?
i ordered immediate recount .
what s your issue now ?
notes there s no federal right to recount.stein atty : there is no way of knowing whether fraud occurred without conducting the recount .
judge goldsmith to stein atty : why are you coming to court now w hen you knew about the deficiencies beforehand ?
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016judge goldsmith to stein atty : you could have addressed michigan 's vulnerable voting machines months ago .
why did n't you ?
why now ?
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016judge to stein atty : is there anything about the recount that will tell us whether there was cyber attack or if machinery malfunctioned ? stein atty : the recount can raise clear flags about whether something went wrong , triggering a forensic audit.stein atty just ended .
says michigan law allows for recounts , and that it should be continued .
ag atty is now up , in a rebuttal.judge goldsmith asks about voting machine problems in detroit ; says he s read about problems .
ag atty says not as many as being reported.ag atty : the court of appeals has spoken .
there is no right for stein to have a recount .
that s the end of the story.ag atty to judge goldsmith : you might be the 1st judge in history to order recount for a candidate who took 1 % of the vote .
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016recount shows so far : 10 counties have been recounting ; 66 total vote change between clinton & trump so far .
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016election lawyer : i have not known of anyone to come in and say i believe the system has been compromised or hacked stein atty : it is way to early to say whether any fraud can be ruled out.stein atty : until the michigan state supreme court weighs in , the recount must continue as ordered by the federal court.mi ag atty : `` dont ' become the first federal court in the country to order a recount for a candidate who lost by 2 million votes . ''
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016mi ag atty seeks bond : it 's costing $ 500,000 a day for recount .
it 's not right to impose that kind of `` irreparable harm '' on the citizens .
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016stein atty : sec of state doesn t want recount , so don t trust $ 5 million cost or other numbers being thrown by folks who just don t want it.stein atty : no bond should be set.judge goldsmith orders recess for 20 minutes .
he will issue a written order or rule from the bench : i understand the time sensitivity judge goldsmith will issue a written opinion on whether to let michigan presidential election recount continue , or end .
stay tuned .
tresa baldas ( @ tbaldas ) december 7 , 2016