new york ( reuters ) - democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton has a 6-percentage-point lead over republican rival donald trump , according to a reuters/ipsos tracking poll released on tuesday .
clinton ’ s support has ranged from 41 percent to 44 percent since late july , and was about 41 percent in the aug. 11-15 online poll .
trump ’ s support has experienced wider shifts ranging from 33 percent to 39 percent while his campaign has endured controversies and distractions in recent weeks .
he is favored by about 35 percent of likely voters , according to the most recent poll .
trump has caused divisions in the republican party with his strong anti-immigrant and anti-muslim rhetoric , and faced criticism from both parties earlier this month for a days-long feud with the parents of a muslim american army captain killed in iraq .
last week , 70 republicans , including former members of congress and republican national committee staff , wrote a letter calling for the rnc to stop helping trump , whose actions they said were “ divisive and dangerous. ” the number of likely voters who picked neither clinton nor trump in the poll was nearly 24 percent .
at this point in 2012 , president barack obama was ahead of republican nominee mitt romney by nearly the same margin , favored by 46 percent of likely voters to romney ’ s 41 percent , with about 13 percent picking neither candidate .
obama and romney swapped the lead in the poll several times through the summer and early fall before the president took and held the lead in late october .
in a separate reuters/ipsos poll that gave respondents the option to choose from clinton , trump , libertarian candidate gary johnson and green party candidate jill stein , clinton also led trump by 6 percentage points .
of the alternative party candidates , johnson came in third with 8 percentage points .
stein had about 2 percentage points .
the aug. 11-15 polls surveyed a sample of 1,132 and 1,131 likely voters , respectively , and had a credibility interval of 3 percentage points .