kiev ( reuters ) - ukrainian officials , security monitors and kiev s foreign backers warned on wednesday that moscow s decision to withdraw from a ukrainian-russian ceasefire control group could worsen the fighting in eastern ukraine .
on monday , the russian foreign ministry said it was recalling officers serving at the joint centre for control and coordination ( jccc ) in ukraine , accusing the ukrainian side of obstructing their work and limiting access to the front line .
ukrainian defence minister stepan poltorak and security chief olekshandr turchynov said the decision , coupled with a recent surge in fighting in the eastern donbass region , suggested russia had switched to a more offensive strategy .
we can not rule out that they withdrew their officers in order to start stepping up not only military provocations but also military operations , turchynov said .
we will strengthen our positions at the front .
the ukrainian armed forces are currently prepared for a change in the situation , poltorak told journalists .
a russia-backed separatist insurgency erupted in 2014 and the bloodshed has continued despite a ceasefire that was meant to end the conflict .
more than 10,000 people have been killed , with casualties reported on a near-daily basis .
a spokesman for the organisation for security and co-operation in europe , which works with the jccc to monitor the much-violated minsk peace agreement , said : we are concerned about any step that might lead to a further deterioration of the security situation in the region , affecting both the smm ( osce special monitoring mission ) and the civilian population .
fighting between ukrainian troops and separatists has climbed to the worst level in months , the osce said this week , after the shelling of a frontline village wounded civilians and destroyed or damaged dozens of homes .
russia denies accusations from ukraine and nato it supports the rebels with troops and weapons , but the u.s. envoy to peace talks , kurt volker , said moscow was answerable for the violence .
russia withdrew its officers from jccc - a ceasefire implementation tool - right before a massive escalation in ceasefire violations .
ukraine just suffered some of the worst fighting since february , 2017 .
decision for peace lies with russia , volker tweeted on tuesday .
germany and france , which have spearheaded international efforts to resolve the conflict , expressed concern .
a germany foreign ministry spokesman said it could have severe consequences for civilians in the conflict zones .
we call on the russian authorities to reconsider this decision and hope that the ukrainian authorities will guarantee access to ukrainian territory to russian representatives of the joint center ( jccc ) , said alexandre giorgini , deputy spokesman for the french foreign ministry .
created in 2014 , the jccc is made up of ukrainian and russian officers , who are meant to work together to ensure the safety of osce monitors and help implement the minsk ceasefire .