based stickman , aka kyle chapman became famous on social media after he was one of the first trump supporters to fight back at a california trump rally after violent antifa thugs randomly began cracking skulls and stabbing people who dared to openly supporting our president .
americans were fed up with watching innocent americans being physically harmed and threatened while police officers stood down and watched the violence unfold .
once kyle chapman took the lead and started fighting back , other trump supporters joined him .
it wasn t long before the antifa cowards stopped attacking innocent trump supporters.here s a short video showing base stick man in action , as he takes the lead in defending his fellow trump supporters who were being attack by a large mob of violent democrats : communists/anarchists start a fight they cant finish @ uc berkeley # march4trump pic.twitter.com/oozjrzkxxg andrew quackson ( @ andrewquackson ) march 5 , 2017today , kyle chapman ( based stickman ) and conservative latino activist robert herrera were on the streets of new york showing their support for president trump when chapman noticed a 15-yr. old girl proudly displaying a communist poster her mother allegedly purchased for her .
chapman questioned the young girl about her knowledge of communism and asked her if she s aware of the millions of people who have been murdered throughout history at the hands of communist dictators ?
the 15-yr. old girl s mother can be seen videotaping the exchange until she realizes that her daughter is actually getting an education about the ugly truth about communism , at which time she asks chapman to stop engaging her daughter while videotaping her .
as the mother-daughter duo walk away , the new york city police officer who witnessed the entire exchange can be seen stepping up to congratulate chapman on a job well done .
the unidentified police officer remarks about how he appreciated the way in which chapman conducted himself with civility .
as the officer begins to move away , he can be heard remarking , facts hurt people s feelings .watch : although based stickman was arrested and charged with assault for defending himself and other trump supporters from antifa thugs , it hasn t slowed down his enthusiasm for defending president trump or innocent americans who are simply exercising their first amendment right .
america could use a thousand more kyle chapman s and robert herrera s