madrid ( reuters ) - catalan leader carles puigdemont on sunday called for calm less than 24 hours ahead of a deadline from spain s central government for him to clarify whether he has declared independence for catalonia or not .
puigdemont made a symbolic declaration of independence on tuesday night , only to suspend it seconds later and call for negotiations with madrid on the region s future .
spain s prime minister mariano rajoy has given him until monday to clarify his position - and then until thursday to change his mind if he insists on a split - threatening to suspend catalonia s autonomy if he chooses independence .
the ( catalan ) government and i want to reiterate our commitment to peace , civility and serenity , and also to ( ... ) democracy as inspiring the decisions we have to make , puigdemont said during at a memorial event at barcelona s montjuic cemetery .
in these difficult hours of hope in catalonia , let s take a clear attitude against violence ( ... ) in favour of civility , hope , serenity and respect .
though puigdemont did not indicate how he would reply to madrid , public catalan tv broadcaster tv-3 said he would not give a yes or no answer , but a more elaborate response .
the spanish government has said it will take control of catalonia if puigdemont give an ambiguous reply .
the answer must be without any ambiguity .
he must say yes or no , spanish interior minister juan ignacio zoido told cope radio on saturday .
puigdemont , who is consulting local parties to prepare his answer , faces a dilemma .
if he says he did proclaim independence , the central government will step in .
if he says he did not , the far-left catalan party cup would probably withdraw its support for his minority government .
the catalan government says 90 percent of catalans voted for a breakaway in an oct. 1 referendum that central authorities in madrid declared illegal and most opponents of independence boycotted , reducing turnout to around 43 percent .
under article 155 of the spanish constitution , the central government can suspend the political autonomy of a region if it breaks the law .
this article , which enables rajoy to sack the catalan government and call a regional election , has not been activated since the constitution was adopted in 1978 after the death of dictator francisco franco .
spanish newspaper el mundo reported on sunday that if article 155 was invoked , the government would replace the catalan government with a new set-up to manage the region autonomously , which could be run by politicians or technocrats .
within three months , elections would be held .