beijing ( reuters ) - china must step up vigilance against plots to grab power , as political corruption is the worst form of corruption , wang qishan , the country s still influential former top graft-buster , wrote on tuesday .
wang , a key ally of president xi jinping , stepped down in a leadership reshuffle last month at the end of the five-yearly communist party congress , but could assume a new role , say sources with ties to the leadership , though an announcement might not come for a few more weeks .
as the feared head of the party s anti-corruption watchdog for the past five years , wang has spearheaded xi s battle on graft , overseeing the jailing of dozens of former top officials , including the domestic security chief , zhou yongkang .
china has rebuffed criticism that the corruption campaign is as much about settling political scores as about stamping out genuine criminal acts .
writing in the party s official people s daily , wang said the fight against corruption went beyond battling the pilfering of assets or hedonism and was a political battle .
political corruption is the biggest corruption , wang wrote in comments drawn from a collection of essays released after the congress , but not previously published in full by state media .
the collection included pieces by former members of the politburo standing committee , the height of power in china .
aspects of political corruption include the formation of special interest groups to try and seize power , and the organization of activities outside party parameters , aimed at breaking party unity , wang wrote .
there are many new historical special characteristics to carrying on this great fight , the most important of which are to ... prevent them from seizing political power and changing the party s basic character , he added .
wang explicitly linked some of the most notorious cases to political crimes , mentioning not only zhou but also the former party bosses of the southwestern city of chongqing , bo xilai and sun zhengcai , two former top generals and a former top aide to retired president hu jintao .
in these cases , the party had eradicated interest groups which mixed political and economic corruption , wang wrote .
bo was jailed for life in 2013 , while sun was put under investigation for corruption in july .
there can be no challenges to the party s power , wang added .
north , south , east , west and at the center , the party leads everything .
if there is no forceful and strong leadership by the party , then the chinese people are simply a loose plate of sand .