berlin ( reuters ) - berliners voted to keep the historic tegel airport open even after a new international hub is completed , creating a headache for the german capital s government , which wanted it closed .
tegel sprang up in just 90 days in 1948 to support the berlin airlift , a huge operation to ship supplies and thwart a cold war soviet blockade .
it is much-loved by many berliners and business travelers for its proximity to the city center .
berlin s government will now have to rethink its plans to close tegel after some 56 percent of voters supported the non-binding referendum on sunday , the same day as germany s federal election , to reconsider the proposal .
this had envisaged the closing of tegel six months after the berlin brandenburg international ( ber ) airport - a grand project bedeviled by repeated construction and planning problems - finally starts operating .
it still has no fixed opening date .
michael mueller , berlin s mayor said the result created a very , difficult situation and told rbb radio he would now talk to the airport s state owners about taking a different approach that could be legally and financially challenging .
the chief executive of berlin airport , engelbert luetke dalderup , said it was up to the airport s owners to decide and that the operator was working on its aim to complete the construction work for ber by august 2018 .
opponents argue that tegel , with its concrete , hexagonal terminal that dates back to the 1970s , is antiquated , does not meet current safety standards and must be renovated at a cost of at least 1 billion euros ( $ 1.2 billion ) .
they want the state government to go ahead with plans to convert the site into a new business and technology park to boost berlin s economy , and build affordable flats to alleviate a housing shortage .
supporters , however , say that even when complete the new airport will be too small to meet passenger demand and want tegel retained to serve around 10 million passengers per year , mainly on short-haul flights .
airlines were also divided , with ryanair calling for it to be kept open to avoid a capacity crunch , and lufthansa saying it would prefer to operate from one airport .
ryanair , which placed posters around berlin urging locals to vote to keep tegel open , on monday welcomed the result and called on the government to explore all options to keep it open .