manila ( reuters ) - philippine lawmakers on wednesday overwhelmingly backed president rodrigo duterte s plan to extend martial law for all of next year in mindanao , an island he called a flashpoint for trouble and atrocities by islamist and communist rebels .
the extension , until dec. 31 next year , would mark the longest period of martial law since the 1970s era of late strongman ferdinand marcos , one of the darkest and most oppressive chapters of the country s recent history .
at a joint session of congress , 240 out of 267 lawmakers agreed with duterte on the need for tough measures to stop muslim militants recruiting fighters and preparing a new wave of attacks after occupying marawi city for five months this year .
duterte thanked congress for its support and said the communist new people s army and militants loyal to islamic state were equally threatening .
there is a need for me to come up with something , otherwise mindanao will blow apart , he told reporters .
the government worries that mountainous , jungle-clad mindanao , a region the size of south korea that is home to the muslim minority , could attract international extremists .
the marawi city assault was the philippines biggest security crisis in decades , killing more than 1,100 people , mostly militants .
the armed forces took 154 days to win the battle , and 185 extremists are estimated to still be at large .
duterte enjoys massive public support , but his frequent threats to expand martial law are contentious in a country that suffered nine years of oppression under marcos before his ouster in 1986 .
marcos was accused of inventing security threats to justify tightening his grip on power and crushing detractors .
duterte has frequently praised the leadership of marcos .
duterte s opponents lament his authoritarian streak and speculate that his end game is to emulate marcos by declaring martial law nationwide , as he has often threatened .
asked several times on wednesday if he was prepared to go that far , he said , it depends on the enemies of the state .
minority lawmakers said the extension of martial law was illegal because duterte had cited security threats , rather than rebellion or invasion , the conditions under which martial law can be invoked .
duterte scoffed at the notion that the conflict in mindanao , his home for most of his life , did not constitute rebellion .
there is actually rebellion in mindnanao , it is ongoing , the fighting is going on , he said .
congressman tom villarin said martial law would cost a huge amount of money , calling broad support for it a death blow to our democracy .
we have made martial law the new normal , absent of any proof of invasion or rebellion , he said .
martial law now desensitizes the people to wrongly equate it with good governance and democracy .
in his request to congress on monday , duterte had argued that a little-known operative active in mindanao , abu turaifie , was said to be islamic state s potential point man in southeast asia .