how is it that squatters have more rights than legal homeowners ? how to take over someone s property and get away with it : adverse possession is a principle of real estate law that gives anyone who possesses the land of another for an extended period of time in an actual , open , hostile and continuous manner the right to claim legal title to that land .
the exact elements of an adverse possession claim may be different in each state .
in florida , the law prescribes continuous possession of at least seven years .
in new jersey , a squatter must be in possession of the property for 30 years , while in new york it s 10 years .
in some states , the trespasser must have paid taxes on the property during this time period .
other states don t require payment of property taxes , but will apply a shorter time requirement for occupying the land if the trespasser has paid taxes.this is another case of criminals having more rights than the legal homeowners .
thank goodness for this veteran biker group that put the heat on these squatters .
we ve done other articles on squatters and how they have more rights than the legal owners .
here s a great one that went viral it s pretty funny but happens more than you know : only in detroit : squatting on the squatter takes a turnsoldier returns to squatters : a soldier from new port richey , florida says that squatters took over his house while he was stationed in hawaii for two years , and when it came time to move back into his home with his wife , the squatters refused to leave.as reported earlier this week , army spc .
michael sharkey says that he and his wife haven t lived in their florida home in the two years that he s been stationed in hawaii , but upon learning they could go back to florida , they were shocked to discover that two ex-cons broke in , changed the locks , and were refusing to leave .
unfortunately for sharkey , he was told that legally , there was nothing he could do to force them out .
they are criminals , said sharkey to wfla .
i am serving my country , and they have more rights to my home than i do .
police told sharkey that they could do nothing about the couple , julio ortiz and fatima cardosa , since they already established residency , so the matter would have to be settled in a civil court.ortiz claims that he made a verbal agreement with sharkey s friend , who was overseeing the home while the soldier and his wife were gone , that they could live there for free as long as they did repairs on the house .
both sharkey and his friend say those claims are lies , but ortiz has continued to defend himself .
the people that are in this house can not produce any documentation , lease , agreement , anything that they belong in that house , said sharkey.once word got out that the squatters had taken over sharkey s house , a group of military veteran bikers announced that they would be paying a visit to the home to peacefully make the squatters uncomfortable .
that seems to be all it took because now , reports say that ortiz and his girlfriend have packed up their belongings and are leaving the home for good.via : america news