21st century wire says while russian and syrian forces are doing the real work of actually fighting terrorists in syria the united states is arming , funding and training jihadists .
in reality , the us failed to fulfill any of its ceasefire commitments in syria .
in fact , the us destroyed any hope of an agreement when it carried out a vicious airstrike killing upwards of 100 syrian soldiers on sept 17th.it s just a little bit rich for the ethically and morally challenged political detritus in washington dc to be blaming russia for not doing more to separate the moderates from the terrorists .
maybe that s because there is no moderate opposition in syria .
this is just a piece of fiction that washington is trying to preserve in order to prop up its diplomatic facade regarding syria .
in the eyes of the syrian state , if the opposition is armed , then they can not rightly be called moderates .
this would be the same in the united states , or great britain.this hypocrisy , and washington s adolescent insistence on playing semantic name games when referring to moderate opposition and moderate rebels are mere euphemisms for moderate terrorists.despite all of this , cia director john brennan wants to keep talking tough , by threatening russia : i think that pushing back against a bully is appropriate , brennan told reuters .
i think that is very different than rushing in and bombing the hell out of a place .
caught on tape : john kerry s un audio leak proved that the secretary of state has been lying all along , to the russians , the syrians , the world , and to the us electorate that pays his salary .
kerry also admitted on tape that the us was arming and training terrorists in syria.we know now that from the beginning of washington s illegal entry into syria airspace , their plan was to spare al-nusra and to keep it just in case for plan b .
watch this recent clip where an al-nusra commander testifies on how the us supports jihadists in syria in the form of arms , tanks and artillery : rtthe us is not targeting al-nusra terrorists in syria because they have become too intermingled with moderates and civilians , the us state department claimed , accusing moscow of causing the mess which prevents washington from separating the groups.russian foreign minister sergey lavrov once again stressed in an interview with the bbc on friday that washington never delivered on its obligation to separate jabhat fateh al-sham ( known before the rebranding as al-nusra front ) and other extremist groups from the so-called moderate rebels , to whom the us provides support.however , this time lavrov went a step further and implied that washington has been sparing terrorists in syria on purpose , should they ever come in handy in terms of potentially overthrowing the government of bashar assad .
they still , in spite of many repeated promises and commitments are not able or not willing to do this and we have more and more reasons to believe that from the very beginning the plan was to spare al-nusra and to keep it just in case for plan b when it would be time to change the regime , the russian minister said.the us state department has dismissed lavrov s statements as absurd , instead accusing russia of driving the moderate opposition to intermingle with terrorist fighters on the battlefield against the syrian government forces.claiming that the us exerted every possible effort to influence and separate moderates from terrorists , state departments spokesman mark toner told reporters at a daily briefing on friday , that the moderate opposition have been driven more or less into the arms and have no other choice but to turn to nusra , fight side by side .
toner admitted that the us had not targeted al-nusra for months because its members had become intermingled with other groups and civilians .
we did carry out strikes initially , back in 2014-2015 , against nusra .
but absolutely , you re correct in that , as they became intermingled and as they became intermingled in civilian areas , we ve always sought to limit the possibility of civilian casualties in any of our airstrikes , toner said continue this story at rtread more syria news at : 21st century wire syria files