mar del plata , argentina/buenos aires ( reuters ) - a sound detected on monday in the south atlantic , near where an argentine navy submarine with 44 crew went missing five days ago , is not believed to have come from the ill-fated vessel , a navy spokesman said .
the sound detected by probes initially raised hopes that crew members aboard the ara san juan submarine , which disappeared after reporting an electrical malfunction , may have been intentionally making noise to attract rescuers .
but an analysis by argentine authorities , on the fourth day of a search-and-rescue mission , showed that it was highly unlikely it had come from the german-built submarine , navy spokesman enrique balbi told reporters in buenos aires .
it does not correspond to a pattern that would be consistent with bangs against the walls in morse code , balbi said .
he described whatever had been detected as a continuous , constant sound .
the disappointment followed another letdown earlier in the day , when the navy said satellite calls detected over the weekend did not in fact come from the vessel .
( tmsnrt.rs/2zq8hgz ) the vessel reported an electrical problem and was headed back to its base in the port of mar del plata when it disappeared on wednesday , the navy said .
storms have complicated search efforts as relatives wait anxiously .
more than a dozen boats and aircraft from argentina , the united states , britain , chile and brazil have joined the search effort .
authorities have mainly been scanning the sea from the sky , as storms have made it difficult for boats .
the navy said on monday night that two boats belonging to french oil company total sa , which has offshore operations in argentina , arrived at the patagonian port of comodoro rivadavia to transport rescue equipment the u.s. navy brought to the country , including a remote-operated vehicle , a mini-submarine , and a submarine rescue chamber .
gabriel galeazzi , a naval commander , told reporters that the submarine had come up from the depths and reported the unspecified electrical malfunction before it disappeared nearly 300 miles off the coast .
the submarine surfaced and reported a malfunction , which is why its ground command ordered it to return to its naval base at mar del plata , he said .
the malfunction did not necessarily cause an emergency , galeazzi added .
the craft was navigating normally , underwater , at a speed of five knots toward mar del plata when it was last heard from , he said .
a warship has a lot of backup systems , to allow it to move from one to another when there is a breakdown , galeazzi said .
one of the crew is argentina s first female submarine officer , eliana maria krawczyk , 35 , who joined the navy in 2004 and rose to become the master-at-arms aboard the ara san juan .
the families of crew members have gathered at the mar del plata naval base awaiting news .
they were joined on monday by president mauricio macri .
we continue to deploy all available national and international resources , to find the submarine , macri said on twitter .
intermittent satellite communications were detected on saturday and the government had said they were likely to have come from the submarine .
but the ara san juan sent its last signal on wednesday , according to balbi .
the calls that were detected did not correspond to the satellite phone of the submarine san juan , he said on monday , adding that the craft had oxygen for seven days .
after that , he said , it would have to surface or get near the surface to replenish air supply .
the ara san juan was inaugurated in 1983 , making it the newest of the three submarines in the navy s fleet .
built in germany , it underwent maintenance in 2008 in argentina .
that maintenance included the replacement of its four diesel engines and its electric propeller engines , according to specialist publication jane s sentinel .