bill o reilly isn t my favorite and can be belligerently wrong sometimes but this rant is spot on : the truth is we don t know what happened to mr. gray .
the same way we did not know what happened in ferguson , mo , o reilly said , going on to make the point that it is irresponsible for people to make judgments about what happened before all the facts are known .
the litany of excuse-making is excruciating .
the rioters are angry because america s a country of mass incarceration .
people who burn down buildings and loot are just misdirected folks who feel hopeless .
and if you feel hopeless , it s okay to riot .
you see it s really not the fault of those who commit crimes .
it s the fault of america because we don t provide jobs for everyone .
instead of pinpointing the real problem , and trying to solve it , you get crazy theories that attempt to provide justification for americans hurting other americans .
if you can t make big money go ahead and sell heroin .
no problem ! here s the truth .
how could anyone provide a job that pays adecent salary to someone who can t read or write ?
to someone who can t speak basic english ?
to someone who has tattoos all over their body who s defiant , disrespectful doesn t even want to work because they have a sense of entitlement that says they re victims and you owe me .
does that sound like a good job-seeking resume to you ?
and don t tell me those folks don t exist .
they re legion.so these politicians out on the street trying to justify rioting by saying that we don t provide jobs are dishonest in the extreme .
if you get educated and are willing to work hard you can get a job .
it may not be the best paying job at first , but you work your way up !
officers hurt since violence broke out in baltimore : nearly 100 officers have been hurt since violence broke out in the city on monday , baltimore police said .
capt .
eric kowalczyk said thursday afternoon that more than 40 officers required some sort of treatment at the hospital .
protesters have been throwing bricks , bottles and other items at officers trying to contain demonstrations after the death of freddie gray , a black man who suffered critical injuries while he was in police custody .
i m just a regular guy from baltimore : amateur photographer shot time s poignant protest cover kowalczyk also said that more than half of the people detained during monday s riots have been released without charges .
he said 201 people were arrested during the riots and 106 of them were subsequently released after 48 hours because specific charges couldn t be filed .
he said police are reviewing surveillance footage and expect to charge many of those people once their identities have been confirmed.marc thiessen : you ve got a mayor who is constantly backing off in the face of rioters and looters [ ] all of the sudden they re young people who need support .
the rioters don t need support .
the people of baltimore need support .
the people with their businesses destroyed need support .
a 51-year-old man was found dead in the cab of a tractor trailer , about a block away from where a crowd of police , protesters and reporters gathered just before the citywide curfew went into effect thursday night , police said.the man was not identified , and police labeled his death suspicious .
officers found the body , which showed no obvious signs of trauma or foul play , in the 2500 block of pennsylvania ave. at about 9:30 p.m. , police said.meanwhile five people were shot in baltimore thursday night as the violence in west baltimore surges.police also identified two men who were fatally shot wednesday in baltimore : andre hunt , 28 , of the 600 block of woodgreen circle was fatally shot in the 3800 block of liberty heights ave. davon william johnson , 26 , was killed in the 500 block of edgewood st .
he lived in the block , police said.don t expect any protests for these two .
only very few black lives seem to matter.read more : gateway pundit