bangkok ( reuters ) - thailand officially ended a year of mourning for its late king bhumibol adulyadej on monday , marking a return to colors for some after a monotone year during which many wore black from head-to-toe out of respect for their revered monarch .
hundreds of thousands of people thronged bangkok s historic quarter to bid farewell last week to king bhumibol , who died in october 2016 .
his $ 90 million-dollar funeral , full of pomp and ancient ritual , took place over five days .
his remains were brought to their final resting place within bangkok s grand palace on sunday .
portraits of the bespectacled late king , who became a father figure for many during a seven-decade reign , were hung across thailand .
the black-and-white funeral bunting that had hung on the gates of bangkok s government house for a year was taken down on monday and prime minister prayuth chan-ocha made a televised announcement to mark the official end of the mourning period .
the government would like to thank officials , both soldiers and civilians ... and the more than 10 million thais who came to pay respects to the royal body over the past year , prayuth said .
may kanokwattana , 29 , an office worker , wore bright yellow as she waited at the siam bts , a major bangkok transport interchange .
i wore black for one year .
i needed to show my sorrow .
today is the first day i am wearing a different color , may told reuters .
she also wore a pin with the thai number nine out of respect for king bhumibol , who was also known as the ninth king of the chakri dynasty .
colors have a profound meaning for thais .
astrological rules followed by many in the southeast asian nation assign a color to each day of the week .
king bhumibol was born on a monday , a day associated with the color yellow .
his only son , new king maha vajiralongkorn , was also born on a monday .
some people shared charts on social media showing which colors would be considered luckiest to wear .
for confidence , health and power wear orange .
for good support wear pale green , said one chart .
pattinya mankongwongcharoen , 49 , an accountant wearing a peach-colored dress , said : i won t continue wearing black because the mourning period is officially over and to do so would be disrespectful .
others said they would continue to wear muted colors .
i m still grieving .
i ll wear black or gray for a few more weeks , said pimsuda chatree , 37 , a shop owner .