a city in pennsylvania is removing a park bench with a religious quote in order to placate angry atheists .
the atheists wants to put their own bench there instead : this bench was put there to honor veterans !
is nothing sacred anymore ?
the site reads : the quote by william penn , appearing on the tyrants bench , honors pennsylvania s founding father , as well as the men and women who gave their lives to protect the rights of all u.s. citizens men who aren t governed by god , will be governed by tyrants does anyone else see the irony in this quote ?
oil city , pa. an atheist group in new jersey is seeking the removal of a bench at a pennsylvania park that is meant to honor veterans due to an inscription of a quote attributed to the state s founder that mentions god .
american atheists ( aa ) recently sent a letter to the mayor of oil city to request that the justus park bench , which was donated in 2003 by a local branch of the veterans of foreign wars ( vfw ) , be removed out of its belief that its inscribed text violates the u.s. constitution .
men who aren t governed by god , will be governed by tyrants , the bench reads , paraphrasing a quote that is often attributed to pennsylvania founder william penn , a quaker who wrote a number of theological books and who once stood trial for causing a tumult in preaching in the streets .
aa contends that the quote violates the establishment clause of the u.s. constitution , which instructs that congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion .
the group also says the text is disrespectful to non-christians .
the tyrants bench contains an overtly religious message which endorses one particular religious viewpoint : christianity .
the statement that men who aren t governed by god will be governed by tyrants not only has absolutely nothing to do with honoring our service members , but is derisive toward the all non-christian american service members who have served and died for this country , its letter asserted .
it offered to provide a secular bench in exchange for the current display.read more : christian news