jay dyer 21st century wireaccording to a recent feature article published by the la times , and which has since gone viral , this website , 21st century wire , has been placed at the top of a list of fake news sites compiled by dr melissa zimdars , an associate professor at merrimack college in massachusetts .
aside from being a highly political attempt to discredit a number of online news source which dr zimdars and the democratic party establishment probably labels as alt right , this coordinated effort also points directly to a much deeper agenda , as part of a larger as psychological operation to create an algorithm for filtering ( censoring ) news items on major internet platforms and social networks.i take that to heart , since i write for 21wire .
it s no coincidence that this la times hit piece comes in the same week that democratic party pundits and leaders are blaming hillary clinton s loss to donald trump on fake news posted on facebook which they claim wrongly influenced voters .
also just by coincidence this week , facebook , google and other dnc affiliated silicon valley media partners have announced they are planning to draw-up lists of numerous alternative media websites including right wing websites as well as known satire sites , and ours as fake .
google and facebook will then be able to flag and restrict banned websites from being able to earn revenue through their advertising networks .
of course , the real reason for this is explained in my video ( watch below ) outlining the absurdity of the most astounding liars on the planet the mainstream media accusing websites like ours as pushing out fake news .
ultimately , this is an attack on all independent media.it seems that dr zimdar s master list was made to place 21wire at the top and yet , it s perhaps the best site on the list and is the only one that has been to syria , reported on the ground in aleppo , and even met with syria president assad all things that most corporate mainstream media outlets have not managed to do .
21wire also blasted faux ngo the white helmets away as a western-funded propaganda front .
21wire is subject to regular ddos attacks and regularly does real journalism .
it is also edited by accredited journalists and is frequently featured on radio and television .
that is why it has been targeted in this hit piece because it is independent and not attached to any political party.watch my video analysis here : * * * jay dyer is the author of the new book , esoteric hollywood : sex , cults and symbols in film from trine day publishers .
focusing on film , philosophy , geopolitics and all things esoteric , jaysanalysis and his podcast , esoteric hollywood , investigates the deeper meanings between the headlines , exploring the hidden aspects of our sinister synthetic mass media matrix.read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport 21wire subscribe now & become a member @ 21wire.tv