london ( reuters ) - britain s international development minister priti patel apologized on monday for failing to disclose meetings with senior israeli officials during a private holiday .
the meetings were a potential breach of ministerial protocol .
patel said she met with senior israeli figures , including prime minister benjamin netanyahu , the foreign ministry director general yuval rotem and opposition leader yair lapid .
she apologized for failing to follow the usual procedures that ministers inform britain s foreign office before conducting official business overseas and said she regretted suggesting foreign secretary boris johnson had been aware of her trip .
i can see how my enthusiasm to engage in this way could be mis-read , and how meetings were set up and reported , patel said in a statement .
i am sorry for this and i apologize for it .
prime minister theresa may s government is already under the microscope over the fallout from a broader parliamentary sexual harassment scandal which last week forced britain s defense minister michael fallon to resign .
may s most senior minister damian green is also under investigation from britain s cabinet office after claims by a former senior police officer that pornography was found on one of his work computers and that he made an inappropriate sexual advance on a young woman .
he denies any wrongdoing .
other political parties are also under scrutiny .
labour s spokeswoman for international development kate osamor said that patel should resign or face an investigation by the cabinet office for breach of the ministerial code .
a government spokesman said may accepted patel s apology and met with her on monday to remind her of the obligations under the ministerial code .
after details of patel s meetings in israel were first reported last week , patel told the guardian newspaper johnson knew about the trip .
in a clarification on monday she said that this was not the case and that he did become aware of the visit , but not in advance of it .
patel said she regrets the lack of precision in the wording she used in these statements , and is taking the opportunity to clarify the position .
( this version of the story corrects title of israeli foreign ministry official in third paragraph )