kunduz , afghanistan ( reuters ) - since u.s. forces began stepping up air strikes against the taliban , kunduz shopkeeper najibullah no longer fears another insurgent takeover of the northern afghan city .
but he does fear robbery or kidnap by militia gangs .
with afghan forces improving and on the offensive , u.s. commanders have more freedom to attack the taliban and insurgents no longer threaten any major urban centers .
although taliban-controlled areas begin within a 10-minute drive of the city , kunduz - a strategic hub that fell twice in the past two years - is largely calm .
but there is a long way to go to build confidence in daily security .
in the past people were afraid that the taliban would come but no-one talks about that now , said najibullah , who like many afghans , uses only one name .
now we have internal problems , he said , leaning over the counter of his shop in the city center and talking softly to avoid being overheard .
there are gunmen that do anything they want .
there are people in this city , if they know you have money they ll come to your shop and rob you in broad daylight .
outside the city , where the taliban still hold sway , the risk of being caught between helicopter gunships and the insurgents or swept up in a clearing operation means life is also more difficult for villagers on the front line .
last month , locals say 16 people were killed by u.s. helicopters in a night raid near the villages of qatl-e am and gharow qushlaq in chahardara district , an area largely controlled by the taliban .
a u.s. investigation concluded there was no evidence any civilians were killed .
since the americans announced their new strategy and signed the new agreement , the situation has been getting worse , said atiqullah , a villager who said he was about three kilometers away when the raid took place .
the shift in perceptions on the ground suggests ordinary afghans are seeing the fresh strategy is hitting the insurgents .
but their new fears underline how much more is needed to build trust in the western-backed government .
i m a businessman but i can t go anywhere without a gun , said jamal nasir aymaq , who owns a number of bakeries in the city .
our businessmen and rich people have already escaped kunduz and children are not safe .
kidnapping and robbery are rife and there is little confidence of justice from a government many see as deeply implicated in abuses by rogue militia commanders who operate with impunity .
we all know peace can not be achieved by force alone , it needs development and the economy , said kunduz police chief abdul hameed hameedi .
security is much better than last year but we haven t got what people are expecting yet .
kunduz governor asadullah omarkhil dismissed talk of any official collusion in kidnapping as baseless , but while many people fear the taliban , many also feel they are more honest and efficient than city officials .
if there were a real government in the center of kunduz , people wouldn t be going to the taliban for legal decisions , said mawlawi khosh mohammad nasratyar , a member of the kunduz provincial council .
now , even people from the center of kunduz go to the taliban to settle legal cases .
the wariness among many afghans contrasts with optimism among western officials , who say the new approach is starting to turn a stalemate with the taliban around .
the air strikes have made all the difference , said one western diplomat in kabul .
when you go to ( the nato-led resolute support mission ) headquarters , there s a bit of a buzz about the place that wasn t there before and a feeling they re back on the front foot .
so far in 2017 , u.s. forces have dropped three times the quantity of bombs as last year and special forces units have been in regular action with their afghan counterparts .
hundreds of taliban fighters and many senior leaders have been killed , including mullah abdul salam , mastermind of the assault that saw the taliban flag raised over kunduz in 2015 , the first time the insurgents had taken a major town .
similar successes have been seen in other towns including tarin kot in the central province of uruzgan , which the taliban briefly overran last year , or lashkar gah in helmand , which they have also come close to taking .
two years ago , there was a fear of taliban attack on the city every minute and we couldn t come into the office , said kunduz provincial council secretary fawzia jawad yaftali .
but now everything is different , the shops are open and i m sitting in my office without any fear , she said .
the campaign has not been without cost however and hanging over it is the fact that the air strikes have inevitably brought more civilian casualties in their wake , even if their numbers are still well below those killed by roadside bombs .
in a briefing this week , the commander of u.s. and international forces in afghanistan general john nicholson said they go to extraordinary lengths to avoid civilian casualties and have a rigorous process to investigate allegations .
but people from chahardara react with deep anger to official denials that the raid on nov. 3-4 killed at least 16 civilians .
the helicopter started bombing at three in the morning .
afterwards , at about 6 o clock a lot of people gathered to help and then the helicopter came back .
that was the big bomb , said mohebullah , a village elder .
sixteen people were killed and six wounded , he said , showing a handwritten list of names .
they have advanced equipment , they should be sure of who they are attacking .
they should target criminals not innocent and helpless people .
the united nations mission in afghanistan said reports of at least 10 deaths were credible .
a u.s. investigation found no evidence of any civilian casualties but capt .
thomas gresback , a spokesman for u.s. forces in afghanistan , said they would engage in dialogue with anyone who came forward with information .
most of the propaganda about civilian casualties comes from the enemy , said governor omarkhil , who said only one person was killed in the incident .
in chahardara , the taliban made people go to the battle zone and take out dead bodies .
the u.s. military says the taliban deliberately shelters in houses and schools but the issue , over which former afghan president hamid karzai repeatedly clashed with washington , causes deep resentment , sapping support for the government .
the people who were killed were all civilians , they had nothing to do with the government or the taliban , said mohebullah .
everyone lost a family member , everyone is shocked and in grief .
the governor is lying .