rome ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may should make the eu firm offers by next week to break deadlock in brexit talks if she wants an orderly withdrawal and transition to a new relationship , the bloc s negotiator said on thursday .
speaking to the italian parliament on the eve of a speech that may will deliver in florence , michel barnier said he was wondering why there was still major uncertainty on all key issues brussels wanted settled before opening talks on the transition to a future trade deal it expects her to ask for .
to make progress , we are waiting for clear commitments from the uk on these precise issues , barnier said , noting demands for european union citizens in britain to have their rights there protected by eu courts and for london to pay a hefty bill before leaving .
we will listen attentively and constructively to theresa may s important speech tomorrow in florence , added barnier , who holds a new round of brexit negotiations in brussels next week .
a rapid agreement on the conditions of the uk s orderly withdrawal , and a transition period , is possible ... for that to happen , we would like the united kingdom to put on the table , as soon as next week , proposals to overcome the barriers .
an agreement on orderly withdrawal was a precondition for any constructive and trustworthy discussion on our future relationship with the united kingdom .
barnier renewed criticism of britain s treatment of 3 million eu expatriates in the country , noting deportation letters sent to some recently in error and allegations that may s interior ministry defied a high court order over an asylum case .
london has rejected eu demands that the european court of justice remain the ultimate arbiter for eu citizens in britain and says its own court system offers sufficient guarantees .
but barnier s position remains that the eu wants its own safeguards .
two-year transition ?
the bbc said after may discussed the florence speech with her cabinet that she would ask for a two-year transition period after brexit in march 2019 , would refer to paying our dues and say that a deal with the eu would be unlike other countries .
european capitals expect may to try to break a deadlock in the talks over the coming days by signaling a readiness to pay the eu to stay in the single market for two to three years after brexit , easing fears of a disruptive break .
barnier recalled that the eu was ready to consider a short transition period if the british government requests one but also underlined that would entail accepting eu rules , including on its budget .
and he noted that the more benefits britain wanted the more it would have to accept obligations to the eu .
the eu executive estimates britain may owe something like 60 billion euros ( $ 70 billion ) on leaving , while britain questions whether it has any legal liability .
eu officials have said that british payments to the eu during a post-brexit transition its current annual payments are about 10 billion euros can not be offset against a need to settle a pre-brexit divorce bill .
however , they acknowledge that the british government might find ways to present the various financial agreements it makes in a way it hopes may limit criticism from hardline brexit supporters of any divorce settlement and transition payments .