phnom penh ( reuters ) - sweden said on tuesday it was stopping new aid for cambodia , except in education and research , and would no longer support a reform programme after the main opposition party was outlawed by the supreme court at the government s request .
the announcement marked the first concrete action by a european union country in protest at a political crackdown in which veteran prime minister hun sen s main rival has also been arrested and civil rights groups and independent media attacked .
the united states cut election funding and said it would take more punitive steps after last week s ban on the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) .
the european union has also threatened action .
sweden s embassy in phnom penh said the country was reviewing its engagement with cambodia .
we will not initiate any new government-to-government development cooperation agreements , except in the areas of education and research , it said in a statement .
as a consequence , it would be unable to support decentralisation reform in its current form .
that reform aims to strengthen lower levels of government , such as local communes .
the cnrp won control of more than 40 percent of the communes in elections in june , but has now had to give them up to the ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) .
the cnrp was banned after its leader , kem sokha , was arrested for alleged treason .
the government says he sought to take power with american help .
he rejects that allegation as politically motivated , to allow hun sen to extend his more than three decades in power in next year s general election .
responding to the swedish statement , a senior official said cambodia welcomed friendship with sweden or other countries , but said they must understand the cnrp had been banned because the courts found it had committed treason .
people should respect the cambodian people s decision in accordance with the principle of democracy and the rule of law , said huy vannak , undersecretary of state at the interior ministry .
sweden , which has given cambodia an estimated $ 100 million in aid over five years , ranked third among individual eu member states in cambodia s database of donors last year , after france and germany .
swedish fashion group h & m is also a key buyer from cambodia s garment factories - the country s main export earner .
but western donors have less sway than they once did since china has emerged as cambodia s biggest aid donor and investor .
meeting on monday on the sidelines of a meeting of asia-europe foreign ministers in myanmar , chinese foreign minister wang yi told his cambodian counterpart prak sokhon that china supported the government s actions .
china has repeatedly expressed its support for cambodia , making no criticism of the government led by hun sen , a former khmer rouge commander , who is one of beijing s most important allies in southeast asia .
( the story adds dropped word after in paragraph 1 )