san jose ( reuters ) - women who were sexually tortured by mexican security forces over a decade ago testified thursday before the inter-american court of human rights , asking for an investigation into the case that happened in the state once run by president enrique pena nieto .
several of the 11 victims told judges at the costa-rica based court about the abuse they suffered after they were detained following a protest in may 2006 at the town of san salvador de atenco , about 25 miles ( 40 km ) northeast of mexico city .
the town is located in the state of mexico , which rings the capital .
we ve come here to speak out .
in mexico , justice has not been done , said maria cristina sanchez , 50 , who detailed how she was beaten , sexually abused and how the case languished in mexico s criminal justice system with no resolution for years .
the women , known as the women of atenco , say they were thrown into a police bus , raped and tortured following a two-day protest by a group of flower sellers who had negotiated a labor agreement that allowed them to set up stalls in a nearby downtown area .
the women were initially accused of illegally blocking public access , but later acquitted of the charges .
before being elected president in 2012 , pena nieto was governor of the state of mexico , heading the country s most populous state from in late 2005 till 2011 .
the mexican government reiterates the recognition of its international responsibility ... and its sincere will to fully repair the human rights violations in this case , said uriel salas , an attorney representing mexico in the case .
in the years since the abuses were committed , some police were accused of crimes , but there have been no convictions .
we deserve the recognition that we re telling the truth , that the chain of command be investigated , not only so that justice is done , but so that these events never happen again , said norma jimenez , 33 , at the end of her testimony .
the court is expected to continue hearing testimony through friday , while a final ruling in the case could take months .