washington ( reuters ) - a new u.s. rule aimed at protecting retirement savers from profit-hungry brokers turned out to be much weaker than an initial proposal after the obama administration bowed to pressure from the financial services industry .
the rule , announced by the department of labor on wednesday , sets a so-called fiduciary standard for financial brokers who sell retirement products , requiring them to put clients ’ best interests ahead of their bottom line .
the language is tougher than an existing rule that only requires brokers to ensure products are “ suitable. ” however , the labor department did compromise with the industry on a range of provisions .
unlike the draft proposal , the final rule does not restrict brokers from pushing proprietary products , splitting revenue with creators of funds they promote , or recommending risky , high-fee investments in alternative assets and certain annuities .
brokers also got more time to implement the changes , which they said were costly and difficult .
the rule will now take full effect on jan. 1 , 2018 , compared with an eight-month compliance deadline in the labor department ’ s initial proposal .
nonetheless , brokers will now be covered by a fiduciary standard , said massachusetts senator elizabeth warren , a consumer advocate who helped shine a national spotlight on the proposal last year .
“ there ’ s no doubt there is some risk , ” warren , a democrat , said in an interview .
“ on the other hand , the department of labor was not looking to put all proprietary products out of business , ” warren said .
the goal is to make sure there is “ adequate regulation , ” said warren , adding that she now believes there will be .
democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton issued a statement in support of the new rule , saying it will “ stop wall street from ripping off families ” and “ save seniors billions. ” however , knut rostad , an investor advocate who chairs the institute for the fiduciary standard , said he was disappointed that the final rule was not tougher , calling it “ a major defeat for investors , period. ” some leading republican lawmakers also expressed continued opposition to the rule , saying it would prevent low- and middle-income americans from saving for retirement or getting access to advice .
several major brokerage firms said they needed time to review the implications , but that they generally supported the idea of a “ best interest ” rule .
industry trade groups reiterated concerns that the rule could have negative effects .
but several wall street analysts who cover brokerages , insurers and mutual fund companies affected by the rule said it turned out to be much less onerous than initially feared .
shares of brokerage , mutual fund and life insurance companies showed little reaction to the news .
the labor department “ meaningfully softened ” the rule , morgan stanley insurance analysts said , characterizing it as “ good news for those companies impacted. ” wednesday ’ s announcement caps a fierce , six-year battle involving the labor department , wall street and many u.s. lawmakers .
the department received more than 3,000 letters about the rule and took part in more than 100 meetings .
it first issued a proposal in 2010 but rescinded it the following year in response to an enormous industry backlash .
a second proposal issued last year also faced criticism .
firms have said the rule would raise compliance costs , and therefore fees , and force them to get rid of main street clients and small businesses that offer 401 ( k ) plans .
the labor department said complying with the rule would cost the brokerage industry up to $ 31.5 billion over the next decade but produce even bigger gains for investors .
some lawmakers said the labor department should hold off until the u.s. securities and exchange commission finalizes its own fiduciary rule , which it has been crafting for years .
sec commissioner michael piwowar expressed opposition to the final rule on wednesday .
president barack obama had made a new fiduciary rule a priority for his administration .
in a speech at aarp headquarters last year , he said wall street brokers were bilking retirees out of billions of dollars in savings through hidden fees and that he intended to ensure the industry put clients ’ interests first .
“ if expecting retirement advisers to act in their clients ’ best interest sounds like it ’ s pretty obvious – and it ’ s pretty obviously the right thing to do – it ’ s because it is , ” jeff zients , director of the white house ’ s national economic council , said in a call with reporters .
although the final rule did include the best-interest provision , it made plenty of concessions .
for example , the draft listed types of assets that advisers could recommend to steer retail investors away from certain high-risk products .
the final version eliminates that list , mostly in response to the financial industry ’ s concerns , the labor department said .
brokerages and lawmakers were also concerned about an earlier requirement that brokers sign contracts with clients at initial meetings .
the document was to include investment projections , fee disclosures and other detailed information .
the contracts are required in the final rule , but can be as short as a paragraph , signed later and tucked into paperwork that customers sign when opening new accounts , labor secretary thomas perez said .
the final version also loosened guidelines on pay , allowing advisers to collect “ common types of compensation , ” such as commissions and revenue-sharing , where brokerages receive payments from mutual-fund companies to help promote products .