21st century wire says out of all the intelligence agencies in the united states , we ve come across stories where not everyone is on the same page .
indeed we ve also heard about factions embroiled in competition , and rivalry .
moral compass , personal principles , and ethics being challenged which lead to inner conflict ; just some of the reasons that gave us former nsa whistleblower william binney and more recently in the last few years , edward snowden.you might not have heard of them , but the shadow brokers came on the scene last year .
a previously unknown collective , the brokers hacked and released legitimate hacking tools from the nsa s own special-ops entity , the equation group .
the initial speculation , the russians , of course .
everything is russia by proxy these days .
the shadow brokers released a certain amount of the equation group hacking tools asking for one million bitcoins , roughly $ 568 million at the time.the shadow brokers are back and since their initial hack it is assumed that this could be the work of a disgruntled in house employee .
furthermore they re not happy at all with president donald j. trump for numerous reasons , including his recent decision to launch 59 tomahawk missiles into syria.more on this report from zerohedge tyler durden zerohedgelast august , the intel world was abuzz following the news that a previously unknown hacker collective , the shadow brokers had hacked and released legitimate hacking tools from the nsa s own special-ops entity , the equation group , with initial speculation emerging that the russians may have penetrated the us spy agency as suggested by none other than edward snowden .
the shadow brokers released a bunch of the organization s hacking tools , and were asking for 1 million bitcoin ( around $ 568 million at the time ) to release more files , however failed to find a buyer .
attention then shifted from russians after some speculated that the agency itself may be housing another mole insider .
at the time , a former nsa source told motherboard , that it s plausible that the leakers are actually a disgruntled insider , claiming that it s easier to walk out of the nsa with a usb drive or a cd than hack its servers .
as famed nsa whistleblower william binney who exposed the nsa s pervasive surveillance of americans long before snowden confirmed it said , my colleagues and i are fairly certain that this was no hack , or group for that matter , this shadow brokers character is one guy , an insider employee .
in a subsequent reuters op-ed by cybersecurity expert james bamford , author of the shadow factory : the ultra-secret nsa from 9/11 to the eavesdropping on america , and columnist for foreign policy magazine , he said that seemed as the most probable explanation , and that russia had nothing to do with this latest and most provocative yet hack.since then , the shadow broker group , whose origin and identity still remains a mystery , disappeared from the radar only to emerge today , when in an article posted on medium , the group wrote an op-ed , much of it in broken english , in which it slammed donald trump s betrayal of his core base , and the recent attack on syria , urging trump to revert to his original promises and not be swept away by globalist and mic interests , but far more imporantly , released the password which grants access to what edward snowden moments ago called the nsa s top secret arsenal of digital weapons .
the article begins with the group explaining why it is displeased with trump.don t forget your basedear president trump , respectfully , what the fuck are you doing ?
theshadowbrokers voted for you .
theshadowbrokers supports you .
theshadowbrokers is losing faith in you .
mr. trump helping theshadowbrokers , helping you .
is appearing you are abandoning your base , the movement , and the peoples who getting you elected.good evidence : # 1 goldman sach ( theglobalists ) and military industrial intelligence complex ( miic ) cabinet # 2 backtracked on obamacare # 3 attacked the freedom causcus ( themovement ) # 4 removed bannon from the nsc # 5 increased u.s. involvement in a foreign war ( syria strike ) the peoples whose voted for you , voted against the republican party , the party that tried to destroying your character in the primaries .
the peoples who voted for you , voted against the democrat party , the party that hates , mocks , and laughs at you .
without the support of the peoples who voted for you , what do you think will be happening to your presidency ?
without the support of the people who voted for you , do you think you ll be still making america great again ?
do you be remembering when you were sitting there at the obama press party and they were all laughing at you ?
do you be remembering when you touring the country and all those peoples believed in you and supported you ?
you were those peoples hope .
how do you be thinking it will be feeling when those people turn on you ?
will they be laughing at you , hating you , and mocking you too ? theshadowbrokers doesn t want this to be happening to you , mr. trump .
theshadowbrokers is wanting to see you succeed.the hackers then ask trump whose war is he fighting : if you made deal ( s ) be telling the peoples about them , peoples is appreciating transparency .
but what kind of deal can be resulting in chemical weapons used in syria , mr. bannon s removal from the nsc , us military strike on syria , and successful vote for scotus without change rules ?
mr. trump whose war are you fighting ?
israeli nationalists ( zionist ) and goldman sachs war ?
chinese globalists and goldman sachs war ?
is not looking like you fighting the domestic wars , the movement elected you to be fighting .
you not being in office three months and already you looking like the miic s bitch with john mccain and chuck schumer double dutch ruddering each other in the corner over dead corpses.the post continues by exposing what the shadowbrokers believe is the general mindset of trump s support base ; your supporters : don t care what is written in the nyt , washington post , or any newspaper , so just ignore it .
don t care if you swapped wives with mr putin , double down on it , putin is not just my firend he is my bff .
don t care if the election was hacked or rigged , celebrate it so what if i did , what are you going to do about it .
don t care if your popular or nice , get er done , obama s fail , thinking he could create compromise .
no compromise .
don t want foreign wars , do want domestic wars , drain the swamp , destroy the nanny state don t care about your faith , you sound like a smuck when you try to say god things do support the ideologies and policies of steve bannon , anti-globalism , anti-socialism , nationalism , isolationismin the article , the shadowbrokers also touch upon what until recently was the primary topic of the daily news cycle , namely the whether russia is behind this ( and any other black hat intel hacking operation ) : for peoples still being confused about theshadowbrokers and russia .
if theshadowbrokers being russian don t you think we d be in all those u.s. government reports on russian hacking ?
theshadowbrokers isn t not fans of russia or putin but the enemy of my enemy is my friend .
we recognize americans having more in common with russians than chinese or globalist or socialist .
russia and putin are nationalist and enemies of the globalist , examples : nato encroachment and ukraine conflict .
therefore russia and putin are being best allies until the common enemies are defeated and america is great again.the report than goes on to suggest that the hacking group is in fact comprised mostly of former us spies : president trump , theshadowbrokers is offering our services to you and your administration .
did you know most of theshadowbrokers members have taken the oath to protect and defend the constitution of the united states against all enemies foreign and domestic .
yes sir !
most of us used to be thedeepstate everyone is talking about continue this report at zerohedgeread more sci-tech news at : 21st century wire sci-tech filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv