washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama said americans should feel good about the economy after the latest jobs report on friday showed the u.s. unemployment rate at an eight-year low of 4.9 percent .
obama , in his eighth and final year in office , made a relatively rare and unexpected appearance in the white house briefing room to talk about how the economy had recovered under his watch .
“ we have recovered from the worst economic crisis since the 1930s , the worst in my lifetime and the lifetime of most of the people in this room , ” obama said , noting the unemployment rate was 10 percent in 2009 , when he took office .
“ we ’ ve done it faster , stronger , better , more durably than just about any other advanced economy , ” obama said .
the white house has griped that obama does not get enough credit for turning the economy around , a complaint obama joked about on thursday during a visit from the golden state warriors basketball champions .
“ you defied the cynics , you accomplished big things , you racked up a great record , and you don ’ t get enough credit - i can ’ t imagine how that feels , ” obama said , drawing laughter .
on friday , he acknowledged that “ there ’ s still anxiety and concern about the general direction of the economy , ” noting the job losses , stock market plunges and free fall in the housing market in 2007-2008 were still fresh in americans ’ memories .
obama said “ softness ” in china , europe and other economies presented challenges to u.s. exporters and he said it was important for the united states to “ keep our foot to the accelerator ” to further strengthen the economy .
“ we should feel good about the progress we ’ ve made , understanding that we have still got more work to do , ” he said , noting the budget he will propose to congress on tuesday will have ideas for job creation and retraining .
obama slammed republican candidates in the race to replace him in the nov. 8 presidential election for “ talking down ” the economy .
“ i know that ’ s still inconvenient for republican stump speeches as their doom-and-despair tour plays in new hampshire , ” obama said , referring to the primary election in the state on tuesday .