portland , ore. ( reuters ) - earnings for minimum-wage workers in portland , oregon will rise by $ 5.50 an hour over the next six years , with lesser increases set for smaller towns and rural areas under a first-of-its-kind measure signed into law on wednesday by oregon ’ s governor .
oregon has been in the vanguard of a growing number of u.s. states and cities that have moved in recent years to bolster the federal minimum wage , which has remained at $ 7.25 an hour since 2009 .
the latest measure builds on a current oregon wage floor that already stands at $ 9.25 an hour statewide under a law enacted in 2002 .
supporters say such measures are necessary to help low-paid workers who have been slipping into poverty due to stagnant earnings and rising living expenses .
opponents say raising the mandatory wage floor puts an undue strain on businesses still struggling to rebound from a prolonged u.s. economic slump .
the bill passed by oregon ’ s democratic-led legislature and signed by governor kate brown , also a democrat , seeks to strike a balance by setting different pay tiers based on geography .
starting july 1 , the minimum wage for oregon workers statewide will climb by 50 cents an hour , with graduated increases set at higher rates for the state ’ s biggest city , portland , as compared to smaller municipalities and rural communities where the cost of living is generally lower .
by 2022 under the new statute the hourly minimum wage will rise to $ 14.75 in portland , to $ 13.50 in smaller cities and towns , and to $ 12.50 in rural areas .
“ it means just an extra $ 15 or $ 20 a month starting in july , but for a mom of three just that small amount makes a big difference , ” brown said in signing the measure .
she said the gradual , differentiated pay hikes would ensure that “ businesses have time to plan for the increase .
that ’ s the oregon way. ” u.s. labor secretary thomas perez hailed oregon ’ s approach , adjusting the wage floor according to regional economic differences , as a model for other states to follow until congress passes a higher national minimum wage supported by president barack obama .
a democratic-backed proposal to raise the federal minimum to $ 10.10 stalled on capitol hill in 2014 .
more recent proposals by some lawmakers call for a federal minimum wage of up to $ 15 an hour .
oregon republicans who opposed the increase predicted it would cost businesses in the state $ 1.2 billion .