jerusalem/guatemala city ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu thanked guatemala with a god bless you on monday for deciding to move its embassy to jerusalem , while the palestinians said the central american country was on the wrong side of history .
in an official facebook post on sunday , guatemalan president jimmy morales said he had chosen to relocate the embassy from tel aviv - siding with the united states in a dispute over jerusalem s status - after talking to netanyahu .
[ l1n1oo0f7 ] u.s. president donald trump recognized jerusalem as the capital of israel on dec. 6 , reversing decades of u.s. policy and upsetting the arab world and western allies .
on thursday , 128 countries rebuked trump by backing a non-binding u.n. general assembly resolution calling on the united states to drop its recognition of jerusalem .
god bless you , my friend , president jimmy morales , god bless both our countries , israel and guatemala , netanyahu said , switching to english , in remarks to a weekly meeting of his likud party faction in parliament .
guatemala and neighboring honduras were two of only a handful of countries to join israel and the united states , which has pledged to move its embassy to jerusalem , in voting against the u.n. resolution .
the united states is an important source of assistance to guatemala and honduras , and trump had threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that supported the u.n. resolution .
the status of jerusalem is one of the thorniest obstacles to an israeli-palestinian peace deal .
palestinians want east jerusalem as the capital of a state they want to establish in the occupied west bank and in the gaza strip .
the international community does not recognize israeli sovereignty over the entire city , home to sites holy to the muslim , jewish and christian religions .
the official palestinian news agency wafa quoted foreign minister riyad al-maliki as saying that morales was dragging his country to the wrong side of history by committing a flagrant violation of international law .
prior to 1980 , guatemala - along with bolivia , chile , colombia , costa rica , the dominican republic , ecuador , el salvador , haiti , the netherlands , panama , venezuela and uruguay - maintained an embassy in jerusalem .
israel s passage in june 1980 of a law proclaiming jerusalem its indivisible and eternal capital led to a u.n. security council resolution calling upon those countries to move their embassies to tel aviv , prompting their transfer .
israel s ambassador to guatemala , matty cohen , said on army radio that no date had been set for the embassy move , but it will happen after the united states relocates its own embassy to jerusalem .
u.s. officials have said that move could take at least two years .