new delhi/beijing ( reuters ) - india and china have agreed to an expeditious disengagement of troops in a disputed border area where their soldiers have been locked in a stand-off for more than two months , india s foreign ministry said on monday .
the decision comes ahead of a summit of the brics nations - a grouping that also includes brazil , russia and south africa - in china beginning on sunday , which indian prime minister narendra modi is expected to attend .
indian and chinese troops have been confronting each other at the doklam plateau near the borders of india , its ally bhutan , and china , in the most serious and prolonged standoff in decades along their disputed himalayan border .
the indian ministry said the two sides had agreed to defuse the crisis following diplomatic talks .
in recent weeks , india and china have maintained diplomatic communication in respect of the incident at doklam , the ministry said in a statement .
on this basis , expeditious disengagement of border personnel at the face-off site at doklam has been agreed to and is on-going , it said in a statement .
it did not offer more details of the terms of disengagement from the area which had raised fears of a wider conflict between the asian giants who fought a brief border war in 1962 .
china said indian troops had withdrawn from the remote area in the eastern himalayas .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying said chinese troops would continue to patrol the doklam region .
china will continue to exercise sovereignty rights to protect territorial sovereignty in accordance with the rules of the historical boundary , she said .
the chinese defense ministry said troops would remain on a state of alert .
we remind the indian side to learn the lesson from this incident , earnestly respect the historical boundary and the basic principles of international law , meet china half way and jointly protect the peace and tranquillity of the border region , spokesman wu qian said in a statement .
the world is not peaceful , and peace needs to be safeguarded .
the chinese military has the confidence and the ability to protect the country s sovereignty , security and development interests , wu added .
the trouble started in june when india sent troops to stop china building a road in the doklam area , which is remote , uninhabited territory claimed by both china and bhutan .
india said it sent its troops because chinese military activity there was a threat to the security of its own northeast region .
but china has said india had no role to play in the area and insisted it withdraw unilaterally or face the prospect of an escalation .
chinese state media had warned india of a fate worse than its crushing defeat in the war in 1962 .
indian political commentator shekhar gupta said there was too much at stake for the two countries to fight over a small piece of territory .
hopefully , doklam is a new chapter in india-china relations .
too much at stake for both big powers to let legacy real-estate issues linger , he said in a twitter post .
india and china have been unable to settle their 3,500-km ( 2,175-mile ) frontier and large parts of territory are claimed by both sides .
lin minwang , an india expert and the deputy director of the center for south asia studies at china s fudan university , said the detente would ensure a smooth brics meeting .
both sides should be happy .
modi is also happy .
they can conduct a meeting smoothly and naturally .
if there was still a stand-off , how could they meet ?