people sense when they re being pandered to and it s no secret that hillary clinton is a master panderer we ve seen her in southern states turn on the fake accent pandering to the people down there .
as a southerner , this makes me crazy !
she doesn t realize we can spot a phony a mile away .
besides the pandering to hispanics by using their language she also gives me the creeps when she acts like she s america s grandma .
you just know she s not a warm and fuzzy little grandma but a political hack with a shrill voice who s demanding to be crowned queen hillary .
it s all just so fake hillary clinton s clumsy pandering to racial groups , and her campaign theme of portraying herself as america s grandma-in-chief , collided in a website post inviting hispanic voters to think of her as their abuela , or grandmother.the mockery greeting this post # notmyabuela isn t the reaction clinton s campaign was hoping for.the post is entitled 7 things hillary clinton has in common with your abuela .
( it was originally called 7 ways hillary clinton is just like your abuela , but her tone-deaf campaign team hastily changed it after the backlash began . )
those seven things , as described by the vast army of highly-paid political consultants this particular abuela employs , include : she worries about children everywhere .
because no one else running for president worries about children.she knows what s best .
( this point wins extra creepy totalitarian points by citing clinton s enthusiasm for climate change as an example of knowing what s best .
the climate change movement is increasingly focused on asserting that democracy ends where their theology begins , and unquestioning compliance with their demands is mandatory .
) she reacts this way when people le faltan el respeto .
in other words , when people fail to show respect .
this probably isn t the right tack for a gazillionaire aristocrat noted for her arrogance to present herself to voters.the clinton campaign demonstrated how she reacts to people who don t show respect with a gif of clinton looking exasperated at a congressional hearing a moment from the benghazi hearing , perhaps ?
double clueless points for campaign staff if so .
too bad clinton didn t show the men who died in benghazi some respect , isn t it ? she reads to you before bedtime .
yes , this is seriously a point the clinton campaign thinks will sell a presidential candidate to hispanic voters .
enjoy being patronized , folks ! she isn t afraid to talk about the importance of el respecto ( especially when it comes to women ) .
well , except for women who accuse her husband of sexual harassment or assault , that is .
the example of clinton s soaring respect for women is her lecturing donald trump about daring to say he cherishes them , which is pretty weak tea for a woman running as feminist numero uno.she likes to highlight accomplishments .
the example provided is a gif of clinton saying she has met and worked with dreamers .
what about all her accomplishments as secretary of state ? ..
and she had one word for donald trump .
the word is basta , or enough .
this couldn t be more patronizing if it had been whipped up by trump s campaign as a phony website to make hillary clinton look bad.via : breitbart