is there a law against waterboarding republican senators who continue to be re-elected even though it s pretty clear they should be running on the democrat ticket senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ( r-ky ) praised former secretary of state hillary clinton on wednesday the day after the house select committee on benghazi issued its final report .
she s an intelligent and capable person , no question about it , mcconnell told time warner cable news , adding that he had worked well with her in the senate and would be able to work with her as president.the benghazi report details a pattern of incompetence , negligence , and dishonesty by clinton and her associates .
she failed to provide adequate security for u.s. diplomats in benghazi ; failed to take action to save u.s. personnel under attack on sep. 11 , 2012 ; and then falsely blamed an anti-islamic youtube video for inciting a protest that supposedly led to the attack.in addition , the benghazi investigation uncovered the existence of clinton s private email server , which violated state department policies and may also have broken laws regarding the handling of classified information .
clinton seems to have used the server to evade freedom of information act ( foia ) requests , possibly in connection with fundraising for her family s private foundation while in office , including solicitations from foreign donors and governments .
she has misled the public repeatedly about the email server , claiming falsely that she did not share classified information and that she had turned over all work-related emails to the government.yet mcconnell did not rule clinton out .
instead , he said her presumptive republican opponent , donald trump , had not yet proven himself qualified : sen. mitch mcconnell : trump clearly needs to change , in my opinion , to win the general election .
what i ve said to him both publicly and privately : you re a great entertainer .
you turn on audiences .
you re good before a crowd .
you have a lot of twitter followers .
that worked fine for you in the primaries .
but now that you are in the general , people are looking for a level of seriousness that is typically conveyed by having a prepared text and teleprompter and staying on message .
so my hope is that he is beginning to pivot and become what i would call a more serious and credible candidate for the highest office in the land .
geoff bennett : at the moment , though , i hear you saying he does not meet that threshold of credibility ?
mcconnell : he s getting closer .
getting closer .
via : breitbart