brussels ( reuters ) - eastern european union states must drop their resistance and accept their share of refugees who arrived in the bloc , officials and diplomats said on tuesday after a court ruled they must abide by the quota .
the eu s highest court ruled last week that member states must take in a share of refugees who reach europe , dismissing complaints by slovakia and hungary and reigniting an east-west row that has shaken the bloc s cohesion .
brussels and other capitals hope member states will respect the european court of justice ( ecj ) ruling .
poland and hungary are opposed to accepting anybody , their reluctance shared by ex-communist peers slovakia and the czech republic , who have , however , accepted a handful of people under a 2015 eu scheme designed to move 160,000 from italy and greece .
all members of the eu must respect the ruling , manfred weber , the head of the of the largest faction in the european parliament , told a news conference .
the legal fight is over .
migration is still a political wound of the political landscape all over europe ... all the reasonable and all the responsible politicians have to go now ( toward ) a compromise .
eu officials and diplomats say they will make another push this autumn to try to bridge the divisions .
eu interior ministers will debate the matter in brussels on wednesday .
however , hungarian prime minister viktor orban has said he will fight on .
poland , whose nationalist government is now engulfed in spiraling feuds with the bloc , said its migration stance has not changed .
italy and greece , where most of the people crossing the mediterranean disembark , as well as germany , sweden and other wealthy eu states where refugees and migrants want to head , want a quick aid scheme for any repeat of 2015 .
german chancellor angela merkel said she hoped the dispute will soon be over after the ecj ruling , but also made clear she saw it unacceptable for eu states to disregard the court .
the bloc may eventually vote on any changes to its migration and asylum laws by majority , leaving those reluctant behind , a move that would also widen the east-west splits in the bloc .
i don t think there is anything to argue about anymore .
the decision is there for member states to implement , said a senior eu diplomat .
struggling to control chaotic movement of people at the height of the crisis , some eu states introduced emergency border checks inside what normally is the bloc s schengen zone of control-free travel .
they expire in november and brussels is keen to restore the free flow of people across the eu , often hailed as a proud and tangible achievement of european integration .
also on wednesday , eu ministers will discuss a proposal by germany , france , denmark , austria and norway - not in the eu but part of schengen - to allow for such extraordinary border checks to continue on security grounds , rather than migration .
in practice , that would mean keeping those already there in place for longer , as well as being able to apply them more easily in the future .
denmark said last may it wanted to go on with border restrictions , while germany has said it needs the checks to combat the threat of islamic militancy in europe after a raft of attacks around the bloc .