los angeles ( reuters ) - reality star caitlyn jenner ’ s offer to be a “ trans ambassador ” to u.s. republican presidential hopeful ted cruz drew criticism on friday from some members of the lgbt community , but major transgender rights organizations stayed out of the fray .
jenner told gay and lesbian publication the advocate in an interview posted this week that she admired cruz despite the social conservative ’ s stance on transgender issues .
the 66-year-old olympic gold medalist turned television personality called cruz a “ great constitutionalist ” and said she would like to advise him on questions relating to her community .
“ yes , trans ambassador to the president of the united states , so we can say , ‘ ted , love what you ’ re doing but here ’ s what ’ s going on , ’ ” jenner , who last year became the most high-profile american to transition to a different gender , told the advocate .
the muted reaction to jenner ’ s support for cruz appeared to show the high level of esteem she enjoys in the gay , lesbian , bisexual and transgender ( lgbt ) community .
but that did not stop some of its members speaking out .
“ doing my best to not send tweets to a woman i respect for her courage , but dang it , @ caitlyn_jenner you ’ re killing me with cruz support ! ” chely wright , the first country music star to come out as gay , wrote in a post on twitter .
some in the lgbt community took a more pointed stand , citing cruz ’ s opposition to same-sex marriage and his criticism of government efforts to allow students to use a bathroom that conforms to their gender identity .
in january , at a campaign stop in iowa , cruz said “ inflicting ” transgender students on teachers by allowing them to use a faculty restroom in line with their gender identity was better than having them share a bathroom with other students , according to video from nbc news .
zack ford , the lgbt editor at thinkprogress , a website affiliated with the left-leaning center for american progress , wrote in a post that jenner ’ s support for republicans like cruz taints her “ credibility. ” mara keisling , executive director of the national center for transgender equality , said jenner ’ s comments highlight the fact a significant share of transgender people are republicans .
“ one would hope that transgender people would support philosophies that are helpful and not harmful to trans people , ” she said , adding that jenner might have taken that into consideration before offering her support to cruz .
a representative for the gay rights group glaad declined to comment and a spokeswoman for cruz could not be reached .
( reporting by alex dobuzinskis and piya sinha-roy ; editing by andrew hay ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .