united nations/washington ( reuters ) - the chairman of the u.s. senate foreign relations committee said on wednesday the u.n. security council ’ s refusal to respond to iran ’ s ballistic missile tests defied obama administration assurances that a ban on such tests would remain in place after the iran nuclear deal .
“ as many of us feared , now it appears iran can defy those restrictions with impunity fearing no pushback from the u.n. security council , ” republican senator bob corker said , in response to a report by reuters that diplomats suggested iran ’ s tests do not technically violate provisions of security council resolution 2231 .
corker authored legislation giving the u.s. congress the right to review the international nuclear deal announced in july and joined other members of his party in opposing it .
many u.s. lawmakers have demanded more sanctions over the missile tests .
council diplomats told reuters on wednesday experts from the 15-nation body would discuss iran ’ s missile work on friday .
they are expected to consider the possibility of a council statement condemning the missile program , the diplomats said .
iran ’ s recent ballistic tests involved missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons and were “ inconsistent with ” and “ in defiance of ” council resolution 2231 , adopted in july , the united states , britain , france and germany said in a joint letter to spanish u.n .
ambassador roman oyarzun marchesi and u.n. chief ban ki-moon .
spain has been assigned the task of coordinating council discussions on resolution 2231 .
the letter said missiles used in the recent launches were “ inherently capable of delivering nuclear weapons. ” it also asked that the security council discuss “ appropriate responses ” to tehran ’ s failure to comply with its obligations and urged ban to report back on iranian missile work inconsistent with 2231 .
the letter stopped short of calling the iranian launches a “ violation ” of the resolution , which “ calls upon ” iran to refrain for up to eight years from activity , including launches , related to ballistic missiles designed with the capability of delivering nuclear weapons .
security council diplomats have said the case for new u.n. sanctions was weak , hinging on interpretation of ambiguous language in a resolution adopted as part of a july nuclear deal to drastically restrict iran ’ s nuclear work .
russia , a veto-wielding permanent member , has made clear it considers compliance with the appeal in resolution 2231 to be voluntary .
tehran has also said it is under no obligation to comply with the appeal to refrain from missile work and vowed to continue developing ballistic missiles .