geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations must take over responsibility for investigating rights violations in yemen s civil war as the country s government is not up to the job , the global body s human rights office said .
in a report published on tuesday , the office challenged the u.n. human rights council , which meets this month , to agree to look into atrocities committed during what it called an entirely man-made catastrophe .
the 47-country council has shied away from that task for two years , leaving the job to yemen s national commission , which reports to president abd-rabbu mansour hadi .
he is backed by a saudi-led coalition that is one of the combatants .
i ... join you in asking why the members of the human rights council are not taking their responsibility and their membership to this body seriously , the office s head of middle east and north africa , mohammad ali alnsour , told a news conference .
yemen is mired in a war that has killed at least 10,000 people over the past two-and-a-half years , according to u.n. figures .
widespread hunger and internal displacement and an unprecedented cholera epidemic have led aid agencies to describe it as one of the world s worst humanitarian disasters .
alnsour said this was the third time the council was being asked to set up an investigation .
that would really put pressure on the conflicting parties to adhere to the rules and the obligations under humanitarian law , he said .
the u.n. report said yemen s national commission was detrimentally affected by political constraints .
the perceived partiality of the national commission and its limited access have prevented it from executing its mandate comprehensively , it said .
in addition ... ( it ) appears to be lacking any instrument , or mandate , that would enable it to channel its findings into a credible accountability mechanism .
the head of the u.n. world food programme told reuters on monday that saudi arabia should fund the entire humanitarian aid budget for yemen , or stop the war , or both unusually direct criticism of a major u.n. donor .
the u.n. report said at least 5,144 civilians were documented as being killed between march 2015 and aug. 30 , 2017 , with the saudi-led coalition responsible for more than half .
its air strikes were the leading cause of civilian and child casualties , the report said .
it also blamed the coalition for stoking a food crisis that has left 7.3 million on the brink of famine .