thousands of starbucks customers cut up their gold cards and boycotted their favorite coffee spot after starbucks ceo howard schultz stuck his foot in his mouth , when he defended immigration of unvetted muslims from terror hotbed nations to the us .
schultz was hammered on social media after offering to hire syrian immigrants before americans to prove his point about how inclusive he is.well , it appears as though the arrogant leftist ceo of starbucks has done it again .
howard schultz tweeted from the starbucks account : i know we re better than this .
the bigotry , hatred , and senseless violence against people who are not white can not stand .
howard schultz `` i know we 're better than this .
the bigotry , hatred , and senseless violence against people who are not white can not stand .
howard schultz pic.twitter.com/jwpomiv0h0 starbucks coffee ( @ starbucks ) august 16 , 2017who is we re howard ?
who exactly are you calling racists or bigots ?
who has actually been committing the violence at pro-trump and pro-freedom of speech rallies across america ? maybe it s these guys ? maybe he was referring to this white guy punching this black guy because he s supporting our president or because he s holding an american flag : oops !
never mind that s a black guy punching a white guy.so tell us again howard , what was it again you wanted your customers to know about violence against people who are not white ? here are just a few responses schultz s ignorant and offensive tweet provoked : howard shultz violence against anyone can not stand !
anything less inclusive is bigotry .
anna-may smith ( @ annamaysmith1 ) august 17 , 2017 '' against people who are not white can not stand .
implies only whites are to blame .
it is about a specific group , no backpeddaling .
michael ( @ wouldabeen ) august 17 , 2017violence against whites is okay .
no one cares about whites , they are just trash .
white lives do n't matter .
so says howard schultz .
captain skywarn ( @ n0jaa ) august 17 , 2017