washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidates may find themselves in a more subdued debate than usual on thursday night in miami , since nothing donald trump ’ s rivals have thrown at him has made a major dent in his front-running campaign .
after the histrionics of last week ’ s gathering in detroit , the four remaining candidates are likely to search for higher ground as they offer closing arguments to republican voters , particularly those in florida and ohio , who vote next tuesday in nominating contests for the nov. 8 election .
the burden is particularly heavy on u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida and ohio governor john kasich , who must do well in their home states or face pressure to exit the race .
while kasich is holding his own against trump in ohio opinion polls , rubio has lagged far behind trump in florida .
trump ’ s victories in michigan , mississippi and hawaii on tuesday added to his momentum after a week of attacks by mainstream republicans who are offended by his statements on muslims , women and illegal immigrants and alarmed by his threats to international trade deals .
trump defended his calls for a tougher u.s. stance on free trade on thursday , saying the united states has been taken advantage of in negotiations with other countries .
he also cited currency devaluations as a particular problem .
“ i like free trade but you have to be represented by very , very good and smart and cunning people and we are not , ” trump said in an interview on cnbc .
“ other countries are and that ’ s why they ’ re all taking advantage. ” the tough-talking billionaire businessman told cnn on wednesday he expected the debate to be a “ nicer , softer , lighter debate , i hope. ” but he added : “ i ’ ll be ready .
i ’ m the only one who can beat hillary , ” a reference to democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton .
the tone could be set by trump , 69 , who forecast before several previous debates that he would take a more measured approach , only to quickly get into a verbal brawl with his rivals .
the cnn-hosted debate will be held at the university of miami at 8:30 p.m. ( 0130 gmt on friday ) .
“ i would focus on a positive uplifting message that takes us back to why they ’ re running for president and what ’ s at stake in this election , ” said eric fehrnstrom , a senior adviser to 2012 republican nominee mitt romney .
in detroit last thursday , trump came under sustained fire from rubio , 44 , over parts of his business empire such as trump university , a now-defunct venture that critics said offered a flimsy education .
u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas piled on trump over his past support for democratic causes .
trump blasted rubio throughout the debate as a lightweight and cruz as a liar .
the trump-rubio debate clash in detroit followed an abrupt change in rubio ’ s campaign to begin raising personal questions about trump , such as saying he had small hands , a statement trump saw as a reference to his penis size .
rubio said he now regretted the personal insults .
“ in terms of things that have to do with personal stuff , yeah , at the end of the day , it ’ s not something i ’ m entirely proud of .
my kids were embarrassed by it , and if i had to do it again , i wouldn ’ t , ” rubio told msnbc on wednesday .
cruz , 45 , who would like to knock rubio and kasich out of the race so he could draw more support from anti-trump republican voters , will seek to use the debate to position himself as the best trump alternative .
“ trump is clearly trying to reach out and be a little more statesmanlike , ” said cruz backer saul anuzis , a former chairman of the michigan republican party .
“ cruz is going to make the case as to why he can beat trump and be the viable alternative .
from our perspective , we think it ’ s a two-man race , we ’ re the only one with a path. ” rubio is fighting for survival and is facing something of a last stand in florida .
rival campaigns said rubio may feel a need to return to the optimistic message he stuck to for months before getting sidetracked by trump .
rubio told fox news on wednesday the campaign was always going to come down to who wins florida .
“ the nominee has to win florida .
you can ’ t be the republican nominee if you don ’ t win florida , ” he said .
kasich , rubio and cruz have one shot at denying trump the nomination - preventing him from assembling the required 1,237 delegates to win the nomination outright , which would mean delegates would have to choose the nominee at their july 18-21 convention in cleveland .
trump said on cnn on wednesday that 1,237 was an “ artificial number ” and that if he entered the convention with more delegates than his rivals , he should be the nominee .
while he has vowed to wage war against the party if he is denied the nomination at the convention , kasich , 63 , said it was possible for republicans to have a contested convention and emerge united .
“ can you go to a convention and come out united ?
absolutely , ” he told a fox news town hall on wednesday .
( reporting by steve holland ; additional reporting by megan cassella ; editing by peter cooney and bill trott ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .