meanwhile , the koch brothers are denying they were attempting to meet with trump .
they re probably too busy schmoozing with open-borders paul ryan and other more easily influenced politicians .
hillary will most surely be working overtime to capture those unspent millions that won t be going to trump trump tweeted this tonight : i turned down a meeting with charles and david koch .
much better for them to meet with the puppets of politics , they will do much better !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 30 , 2016the kochs are effectively indifferent between trump and clinton , though several trump allies within the network have encouraged the billionaire donors to at least meet with the billionaire candidate .
donors who contribute at least $ 100,000 to the network are invited to hear from charles koch and republican leaders both about the kochs political work along with their philanthropic and policy-focused spending.some koch donors , upset by the leadership s unwillingness to back the republican nominee , have called for the freedom partners retreat to feature a poll to decide whether to marshal their resources toward his white house bid .
but holden said unequivocally that a decisive survey of that kind would not happen.may , 2014 washington post columnist dana milbank notes that , more than 100 times on the senate floor in the past few months , the senate s top democrat has invoked charles and david koch , the billionaire brothers who have pumped hundreds of millions of dollars into conservative causes and campaigns .
according to reid , the koch brothers are about as un-american as anyone i can imagine and are attempting to buy america .
well , if it is true and what these billionaires are truly engaged in a diabolical plot to undermine the country , then reid must count himself as one of their prime accomplices.guess who is putting up lots of money to pressure house republicans to pass a massive amnesty and immigration increase bill similar to the one reid championed in the senate ?
that would be none other than the brothers koch .
immigration reformthe kochs have assembled a political operation some consider to be on par with the republican national committee , using a constellation of nonprofit organizations to drive elections and policy fights in recent years .
they today have 1,200 paid staff members in 38 states.yet their refusal to back trump whose language on immigration and trade is found to be too incendiary by the libertarian-inspired kochs is a leading reason why trump is expected to be massively outgunned by clinton and her allies in the advertising wars.the koch network initially said they would spend $ 889 million in the lead-up to 2016 , with about one-third of that figure dedicated to political activity .
yet koch officials have scaled back their ambitions , with holden saying saturday that the sum was merely a wish list number .
they are now on pace to spend about $ 750 million , including about $ 250 million on politics.about $ 20 million in television has already aired , network officials said , with another $ 20 million still planned for the fall .
the network is currently active in five senate races , and is currently weighing how to get involved in one more : marco rubio s reelection fight in florida .
via : wmtw tv