jerusalem ( reuters ) - an israeli lawyer has shed light in a new book on the role the mossad intelligence agency has played in u.s. litigation she pursues against the international financing of israel s enemies .
nitsana darshan-leitner , an orthodox jewish mother of six , heads the not-for-profit shurat hadin-israel law center , which has named palestinian authorities , iran , lebanon s hezbollah and north korea as defendants in lawsuits it has brought .
many of the cases were heard in u.s. courtrooms , either because victims of palestinian shootings and bombings or hezbollah rockets held american citizenship , or to target suspected militant funds held in banks in the united states .
titled harpoon after the codename of the mossad finance-tracking unit darshan-leitner worked with , the book lays out how israel targets foes bank accounts as well as arsenals .
in the closest that the secretive mossad can come to a public endorsement , its former director provided praise for the book on its cover .
darshan-leitner , who mostly is engaged by private citizens , said that after her law center began suing palestinians over attacks during a revolt that they launched in 2000 , she was invited to mossad headquarters for a consultation .
i explained to them what we do , how and where lawsuits are filed , what evidence and jurisdiction is required , the general rules , she told reuters .
their response was : what do we have to do to file more lawsuits ?
what do you need ?
that , darshan-leitner said , evolved into regular briefings , held in quiet cafes , where she would get tip-offs about suspect finances to focus on during the u.s. courts discovery hearings .
her harpoon interlocutors , she said , have never given her documents that might betray the sources of their information : they recited all the data from memory .
it was pretty amazing .
at times , the materials were turned into formal affidavits , filed in the name of israel s government , said darshan-leitner , adding that her role in harpoon was as an unpaid volunteer .
among cases to which she credits the cooperation are a $ 655 million judgment in new york against palestinian authorities in 2015 and the disbanding of a planned 2011 activist flotilla to gaza , after insurers were warned that they could be criminally liable for the bid to challenge israel s blockade .
the former verdict was voided , in a decision now being appealed to the u.s. supreme court , and the latter had no clear financial gain so no payout was sought .
darshan-leitner said that around 10 percent of $ 2 billion worth of u.s judgments in her favor have been paid .
that suggests that israel also sees the litigation as a way to score points against its adversaries in the court of public opinion .
the struggle itself is very important , as it gives the victims a sense of vindication and puts pressure on the countries ( being sued ) , darshan-leitner said .
harpoon was submitted , in accordance with israeli law , to military censors who , darshan-leitner said , cut a fifth of the text to suppress some details about intelligence methods and personnel .