berlin ( reuters ) - the premier of germany s most populous region warned that the green party would have to step back from some of its environmentalist red lines if it wanted to join a mooted three-party coalition led by conservative chancellor angela merkel .
armin laschet , premier of the industrial heartland state of north rhine-westphalia , said in an interview with handelsblatt newspaper that his and merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) would not do a coalition deal at any price .
earlier , christian lindner , leader of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) , the likely third coalition partner , had also said the greens would need to sacrifice a commitment to environmentalist subsidies and accept tax cuts .
with a jamaica coalition of the conservatives ( black ) , the fdp ( yellow ) and the greens the most plausible coalition after last sunday s national vote , the parties that enjoy the overwhelming support of germany s business community rushed to hem in the leftist greens with red lines .
a jamaica coalition agreement must make clear that there will be no de-industrialization , said laschet , whose state is home to one of germany s largest concentrations of heavy industry .
the greens wish for fixed target dates for banning polluting combustion engines or coal-fired power stations would harm industry , he added .
lindner , whose party is popular among the family businesses traditionally seen as the backbone of the german economy , told mass-selling paper bild am sonntag that he would be happy to accept a tax-cutting green as finance minister .
it would be fine to have a green finance minister who cuts the tax burden on the middle classes , said lindner , seen as one of the leading candidates for the key finance job in a jamaica coalition .
the greens voted on saturday to start exploratory talks on a deal , indicating that they would like to see a softening of the fdp s tough line on immigration .
laschet said talks on a post-election three-way deal , the first in germany since the 1950s , could last into next year , though he hoped for a deal before january .