just another whiny radical leftist keeping it classy .
birds of a feather robert de niro delivered the commencement speech to graduates of nyu s tisch school of the arts on friday , opening up his remarks with a blunt warning : you re f * * * ed .
the oscar-winning actor grinned as he told the film , art , and media graduates at the theater at madison square garden that while those with degrees in law and business used reason and logic and common sense to research a career , the art school graduates would have to keep working to find steady employment .
you discovered a talent , developed an ambition and recognized your passion , de niro said , according to the associated press .
when you feel that , you can t fight it .
just go with it .
when it comes to the arts , passion should always trump common sense .
you re an artist yeah , you re f * * * ed , the actor continued .
the good news is that s not a bad place to start .
de niro , who won an academy award for both 1975 s the godfather : part ii and 1981 s raging bull , also offered up some tips on how to make it in hollywood , according to the hollywood reporter .
he warned the graduates about facing a lifetime of rejection , but said you don t want to block the pain too much .
rejection might sting , but my feeling is that often , it has very little to do with you .
when you re auditioning or pitching , the director or producer or investor may have someone different in mind , that s just how it is .
that happened recently when i was auditioning for the role of martin luther king in selma !
which was too bad because i could ve played the hell out of that part .
i felt it was written for me !
but the director had something different in mind , and she was right .
it seems the director is always right.the oscar-winner also told graduates to use the word next to move from project to project .
you didn t get that part ?
next !
you ll get the next one or the next one after that , he said .
i know you re going to make it .
break a leg .
next !
according to the new york daily news , most of the graduates in attendance laughed off the actor s blunt advice .
he was just being honest , 22-year-old graduate jamie jensen told the paper .
we were all just laughing .
it s so true in a way we all joke about it .
you know it going in to art school .
but jensen s mother did not exactly approve of de niro s colorful language .
it was right at the beginning first line , maria jensen told the paper of the actor s many uses of expletives .
you don t really want to use the f-bomb in front of thousands of people .
that s just my take .
via : breitbart news