seoul/washington ( reuters ) - two u.s. strategic bombers conducted drills over south korea , the u.s. air force said , raising tensions with north korea just days before president donald trump visits the region seeking to shut down pyongyang s nuclear program .
news of the thursday s drills was first reported by north korean state news agency kcna on friday , which said the exercises involving south korean and japanese fighter jets were a surprise nuclear strike drill .
the reality clearly shows that the gangster-like u.s. imperialists are the very one who is aggravating the situation of the korean peninsula and seeking to ignite a nuclear war , kcna said .
trump arrives in asia on sunday , beginning his first trip to the region as president in japan before heading to south korea and china , then vietnam and the philippines .
a series of missile tests by north korea and its sixth and largest nuclear test , defying u.n. security council resolutions , have fueled the most critical international challenge of trump s presidency .
china , under u.s. pressure to do more to rein in its ally , on friday stressed that it had been enforcing u.n. resolutions and reiterated its opposition to the use of force .
over the long term , china has made unremitting efforts to appropriately resolve the peninsula nuclear issue and promote dialogue and negotiation between all parties , vice foreign minister zheng zeguang told reporters at a briefing in beijing .
you can say we ve made our greatest effort .
the goal of trump s visit will be to increase international support for efforts to deprive north korea of resources as leverage to coerce it to give up nuclear weapons , u.s. officials said .
the president recognizes that we re running out of time ( to deal with north korea ) and will ask all nations to do more , white house national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster told reporters at a briefing in washington .
mcmaster said trump , who has approved a variety of sanctions against north korea while pressing china to do more , was at the beginning of his drive for pyongyang to give up nuclear weapons .
trump has warned he would totally destroy north korea if it threatened the united states .
i think we have to be a little patient here for at least a few months to see what more we and others can do , including china , said mcmaster .
i don t think we need to reassess our strategy now .
i think we have to give it a couple of months , a few months , and then see what adjustments we might need to make .
while north korea has not launched any missiles since sept. 15 , the longest such lull this year , a flurry of activity has been detected at its missile research facilities in pyongyang , pointing to another possible launch , south korea s spy agency told lawmakers on thursday .
seoul held a national security council meeting on friday to discuss possible unilateral sanctions against pyongyang , and may announce the measures ahead of trump s arrival in south korea , a presidential official said .
the united states has wanted the south korean government to take further steps to sanction the north .
unilateral sanctions by south korea wouldn t have much practical impact but have a symbolic importance , the official said .
ahead of trump s visit to asia , the drills involving the u.s. bombers marked the latest show of force by the united states and its allies .
the planes flew over the pilsung range training area in central south korea , air force spokeswoman captain victoria hight said .
japanese and south korean fighter jets carried out sequenced missions with the u.s. bombers but no ordnance was dropped , the air force said .
the drill was staged at a time when three u.s. aircraft carrier groups are in the asia-pacific , the first time such a potent projection of force has been together in the region in a decade .
u.s. officials said earlier this week a decision may be made for the three carriers to carry out a joint exercise to coincide with trump s trip .
kcna said the combination of the bomber drills with the presence of the carrier groups underscored the gravity of the situation .
the u.s. imperialists are making last-ditch efforts to check the dynamic advance of the dprk by deploying their nuclear strategic assets in succession , but its army and people are never frightened at such moves , kcna reported , referring to north korea by the initials for its official name .
the u.s. imperialist warmongers should not act rashly .