wellington ( reuters ) - israel s ambassador to new zealand on wednesday appealed to the pop star lorde to meet him after she canceled a show in tel aviv after appeals from activists for her to shun israel as a protest against its treatment of palestinians .
itzhak gerberg , israel s ambassador to new zealand , said in a public letter it was regrettable that the concert had been called off and the boycott of his country represented hostility and intolerance .
i invite you to meet me in person to discuss israel , its achievements and its role as the only democracy in the middle east , gerberg said on the embassy of israel s facebook page .
lorde s representatives did not immediately respond to request for comment on her response or whether she planned to meet the ambassador .
the 21-year-old new zealand singer had been slated to perform in tel aviv in june as part of a global tour to promote her chart-topping second album melodrama .
campaigners have been urging her to scrap the show , calling in an open letter on dec. 21 for her to pull out as part of a boycott to oppose israel s occupation of the palestinian territories .
playing in tel aviv will be seen as giving support to the policies of the israeli government , even if you make no comment on the political situation , campaigners justine sachs and nadia abu-shanab , wrote on news website the spinoff .
we believe that an economic , intellectual and artistic boycott is an effective way of speaking out , they said .
lorde said on twitter at the time she was speaking with many people about this and considering all options .
eran arielli , the promoter of the concert , said on facebook on sunday that the show was off .
the truth is i was naive to think that an artist of her age would be able to absorb the pressure involved in coming to israel , he wrote in hebrew .
the boycott , divestment and sanctions ( bds ) movement was launched in 2005 as a non-violent campaign to press israel to heed international law and end its occupation of territory palestinians seek for a state .
artists who have boycotted israel include pink floyd s roger waters and elvis costello .
other major stars , such as elton john , aerosmith , guns and roses , the rolling stones , justin bieber and rihanna have performed in recent years in israel .
prime minister benjamin netanyahu s right-wing government has long campaigned against the bds movement , describing it as anti-semitic and an attempt to erase israel s legitimacy .
( this story has been refiled to show eran arielli was sole promoter , paragraph 10 . )