moscow ( reuters ) - a military helicopter on a rural training exercise in western russia mistakenly fired rockets at a group of parked vehicles , knocking at least one person to the ground , footage posted by russian news sites and on social media showed .
a video clip published on tuesday by the independent news site fontanka.ru showed a helicopter firing a salvo of rockets at a military truck covered in camouflage netting in open countryside , with three vehicles with no military markings visible , parked a few meters away .
a man in civilian clothes who had been standing close to the truck was engulfed in a cloud of dust .
the person filming the clip , who was slightly further away , could be seen sprawled on the ground .
russia is currently staging the zapad 2017 war games in the area , major exercises on nato s eastern flank that were inspected on monday by russian president vladimir putin .
fontanka.ru said the incident occurred on sept. 18 and left one person with concussion .
it did not give details on the source of the video .
a second video from the same location , which was posted on social media by russian investigative bloggers conflict intelligence team , showed the aftermath , including a smashed window in a white jeep nearest to the truck , and shrapnel damage to the military truck .
reuters could not independently verify the videos .
the russian defence ministry s western military district , in a statement cited by interfax news agency , said that during a training exercise a helicopter s targeting system had mistakenly acquired a target , but denied anyone had been injured .
the representative cited by interfax did not say when the incident happened , or where , or if the exercise was part of the zapad-2017 war games .
as a result of a strike by an unguided rocket , a cargo vehicle with no people on board was damaged , interfax quoted a representative of the military district as saying .
the western military district includes north-western russia and the russian exclave of kaliningrad , all areas where the zapad-2017 exercises are focused .
russia s defense ministry in moscow did not immediately respond to a reuters request for comment .
asked by reporters about the incident , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov referred questions to the defense ministry .
( the online version of the story has been corrected to fix a typo in the second paragraph . )