athens ( reuters ) - greece and turkey squared up over old disputes on thursday during a state visit to athens by president tayyip erdogan that quickly descended into verbal sparring over a list of historical grievances .
designed to boost relations between the two nations , the first visit of a turkish president in 65 years quickly turned into a blunt grudge-fest between the nato allies .
the two countries agreed to revive a consultation process for confidence-building measures , prime minister alexis tsipras said .
by the end of the first day , both sides appeared to pull back from what threatened to be a massive diplomatic flop .
there is a lot more which unites us , from that which divides us , as long as there is will , greek president prokopis pavlopoulos told a state banquet in erdogan s honor .
we can live side by side , erdogan said in a translation provided by greek state tv .
our aim is to build the future differently , with unity , coexistence and solidarity , he said .
earlier , he and erdogan turned what was expected to be a staid welcoming ceremony into an unprecedented bout of diplomatic sparring over a host of differences .
the topics vented ranged from discrimination against muslims in northern greece to turkey s military presence in ethnically-split cyprus , and loose interpretations of an international treaty defining the borders of the two countries .
the 1923 treaty of lausanne covered a range of issues and defined the borders of modern-day turkey , and by extension , greece .
erdogan told greek media outlets before he even landed that the treaty needed a revision , putting greeks in a defensive mode .
at the noon meeting , pavlopoulos ruled out any change to the treaty while a stern-looking erdogan , seated beside him , said there were details in the treaty which required clarity .
though erdogan focused on religious rights of the turkish muslim community in northern greece , he said there were also problems on military topics .
the truth , is i m a little confused regarding if what he is putting on the table is to modernize , to update , to comply with the lausanne treaty , tsipras said at a news conference as erdogan stood at his side .
show-stopper the long exchange between erdogan and the greek president was the show-stopper , however .
this is the bedrock of our friendship , said pavlopoulos , referring to the treaty and pointedly telling his vip guest he was a professor of law .
it has no flaws , it does not need to be reviewed or updated , he said .
erdogan responded by saying it was a treaty signed 94 years ago and did not apply only to greece or turkey but also included countries such as japan .
it was also supposed to protect the turkish minority in northern greece , whom erdogan said were still discriminated against .
you can t find such treatment of my greek citizens in turkey , erdogan said in a 30-minute , back-and-forth exchange where notes were slipped to both him and pavlopoulos by ministers .
erdogan is the first turkish president to visit athens since 1952 .
he is now doing his best to make sure that the next visit will not take place in the next 150 years , said wolfango piccoli , co-president of teneo intelligence .
in northern greece , erdogan said , greece insisted on calling the turkish community there muslim rather than using the term turkish .
there are more than 100,000 of them in the area known as western thrace .
they can t accept the word turk being written outside a school , said erdogan , who is due to visit the region on friday .
tsipras told erdogan he too had sensitivities on religious freedoms .
the greek government , he said , had moved ahead with the reconstruction of a series of mosques around the country .
yet not once did it cross our mind to hold an orthodox religious ceremony in fethiye mosque ( in athens ) as wrongly , in my view , is taking place repeatedly in hagia sophia , he said of the imposing structure in istanbul that was once a church , converted into a mosque and now a museum .
there have been readings of the koran in hagia sophia in recent years .
the nato partners teetered on the brink of war in 1974 , 1987 and 1996 over long-running disputes on ethnically divided cyprus , mineral rights in the aegean sea and sovereignty over uninhabited islets in that sea .
we allowed your re-entry to nato , erdogan told pavlopoulos , referring to the departure of greece from the bloc in 1974 after turkey s invasion of cyprus in response to a brief greek-inspired coup .
it rejoined in 1980 .
if it wasn t for us , you wouldn t have been able to ( rejoin ) , erdogan said .
while relations have improved , many greeks believe turkey has territorial aspirations against their country , an issue erdogan said on at least two occasions was not the case .