washington ( reuters ) - harsh rhetoric about muslims by republican candidates in the u.s. presidential election campaign is undermining national security efforts , u.s .
homeland security secretary jeh johnson said on tuesday .
asked about comments by republicans donald trump and ted cruz , johnson told msnbc in an interview that singling out a specific community hampers government efforts to build the connections needed to thwart possible attacks .
“ inflammatory comments about patrolling and securing muslim neighbors or barring muslims from entering this country , having an immigration policy based on religion , is counterproductive to our homeland security and national security interests , ” he said .
johnson ’ s remarks come in the wake of attacks last week in belgium claimed by islamic state militants that have stoked security fears across europe and the west .
u.s. officials have said there is no immediate known threat to the united states and have vowed to work with european authorities following those attacks , which targeted the brussels airport and a subway station and killed at least 35 people .
heightened concern over security has rippled through the nomination race for the nov. 8 presidential election .
cruz , a u.s. senator from texas , called for police to patrol american muslim neighborhoods following the brussels bombings .
billionaire businessman trump has continued his call for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
the rhetoric has polarized the u.s. electorate and prompted criticism , particularly from democrats , including president barack obama .
ohio governor john kasich , who is running a distant third in the republican race for the nomination , on tuesday blasted both of his rivals ’ comments on security and said there should be more of a focus on intelligence-gathering and global cooperation , especially with help from muslim communities .
“ it ’ s so absurd , ” kasich said at a campaign event .
johnson said officials have worked hard to connect with american muslim communities to garner their assistance with u.s. national security efforts. ” in this phase , it is critical that we build bridges to american-muslim communities , not vilify them , not drive them into the shadows , and encourage them to work with us , ” he said .
democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton , a former u.s. secretary of state , has urged the united states and europe to do more to defeat islamic state and has slammed cruz and trump ’ s rhetoric toward muslims .
u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , clinton ’ s rival for the democratic nomination , has also said he opposes surveillance of muslim communities but backs stronger intelligence-sharing and monitoring of social media in the fight against islamist militants .