washington ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate bernie sanders said on tuesday he has placed a hold on president barack obama ’ s nominee to head the food and drug administration , claiming he is too close to the pharmaceutical industry to be an impartial regulator .
the move by the u.s. senator from vermont comes one day after democratic senator edward markey of massachusetts also placed a hold on the nomination until the agency agrees to reform its process for approving opioid painkillers .
the nominee , dr. robert califf , is a cardiologist and researcher who joined the fda a year ago as a deputy commissioner .
he previously held senior positions at duke university , where he founded a large academic research center that received more than half of its funding from the drug industry .
“ dr .
califf ’ s extensive ties to the pharmaceutical industry give me no reason to believe that he would make the fda work for ordinary americans , rather than just the ceos of pharmaceutical companies , ” sanders said in a statement .
a “ hold ” is a procedure by which a senator can prevent a measure from being voted on by the full senate .
peter pitts , a former associate commissioner for external affairs at the fda who is now president of the center for medicine in the public interest , said no hold has ever killed a vote on an fda commissioner and he does not expect it to now .
“ it would be very undemocratic not to let the other senators have their say , ” he said .
the senate committee on health , education , labor and pensions voted earlier this month to confirm califf as fda commissioner , a position open since dr. margaret hamburg stepped down last february .
kevin griffis , a spokesman for the department of health and human services , which oversees the fda , said califf “ is the right person with the right experience to build on the fda ’ s unsurpassed record of protecting public health while encouraging innovation and the introduction of new life-saving therapies to the market. ” he added : “ we would like to see him confirmed as quickly as possible. ” on monday , hhs said that addressing the opioid crisis was “ a top priority. ” markey wants opioid approval matters to be reviewed by an fda advisory committee and believes the committee should consider the risk of addiction and abuse during the approval process .
he also wants the agency to rescind approval of oxycontin for children and convene an advisory panel to guide that process .
sanders said he shared markey ’ s concerns about the fda ’ s approach to opioid painkillers .
too many americans are dying from what has become an “ opioid epidemic , ” he said in a statement .
u.s. deaths from drug overdoses hit a record in 2014 , increasing 6.5 percent to 47,055 , propelled by prescription painkiller and heroin abuse , according to the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention .
the fda does not control drug prices , but sanders said that “ at a time when millions of americans can not afford to purchase the prescription drugs they require , we need a leader at the fda who is prepared to stand up to the drug companies. ” last year , he said , one in five americans , or 35 million people , could not afford to fill their prescriptions .
sanders has made healthcare a key theme of his campaign to be the democratic party ’ s candidate in the november election .
he is competing with former secretary of state hillary clinton and former maryland governor martin o ’ malley .
califf is widely expected to ultimately be confirmed as fda commissioner .
“ i don ’ t think senator sanders ’ hold will slow the process down , ” pitts said .
califf will need to meet with sanders and reassure him of the fda ’ s independence , pitts said .
“ in the meantime , ” he added , “ he ’ s made his point. ” ( reporting by susan heavey ; editing by david alexander , jeffrey benkoe , jonathan oatis and david gregorio ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .