lubumbashi , democratic republic of congo ( reuters ) - the u.n. peacekeeping mission in congo on monday condemned the arrest of about 30 opposition members amid a crackdown on dissent by president joseph kabila s government .
the arrests occurred in the southeastern city of lubumbashi on sunday when police broke up a meeting by the union for democracy and social progress ( udps ) party on the eve of a return to the city of opposition leader felix tshisekedi , party members told reuters .
such security incidents are threatening to spiral out of control in africa s largest copper producer because of kabila s refusal to hold elections when his presidential mandate expired nearly a year ago .
from now , we no longer consider joseph kabila as president , tshisekedi told journalists on monday in lubumbashi , where a planned rally was banned by the government .
he is usually in the capital , or in europe .
congo s government has banned opposition demonstrations since last year , when security forces killed dozens of protesters demanding kabila s departure .
the election commission said this month that an election to replace kabila , who came to power after his father s assassination in 2001 , would not be possible before april 2019 at the earliest - raising the prospect of long-term unrest .
i urge the congolese authorities to release immediately and unconditionally those arbitrarily arrested yesterday in lubumbashi , said maman sidikou , head of the u.n. monusco peacekeeping mission .
monusco also demanded an end to restrictions imposed on kyungu wa kumwanza , president of the national union of federalists of the congo ( unafec ) party , who has been under de facto house arrest for several months without being charged with a crime .
in another sign of discontent with election delays , the union for the congolese nation ( unc ) opposition party said in a statement on monday it was withdrawing its representative in a power-sharing government , budget minister pierre kangudia .
the latter could not immediately be reached for comment .
kabila s political opponents are weak and divided .
many joined a power-sharing government earlier this year following the death of opposition figure , etienne tshisekedi , felix s father , and they enjoy limited credibility with the population .
however , an economic crisis that has seen inflation spike to over 50 percent , increased militia activity , and a series of prison breaks have highlighted kabila s tenuous hold on power .