singapore ( reuters ) - the founding dean of a prominent singapore school said on monday he was stepping down , four months after he stirred a heated debate in the city-state with the comment that small countries like singapore must always behave like small states .
kishore mahbubani , a long-time diplomat and the wealthy city-state s former envoy to the united nations , said he had written to the board of the lee kuan yew school of public policy saying he would step down as dean at the end of the year .
the announcement followed a high-profile expulsion by the government of a professor at the school , a china-born u.s. citizen , who was accused of being an agent of influence for a foreign country .
in the statement to the school s governing board , mahbubani cited a double heart bypass operation last year and said he wanted to focus on a new career that involves more time spent on reading , reflection and writing .
i realize that the time had come for me to take a fresh look at what i should achieve over the next decade as i enter my 70s , he said .
kishore is 69 and has served 13 years as dean .
kishore s statement did not refer to the controversy fueled by his column in july that qatar s experience of conflict with its arab neighbors offered big lessons for small countries .
in the piece titled qatar : big lessons from a small country , kishore warned that singapore could face the fate of the gulf state which believed it could act as a middle power and exercise influence beyond its borders because it sits on mounds of money .
i would like to emphasize as strongly as i can that this qatar episode holds many lessons for singapore , he wrote in singapore s straits times newspaper .
the first lesson , he said , was : small states must always behave like small states .
public criticism or perceived admonishments of the government are rare in singapore , one of the richest and most politically stable countries in the world .
his comments drew a sharp rebuke from singapore s political leaders and fellow former foreign service officials as flawed and intellectually questionable .
a veteran diplomat , bilahari kausikan , called them muddled , mendacious and indeed dangerous .
mahbubani could not be reached for comment .
a spokeswoman for the national university of singapore , where the lee kuan yew school is an autonomous postgraduate school , said : professor kishore mahbubani s decision to retire is unrelated to the article mentioned .
the school is named after modern singapore s founding father .