a defender of the confederate flag who says the flag is not about race says : i m gon na tell you one thing , i ain t sitting down ; this ll just make me walk taller .
one man has been arrested after a fight over the confederate flag in front of the south carolina statehouse.the brawl started about 7:15 p.m. monday when about a dozen vehicles with confederate flag supporters pulled up in front of the statehouse and stopped in the middle of the street , public safety department spokeswoman sherri iacobelli said in a statement .
about 10 of the flag supporters clashed with about 30 people who were on the statehouse grounds protesting the flag , the statement said .
the blood on my face , the blood in my teeth , the blood on my hands is no comparison to the southern blood that runs through my veins , joe linder told cbs news.linder , who was hit during the fight , supports the confederate flag and says racism has no part in it .
i m gon na tell you one thing , i ain t sitting down ; this ll just make me walk taller , he told cbs news.about 50 officers responded and contained the clash , including officers from the bureau of protective services assigned to the statehouse , as well as columbia police , university of south carolina officers and the south carolina highway patrol .
two blocks of the street in front of the statehouse was closed for a brief time during the disturbance .
sydney baldwin told cbs news the fight began when someone took his flag .
i jumped out of my truck , baldwin said .
that was all i did , was grab my flag and i got hit in the side .
nicholas thompson , 25 , of irmo , south carolina , has been charged with disorderly conduct .
it wasn t clear if he has an attorney .
the confederate flag has been a focus of protests since the fatal shooting of nine people at a historic black church in charleston on june 17 .
public safety director leroy smith told reporters it was unfortunate that columbia had a fight when there have been no problems reported in charleston , where the shooting occurred .
the suspect in the charleston shooting , dylann storm roof , appears in a number of photographs online with the confederate flag , prompting calls for removal of the flag from in front of the statehouse .
south carolina lawmakers are expected next week to consider proposals to take the flag down and move it to a museum .
the flag has flown at the statehouse since the 1960s .
it was removed from the statehouse dome and placed at a confederate soldier monument in front of the statehouse in 2000.via : atlanta cbs local