tokyo ( reuters ) - a japanese man was killed in a truck collision involving a 21-year-old u.s. marine who was well over the legal alcohol limit for driving , police said of a case that was likely to stoke resentment over the u.s. military presence on the southern island of okinawa .
in response to the sunday s fatal accident , u.s. forces in japan banned , until further notice , all personnel in the country from drinking of alcohol .
the defence and foreign ministries have lodged a stern representation to the u.s. forces in japan and the u.s. embassy in japan , asking for the enforcement of discipline , prevention of recurrence and sincere response to the bereaved , japanese chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told a regular news conference on monday .
u.s .
ambassador to japan william hagerty expressed his condolences and offered an apology , suga said .
the accident occurred at an intersection in the city of naha early sunday morning .
the marine was driving a military truck , and the 61-year-old crash victim was in a light truck .
the japanese man was later pronounced dead , while the u.s. serviceman , who was arrested for the fatal accident and driving under the influence of alcohol , suffered scratches , a police official in naha said .
the official said a breath test showed the marine was as much as three times over the legal limit for alcohol .
when our service members fail to live up to the high standards we set for them , it damages the bonds between bases and local communities and make it harder for us to accomplish our mission , a statement from the u.s. forces in japan said .
last year , japanese prime minister shinzo abe protested to then-u.s. president barack obama about the killing of a young woman in okinawa , for which a u.s. base worker had been charged .
obama , who was visiting japan for a group of seven summit , expressed deepest regrets .
the case is under trial .
residents in okinawa , a reluctant host to the bulk of u.s. bases in japan , believe that they shoulder an unfair burden in supporting the u.s. military presence in japan .