new york ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential candidate donald trump has been a hit with small donors , raking in two-thirds of his individual campaign contributions in sums of $ 200 or less , according to financial disclosures filed on tuesday .
but with the big-money donor class , the players trump blasted during the primary season as greedy influence peddlers , the celebrity businessman has fallen short of expectations , the disclosures filed with the federal government showed .
trump took in 65 percent of his total $ 75 million in individual campaign contributions from people who pitched in $ 200 or less , but super pac contributions fell short of expectations .
great america pac , the pro-trump super pac led by republican operative ed rollins , said in july it expected to pull in more than $ 20 million by now .
instead , it has raised just $ 11 million , according to the latest campaign finance disclosures .
in a similar fashion , a pro-trump super pac kicked off by los angeles real estate investor tom barrack , rebuilding america now , said in june it had $ 32 million in fundraising commitments .
but it received just over $ 2 million that month .
a spokesperson for the super pac says it has now raised $ 18 million .
it will not file its next report until october 15 .
the republican kingmaker who was expected to be trump ’ s single biggest backer , casino magnate sheldon adelson , has scaled back his initial pledge of $ 100 million , made in a private meeting with trump in may , to just $ 5 million , according to two associates close to adelson familiar with the matter .
democrat hillary clinton , who will face trump in the nov. 8 election , has received about a quarter of her campaign donations from people who contributed $ 200 or less - $ 71 million out of a total of $ 289 million , according to disclosures .
among the biggest backers to the pro-clinton super pac , priorities usa , were donald sussman , president of paloma partners advisors , inc , george soros , chairman of soros fund management , and daniel abraham , executive at sda enterprises .
clinton ’ s money advantage will help her fund ad campaigns and get-out-the-vote efforts in the final stretch the 2016 election .
she leads trump by 4 percentage points nationally , according to the latest reuters/ipsos tracking poll .
together , clinton ’ s campaign and super pac have raked in a total of $ 520 million .
by comparison , trump ’ s campaign and two super pacs backing him have brought in a combined $ 200 million .
super pacs can raise unlimited money for candidates as long as they don ’ t directly coordinate with the campaign .
the latest filings , which cover spending through august 31 , showed a big increase in trump ’ s spending , with $ 30 million in disbursements , more than any month so far .
they also provided further insight into the stark differences between the two candidates ’ operations .
the clinton campaign ’ s outlays reflect a traditional presidential playbook , spending five times more than trump ’ s has on television ads and nine times more on payrolls .
the trump campaign has spent $ 21 million on online advertising and strategy , $ 11 million on t-shirts , trucker hats and yard signs , and $ 4 million on field consulting .
trump recently scored a promise of a $ 1 million donation from the ricketts family , which had previously backed a super pac opposing him , but he has yet to see the flurry of large checks that flowed into the coffers of former republican white house rivals such as jeb bush and ted cruz .
instead of plowing money into the trump campaign , adelson - like his fellow top conservative backers , the billionaire industrialist koch brothers - will focus his efforts and donations on senate and house of representatives races , two sources said .
tuesday night ’ s filings show adelson and his physician wife miriam gave $ 20 million to the senate leadership fund , a republican super pac .
the adelsons plan on giving an additional $ 20 million to the super pac that backs republican house candidates , the sources said .
( corrects date )