laura ingraham reported to sean hannity that republican leaders don t want the border wall built and are actively working against preisdent trump one thing i know for sure , sean , is that we have way too many people on capitol hill who are not on the president s side of this .
i m talking republicans .
so i have no doubt in my mind that donald trump wants this wall to be built .
congress has to appropriate the money .
i heard over two months ago that gop leadership , the most senior senators on capitol hill , and i heard it from someone who was in the room with them , they were laughing at an idea a wall would ever get built .
out loud laughing .
they were recently telling that source of mine , don t worry , it s not going to happen .
in the mean time , lou dobbs gives a classic take down of paul ryan : yes , just get out of the way ! border ranchers vouch for building the wall : fred davis and john ladd are two arizona ranchers who were guests on fox & friends to tell their story of what its like to be on the front lines at the border : report : the cost to you for not building the wall ( note that this report is from 2013 !
) : the fiscal burden of illegal immigration on united states taxpayersthis report estimates the annual costs of illegal immigration at the federal , state and local level to be about $ 113 billion ; nearly $ 29 billion at the federal level and $ 84 billion at the state and local level.the study also estimates tax collections from illegal alien workers , both those in the above-ground economy and those in the underground economy.those receipts do not come close to the level of expenditures and , in any case , are misleading as an offset because over time unemployed and underemployed u.s. workers would replace illegal alien workers.key findingsillegal immigration costs u.s. taxpayers about $ 113 billion a year at the federal , state and local level .
the bulk of the costs some $ 84 billion are absorbed by state and local governments.the annual outlay that illegal aliens cost u.s. taxpayers is an average amount per native-headed household of $ 1,117.the fiscal impact per household varies considerably because the greatest share of the burden falls on state and local taxpayers whose burden depends on the size of the illegal alien population in that localityeducation for the children of illegal aliens constitutes the single largest cost to taxpayers , at an annual price tag of nearly $ 52 billion .
nearly all of those costs are absorbed by state and local governments.at the federal level , about one-third of outlays are matched by tax collections from illegal aliens.at the state and local level , an average of less than 5 percent of the public costs associated with illegal immigration is recouped through taxes collected from illegal aliens.most illegal aliens do not pay income taxes .
among those who do , much of the revenues collected are refunded to the illegal aliens when they file tax returns.many are also claiming tax credits resulting in payments from the u.s. treasury.with many state budgets in deficit , policymakers have an obligation to look for ways to reduce the fiscal burden of illegal migration .
california , facing a budget deficit of $ 14.4 billion in 2010-2011 , is hit with an estimated $ 21.8 billion in annual expenditures on illegal aliens .
new york s $ 6.8 billion deficit is smaller than its $ 9.5 billion in yearly illegal alien costs.the report examines the likely consequences if an amnesty for the illegal alien population were adopted similar to the one adopted in 1986 .
the report notes that while tax collections from the illegal alien population would likely increase only marginally , the new legal status would make them eligible for receiving social security retirement benefits that would further jeopardize the future of the already shaky system.an amnesty would also result in this large population of illegal aliens becoming eligible for numerous social assistance programs available for low-income populations for which they are not now eligible .
the overall result would , therefore , be an accentuation of the already enormous fiscal burden.read more : fair