moscow ( reuters ) - hundreds of russian celebrities , sportspeople and politicians nominated president vladimir putin for re-election on tuesday , hours after the kremlin said it wanted opposition leader alexei navalny investigated for calling for a boycott of the vote .
navalny called for the boycott of the march 18 election on monday after russia s central election commission ruled he was not eligible to run for president due to a suspended prison sentence hanging over him .
the 41-year-old lawyer , who says he s being excluded on false grounds because the kremlin is running scared , said he would use his campaign headquarters across the country to call the election s legitimacy into question and organize protests .
the kremlin , which points to polls that show putin is the runaway favorite with navalny trailing far behind , on tuesday set the scene for possible police action against navalny and his supporters whose protests have been broken up before .
the calls for a boycott will require scrupulous study , to see whether or not they comply with the law , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told reporters on a conference call .
declining to comment on the election commission s decision to bar navalny , peskov shrugged off allegations that the presidential poll would be a farce without the opposition leader who has made a name for himself by leveraging social media and conducting corruption investigations into senior officials .
the fact that one of the would-be candidates is not taking part has no bearing on the election s legitimacy , said peskov .
hours later , putin , 65 , was feted by his supporters , almost 700 of whom pledged to back him for re-election above the minimum 500 required to initiate a presidential bid .
putin s own schedule was too busy for him to attend the moscow nomination event , the kremlin said , though he is expected to personally submit the necessary paperwork to the central election commission in the coming days .
the former kgb officer is running as an independent , a move seen as a way of strengthening his image as a father of the nation rather than as a party political figure .
the ruling united russia party and the just russia party have both said they will support him .
i have worked under the leadership of the president for quite a long time so i know that everything will be alright for us with president putin , sergei kislyak , russia s former ambassador to the united states , now a senator , told reuters at tuesday s nomination meeting .
the commander of a nuclear submarine , sergei novokhatsky , told the same meeting that putin had helped revive the russian navy , which he described as mired in apathy at the end of the 1990s with many of its ships stuck in ports .
now , he said , wages were up and russian ships served throughout the world .
the course the motherland is on is the right one , novokhatsky told the meeting .
if , as expected , he wins re-election , putin , who has dominated russia s political landscape for the last 17 years , will be eligible to serve another six years until 2024 , when he turns 72 .
allies laud him for restoring national pride and expanding moscow s global clout with interventions in syria and ukraine .
but navalny , the opposition leader , says putin s support is exaggerated and artificially maintained by a biased state media and an unfair system which excludes genuine opponents .
navalny , who says he could defeat putin in a fair election , has been jailed three times this year and charged with breaking the law for organizing public meetings and rallies designed to bolster his presidential campaign .
he has said millions of voters will be disenfranchised unless the authorities relent and allow him to run .
the european union has also questioned the decision to bar navalny .
( it ) casts a serious doubt on political pluralism in russia and the prospect of democratic elections next year , the eu s external action service said in a statement on tuesday .
politically motivated charges should not be used against political participation , it said , urging moscow to ensure a level playing field for all russian elections .