dubai ( reuters ) - a saudi arabian businessman whose family s commercial empire is involved in a multi-billion dollar debt dispute has been released from detention in the kingdom s eastern province , according to sources familiar with the matter .
abdulaziz al-sanea s release comes as the government steps up efforts to find a company to run a struggling 750-bed hospital owned by his family , a search that has turned the spotlight on the kingdom s effort to bring overseas investors into the healthcare sector .
al-sanea was freed late last week after being detained in october for unpaid debts , related at least in part to the hospital , according to the sources .
an arrest warrant , issued in october for his brother mishal for the same reason , was also lifted , according to the same sources .
at the same time , the authorities approved a plan intended to restart operations at saad specialist hospital in the city of khobar in eastern province , which has been closed in recent weeks after being unable to pay staff and contractors , according to the sources .
a special committee , formed by the government to find solutions for the hospital s future , concluded that the facility should be operated under the guidance of the ministry of health for seven years , the sources said .
the revenue would be deposited into the account of the court handling the liquidation of saad group , the family s company that owns the hospital , the sources added .
the ministry of justice did not respond to a reuters request for comment .
london-listed nmc healthcare is among companies in talks with the government to take over the running of the hospital , one of the top cancer treatment facilities in the gulf , reuters reported on thursday , citing sources familiar with the matter .
maan al-sanea , the owner of saad group and the father of abdulaziz and mishal , is still in a civil detention center in khobar , according to the sources .
he was also detained by authorities in october for unpaid debts .
saad group , which at its height employed about 12,000 staff and has interests in sectors spanning banking to healthcare , ran into difficulties in 2009 because of heavy debts , unleashing a series of long-running legal battles and a saudi court-enforced liquidation of the company .
reemas group , a financial consultancy hired by saad group , last month outlined a proposed settlement covering $ 4 billion in debt under a plan to repay part of the money owed to creditors .
the legal action against the family is believed to be separate from a crackdown on corruption by crown prince mohammed bin salman in which dozens of saudi princes and businessmen are being held .
the kingdom has released 23 of the 200-or-so powerful individuals detained since november on corruption charges after they reached deals with the government , okaz newspaper reported on tuesday .