rome ( reuters ) - italy s upper house senate approved on thursday a new electoral system that is expected to handicap the anti-establishment 5-star movement at a forthcoming national election and favor mainstream political blocs .
the bill has already been approved by the lower house thanks to a battery of confidence motions that swept aside all opposition and now only needs a green light from the head of state to become law .
this is expected in the coming days .
the voting system , a mix of proportional representation and first-past-the-post , will benefit parties that form pre-election coalitions something the 5-star has always ruled out .
with opinion polls pointing to a three-way split between the centre-left , centre-right and 5-star , analysts say the new electoral law will not produce a clear-cut winner at the next election , which is due by may 2018 .
italy has had 64 governments since the end of world war two , including five in the past seven years , and a renewed bout of political instability in the euro zone s third-largest economy could hurt global financial markets .
to prevent a financial backlash , analysts say some form of grand coalition between the more moderate parties on the left and right is likely to emerge from any ballot-box stalemate .
you are all the same .
you don t have any ideas or any policies , just the same mission : to keep hold of your seats and continue to squeeze the country dry , the 5-star senate leader , giovanni endrissi , told the upper chamber on thursday .
polls show the 5-star is currently the most popular party in italy , with support at around 30 percent nationally .
president sergio mattarella had called on parliament to draw up a new law to harmonize the existing voting rules that risked throwing up different results in the two houses .
all previous attempts at reform fell foul of political infighting but , unexpectedly , the ruling democratic party ( pd ) of former prime minister matteo renzi struck a deal with silvio berlusconi s forza italia party over a revised voting system .
the rightist northern league also backed the initiative .
this law is the fruit of delicate mediation between coalition and opposition parties , which are very different parties with very different interests , said luigi zanda , pd senate leader .
this will be italy s third electoral law since 1993 and gives political leaders the power to pack electoral lists with supporters , potentially stifling internal party debate .
the first-past-the-post element will benefit parties that have a strong local base , notably the northern league , which looks set to win a large majority of seats in the wealthy north .
under the new system , ixe pollsters predicted on thursday that a centre-right bloc made up of forza italia , the northern league and brothers of italy party would win 269 of the 630 seats up for grabs in the lower house .
renzi s pd allied with a small centrist party would take 180 seats and 5-star 153 seats .
a small bloc of leftist parties that have rebelled against renzi , would take 20 seats , ixe said .
approval of the electoral law leaves parliament with one final task to complete before the houses can be dissolved the reading of the 2018 budget .
that legislation is expected to be passed by christmas , which could open the way for national elections as early as march .