hong kong ( reuters ) - amid calls from hong kong s pro-beijing elite for sweeping new national security laws , government advisers and lawyers say the legislation is likely to be tougher than proposals shelved 14 years ago , raising fears about the city s cherished freedoms .
those demanding urgency for the long-delayed article 23 are using a fledgling independence movement in the former british colony as justification even though the independence debate would have been allowed when article 23 was first proposed in 2003 .
lawyers , diplomats and activists fear the new pressure could lead to legal overkill in an open city already struggling with increased interference from beijing s communist party rulers .
we can see an intolerance from the central authorities over any kind of independence discussion , said simon young , a professor at the university of hong kong law school .
in this atmosphere , there is a concern that we could end up with something that criminalizes even the advocacy of independence , something that goes much further and is tougher than the previous proposals .
kevin yam , of hong kong s progressive lawyers group , said it was vital to win the argument against independence by persuasion and debate , rather than a sweeping new law that curbs freedoms .
if the government goes too far , it will undoubtedly have a chilling impact on hong kong , he said .
this is of great concern .
the government , in response to reuters questions , did not provide information on when or how it would kick-start legislation , but said it will seek to create a favorable social environment for the community to handle this constitutional obligation ... in a positive manner .
hong kong , a free-wheeling global financial hub , has been ruled under a one country , two systems formula since britain handed it back to china in 1997 , guaranteeing freedoms not enjoyed on the mainland , including an independent judiciary and freedom of expression .
those freedoms are outlined in the basic law , a mini-constitution that also demands the city pass its own law covering treason , secession and subversion against beijing .
but many see beijing increasingly involved in hong kong s affairs , such as the shadowy detention in 2015 of five hong kong booksellers who sold gossipy material critical of beijing , and a legal interpretation from the chinese parliament that eventually led to the disqualification of six democratically elected lawmakers .
the calls to enact article 23 follow that pattern , they say .
previous government proposals outlawed incitement to violence but sought to protect political debate .
hundreds of thousands took to the streets to protest against article 23 in 2003 , forcing the government to shelve it .
months-long pro-democracy demonstrations in 2014 further heightened political sensitivities surrounding the legislation , and the government has not set a firm timetable to re-introduce it .
but now pressure is mounting on hong kong to push through the laws after mainland officials expressed concerns in both public and private meetings .
senior chinese parliamentarian li fei used a visit to hong kong last week to warn that article 23 was a duty that can t be shirked while the chief of china s liaison office in the city also called for action .
many risks and potential hazards that would affect or even threaten national sovereignty , security and developmental interests have not been effectively eliminated or prevented , liaison office chief and communist party central committee member wang zhimin told pro-establishment lawmakers , according to his office s website .
chinese president xi jinping took what some saw as a harder line on hong kong s future during his visit in july to mark the 20th anniversary of the handover from the british .
challenges and threats to china s sovereignty and power , or the use of hong kong as a base for infiltration and sabotage , were acts that crossed the red line and were absolutely impermissible , xi said .
two members of hong kong s executive council - effectively the cabinet of leader carrie lam - have told reuters that the 2003 bill would almost certainly have to be updated to reflect the fresh concerns .
the city s independence movement , which has largely gone underground after most of its young leaders were charged for their roles in various protests , did not exist in 2003 .
executive council member regina ip - who pushed the previous bill as hong kong s then-security chief - said she could not say if the old proposals were sufficient in 2017 .
we must review any proposed legislation against the evolving security situation ... that is only natural , she said .
her colleague and moderate democrat ronny tong said he believed , realistically , any new laws could draw the line at organized efforts to promote independence .
if the last version were to be passed , in fact it would not stop ... what is done by the students , because they are not advocating violence , he said .
hong kong people are getting more and more intolerant of beijing , and they ( chinese rulers ) don t like that at all .
even short of independence , they feel that something needs to be done ... to try to make people more respectful to beijing .