baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi shi ite paramilitary groups have deployed to the frontier to back up border guard forces who came under fire from within syria over the past three days , one of their commanders said on friday .
there was no immediate word on who opened fire from syrian territory , but forces arrayed against islamic state in iraq and syria expect the group will resort to guerrilla warfare after losing its urban bastions earlier this year .
after several iraqi border guard positions came under several attacks by missiles , and backup from security forces was late , the 13th brigade of the popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) was deployed and targeted the origins of the launch , pmf commander for west anbar , qassem mesleh , said in a statement .
operations command and the infantry brigade are now present on the iraqi-syrian border in border guard positions to repel any attack or movement by the enemy , mesleh said .
this area is not within the pmf s remit but it is our duty to back up all security forces .
the pmf is an umbrella grouping of mostly iran-backed and trained shi ite militias that formally report to iraq s prime minister but are separate from the military and police .
sunni muslims and kurds have called on prime minister haider al-abadi to disarm the pmf , which they say are responsible for widespread abuses against their communities .
an iraqi military spokesman confirmed the deployment .
brigadier general yahya rasool told reuters it was temporary , however , and very normal because it was the pmf s duty to back up government forces .
the pmf were officially made part of the iraqi security establishment by law and formally answer to abadi in his capacity as commander-in-chief of the armed forces .
abadi has said the state should have a monopoly on the legitimate use of arms .
iraqi forces on dec. 9 recaptured the last swathes of territory still under islamic state control along the frontier with syria and secured the western desert .
it marked the end of the war against the militants , three years after they overran about a third of iraq s territory .
rasool , the military spokesman , denied backup to the border guards had been late .
the primary responsibility for the borders lies with the border guards and the army , however , said rasool .
he said iraqi forces coordinate with both the syrian army , which is backed by russia , iran and iran-backed shi ite militias , and the u.s.-backed alliance of kurdish and arab militias known as the syrian democratic forces opposed to syrian president bashar al-assad .
he said parts of syria - including many areas on the border with iraq - were still under islamic state control .