debate officials have released the details of monday night s presidential debate between democrat hillary clinton and republican donald trump.this be will the country s first chance to see the candidates go 1-on-1 and answer questions on key issues , including immigration , health care , gun control , abortion rights and foreign policy.here is a look at what to know for the first 2016 presidential debate : what time is the presidential debate tonight ?
the event begins at 9 o clock eastern time and will run 90 minutes.what channel is the presidential debate on ?
the debate will be broadcast on all the major television networks ( abc , cbs , fox , nbc , pbs , telemundo , univision ) and cable outlets ( cnbs , cnn , c-span fox news , fox business , msnbc ) .how can you watch the debate online ?
facebook and twitter will both live stream the event .
so will all the networks and cable news outlets , as well as the daily caller , the huffington post , hulu , politico , the wall street journal , and yahoo.nj.com will be hosting live updates and a discussion.where is the presidential debate ?
clinton and trump will share a stage at the david s. mach sports and exhibition complex at hofstra university on long island , n.y.who is the moderator of the debate ?
lester holt , the host of nbc s nightly news .
who is debating tonight ?
only clinton and trump .
libertarian party candidate gary johnson , green party candidate jill stein , and independent candidate evan mcmullen did not meet the criteria to qualify which was essentially to be at 15 percent in recent national polls .
via : nj.comthe 90-minute debate will be broken into six , 15 minute pods , the commission on presidential debates announced on sunday.clinton s podium will be stage left and trump s podium will be stage right , the cpd said.liars first : clinton will receive the first question .
she will have two minutes to answer and trump will have two minutes to respond.that will be followed by 10 minutes of open conversation and debate.some of the rules were made by agreement between the campaigns and some were decided by coin toss but cpd wouldn t say which ones.the debate will be held before an audience of 1,000 viewers in the hall .
the three largest ticket blocks are going to the two campaigns and hofstra .
the university said they are giving all of their tickets to students , which they say they also did in 2008 and 2012 .
via : nbc news