mumbai ( reuters ) - first he tried messaging friends , but whatsapp was down .
then , the credit card readers at his clothing store weren t working .
ride-sharing apps were offline too .
harsh madhok , who runs a clothing business in jaipur , a city of three million people , had read about internet shutdowns elsewhere in india .
now he was in the middle of one in his city in central india , as authorities tried to damp down unrest following a traffic incident that led to clashes between police and locals .
it s very frustrating , said madhok , 45 , of the sept. 9 shutdown .
these things leave you feeling like you don t know what s going on .
under the rule of prime minister narendra modi , india s hindu nationalist leader , internet shutdowns have escalated sharply in the world s largest democracy .
according to a database maintained by the software freedom law centre , an online advocacy group in new delhi , government officials ordered shutdowns 42 times between january and august in 2017 .
that compares with six times in all of 2014 , when modi first came to power .
this year the shutdowns were spread over 11 states , compared to just one in 2012 .
the disconnections , which state governments have said are necessary for maintaining public order , typically happen without official explanation .
they have followed farmer agitations , protests by a minority community calling for government jobs , and public violence sparked by a facebook post .
the frequency of the shutdowns has raised concerns that internal security is being used as a justification to clamp down on freedom of expression .
that refrain has been heard more frequently since modi s party , the bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) , won elections in 2014 with an emphasis on security .
if citizens are using the internet to mobilize themselves , then how is shutting down the internet any different from suppressing dissent ?
an editorial in mint asked in july .
until this year , shutdowns were implemented under colonial-era curfew laws that were used as the basis for rules requiring internet service providers to shut off connections at the request of any government agency .
in early august , the ministry of communications issued new explicit rules that formalized the power of states and the central government to block the internet .
these rules are among the first of their kind in a democracy , said raman jit singh chima , policy director of access now , a u.s.-based organization that works on technology policy and digital rights worldwide .
how they re used , and their scale - they seem to be creating an architecture where blocking is legitimized , chima said .
what s changed , i think , is that officials have greater knowledge of the power they can utilize , said apar gupta , a lawyer who handles free-speech cases before the supreme court .
other countries , such as egypt , have also used internet shutdowns , and china controls the flow of online information through an extensive firewall .
however , analysts like chima worry about the frequency of the shutdowns in india , which have risen sharply since modi came to power .
from january 2012 the date of the first shutdown recorded by the software freedom law centre ( sflc ) to may 2014 , when the bjp swept out the ruling coalition headed by the congress party , local and federal officials ordered 12 shutdowns .
since modi s election , 89 shutdowns have been ordered , with 74 at the behest of his party or its allies at the central , state and district levels , an analysis of sflc data showed .
so far , the shutdowns have been met with little opposition , apart from frustration expressed by users like madhok over the curtailing of online services .
there s been no outcry about the shutdowns because it s perceived to be for the greater good , said nitin pai , the co-founder of the takshashila institution , a bangalore think tank .
nalin kohli , a national spokesman for the bjp , said the shutdowns were acceptable in cases where rumor-mongering or motivated misinformation could lead to the incitement of violence .
he added : it is not the norm , it is the exception .
in jaipur , the shutdown lasted two days .
but disconnections can last hours , weeks , and even months .
in a june statement , human rights watch said the authorities in jammu and kashmir suspended mobile internet services in the kashmir region from july to november in 2016 .
the office of the un high commissioner for human rights said the restrictions in the kashmir region , where 100 people have died in clashes since troops killed a militant leader in july 2016 , had the character of collective punishment .
in 2016 , gupta , the lawyer , argued before india s supreme court on behalf of a law student who had earlier approached the gujarat high court to restrict internet shutdowns .
the high court disagreed , saying that officials used their powers responsibly .
the supreme court declined to hear the matter , letting the high court s verdict stand .