washington ( reuters ) - a tax plan proposed by republican presidential candidate ted cruz would cut federal revenues by $ 8.6 trillion over 10 years , adding substantially to the debt , according to an analysis published on tuesday by a nonpartisan research center .
cruz 's plan , unveiled in november , would create a flat 10 percent individual income tax that with other changes would mainly benefit high-income households , the study by the washington-based tax policy center found .
( tpc.io/1tocn7m ) other changes include repealing the corporate income tax , as well as payroll taxes for social security and medicare , and estate and gift taxes ; increasing the standard deduction and eliminating most other deductions except for mortgage interest and charity ; and adding a broad-based 16 percent value-added consumption tax .
“ the plan would cut taxes at most income levels , although the highest-income households would benefit the most and the poor the least , ” the tax policy center said .
the value-added tax proposed by cruz , a senator from texas who won the iowa caucuses among republicans last month , would replace only 70 percent of the costs of the tax cuts , according to the center .
cruz is a favorite of the conservative tea party movement who helped provoke a 16-day government shutdown in september 2013 with his opposition to a spending bill .
the goal was to gut the healthcare law known as obamacare .
the tpc analysis noted that high-income taxpayers would see an average tax cut in 2017 of about $ 6,100 or some 8.5 percent of after-tax income , while those with annual incomes over $ 3.7 million would see an average cut of nearly 29 percent , or more than $ 2 million .
“ households in the middle of the income distribution would receive an average tax cut of $ 1,800 , or 3.2 percent of after-tax income , while taxpayers in the lowest quintile would receive an average tax cut of $ 46 , or 0.4 percent of after-tax income , ” the tpc said .
the changes would “ boost incentives to work , save and invest , ” but the lower revenue would require unprecedented cuts in government spending to avoid borrowing that would raise interest rates and discourage private investment , it said .
the tax policy center is a joint venture of the urban institute and the brookings institution , two washington-based think tanks .
it has issued studies of other candidates ’ proposals .
( reporting by eric walsh ; editing by jonathan oatis ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .