london/jerusalem ( reuters ) - in a 67-word statement composed 100 years ago , britain endorsed the establishment of a jewish homeland in the middle east , triggering a process that would culminate in the creation of israel - and with it one of the world s most intractable conflicts .
on thursday , british and israeli leaders commemorated the centenary of that statement , known as the balfour declaration after the foreign minister who penned it , with a banquet in the gilded halls of london s lancaster house mansion .
but as prime minister theresa may and israel s benjamin netanyahu dine , protesters gathered to demand that britain acknowledge the suffering they say the declaration has caused to palestinian people , and recognize their claim to statehood .
the reason it is getting so much attention is because the conflict which it launched ... is still very much in existence and there is a sense , particularly on the palestinian side , of continuing injustice , said ian black , an academic at the london school of economics .
it really is an issue which is alive and toxic and bitterly divisive .
while israel reveres arthur balfour , naming streets and a tel aviv school after him , palestinians decry his declaration as a promise by britain to hand over land it did not own .
the contested declaration is at the root of the israeli-palestinian territorial conflict which , after several wars and decades of international diplomacy , remains unsettled .
marches , each drawing about 1,000 demonstrators , were held in the west bank cities of ramallah and nablus and in gaza , a modest turnout for political protests in those areas .
protesters waved palestinian flags and held banners demanding britain rectify its historical sin .
in gaza , ahmed helles , a senior official from president mahmoud abbas s fatah movement , said : britain should feel ashamed and stigmatized because of this promise and not hold celebrations .
netanyahu met may and foreign minister boris johnson separately before the dinner , which was also attended by u.s. secretary of commerce wilbur ross and other high profile guests .
sadly , balfour remains unfinished business as his fundamental vision of peaceful co-existence has not yet been fulfilled , may said at the dinner according to a copy of her speech distributed by her office .
i believe it demands of us today a renewed resolve to support a lasting peace that is in the interests of both israelis and palestinians and in the interests of us all .
britain held palestine , which had been under ottoman turkish rule , from 1922 until after the end of world war two .
israel declared independence in 1948 , at the end of british mandatory rule and after the u.n. general assembly voted in 1947 in favor of a plan , rejected by palestinian representatives , to partition palestine into an arab state and a jewish state .
the ensuing regional conflict , played out over a series of wars fought along arab-israeli lines , has left the palestinians seeking to establish an independent state in territories captured by israel in the 1967 middle east war .
thursday s commemoration , culminating in the dinner hosted by descendants of balfour and of the recipient of his declaration , jewish community leader walter rothschild , required britain to strike a delicate diplomatic balance .
britain regards israel as a close and important ally and supports international efforts to find a peaceful solution that results in separate israeli and palestinian states .
attempting to strike the right balance , johnson on monday praised the declaration for helping to create a great nation , but he also said the spirit of the declaration had not been fully realized .
he was referring to a clause in the document which said nothing should prejudice the civil and religious rights of existing non-jewish communities .
israel has traditionally focused less on that clause and more on the declaration s landmark endorsement of a jewish homeland , and plans to celebrate the anniversary .
the israeli parliament will hold a special commemorative session next week .
while the state would not have arisen without settlement , sacrifice and a willingness to fight for it , the international impetus was undoubtedly the balfour declaration , netanyahu told a meeting of his cabinet ahead of his visit to london .
israel does not oppose international efforts to make peace , but says - as do international sponsors - that a solution can not be imposed and should stem from talks between the two parties .
some arab lawmakers in the israeli parliament said they would boycott the celebrations , and protests were planned across several days in london by organizations pledging solidarity with the palestinians .
earlier this week abbas used an article in britain s guardian newspaper to reiterate calls for the british government to acknowledge the declaration as a mistake .
the creation of a homeland for one people resulted in the dispossession and continuing persecution of another now a deep imbalance between occupier and occupied , he wrote .
the balance must be redressed , and britain bears a great deal of responsibility in leading the way .
britain has refused palestinian demands for an apology and does not recognize palestine as a state .
johnson said on monday britain would be willing to offer recognition , but wanted to time it to give maximum impetus to peace efforts .