sacramento ( reuters ) - california governor jerry brown announced a deal with legislative and labor leaders on monday to raise the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by 2023 , saying the nation ’ s most-populous state would lead the way toward higher pay for the working poor .
the proposal , which still must gain support from business-friendly moderate democrats , would make california the first to raise the statewide minimum wage to $ 15 an hour - the highest in the nation - while giving the governor the right to opt out if the economy falters .
“ i ’ m hoping that what happens in california will not just stay in california but will be exported to the rest of the country , ” brown said at a news conference in sacramento .
raising the minimum wage has cropped up on many democratic party candidates ’ agendas ahead of the november elections and the issue could help mobilize democratic voters to the polls .
according to the governor ’ s office , 2.2 million californians currently earn the state minimum wage of $ 10 an hour .
the idea of raising the minimum wage , which at the federal level has remained at $ 7.25 an hour for more than six years , has been opposed by republicans and some business groups , who say it would harm small businesses and strain government budgets .
if passed , brown ’ s plan would commit the state , home to one of the world ’ s biggest economies , to raising the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by 2022 for large businesses and 2023 for smaller firms .
it would also head off a pair of competing ballot initiatives championed by labor leaders to raise the minimum wage to $ 15 an hour without allowing the governor to halt increases in bad times , a deal-breaker for brown .
but passage of the proposal is not guaranteed without support from more moderate members of the democrat-controlled legislature .
absent from the press conference was anthony rendon , speaker of the state assembly , where the bill was expected to face opposition .
“ this deal was placed on my desk over the weekend , ” said rendon , who supports the measure but said he was not involved in negotiations over it .
“ i don ’ t know how many folks are in support of the bill or how many are against it. ” democratic presidential hopeful u.s .
senator bernie sanders has called for raising the federal minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by 2020 .
economic consultant christopher thornberg , founding partner at beacon economics , said increasing the minimum wage would not reduce poverty because low paid workers were most at risk of losing their jobs when employers cut positions .
“ these are the people that businesses will say , ‘ if i ’ m going to pay $ 15 bucks an hour , i ’ m not going to hire them , ’ ” thornberg said .
fourteen states and several cities began 2016 with minimum wage increases , typically phasing in raises that will ultimately take them to between $ 10 and $ 15 an hour .