beijing ( reuters ) - threatening action or rhetoric can not help resolve the situation on the korean peninsula , china s foreign ministry said on tuesday , after u.s. defense secretary jim mattis hinted about the existence of military options on north korea .
the north has repeatedly defied the united nations to conduct nuclear and missile tests , the latest being a mid-range missile fired over japan on friday , soon after the reclusive nation s sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sept. 3 .
asked whether there were any military options the united states could take with north korea that would not put seoul at grave risk , mattis said there were , but declined to give details .
developments in the peninsula nuclear issue up to this point prove that , no matter whether it is military threats in words or in action , they can not promote and advance a resolution , the foreign ministry spokesman , lu kang , said .
to the contrary , it just adds to tensions and makes achieving the goal of denuclearization on the peninsula appear more complicated and difficult to resolve , he added , responding to a question about mattis comments at a regular briefing .
seoul is within artillery range of north korea , which is also believed to have a sizable chemical and biological arsenal beyond nuclear and conventional weapons .
any conflict on the korean peninsula could lead to bloodshed unseen since the 1950-53 korean war , which took the lives of more than 50,000 americans and millions of koreans and ended in an armed truce , not a peace treaty .
military options available to the united states range from non-lethal actions such as a naval blockade to enforce sanctions to waging cyber attacks and positioning new u.s. weaponry in south korea , where the united states has 28,500 troops .
south korea and the united states , and separately russia together with china , started military drills on monday , in a show of force against north korea .
the korean peninsula issue must be resolved peacefully , chinese foreign minister wang yi stressed during a meeting with his russian counterpart at the united nations .
chinese president xi jinping and u.s. president donald trump spoke by telephone about keeping pressure on north korea using economic sanctions imposed through the united nations , the white house has said .
( this story has been refiled to reformat paragraph 10 )