mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican front-runner for next year s election , andres manuel lopez obrador , formalized his bid for the presidency on tuesday and promised his government would spend on the young , elderly and farmers .
left-winger lopez obrador , who had a 12-point lead in one recent poll , wants to significantly change mexico s approach to the economy , security and education , vowing more support for the poorest but without new taxes or higher debt levels .
he promised cheap fertilizer and fixed produce prices for farmers with a goal of making mexico self-sufficient in food .
he also offered paid apprenticeships for unemployed youth , grants for students and higher pensions for the elderly - expanding on popular welfare programs introduced when he governed mexico city .
a win by the 64-year-old self-declared nationalist on july 1 could reverse a latin american trend toward right-leaning governments and set the stage for friction with u.s. president donald trump over his anti-migrant language and policies .
lopez obrador promised friendly ties with the u.s. government but said he would not accept racist , hegemonic or arrogant attitudes .
he also proposed a shakeup of government , saying he would move more than a dozen ministries and federal bodies including state oil company pemex from the capital to regional towns .
the federal government will be decentralized , lopez obrador said , in a speech in the capital after registering his intention to run for his national regeneration movement ( morena ) party .
he also promised not to increase fuel prices .
in the clearest language yet , he repeated his intention to consult with victims of drug crime about the possibility of offering amnesty to criminals who commit to rehabilitation .
the only aim , there is no other , is to explore all the possibilities to curb the violence and guarantee peace for the people of mexico , he said .
a poll this week found that two-thirds of mexicans rejected the idea of amnesty , in a country on track for its deadliest year in modern history with nearly 21,000 murders through october .
lopez obrador , who has unsuccessfully run for the presidency twice before , will likely face jose antonio meade , running for the ruling party , and ricardo anaya , who heads a left-right coalition of opposition parties .
he did not say how he would finance his spending plans , but in the past has said all new spending would be funded by ending government corruption and waste .
( this story has been refiled to add meade s full name , paragraph 11 )