president trump gave a powerful speech to arab leaders at the opening of the new global centre for combatting extremist ideology in riyadh , saudi arabia on may 21 , 2017 .
in his historic speech , president trump warned islamic extremists : if you choose terror , your life will be brief and your life will be empty .
trump went on to tell the arab leaders and the entire world , we are not here to lecture and tell you how to live .
we are here to work together to meet one goal and meet history s great test to conquer extremism .
young muslim boys and girls should be able to grow up free from fear , safe from violence and innocent of hatred .
young muslims should be able to build prosperity for themselves .
this will be the beginning of the end for those who fight terror .
this special gathering will one day be remembered as the start of peace in the middle east and potentially all over the world .
watch the clip of president trump telling arab leaders in riyadh and around the world to drive out terrorism from their nations and from their places of worship : it appears that the imams in london were listening after east london mosque and london muslim centre chairman muhammad habibur-rahman boldly announced to muslims everywhere that if they commit acts of terror against innocent people , they will not receive funeral rights in london mosques.british police on tuesday named the final member of the terror trio that murdered seven people on saturday in a knife and van attack before police shot the jihadis dead and the news comes as more than 130 muslim religious leaders were refusing to say funeral prayers for any members of the isis cell.the decision by the muslim leaders was seen as an unprecedented move because the funeral ritual is typically performed on a deceased muslim no matter the person s past actions .
the group of religious leaders have urged others to join them in declining to pray for the dead killers .
we , as muslim imams and religious leaders , condemn the recent terror attacks in manchester and london in the strongest terms possible , the muslim leaders said in a statement .
coming from a range of backgrounds , and from across the u.k. ; feeling the pain the rest of the nation feels , we have come together to express our shock and utter disgust at these cold-blooded murders .
we are deeply hurt that a spate of terror attacks have been committed in our country once more by murderers who seek to gain religious legitimacy for their actions .
we seek to clarify that their reprehensible actions have neither legitimacy nor our sympathy .
east london mosque and london muslim centre chairman muhammad habibur-rahman said the decision was made because those who perpetrate terrorism : you are against the very core teaching of islam and of our prophet muhammad .
your misguidance will lead you to destruction , and god willing you will utterly fail in your evil aims , he said in a statement.the decision underscores a warning president trump issued to the islamic world last month .
speaking in riyadh before the leaders of 50 muslim majority countries , trump told warned terrorists that taking innocent lives would not lead to eternal paradise .
if you choose the path of terror , your life will be empty , your life will be brief , and your soul will be fully condemned , trump said.u.s .
secretary of state rex tillerson also applauded the move .
he said he was encouraged by the imams and said that the decision means they re condemning their souls since the funeral prayer asks for forgiveness of the dead .
and that is what has to be done , he said.youssef zaghba , a moroccan-born italian man , was identified tuesday morning as the final member of the trio that descended upon the london bridge on saturday.mak chishty , the metropolitan police commander of engagement , said , according to the guardian , that it is time for muslims to counter the scourge of terrorism , extremism and hatred that we have in our communities at present .
chishty , the highest-ranking officer in the department of muslim faith , said , it is the islamic duty of every muslim to be loyal to the country in which they live .
we are now asking questions to understand how extremism and hatred has taken hold within some elements of our own communities .
fox news