austin , texas ( reuters ) - among the few certainties in the current u.s. political environment are that immigration will be a flashpoint , abortion will remain divisive and texas will sue the administration of president barack obama .
since obama , a democrat , took office in january 2009 , the most populous republican-controlled state has filed suit against his administration 39 times .
on tuesday , the u.s. supreme court agreed to take on one of the more notable cases and decide the legality of obama ’ s unilateral 2014 action to shield from deportation more than 4 million immigrants in the country illegally .
for texas politicians , suing obama is a badge of honor .
its attorney general ’ s office has an annual budget of more than $ 600 million , more than five times higher than other major republican strongholds such as arizona .
current governor greg abbott sued the obama administration 31 times when he was attorney general .
current attorney general ken paxton , who succeeded abbott last year , has sued eight times .
“ i am enjoying being governor of texas but there is one thing that i miss .
it is that i no longer get to wake up and go to the office and sue the federal government , ” abbott told a conservative forum this month in austin .
no other republican state comes close to the number of such filings and often they join texas-led suits , as happened with the immigration filing that now has attracted 25 other states .
for texas , whose $ 1.6 trillion a year economy is bigger than many countries including u.s. ally south korea , spending on suits against the federal government is comparatively miniscule , at around $ 5.1 million as of december 2014 , the texas tribune reported , based on disclosures it received from the office .
the office is a powerful machine with more than a million legal hours billed to litigation and counseling , according to its budget report .
the attorney general ’ s office of the solicitor general boasts nearly 20 lawyers who specialize in appellate work in venues like the u.s. supreme court , the supreme court of texas and the new orleans-based 5th u.s .
circuit court of appeals .
there is also a litigation division of about 30 lawyers with which the solicitor general can team up and present cases such as the one on obama ’ s executive action on immigration .
texas loses more often than it wins and it has a great deal of litigation still pending before judges that may outlast obama ’ s presidency , which ends in january 2017 .
under paxton , texas has sued the federal government on issues including u.s. environmental protection agency regulations , taxes under obama ’ s signature healthcare law and blocking the resettlement of syrian refugees in the state .
texas is a lead party in the two biggest cases before the u.s. supreme court during its current term , which ends in june .
in addition to the immigration case , texas is defending a state law being challenged by abortion providers that contend the republican-backed statute is aimed at shutting clinics that perform the procedure .
the high court is due to hear arguments in the abortion case on march 2 and is expected to hear the immigration arguments the following month .
“ texas , being an economically and demographically important state , is a natural to take a leadership role if there is a challenge to federal power that a lot of states want to make , ” said matthew wilson , a political science professor at southern methodist university in dallas .
the lawsuits often follow a similar philosophical idea of challenging what texas and other republican-governed states see as an overreach of federal power at the expense of states ’ rights , he added .
“ we don ’ t just represent texas .
you can call it ‘ red state america ’ or ‘ tea party america , ’ but texas is a voice for a lot of those people nationally , ” said chip roy , a top official in the attorney general ’ s office who once served as chief of staff for texas senator ted cruz , a leading candidate for the republican presidential nomination in november ’ s election .
cruz , a former u.s. supreme court clerk , helped bolster his political career when he served as texas solicitor general from 2003 to 2008 .
he ramped up the office under republican former governor rick perry and helped forge challenges to what the state saw as federal overreach .
“ we are proud to have texas leading the charge in defending the rule of law , ” cruz said on tuesday after the supreme court announced it would hear the immigration case .
roy said in an interview the state ’ s leaders and a majority of its citizens want to protect the ideal of governing themselves .
“ it is part of who we are , ” roy said , “ and that actually influences significantly our willingness , and our drive , to push back on washington when we believe they are overstepping their constitutional authority . ”