chicago ( reuters ) - a sexual abuse victim will continue to try to collect $ 1.8 million from former u.s. house speaker dennis hastert , the victim ’ s attorney said on tuesday , after an illinois judge denied hastert ’ s motion to dismiss a breach-of-contract lawsuit .
the plaintiff , identified in court documents as james doe , claims that hastert agreed to pay him $ 3.5 million as compensation for decades of pain and suffering caused by hastert ’ s sexual abuse .
hastert , 74 , the longest-serving republican u.s. house speaker in history , pleaded guilty last year to the crime of structuring , which involves withdrawing a large sum of money in small increments to avoid detection .
hastert has not been charged with or convicted of sex abuse due to the statute of limitations , but at his sentencing hearing in april , he admitted to sexual abuse of boys when he was a high school teacher and coach in his hometown of yorkville , around 50 miles ( 80 km ) southwest of chicago .
hastert was sentenced to 15 months in federal prison , followed by two years of probation and sex-offender treatment .
he is serving his sentence in the federal medical center in rochester , minnesota .
doe filed the lawsuit in kendall county circuit court in northeastern illinois in april , claiming hastert owes him the unpaid portion of a $ 3.5 million deal they verbally agreed to in 2008 .
“ there is no public policy against an abuser agreeing to compensate his victim and the victim seeking to enforce that commitment to compensate him , ” kristi browne , doe ’ s attorney , said in a statement on tuesday .
“ we will proceed now to prove our claim by seeking documents from mr. hastert and others and taking his deposition. ” judge robert pilmer rejected hastert ’ s motion to have the case dismissed on monday and the decision was disclosed on tuesday , according to court documents .
the plaintiff had established a basis for a “ claim for contract , ” pilmer wrote in his order .
hastert ’ s attorney did not immediately respond to request for comment .
hastert ’ s attorney sought dismissal because the contract was not in writing , saying it would be void because doe broke confidentiality by speaking about it , according to court documents doe said he was 14 when he was molested by hastert , a trusted family friend , high school teacher and “ beloved coach ” of the state champion wrestling team in the town of yorkville , illinois , according to court documents .
the next hearing in the contract case is scheduled for jan. 18 .