washington ( reuters ) - one of donald trump ’ s sons appeared along with a white supremacist while giving an interview on a conservative radio show , adding to concerns that the front-runner in the battle to be the republican candidate in november ’ s presidential election is willing to accept support from extremist supporters .
donald trump jr. , who is actively campaigning for his father , gave an interview on tuesday on “ liberty roundtable , ” a conservative utah-based radio show hosted by sam bushman .
during the show he was questioned by james edwards , another radio host whose show “ the political cesspool ” is described by the southern poverty law center , a leading u.s. civil rights group , as “ racist and anti-semitic. ” during the interview , conducted over the telephone , trump jr. talked about what a good father donald trump was and how his campaign is changing the republican party .
“ it ’ s not a campaign anymore , it ’ s a movement , ” he told his interviewers .
( here ) edwards said on his blog on tuesday he would rebroadcast the 20-minute interview on saturday on `` the political cesspool . ''
here the show , founded in 2005 and syndicated by bushman ’ s liberty news radio organization , has featured such extremists as former ku klux klan leader david duke and holocaust denier willis carto .
edwards also said on his blog he had attended a memphis rally for the billionaire candidate as a credentialed media member last saturday .
the trump campaign , asked about an interview in the presence of the tennessee-based edwards , denied any knowledge of it .
the campaign also said it did not know about edwards ’ personal views .
“ the campaign provided media credentials to everyone that requested access to the event on saturday in memphis .
there were close to 200 reporters in attendance and we do not personally vet each individual .
the campaign had no knowledge of his personal views and strongly condemns them .
“ donald trump jr. was not in attendance and although he served as a surrogate for his father on several radio programs over the past week , to his knowledge and that of the campaign , he did not participate in an interview with this individual , ” campaign spokeswoman hope hicks said in an email .
edwards , in an email , directed questions about the interview to bushman , but said in a statement : “ my show , the political cesspool , promotes a proud , paleoconservative christian worldview , and we reject media descriptions of our work as “ white supremacist , ” “ pro-slavery ” and other such scare words .
“ as i clearly wrote in yesterday ’ s article , in no way should anyone interpret our press credentialing and subsequent interview with donald trump , jr. as any kind of endorsement by the trump campaign. ” donald trump won a majority of the states holding nominating contests on super tuesday , accelerating his march to the republican nomination .
he has promised to build a wall on the mexican border , temporarily ban muslims from entering the united states and block syrian refugees because they might be militants , all policies popular with some u.s. right-wing groups .
republican leaders in the u.s. congress on tuesday condemned white supremacist groups after trump earlier failed to disavow support for former klan leader duke , but the leaders declined further comment on trump ’ s white house bid .
house of representatives speaker paul ryan said any republican nominee must reject any group “ built on bigotry ” while senate leader mitch mcconnell said senate republicans condemned groups such as the klan and “ everything they stand for. ” ( reporting by eric walsh ; editing by simon cameron-moore ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .