on august 15 , 2017 , jim murren , ceo of mgm which owns mandalay bay casino and resort , came out with a bold statement of support for hillary clinton s presidential campaign : as a lifelong registered republican , i ve crossed the aisle only a few times in elections past , and almost never at the presidential level .
each time , it was a gut-wrenching decision.but this year it s an easy choice .
i m going to put my country ahead of my party by voting for hillary clinton and by making my first-ever public endorsement of a presidential candidate .
breaking from investigative reporter laura loomer * : exclusive : in this internal memo i have obtained , jim murren , the ceo of mgm resorts which owns mandalay bay resort and casino ( where stephen paddock committed his massacre ) asked employees to donate to cair , a documented terrorist organization , two months ago.murren declared that he d match all donations from his employees to cair , and radical left-wing anti -trump groups like southern poverty law center and adl anti-defamation league .
his wife , heather murren also worked for the obama administration on obama s commission for enhancing national cybersecurity in 2016.when this memo first came out from the mgm ceo to his employees , wayne allen root wrote in the townhall publication about his disgust for a ceo of a major company asking his employees to donate to these radical groups , many of which , are in direct conflict with conservative and christian values.why is the mgm ceo asking his employees to contribute to radical , left-wing organizations ?
why did the killer choose to stay in the mandalay casino ?
why is no one reporting about the fact that the wife of the mgm ceo worked for obama on his commission for enhancing national cybersecurity only one year ago ? what about the fact that receipts that allegedly came from the mandalay casino resort show that there were 2 guests in the room with the shooter and that he actually checked in one day before the date of check-in that s being reported.again , more from investigative journalist laura loomer * : breaking : copies of receipts from the las vegas shooter s room service were posted by mandalay bay resort and casino room service employee tony hernandez armenta .
the receipts confirm my previous reporting that stephen paddock checked into the resort prior to sept. 28 .
the receipts are dated sept. 27 , 2017 , and indicate that there were 2 guests inside the room at the time of service .
my source who works at the mandalay told me paddock s reservation began on sept. 25 , all of which proves that las vegas law enforcement and fbi aren t providing accurate information to the public .
all of a sudden , there s been a shift in the investigation .
there seems to be a new focus on radicalization of the shooter.las vegas sheriff lombardo is now suggesting that the shooter was radicalized and that they are attempting to uncover the source of his radicalization : breaking : sheriff lombardo suggests shooter was `` radicalized '' & authorities attempting to uncover source .
pic.twitter.com/htoixrhvva paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) october 3 , 2017 * laura loomer is an independent journalist and conservative activist .
she was formerly a reporter for rebel media until she resigned in september of 2016 .
loomer can be found on twitter by clicking here .