beirut ( reuters ) - kurdish-led syrian groups plan to attend russia s proposed syria peace talks in the black sea resort of sochi , kurdish officials have said .
the syria peace congress was originally scheduled for nov. 18 but was postponed and the kremlin said on thursday that no new date had been set .
if the invitation is renewed , we will attend sochi and every other meeting that concerns the syrian crisis as representatives of the people s will sihanouk depo , an official of syria s main kurdish party , pyd , told an affiliated website on wednesday .
we are still invited , badran jia kurd , a senior kurdish official , told reuters on thursday .
if the framework for the congress still stands , we will attend , said jia kurd , an adviser to the administration that governs kurdish-led autonomous regions of syria .
it would mark the first time syria s main kurdish groups are brought into peace talks .
although they now run at least a quarter of syria , they have so far been left out of international talks in line with turkish wishes .
before the sochi talks were postponed , the pyd said in november it had been invited and favored attending .
since the conflict erupted in 2011 , the syrian kurdish ypg militia and its allies have carved out autonomous cantons in the north .
the ypg spearheads the syrian democratic forces , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting islamic state militants with washington s backing .
their territorial grip has expanded since joining forces with the united states , though washington opposes their autonomy plans .
turkey views the pyd and the ypg as offshoots of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has fought a decades-long insurgency inside turkey .
last month , turkish president tayyip erdogan s spokesman said russia had told ankara that the pyd would not be invited to the peace talks .
the kurdish groups share enmities with both syrian president bashar al-assad s government and with neighboring turkey .
this week , assad described the u.s.-backed militias as traitors .
on wednesday , in an interview with iran s arabic language al-alam television , syria s deputy foreign minister faisal mekdad equated the kurdish-led forces with islamic state .
there is another daesh called sdf , he said , using the arabic acronym for the militant group that until recently controlled swathes of territory in iraq and syria .
in his interview on wednesday , depo said : any attack from the regime will be a failed venture .