washington ( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie and former business executive carly fiorina ended their presidential campaigns on wednesday , narrowing the field challenging front-runner donald trump in the race for the 2016 republican nomination .
christie , 53 , said in a facebook post he was leaving the race “ without an ounce of regret , ” a day after the combative republican ’ s sixth-place finish in the new hampshire primary raised doubts about his viability as a candidate .
fiorina , 61 , a former hewlett-packard chief executive , said in a facebook post she would suspend her campaign .
the only woman in the republican field placed seventh in new hampshire , one of a series of state-by-state nominating contests for the nov. 8 election to succeed democratic president barack obama .
trump ’ s remaining opponents , most of them mainstream republicans , will likely benefit from their departures , which leave seven republicans from a field that once had 17 candidates .
trump won the new hampshire republican primary by almost 20 points .
the fifth-place finish of u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida , who had hoped to emerge as trump ’ s main rival after a surprise third-place showing in iowa last week , leaves trump without a clear challenger among the so-called establishment candidates .
on the democratic side , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , a democratic socialist , easily defeated former secretary of state hillary clinton in the new hampshire primary .
the victories in both parties by candidates considered outsiders , testified to the sizable share of american voters upset over the slow economic recovery , immigration and america ’ s place in the world and who are willing to shake up washington .
trump , 69 , a billionaire businessman , has a double-digit lead over conservative senator ted cruz of texas in opinion polls for the next republican contest , the south carolina primary on feb. 20 , according to a real clear politics average of opinion polls .
christie poured much of his campaign ’ s resources into new hampshire and had considered a good showing there critical .
he won only about 7 percent of votes on tuesday , despite a pugnacious performance at a republican debate last weekend .
“ christie needed to drop out .
in short , he does not have the money or organization to be viable in south carolina and beyond , ” said monmouth university pollster patrick murray .
“ christie was certainly hurt by trump stealing his ‘ telling it like it is thunder , ’ but christie was also out-organized in the ultimate retail politics state , ” murray said .
sanders courts african-americans trump ’ s victory in new hampshire showed pundits were wrong to think he would quickly self-destruct based on his penchant for insults and imprecise plans for the presidency .
he had lost last week to cruz in the first nominating contest , the iowa caucuses .
ohio ’ s republican governor , john kasich , finished second in new hampshire , followed by cruz , former florida governor jeb bush and rubio .
the odds of trump winning the white house , once seen as an extremely long shot , improved significantly after his victory in new hampshire , online betting site ladbrokes plc said .
trump is now at 9/2 , compared with 7/1 last week , meaning his chances of victory in november are now 18 percent .
clinton still had the best odds of becoming president at 50/50 , ladbrokes said .
on the democratic side , sanders , 74 , courted the african-american vote on wednesday , having breakfast with civil rights leader the rev .
al sharpton at a restaurant in new york city ’ s harlem neighborhood .
clinton , 68 , currently has strong support from black voters , who will be crucial in the democratic primary in south carolina on feb. 27 .
sharpton and obama met at the same restaurant during obama ’ s successful 2008 presidential campaign - a piece of symbolism for sanders as he tries to expand his appeal beyond liberals in the u.s. northeast .
“ my concern is that in january of next year for the first time in american history , a black family will be moving out of the white house , ” sharpton , a baptist minister and television talk-show host , told reporters afterward .
“ i do not want black concerns to be moved out with them .
we must be front and center and not marginalized .
and senator sanders coming here this morning further makes it clear that we will not be ignored , ” he said .
sharpton discussed a spate of police shootings of black males and other issues with the senator .
sharpton said he would not endorse a candidate until he met with clinton .
the congressional black caucus will endorse clinton on thursday and its members will be active in supporting her campaign , the washington post reported , citing u.s. democratic representative gregory meeks of new york , chairman of cbc ’ s political action committee .
clinton has a long history of support for civil rights .
she also has benefited from husband bill clinton ’ s popularity in the black community during his presidency , although that became strained during her fierce 2008 primary battle with obama .
clinton ’ s campaign , highlighting her popularity among black and latino voters , said in a statement on tuesday : “ it will be very difficult , if not impossible , for a democrat to win the nomination without strong levels of support among african-american and hispanic voters . ”