( please note : profanity in sixth paragraph ) by isla binnie rome ( reuters ) - a bloody attack on a journalist has prompted outrage in italy and put the spotlight on suspected links between extreme right-wing politicians and organized crime in a notoriously unruly seaside suburb of rome .
a local vote last sunday in ostia sent the anti-establishment 5-star movement and a center-right coalition to the second-round runoff , but also showed a sharp increase in support for neo-fascist group casapound .
the vote is being closely watched as it is the first since the local government was dissolved two years ago by police , who said city hall - responsible for assigning lucrative beach concessions - had fallen under the influence of organized crime .
ahead of the nov. 19 run-off , reporters from state tv rai went to interview roberto spada , the brother of an imprisoned mobster , who had expressed support for casapound on facebook and had been photographed with the local candidate .
rai broadcast video showing reporter daniele piervincenzi repeatedly asking spada , on the doorstep of his gym , whether his family had supported casapound and if he thought it could change the down-at-heel neighborhood .
i don t give a shit , spada eventually replies , before headbutting piervincenzi in the face and chasing the bloodied journalist with a baton .
casapound s prime ministerial candidate simone di stefano told a news conference the attack was deplorable but said the party would not answer for spada s behavior as he was not a member .
the local candidate said the photo taken of him with spada had happened to be snapped at a neighborhood event .
rai said the blow broke piervincenzi s nose and doctors had told him he would need 30 days to recover .
rome mayor virginia raggi tweeted the video , and wrote : unacceptable spada clan violence ... we will stop crime and extremism in rome .
prime minister paolo gentiloni offered piervincenzi his solidarity for the brutal aggression suffered in ostia , and national police chief franco gabrieli said the incident showed the area still needs substantial work .
a small player on the national stage , casapound won 9 percent of the vote in ostia , where it hands out food to poor and homeless italians , compared with 1.8 percent last time .
casapound s di stefano challenged the judiciary to investigate whether there had been any arrangements by which votes were exchanged for money or favors in ostia , adding his group had won between 5 and 8 percent of the vote in three cities since early last year .
if we had been in some way favored in ostia by a mafia clan , we would have had a boom there and in the rest of italy we would have got 0.4 .
that s not how it is , he said .
spada was detained by police on thursday and a judge is due to decide on friday whether to formally arrest him .