toronto ( reuters ) - canadian police are investigating the mysterious deaths of pharmaceuticals billionaire barry sherman , founder of apotex inc , and his wife honey , whose bodies were found in their toronto mansion on friday .
authorities were conducting post-mortem examinations on saturday and treating the deaths as suspicious .
a toronto police spokesman said that nothing had been ruled out in the probe .
two canadian newspapers reported that police were investigating the deaths as a possible murder-suicide , citing unidentified police sources .
the bodies were found hanging from a railing on the edge of a basement swimming pool , the globe and mail and toronto sun reported , citing police sources .
the newspapers reported that investigators were working on the theory that barry sherman , 75 , killed his wife , hung her body and then hanged himself at the pool s edge .
apotex released a statement saturday saying that the sherman family was disturbed by the reports .
we are shocked and think it s irresponsible that police sources have reportedly advised the media of a theory which neither their family , their friends nor their colleagues believe to be true , said the statement , which was attributed to the family of barry and honey sherman .
we urge the toronto police service to conduct a thorough , intensive and objective criminal investigation , and urge the media to refrain from further reporting as to the cause of these tragic deaths until the investigation is completed , it said .
toronto police constable david hopkinson said police are awaiting post-mortem results and no determinations have been made as to the cause and manner of deaths .
there s a whole bunch of different scenarios here .
we are not ruling anything out , he said .
about a dozen police officers canvassed neighbors for information on the case saturday while a forensics photographer took pictures of the snow-covered estate .
the deaths shocked canada s political , business and philanthropic elite , prompting a flood of condolences from business leaders and politicians including prime minister justin trudeau .
barry sherman was a prominent donor to canada s ruling liberal party , drawing on a fortune that forbes estimated at $ 3.2 billion .
canadian advocacy group democracy watch criticized him last year for involvement in a fundraiser for the liberals while registered as a government lobbyist .
sherman founded generic drugmaker apotex in 1974 , building it into one of the world s largest pharmaceutical makers .
it has annual sales of more than c $ 2 billion in more than 45 countries , according to its website .
he stepped down as ceo in 2012 , but stayed on as chairman .
sherman was involved in a series of lawsuits , including a decade-long battle with cousins seeking compensation over allegations he cut them out of the company that would make him rich .
police found out about the shermans deaths at about midday friday while responding to an emergency call .
authorities have not said who made the call , though canadian media reported the couple s bodies were found by a real estate agent helping them sell their home , which was on the market for c $ 6.9 million ( $ 5.4 million ) .
the real state agent could not be reached for comment .
the shermans , who had four children , were major donors to hospitals , universities and jewish organizations .
honey sherman sat on the boards of several hospital , charitable and jewish foundations , and last month was awarded a senate medal for community service .
she immigrated to canada as a child when jewish immigrant aid services relocated her family shortly after the holocaust , according to a profile of the couple on the jewish foundation of greater toronto s website .