adam kredo of wfb asks the question we all want the answer to : the fact that this information subsequently leaked to the press , i think raises even more questions about why a u.n ambassador over in turtle bay needs to unmask .
samantha power is a longtime obama loyalist but her husband might be the key to all of this ( see below ) .power is believed to have made hundreds of unmasking requests to identify individuals named in classified intelligence community reports related to trump and his presidential transition team , according to multiple sources who said the behavior is unprecedented for an official in her position , according to the washington free beacon.hannity asked kredo how power would ever have the authority to make the unmasking requests , and then asked whether this has ever happened previously to his knowledge .
no , it s truly unprecedented , kredo said .
it s certainly odd , and i think the house intelligence committee , rightfully so , has subpoenaed her to find out what is going on here .
look , it s hundreds of unmasking requests in just the final year of the obama administration .
we ve followed the queen of george soros and here s what we know : in 2005 06 , power worked as a foreign policy fellow in the office of u.s .
senator barack obama.in a 2007 interview , power said that america s relationship with israel has often led foreign policy decision-makers to defer reflexively to israeli security assessments , and to replicate israeli tactics the united states , she explained , had brought terrorist attacks upon itself by aping israel s violations of human rights.power has had her fair share of controversy , specifically after she was forced to resign from the president s 2008 campaign following negative remarks she made about hillary clinton.in an interview with the scotsman during the heat of the 2008 presidential race , power called clinton a monster .
power was soon back in with the obama camp .
her husband is obama s former regulatory czar cass sunstein.sunstein is one scary guy who wanted government to intrude on your privacy : salon reported : cass sunstein has long been one of barack obama s closest confidants .
often mentioned as a likely obama nominee to the supreme court , sunstein is obama s head of the office of information and regulatory affairs where , among other things , he is responsible for overseeing policies relating to privacy , information quality , and statistical programs .
in 2008 , while at harvard law school , sunstein co-wrote a truly pernicious paper proposing that the u.s. government employ teams of covert agents and pseudo- independent advocates to cognitively infiltrate online groups and websites as well as other activist groups which advocate views that sunstein deems false conspiracy theories about the government .
this would be designed to increase citizens faith in government officials and undermine the credibility of conspiracists .
the paper s abstract can be read , and the full paper downloaded , here.sunstein advocates that the government s stealth infiltration should be accomplished by sending covert agents into chat rooms , online social networks , or even real-space groups .
he also proposes that the government make secret payments to so-called independent credible voices to bolster the government s messaging ( on the ground that those who don t believe government sources will be more inclined to listen to those who appear independent while secretly acting on behalf of the government ) .
this program would target those advocating false conspiracy theories , which they define to mean : an attempt to explain an event or practice by reference to the machinations of powerful people , who have also managed to conceal their role .
read more : wfb