brussels ( reuters ) - france , germany and 21 other eu governments signed a defense pact on monday they hope marks a new era of greater european military integration after britain s decision to quit the bloc .
below is a list of dates in european defense cooperation : 1949 - the united states , canada and european countries set up the north atlantic treaty organization ( nato ) , a u.s.-led military alliance .
1950 - the european defence community is proposed as a european alternative to nato to incorporate west germany and create a european army , a joint budget and shared arms .
1954 - the french parliament rejects the european army plan .
belgium , france , luxembourg , the netherlands and britain form the western european union , a common defense group with a shared air force and joint command .
1993 - the eu s maastricht treaty redefines european integration and introduces a common foreign and security policy as one of its goals , allowing european governments to take joint action in foreign policy .
1998 - britain and france agree to common defense in the saint-malo declaration , and london pledges to play a central role in the security and defense policy of the european union .
2003 - the european union launches its first independent military mission outside of europe , operation artemis , with united nations backing , to the democratic republic of the congo .
2004 - the european defence agency is formed to help eu governments develop their military capabilities .
2007 - rapid-reaction forces of about 1,500 soldiers , called eu battlegroups , are formed under control of the council of the european union .
however , they are never used .
2009 - the eu s lisbon treaty strengthens the common foreign and security policy , creating an eu foreign policy chief .
2011 - france and britain lead a campaign to oust libyan leader muammar gaddafi but can not impose no-fly zone without u.s. aircraft , munitions .
2017 - more than 20 eu governments sign a defense pact to integrate military planning , weapons development and operations that will rely on a 5 billion-euro ( $ 5.83 billion ) defense fund .