mexico city ( reuters ) - with a tight general election looming next year , mexican president enrique pena nieto faces a tough choice on whether to pursue a graft probe involving a prominent ally and brazilian construction firm odebrecht .
mexico s top prosecutor , acting attorney general , alberto elias beltran , on friday fired the federal attorney general responsible for electoral crimes , adding fuel to a case that may complicate the president s efforts to shake off allegations of corruption in the run-up to the july 2018 presidential vote .
the dismissal of top electoral prosecutor , santiago nieto , came two days after he accused emilio lozoya , the former boss of state oil firm pemex , and a longtime ally of president pena nieto , in a newspaper interview of writing to him to ask to be declared innocent of funneling odebrecht cash to political campaigns .
in brazil , odebrecht has admitted to paying bribes in several countries in latin america , including mexico .
president pena nieto s party , the institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , has been the dominant force of mexican politics for the best part of a century , but has long been a byword for corruption .
mindful that the issue of corruption has become central to the 2018 election , the unpopular pri has overseen the arrest of various former state governors , but lozoya poses a more difficult challenge , given his proximity to the president .
if they investigate ( lozoya ) deeply , i think it would be the end of the party in power .
if they don t , they stir up more public anger , said paulo diez , an anti-corruption lawyer who has taken on the government in high-profile graft scandals .
four days after becoming acting attorney general , alberto elias beltran dismissed santiago nieto on the grounds he had broken the office s code of conduct for public officials , his office said on friday .
the dismissal was attacked by the conservative national action party ( pan ) and the leftist party of the democratic revolution ( prd ) , opposition parties which questioned the impartiality of pena nieto s government .
santiago nieto told newspaper reforma on wednesday that lozoya s letter was a bid to secure impunity and that odebrecht money had entered political campaigns .
nieto s office confirmed the letter s existence , as well as the investigation into the former pemex chief executive , when contacted by reuters .
lozoya said in a press conference that he is innocent of all accusations and that he did not funnel cash to president pena nieto s campaign .
president pena nieto has also previously denied odebrecht bribes made their way into his party s coffers .
lozoya s lawyer , javier coello , denied his client had written seeking leniency interviews .
coello also shared with reuters a letter sent to santiago nieto , in which lozoya asked to be informed of any criminal investigation into him , and to be called to testify if needed .
that letter did not mention any appeals for clemency .
odebrecht has admitted to u.s. and brazilian prosecutors that it paid $ 10.5 million in bribes in mexico .
details of the payments have not been made public , though in august , brazilian and mexican media reported that lozoya had asked odebrecht executives for bribes in 2012 in return for contracts , citing testimony from odebrecht employees .
on monday this week , attorney general raul cervantes stood down , telling senators his office had concluded investigations into odebrecht .
however , the details have yet to be published .