on february 26 , 2016 , the milwaukee journal sentinel , published an article entitled poverty across wisconsin reaches highest level in 30 years .
the poverty trends were compiled from u.s. census data by university of wisconsin-madison researchers .
between 2009 and 2014 , 13 percent of wisconsin residents were living in poverty , the highest percentage since 1984 .
scott walker took office as governor of wisconsin on january 3 , 2011.the researchers also analyzed a study by the economic innovation group which found milwaukee , the largest city in wisconsin , is the seventh most economically distressed city in america , with 52 percent of the population under economic distress.the researchers also discovered poverty went up in both urban and rural areas of wisconsin , and every educational background.according to the analysis , for those with a high school education , poverty rose from 8.9 percent to 11 percent .
it also rose from 6.6 percent to 8.9 percent among those who had attended some college , and poverty also touched those with bachelor s degrees or more , rising from 3 percent to 3.6 percent .
child poverty also dramatically increased , as did the poverty gap between african-americans and whites while the gap remained flat in most areas of the country during the same time period .
the researchers cited the causes for increases in poverty as the broadening gap in wealth and income inequality , in which the highest income earners experience increases in wealth and income as wages for the working and middle classes remain virtually stagnant.the administration of scott walker certainly hasn t helped the residents of wisconsin .
instead of creating jobs and improving wages for workers , walker has led battles against workers rights , while providing tax breaks to the rich .
massive layoffs in the state have become a regular occurrence .
walker s , act 10 revoked collective bargaining rights for public employees to unionize , and cut their wages by ten percent .
walker has also signed several anti-union bills into law and increased subsidies for corporations while the state s minimum wage remains at the federal minimum of $ 7.25 .
the only people who have thrived in wisconsin since scott walker assumed office is himself and the special interests who support him like the koch brothers .
featured image via wikimedia commons