a 74-year-old woman tasked with opening envelopes sent by miami-dade county voters with their completed mail ballots was arrested friday after co-workers caught her illegally marking ballots , resulting in an unknown but small number of fraudulent votes being cast for mayoral candidate raquel regalado.investigators linked gladys coego , a temporary worker for the county elections department , to two fraudulent votes , but they suspect from witness testimony that she submitted several more.coego , of westchester , turned herself in to the turner guilford knight correctional center on friday morning .
she was charged with two felony counts of marking another person s ballot .
coego was released after posting a $ 10,000 bond.in a separate election-fraud case , authorities also arrested a second woman friday on charges of unlawfully filling out voter-registration forms on behalf of united for care , the campaign to legalize medical marijuana in florida.the miami-dade state attorney s office accused tomika curgil , 33 , of filling out forms for five people without their consent .
she also submitted at least 15 forms for people who apparently don t exist and several forms for people who are dead.police officers arrested curgil at her liberty city home friday morning and charged her with five felony counts of submitting false voter-registration information .
her bond was set at $ 125,000 .
read more : miami heraldhere s another case from texas : a texas woman voted 5 times : a texas woman , who is not a citizen of the united states , was arrested friday for having illegally voted in dallas county five times .
rosa maria ortega , 35 , is presently a resident of the tarrant county jail , where she is being held on a $ 10,000 bond , according to the dallas-fort worth nbc affiliate channel 5 news , which reported : ortega is married to an american and is living legally in this country , but is not a citizen and therefore , not qualified to vote , said harry white , who supervises public integrity and white collar crime investigations for the tarrant county district attorney.ortega applied to vote in tarrant county and acknowledged on the application form that she was not a citizen , white said .
the county rejected her application and notified her she was not qualified to vote.having learned her lesson that only american citizens may vote in texas , she re-applied five months later , this time claiming to be a u.s. citizen .
although ortega never voted in tarrant country , records indicate that she did so five times in neighboring dallas county the earliest in a 2004 republican primary , the latest in the 2014 republican primary.her charges illegal voting is a second degree felony , punishable by a two to 20 year prison sentence .