sydney ( reuters ) - a ninth australian lawmaker quit parliament on wednesday after discovering she was a dual national , the latest casualty in a widening constitutional crisis that has already cost the government its majority .
the resignation of skye kakoschke-moore , one of three senators in the center-right nick xenophon team , over the surprise revelation that she was a british citizen by descent , does not affect the government s position in the upper house .
their advice was extremely surprising to me , kakoschke-moore told reporters in adelaide , after having learnt from britain s home office that her mother s birth in then-colonial singapore in 1957 made her british by descent .
australia s 116-year-old constitution bans dual citizens from holding national office , in a bid to prevent split allegiances .
the crisis , which is likely to ripple even wider in coming weeks as lawmakers are required to prove their status , has already cut a swath through australia s parliament .
the ruling center-right coalition lost its one-seat majority in the lower house after deputy prime minister barnaby joyce was found ineligible for office and expelled by the high court .
another resignation has since weakened it further .
adherence to the dual-citizenship rule , in a country where more than half the population of 24 million were either themselves , or have a parent , born overseas , has only recently come under the spotlight , with the high court adopting a strict interpretation of the law .
in response , prime minister malcolm turnbull ordered all lawmakers to prove they comply with the laws by dec. 5 , and at least one lawmaker besides those who have quit has raised the possibility that she is ineligible .
senate votes from 2016 will be recounted to decide on a replacement for kakoschke-moore .
by-elections set for dec. 2 and dec. 16 , to replace joyce and a lower-house government lawmaker who resigned on discovering he was british , are shaping as crucial for the government s survival .
joyce is expected to retain his seat , internal party polling published by the australian newspaper showed , but former tennis champion john alexander must contend with a high-profile rival in former new south wales state premier kristina keneally .
the government would be reduced to minority rule if alexander lost , forcing it to depend on a handful of independent lawmakers to retain power and pass laws .