washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate marco rubio received boosts monday in his drive to become the mainstream republican alternative to front-runner donald trump , with a string of high-profile endorsements and missteps by rival ted cruz ’ s campaign .
rubio , who eked out a second-place finish in south carolina ’ s primary by fewer than 1,000 votes over cruz on saturday , racked up endorsements from prominent republicans including u.s .
senator orrin hatch of utah , arkansas governor asa hutchinson and former presidential candidate bob dole .
rubio and cruz came out of south carolina with sharper criticism of trump , who swept the southern state with a comfortable margin of victory .
at the same time , the two senators ’ rivalry intensified - and soured .
cruz fired his main spokesman , rick tyler , on monday afternoon over a video that falsely showed rubio dismissing the bible .
tyler had apologized late on sunday for posting “ an inaccurate story ” involving a video purporting to show rubio referring to the bible and saying , “ not many answers in it. ” tyler had retweeted a link to the misleading video and posted it on facebook .
cruz fired tyler the next day , saying his campaign did not question the faith of other candidates .
“ that ’ s why i ’ m asking for rick tyler ’ s resignation , ” cruz said .
the first-term senators from texas and florida are locked in a battle to become their party ’ s alternative to political outsider trump in nevada ’ s caucus on tuesday , the last republican presidential contest before the busy voting month of march .
tyler ’ s dismissal came amid intense criticism of the cruz campaign as dishonest from both rubio and trump .
rubio spokesman alex conant called cruz a “ candidate willing to do or say anything to get elected ” and urged him to apologize .
“ there is a culture in the cruz campaign , from top to bottom , that no lie is too big and no trick too dirty , ” he said .
trump seized the opportunity to pile on cruz , whom he has repeatedly characterized as a liar .
“ wow , ted cruz falsely suggested marco rubio mocked the bible and was just forced to fire his communications director .
more dirty tricks ! ” the billionaire businessman from new york said on twitter .
“ ted cruz has now apologized to marco rubio and ben carson for fraud and dirty tricks .
no wonder he has lost evangelical support ! , ” continued trump , who has derided cruz for failing to live up to expectations he would get solid support from evangelical christians in south carolina .
trump was the big winner in that state on saturday , finishing ahead of rubio by 10 percentage points .
opinion polls show rubio and cruz running close in nevada , and both candidates hope to get a boost going into the contests in a dozen states on march 1 .
super tuesday is the crown jewel in the state-by-state nominating contests to pick the republican and democratic candidates for the nov. 8 presidential election .
rubio on monday also secured the backing of three republican leaders from nevada : u.s .
senator dean heller and u.s .
representatives cresent hardy and mark amodei .
senator hatch said that , unlike many in the republican establishment , he did not dislike trump .
“ i just feel that rubio is the more serious candidate .
and i feel he has the background to be able to really help turn this mess around , ” hatch told reuters .
( additional reporting by emily stephenson , megan cassella , susan cornwell , eric beech ; writing by doina chiacu ; editing by frances kerry and jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .