hong kong ( reuters ) - macau s mostly pro-democracy opposition made slight gains in legislative elections , as critics saw signs of public dissatisfaction with the pro-beijing government after a deadly typhoon battered the asian gambling hub a month ago .
results of sunday s vote announced on monday showed the opposition camp won five seats in the 33-seat legislative assembly , one more than at the last election four years ago , according to local media reports .
macau s political landscape has long been dominated by pro-establishment , pro-beijing and casino industry interests , and critics viewed any improvement by the opposition as an achievement .
only 14 of the legislative seats were directly elected , a far lower proportion than in neighboring hong kong , also a china-ruled former colony , that has pushed much harder and wrested greater democratic freedoms than macau , which returned from portuguese to chinese rule in 1999 .
twelve other seats are indirectly elected in smaller constituencies , while another seven are appointed by macau s beijing-backed leader , fernando chui , making chances of opposition ever gaining a majority all but impossible .
among the winners was 26-year-old pro-democracy activist and outspoken government critic , sulu sou , who becomes the youngest ever macau lawmaker .
sou was one of the young leaders that helped spearhead one of macau s largest anti-government protests three years ago , when around 20,000 people rallied against a bill offering a generous compensation package to outgoing officials .
macau s leader , chui , later withdrew it .
in the past four years , people in macau went through different battles , large and small , sou wrote on his facebook page after his victory .
today , people in macau are using their votes to express their determination for change .
sou couldn t be immediately reached by reuters for comment .
unlike neighboring hong kong , large-scale protests are rare and grassroot dissent is relatively muted in macau , a former portuguese colony which returned to chinese rule in 1999 under a one country , two systems arrangement .
the election took place less than a month after typhoon hato wrought havoc in macau , killing ten people .
the government s failure to warn people of the devastating storm , a lack of preparedness , along with widespread and protracted cuts to power and water supplies drew public anger and exposed macau s inadequate infrastructure .
while the opposition s gain was marginal , critics said the high 57 percent turnout rate and sou s win should be a wake-up call for the government .
it s an ideal result ...
the people came out in greater numbers to support the opposition , au kam-sang , a veteran pro-democracy lawmaker who was re-elected , told reuters .
it reflects the incompetence of the macau government and the aftermath of typhoon hato , au added .
( this story corrects second paragraph to say previous election was four years ago , not five )