baghdad/kirkuk ( reuters ) - the baghdad government recaptured territory from kurds across the breadth of northern iraq on tuesday , making startlingly rapid gains in a sudden campaign that has shifted the balance of power in the country almost overnight .
in the second day of a lightning government advance to take back towns and countryside from forces of the kurdish autonomous region , kurdish troops known as peshmerga pulled out of the long disputed khanaqin area near the iranian border .
government troops took control of the last two oilfields in the vicinity of kirkuk , an oil city of 1 million people which the peshmerga abandoned the previous day in the face of the government forces advance .
a yazidi group allied to baghdad also took control of the town of sinjar .
baghdad s military operation has redrawn the map of northern iraq , rolling back gains by the kurds who infuriated baghdad last month by holding a referendum on independence .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on tuesday the referendum is finished and has become a thing of the past .
addressing a news conference in baghdad , he called for a dialogue with kurdish leaders under the constitution .
kurdish regional government ( krg ) president masoud barzani said the vote for independence won t be in vain .
he did not call for dialogue , but added , kurds have always been against waging wars and have worked in pursuit of peace .
the krg governs three mountainous northern provinces making up the autonomous region .
it has also held a wide crescent of additional territory in northern iraq , much of which they seized after helping drive out islamic state militants since 2014 .
abadi ordered his troops on monday to raise their flag over all kurdish-held territory outside the autonomous region itself .
they achieved a swift victory in kirkuk , reaching the center of the city in less than a day .
the fighting in one of iraq s main oil-producing areas has helped return a risk premium to oil prices .
after months of range-bound trading , benchmark brent crude is now above $ 58 a barrel , up almost a third from its mid-year levels .
oil officials in baghdad said all the fields near kirkuk were working normally on tuesday after the last came under central government control .
kirkuk , situated just outside the krg autonomous region , is the base of iraq s northern oil company , one of the two giant state energy firms that provide nearly all government revenue .
oil minister jabar al-luaibi said baghdad would now try to nearly double the output of the kirkuk oil fields to more than 1 million barrels per day .
the iraqi army advances create a dilemma for washington , which has armed and trained both sides in its successful campaign to drive islamic state insurgents out of iraq .
we don t like the fact that they re clashing , u.s. president donald trump told reporters at the white house on monday .
we ve had for many years a very good relationship with the kurds as you know , and we ve also been on the side of iraq .
so far most of the advances appear to have come unopposed , with kurds withdrawing before government forces move in .
there have been reports of just one serious battle , in the early hours of monday on the outskirts of kirkuk .
the u.s. military said on tuesday it had received mixed accounts of the death toll in that clash , with between three and 11 combatants killed .
the international committee of the red cross said the transfer of control appeared to have taken place with a minimum of fighting , with the number of wounded no higher than in the dozens .
icrc regional deputy director patrick hamilton told reuters that he was concerned roads were closed , especially access to mosul , the former islamic state urban battlefield where hundreds of thousands of people still depend on aid .
in kirkuk , one of iraq s most diverse cities , members of the turkmen ethnic group who opposed kurdish rule celebrated on monday , driving through the streets firing weapons in the air .
by tuesday , the once ubiquitous green , red and white kurdish flag with a blazing yellow sun had vanished from the streets .
u.s.-trained iraqi special forces and local police patrolled to maintain order .
markets , shops and schools were open as normal .
some kurdish families who had left the city on monday were already returning home .
they said thousands of kurdish fighters in convoys formed a long queue in efforts to flee kirkuk towards the kurdish regional capital erbil , clogging the road and making it difficult for civilians to leave .
for the kurds , the loss of territory , particularly kirkuk , which kurdish folklore views as the heart of their homeland , is a severe blow just three weeks after they voted to declare the independent state that had been their goal for decades .
our leaders abandoned us in the middle of nowhere .
our future is dark , said retired kirkuk teacher malla bakhtiyar .
he said he tried to escape on monday but returned with his wife and sons after an arab neighbor phoned , begging him not to leave and assuring him the city was safe .
university lecturer salar othman ameen blamed the kurdish authorities for calling the independence referendum prematurely .
we feel broken now .
the referendum was a catastrophic decision ... our kurdish leadership was supposed to think of the consequences before moving along with independence vote .
now we have lost what we have achieved over three decades .
the setbacks led to recriminations among the two main kurdish political parties - the kdp and puk , which each control separate units of peshmerga .
barzani said political rivals had ordered the withdrawal of kurdish forces from kirkuk , and officials in his kdp accused the puk of his long-time rival jalal talabani of treason for abandoning the city .
talabani , who served as ceremonial iraqi president in baghdad from 2003 to 2014 , died two weeks ago .
his widow denied blame for the fall of kirkuk and said her party had tried to avert the advance through contact with u.s. and iraqi officials .
the advances were a second resounding triumph for abadi , the soft-spoken iraqi prime minister , months after his forces recaptured mosul from islamic state .
abadi had faced threats from iran-backed shi ite armed groups to take matters into their own hands if he did not act decisively to take on the kurds .
if elections were held tomorrow , i would vote with 10 fingers for abadi .
he succeeded in keeping iraq a single state , said adel abdul kareem , a baghdad lawyer .
when kurdish leaders were threatening baghdad , abadi was always smiling .
we did not expect he was hiding a tornado behind this smile .
he proved he was a smart leader , and with his wisdom he won against masoud ( barzani ) with a knockout in the second round .
for the kurds , the loss of kirkuk restores the status quo in place before they seized it in 2014 , which saw their self-ruled region prosper under an iraqi constitution that guaranteed them a fixed percentage of iraq s total oil income .
control of kirkuk and its oil had made it seem more plausible for them to break away ; without it , independence is problematic , since they would be financially worse off than inside iraq with a share of its overall oil income .