baghdad ( reuters ) - arms provided by the united states and saudi arabia to syrian opposition groups frequently ended up in the hands of islamic state , an arms monitoring group that analyzed weapons found on the battlefield said on thursday .
conflict armament research ( car ) said most islamic state weapons were looted from the iraqi and syrian armies .
but some were originally provided by other countries , mainly the united states and saudi arabia , to syrian opposition groups fighting against president bashar al-assad .
these findings are a stark reminder of the contradictions inherent in supplying weapons into armed conflicts in which multiple competing and overlapping non-state armed groups operate , the group said in a 200-page report .
car documented at least 12 cases of weaponry purchased by the united states that ended up in islamic state s hands , either captured on the battlefield or acquired through shifting alliances within the syrian opposition .
most of these items later ended up in iraq , the monitor said .
in one case , it took only two months for islamic state fighters in iraq to get their hands on a guided anti-tank missile the united states bought from a european country and supplied to a syrian opposition group .
all of the items were made in eu states , and in most cases the united states broke contractual clauses prohibiting retransfers by giving the weapons to armed groups in syria .
evidence collected by car indicates that the united states has repeatedly diverted eu-manufactured weapons and ammunition to opposition forces in the syrian conflict .
is forces rapidly gained custody of significant quantities of this materiel .
car said it similarly traced numerous items used by islamic state back to exports from bulgaria to saudi arabia , and that these were also subject to non-retransfer clauses that should have barred them from being supplied to syrian warring parties .
around 90 percent of weapons and ammunition used by islamic state in syria and iraq were made in china , russia , and eastern european countries , car said , with china and russia alone accounting for over 50 percent .
these findings support widespread assumptions that the group initially captured much of its military materiel from iraqi and syrian government forces , the report said .
russian-made weapons used by islamic state in syria outnumbered chinese ones , presumably reflecting russian supplies to the syrian regime , car said .
russia is allied with assad and launched air strikes in syria in september 2015 , its biggest middle east intervention in decades , turning the tide of the conflict in his favor .
on saturday iraq declared final victory over islamic state , which seized more than a third of the country s territory in 2014 .
last week russia declared victory over the group in syria .
car reported last year that islamic state had been making its own weapons on a scale and with sophistication matching national military forces , and that it had standardized production across its realm .
link to the car report : here