washington ( reuters ) - china s ambassador to washington said on monday u.s. president donald trump s state visit to beijing next week was a historic opportunity to boost cooperation between the world s two largest economies , but warned against attempts to contain beijing .
cui tiankai also stressed the urgency of efforts to find a negotiated solution to the crisis over north korea s nuclear and missile programs and warned of a more dangerous situation if tensions between the united states and pyongyang continued .
cui sought to play down differences over china s massive trade surplus with the united states , saying beijing was looking for ways to cut this and he was confident of significant outcomes from trump s nov. 8-9 visit on the trade and economic fronts .
speaking after senior u.s. officials , including secretary of state rex tillerson , outlined an asia-pacific strategy involving greater cooperation between japan , india , and australia in the face of china s rise , cui said relationships should not be seen as a zero-sum game at the expense of another county .
i don t think it will really serve the interests of these countries if their aim is to sort of contain china ...
i don t think anybody would be able to contain china , he said .
cui said washington should not try to interfere in regional efforts to resolve disputes in the south china sea , a vital strategic waterway that china claims , most of which is contested by several asian countries .
maybe it would be better for the u.s. to let the regional countries ... find a way a way of managing the situation .
cui was asked about a call on friday by a senior u.s. state department official for revival of four-way dialogue between the united states , japan , india and australia to deepen security cooperation and coordinate alternatives for regional infrastructure financing to predatory chinese options .
i don t think any attempts to form exclusive clubs in the region ... would help anybody , he said .
when people are saying these things about china , they might just look into the mirror ... it might be describing themselves .
despite the cautionary words , cui said he was sure the summit between trump and chinese president xi jinping would be successful , following on from their first meeting in florida in april .
this is a historic opportunity , he said .
cui reiterated china s call for washington to return to talks , while stressing beijing s willingness to step up pressure on pyongyang through u.n. sanctions .
we are ready to take up more cost and make greater efforts if there are more security council resolutions he said .