hong kong ( reuters ) - named the richest man in china on thursday with a net worth of $ 43 billion , property tycoon xu jiayin is likened by some media to donald trump , having built his fortune on a real estate business that has blossomed under a mountain of debt .
the 59-year-old xu s china evergrande group has a market value of $ 47 billion , although its total debt stands at more than $ 100 billion , an issue that has prompted some wary investors to short the stock .
evergrande , china s second-most indebted company , has now pledged to cut its net debt ratio to around 70 percent by june 2020 from 240 percent and has raised $ 3.8 billion in new funds and exchanged $ 2.8 billion of existing debt this year .
thanks to a boom in the value of chinese property assets , xu s wealth has climbed by $ 30 billion in the past year to top the rich list compiled annually by the hurun report .
evergrande , whose shares have surged 480 percent this year , is now ranked as the country s third-largest developer by sales .
the stock s bull run to record highs accelerated this month , driven by plans for a backdoor listing in mainland china and the announcement of a target to reduce debt .
xu s political stock is also high with the ruling communist party .
he is a member of the chinese people s political consultative conference , the top advisory body .
and the state council , china s cabinet , bestowed on him the title national model worker - one of the country s highest civilian honors .
earlier this year , xu , in his advisory role , proposed measures to alleviate poverty and hailed china s president .
we believe that under the strong leadership of the party central committee with general secretary xi jinping as the core , we would certainly win the battle against poverty , xu said .
xu graduated from wuhan university of science and technology in 1982 , and was awarded an honorary doctorate degree in commerce by the university of west alabama in 2008 .
he founded evergrande in 1996 and listed it in hong kong in 2009 after raising around hk $ 6 billion ( $ 767 million ) in an initial public offering .
acquisition-hungry evergrande , which has developed thousands of middle class homes in china , made headlines in 2010 when it bought the main soccer club in its home town of guangzhou for 100 million yuan ( $ 15 million ) .
in 2014 , xu sold a half stake in the club to china s biggest e-commerce company alibaba for $ 192 million .
alibaba s founder jack ma said at the time that he and xu hatched the deal over dinner and drinks , and wrapped it up in just a few days .
xu came under a less friendly spotlight in 2015 , when australia ordered him to sell his a $ 39 million ( $ 31 million ) sydney mansion as part of a crackdown on foreigners whose buying had contributed to an overheated residential property market .