berlin ( reuters ) - the number of foreigners who qualify to join loved ones granted asylum in germany is much smaller than government estimates , a study showed on thursday , potentially removing an obstacle in coalition talks .
family reunification is one of the most contentious issues in exploratory talks between chancellor angela merkel s conservatives and the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) with the greens , who back a more liberal immigration approach .
all the parties are eager to show the public they are taking measures to prevent a repeat of 2015 when merkel s decision to welcome people fleeing wars and persecution led to the largest influx of asylum seekers in the post-war years .
but a conservative plan to suspend the right to family reunions for asylum seekers with only subsidiary protection from march 2018 could be unacceptable to the greens , who say that would hamper integration .
those given subsidiary protection are given one year visas that can be renewed , because it is deemed their home country is not safe , but do not have full refugee status that would give them the right to stay .
the study by the institute for employment research ( iab ) found that by the end of this year 150,000 to 180,000 spouses and children of individuals granted either full refugee status or subsidiary protection would qualify to come to germany .
this is far lower than an estimate by interior minister thomas de maiziere who has said that for every refugee , one person living abroad is entitled to come to germany .
the refugees are a young group and mainly single , iab said .
only 46 percent of adult refugees are married and only 43 percent have children .
more than 1 million people seeking asylum entered germany in the past two years and the iab estimates that by the end of this year some 600,000 will have been allowed to stay .
after election losses , merkel bowed to demands by her christian social union ( csu ) bavarian allies for a limit on the number of asylum seekers germany accepts .
in doing so , merkel healed a rift between her christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian partners after both lost voters to the far right in the sept. 24 vote - but set up the potential stumbling block to the greens joining a coalition .
the issue of family reunification may not primarily be one of numbers , but rather one of the associated signals that one wants to give both to the domestic population , and to potential migrants , said thomas liebig of the oecd , a paris-based grouping of industrialized countries .
the iab found that 50,000 to 60,000 spouses and children of asylum seekers granted subsidiary protection were entitled to residency in germany .
the study is based on a survey of more than 4,800 adult refugees .
it did not include more than 65,000 unaccompanied minors who have arrived in the last three years and are also entitled to bring in close family such as parents , siblings or children .