united nations ( reuters ) - russia rejected on tuesday a report by an international inquiry blaming the syrian government for a deadly toxic gas attack , casting doubt on whether the u.n. security council can agree to extend the investigation s mandate before it expires next week .
russia vetoed an initial u.s. bid to renew the joint inquiry by the u.n. and the organization for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) on oct. 24 , saying it wanted to wait for the release of the investigation s report two days later .
it has since proposed its own rival draft resolution , which deputy russian u.n .
ambassador vladimir safronkov said on tuesday aimed to enhance the effectiveness of the inquiry and correct errors and systemic problems .
without a comprehensive change it will become a tool to settle accounts with the syrian authorities , safronkov told the 15-member security council on tuesday during a meeting on the report by the u.n./opcw joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) .
the report found the syrian government was responsible for an april 4 attack using the banned nerve agent sarin in the opposition-held town of khan sheikhoun , killing dozens of people .
the syrian government has denied using chemical weapons .
the chemical weapons attack prompted a u.s. missile strike just days later against a syrian air base .
russia is trying to shoot the messenger to cover up for the crimes of the syrian regime , deputy british u.n .
ambassador jonathan allen told the security council .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said there could be no higher priority for the security council than renewing the jim mandate .
diplomats said the united states had amended its draft resolution in a bid to win russian support .
anyone who prevents us from achieving this goal is aiding and abetting those who have been using chemical weapons , haley said .
they are helping to ensure , not just that more women and children will die , but that those women and children will die in one of the cruelest , most painful ways possible .
a resolution must get nine votes in favor and no vetoes by russia , china , the united states , britain and france to pass .
allen told reporters the russian draft resolution has very little if any support in the council and no realistic prospects of success .
the jim had previously found that syrian government forces were responsible for three chlorine gas attacks in 2014 and 2015 and that islamic state militants used mustard gas .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .