dubai ( reuters ) - a purge of saudi arabia s political and business elites briefly dragged down the kingdom s stock market on sunday but prices recovered to close higher as some investors bet the crackdown could bolster reforms in the long run .
the size of the purge - 11 princes , four ministers and tens of former ministers were detained by a newly created anti-corruption committee headed by crown prince mohammed bin salman - raised questions about the stability and predictability of the saudi government .
for foreigners , a major shock was the detention of flamboyant billionaire prince alwaleed bin talal , who as a big investor in top western companies such as citigroup ( c.n ) is known as the international face of saudi business .
local investors , meanwhile , worried about whether a sustained investigation into corruption could turn up scandals in the kingdom s opaque business world , forcing people implicated to sell off their equity holdings .
but many bankers and analysts saw the purge , which replaced the head of the national guard , as a power grab by prince mohammed , designed to remove any remaining obstacles to his authority and assure his eventual succession to the throne .
this , they said , could help the economy by making it easier for prince mohammed to pursue radical reforms that include slashing the state budget deficit , putting more women into employment , lifting a ban on women driving , and selling $ 300 billion of state assets .
this is the latest act of concentration of power in saudi , said hasnain malik , global head of equity research at emerging markets investment bank exotix .
as unprecedented and controversial as it may be , this centralization might also be a necessary condition for pushing the austerity and transformation agenda , the benefits of which very few investors are pricing in .
after initially tumbling as much as 2.2 percent on sunday , the saudi stock index .tasi rebounded to close slightly higher .
shares related to some of the detained people , such as prince alwaleed s kingdom holding 4280.se , sank but most banks rose , a sign of economic optimism .
the purge may increase prince mohammed s grassroots support by tackling corruption , a problem that has long plagued the economy .
it s a populist move that makes sense because a lot of the princes , businessmen and bureaucrats are corrupt , taking kickbacks and being involved in all kinds of shady deals , said bernard haykel , professor of near east studies at princeton university .
a danger for financial markets , however , is that prince mohammed is shaking up business practices and ties that have lasted for decades , a move which could backfire if it triggers an exodus of money and wealthy individuals from the country .
the fact that some of the country s leading business people were arrested will scare the private sector and there might be even more capital flight than before .
and most bureaucrats will now be terrified , perhaps justifiably , haykel said .
many corporate executives expect prince mohammed to persuade or pressure rich saudis to repatriate some of the billions of dollars which they are believed to have transferred overseas for safe-keeping , and which could now help to kick-start the development projects that he plans .
the corruption crackdown may be an initial step in this effort ; the decree creating the committee gave it the right , pending the result of investigations , to seize assets at home or abroad and transfer them to the state treasury .
james dorsey , senior fellow at singapore s s. rajaratnam school of international studies , wrote that prince mohammed appeared to be reacting to growing opposition within the royal family and the military to his reforms and riyadh s military intervention in yemen .
it raises questions about the reform process that increasingly is based on a unilateral rather than a consensual rewriting of the kingdom s social contract .
for many people , however , a unilateral approach is seen as the best chance to push through the reforms .
a chief economist at a big regional bank said prince mohammed s main motive for acting was frustration that reforms were not moving fast enough .
the privatization program , for example , including the planned sale of 5 percent of national oil giant saudi aramco , has been discussed for many months with little action .
now the program may pick up .
the message this should send to foreign investors is it s unwise to bet against mbs , said sam blatteis , chief executive of regional advisory firm the mena catalysts , using a common abbreviation of prince mohammed s name .
when he wants to get things done , he has proven that he can .
this is not a consolidation of power , it s an acceleration .
the wheels of policy-making are moving faster .