baku ( reuters ) - turkey s foreign minister called on wednesday for a lasting solution to the plight of myanmar s rohingya muslims who he said had been living for years in open prisons , ahead of his visit to neighboring bangladesh to discuss the crisis .
president tayyip erdogan , who leads turkey s islamist-rooted ak party , has been fiercely critical of myanmar s treatment of the rohingyas , saying they have been subjected to genocide .
the latest violence began on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked dozens of police posts and an army base .
the ensuing clashes and a military counter-offensive have killed at least 400 people .
after erdogan spoke to myanmar leader aung san suu kyi on tuesday , turkey said it would deliver 1,000 tonnes of food , medicine and clothing to the afflicted northwestern region of rakhine .
around 150,000 rohingyas have fled to bangladesh , where turkey s foreign minister mevlut cavusoglu is due to arrive later for talks on thursday about tackling the crisis .
cavusoglu said he would visit the border region to assess the humanitarian needs there , adding that turkey would also provide ambulances and other equipment .
we will not leave these people alone here .
however , we need to find a lasting solution to the problem in rakhine , he said .
there have been events and cruelties before as well , many people died or had to leave their homes .
i went to rakhine two years ago as well , and they literally live in open prisons covered in mud .
it is unacceptable for people to live under these conditions in this day and age .
suu kyi has faced increasing pressure from countries with muslim populations to halt the violence against rohingya muslims which has prompted their flight to bangladesh .
erdogan , whose wife and a son will accompany cavusoglu to bangladesh , said this week he had spoken to 20 world leaders about the issue , and would press for it to be discussed at the united nations later this month .
turkey has said its state aid agency tika would start the first foreign aid deliveries to rakhine on wednesday .