conservative donors are shaking in their boots over the idea of a trump presidency destroying the republican party , and the last 35 years of their promotion of plutocracy in america .
things have gotten so bad for them in the face of trump s virtually unstoppable campaign , that they are now throwing money at a gop consulting firm to figure out if a late-term independent 3rd party run could be initiated if trump wins the republican nomination.the document , which was supposed to remain confidential , was created by staff at data targeting , which is a right-wing political firm in gainesville florida .
the memo says that it is possible to mount an independent candidacy but [ it ] will require immediate action on the part of this core of key funding and strategic players .
all this research has to happen before march 16 , when inevitably trump is the nominee , so that we have a plan in place , an inside source that was part of the development of the document said .
march 16 is the day after the republican primary in florida , which is winner-take-all for the victor .
marco rubio supporters are hoping that they can win this one to halt trump s so far unstoppable momentum .
as it is now , rubio s prospects for this are growing dimmer by the day .
the latest real clear politics poll shows trump at 40.3 to rubio s 20.8 .
it will be almost impossible for rubio to beat trump in his home state at this rate.the process of creating a third-party independent to run is not going to be easy .
the candidate would need to gather over 79,900 petition signatures in texas by may 9 , and 89,000 in north carolina by june 9 .
while this is possible in the time allotted , finding some relative unknown and suddenly propping him or her up as the great white hope of the republican party will be met with jeers by many .
as dumb as republican voters may be , they aren t going to suddenly start voting for a corporate funded nobody.texas and north carolina have been pegged as the litmus test due to texas s 38 electoral votes being a necessity for any republican win , and north carolina s status as a swing state that leans republican .
a failure in these states for a third-party candidate would make it nearly impossible for a 3rd party win.it s possible that the third-party candidate could still run , in an effort to simply prevent a trump presidency at the cost of letting the democrats retain control .
a trump nomination is going to be embarrassing enough for republicans .
an actual trump presidency would possibly damage the party permanently beyond repair .
it s only a theory , but if it came down to destroying the party or waiting at least 4 more years , they will take the latter.featured image via youtube