berlin ( reuters ) - wary of renewing a coalition with conservative chancellor angela merkel , germany s social democrats are instead contemplating a so-called cooperation arrangement that would see them agree on a minimal program but leave contested matters up for debate .
with talks on a new government starting on wednesday , the cooperation suggestion is seen by some in the party as an answer to the dilemma of a centre-left party that fears sharing power with conservatives blurs its identity in voters minds .
social democrat leader martin schulz said he would lead the spd into opposition after a disastrous showing in september s national election , but was forced to reconsider after merkel s attempts at forming a three-way government collapsed , leaving europe s economic powerhouse without a new government .
but spd members and lawmakers are reluctant to sign up for a simple repeat of the four-year merkel-led grand coalition , after which voters rewarded the junior partner with its worst-ever post-war election result .
in a paper seen by reuters on tuesday , lawmaker matthias miersch , leader of the spd s parliamentary left caucus , suggested the two parties agree to cooperate on a minimal program while leaving other matters open .
the idea , under which the spd would contribute ministers to a merkel-led cabinet , would allow the party to support merkel s conservatives in areas where both parties were in agreement but leave other areas subject to ad hoc haggling between parliamentary parties .
all options were discussed , said an spd spokesman of an spd parliamentary caucus meeting on monday .
no single model was settled on .
under miersch s proposal , the two blocs would agree a common program in areas of broad agreement like house-building , a european investment program and climate policy .
they would also agree which party provided which ministry .
in some areas , including passing a budget and european and foreign affairs , the parties would agree always to seek a consensus , while in others they would agree to disagree , potentially seeking ad hoc majorities for their own measures from other parliamentary parties .
the proposal could help win over party faithful , who must give their blessing to any spd participation in a future government .
but it is far from a done deal , with some of the spd s own leadership believing early elections were better , party officials said .
merkel s own bloc has been clearer .
i have no interest in half-agreements with the spd , said julia kloeckner , vice-chair of merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) .
either you want to govern or you don t. having all the ministerial jobs but no full government responsibilty is cherry picking .
you can t be a little bit pregnant , she tweeted .