update on the redskins battle with the feds : alexandria , va. ( ap ) a federal judge has ordered the patent and trademark office to cancel registration of the washington redskins trademark , ruling that the team name may be disparaging to native americans.the ruling wednesday by judge gerald bruce lee affirms an earlier finding by an administrative appeal board.in his 70-page ruling , lee emphasized that the organization is still free to use the name if it wishes the team would just lose some legal protections that go along with federal registration of a trademark.the team had sued to overturn a ruling against it by the trademark trial and appeal board .
the team argued that cancellation of its trademark infringed on its free-speech rights because it required the government to judge whether the name is offensive.the organization can appeal.via : scrippsmediathe left is holding hostage new construction of the washington redskins stadium for a petty desire to get their way .
demanding a name change from the redskins to something they consider more pc is total bs .
the american indians who have already responded in favor of keeping the team name understand the name isn t offensive and understand the history behind the name .
this is just more of obama s effort to cleanse our nation of anything he deems offensive.efforts to lure the washington redskins back to the district have come up against a potentially insurmountable challenge : the obama administration s objections to the team s name.interior secretary sally jewell told d.c. mayor muriel e. bowser this spring that the national park service , which owns the land beneath robert f. kennedy memorial stadium , was unlikely to accommodate construction of a new stadium for the redskins unless the team changes its name.jewell oversees both national park land and america s trust and treaty relationships with native american tribes.her decision not to extend the district s lease of the rfk land badly hinders bowser s bid to return the redskins to d.c. and boosts efforts to lure the team across the potomac to northern virginia.since joining the obama administration two years ago , jewell has repeatedly echoed the president s concern that the name is offensive to native americans .
last fall she called the name a relic of the past that should be changed .
personally , i think we would never consider naming a team the blackskins or the brownskins or the whiteskins .
so , personally , i find it surprising that in this day and age , the name is not different , jewell told abc news.jewell reiterated that position with bowser ( d ) at an april 27 meeting , telling the mayor that she was unlikely to rework the lease terms for a stadium in part because of the team s name , according to a department of the interior spokeswoman , jessica kershaw.team owner daniel snyder , who insists that the moniker honors native americans , has vowed never to change it.bowser , jockeying with virginia gov .
terry mcauliffe ( d ) to land the team s new stadium , had inquired with park service officials about extending the district s lease for the rfk property to allow for a new stadium .
extending the lease would also require congressional action .
[ tug of war for new redskins stadium is complicated by name debate ] jewell did mention in that meeting that she was uncomfortable with the name , kershaw said .
the president has said something similar , that he is uncomfortable with the name , and she clearly clarified that position .
read more : wapo