it s come to this legal citizens are being pushed aside for the refugee invaders .
sweden began to import refugees decades ago and now has a reputation for being a failed experiment in multiculturalism .
yes , sweden is now the rape capital of the world .
say goodbye to sweden a local family in the swedish city of liding has been ordered by the government to leave their home so that it can be given to migrants arriving from a foreign country.father of two teenage boys uffe rustan received a voicemail from his local municipality telling him he would need to vacate the property by august in order to make way for asylum seekers from the middle east .
i was evicted from my home over the phone .
when i asked for the reason , he said that people come from other countries .
he left the news and basically just said have a nice weekend , rustan told a newspaper.rustan lives with his teenage sons rasmus ( 15 ) and linus ( 17 ) , all of whom were born in liding .
he rents the home from the city and has been living in it for less than a year .
it feels like i m worthless , even though i pay taxes and my kids go to school here .
you can not put a family on the streets for another family , said rustan .
just when it starts to feel like home , we are evicted .
rustan said that the news was depressing and wondered why native swedes were being treated worse than migrants arriving in the country for the first time .
despite suffering from a housing shortage , sweden is handing over property to economic migrants , with some politicians even encouraging citizens to give up their garages to asylum seekers .
sweden is not the only european government that is turfing its own citizens out of social housing to accommodate the influx of muslim migrants .
while migrants are in some cases enjoying all the comforts of good quality hotels , low income germans are being ordered to leave their homes .
as the telegraph reported , germans are beginning to receive notices of eviction to make way for asylum seekers.read more : infowars