washington ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump has gone on twitter to lambaste a number of companies for cost over-runs , or high prices , or foreign manufacturing .
but reuters interviews with executives and lobbyists who met with him at the white house reveal a trump who is very different from his uncompromising and demanding @ realdonaldtrump twitter handle .
here are some of the examples to illustrate the difference in tone : what he tweeted about automakers : jan. 3 - general motors is sending mexican made model of chevy cruze to u.s. car dealers-tax free across border .
make in u.s.a. or pay big border tax !
jan. 5 - toyota motor said will build a new plant in baja , mexico , to build corolla cars for u.s. no way !
build plant in u.s. or pay big border tax .
what he told automakers at jan. 24 white house meeting : “ we ’ re reducing taxes very substantially and we ’ re reducing unnecessary regulations .
we are going to make the process much more simple for the auto companies and for everybody else that wants to do business in the united states. ” what he tweeted about manufacturers : dec. 2 - rexnord of indiana is moving to mexico and rather viciously firing all of its 300 workers .
this is happening all over our country .
no more !
dec 6 - boeing is building a brand new 747 air force one for future presidents , but costs are out of control , more than $ 4 billion .
cancel order !
dec. 12 - lockheed martin : the f-35 program and cost is out of control .
billions of dollars can and will be saved on military ( and other ) purchases after january 20th .
what he told manufacturers at jan. 23 white house meeting : “ we ’ re going to be cutting regulation massively ...
the problem with the regulation that we have right now is that you can ’ t do anything. ” what he tweeted about drugmakers : march 7 - i am working on a new system where there will be competition in the drug industry .
pricing for the american people will come way down !
what he told drugmakers on jan. 31 white house meeting “ we ’ re also gon na be streamlining the process , so that , from your standpoint , when you have a drug , you can actually get it approved if it works , instead of waiting for many , many years . ”