this is not just a win for the alt-right or for the republican party , this is a win for america .
american voters are about to prove that it s possible for an outsider who loves his country so damn much , that he s willing walk away from a multi-billion dollar business and essentially trade down his glamorous nyc and palm beach estates , can and will win the most coveted prize for career politicians .
for many of us , the idea of donald j. trump beating the odds-on favorite sociopathic liar , hillary clinton and her serial rapist husband , is a victory we could have never imagined only one year ago .
we ve watched donald trump interview candidates for top jobs in his company for years on his apprentice tv show .
he knows how to pick a winner because he knows precisely what it takes to be a winner .
after 8 long years of being kicked around and humiliated by iran , russia , iraq , north korea and china , american voters are ready for a leader to represent us , someone who gives us hope that america can , and will win again .
of course the idea of winning , or being the best at something is triggering liberals in the media to pack their suitcases and head for a more mediocre environment , one where the idea of making america great again is mocked and ridiculed .
to the whiny , mediocre liberals we say , so long lefties !
we can never make america great again if half the nation believes we need to be sorry for our successes .
so don t let the door hit ya where the good lord split ya .and oh yeah , don t forget to come back and visit when you or a family member needs quality health care .
give us a couple of years to fix this obamacare mess we ll be waiting if donald trump does sack the fortress , no one who lost the battle will want to admit it was hillary clinton s fault .
it will have had nothing to do with , say , transparency or calling bearded villagers deplorables or the iraq war vote or the simple fact that middle-of-the-road clintonism ran out of gas as a public philosophy.no , other individuals , groups and forces will have to be blamed .
in fact , they already are , pre-emptively .
if trump wins , we re all going to be too busy moving to canada to read the postmortems ( or write them ) , so we offer them to you now:1 .
the media everyone s pi ata .
trump will blame the media .
gary johnson will blame the media .
jill stein will blame the media .
( the media will ask , wait , which one was jill stein ?
) 2 .
the russians are coming actually , they arrived long ago and got into her phone.3 .
millennials ugh .
f * * cking idealists , right ? 4 .
bernie sanders remember when people worried that running unopposed in the primary would hurt clinton ?
it s going to be an endless wail about how sanders should have withdrawn sooner.5 .
bill clinton you know how this will go down : best campaigner of all time and he couldn t close the sale .
he lost his mojo.6 .
sexists ugh .
f * * cking glass ceiling.7 .
obama people if they could delete all of david axelrod s tweets , they would.8 .
james comey he might as well have indicted her for real , like he did in the court of public opinion .
extremely careless.9 .
debbie wasserman schultz and the dnc her soviet-style approach to boosting clinton was something that hillary s campaign was happy to countenance .
but the former dnc chair should have left room for dissent rather than let it bottle up .
huffington postplease note that nowhere on this list will you find the real reason the democrats lost .
and no , it s not hillary it s actually the american voters desire to be great again period .