yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar authorities have found 10 bodies buried in a mass grave on the edge of a village in rakhine state , the military-run newspaper myawady reported on tuesday , a day after the army said it had launched an investigation at the site .
about 650,000 rohingya muslims have fled from rakhine state and sought refuge in neighboring bangladesh in recent months after a violent crackdown there by myanmar security forces in response to attacks by militants .
rights monitors have accused troops of atrocities , including killings , mass rape and arson during the crackdown .
the united states has said it amounted to ethnic cleansing .
the myanmar military has said its own internal investigation had exonerated security forces of all accusations of atrocities .
a team including police , a local administrator , judge and doctor had examined the grave site , at the village of inn din , about 50 km ( 30 miles ) north of the state capital sittwe , on tuesday and discovered 10 unidentified bodies , myawady said .
this group is continuing the process of investigation to uncover the truth , the report said .
military officials were not immediately available for further comment .
the discovery of a mass grave near a cemetery in the village was announced in a statement on the army commander-in-chief s official facebook page on monday .
the village is in maungdaw township , one of the areas worst affected by the violence that has prompted the united nations top human rights official to allege that myanmar s security forces may have committed genocide against the rohingya .
myanmar s armed forces launched what they termed clearance operations in northern rakhine , where many of the stateless muslim minority lived , after rohingya militants attacked 30 police posts and an army base on aug. 25 .
myanmar s civilian leader , aung san suu kyi , has faced fierce international criticism for failing to do more to protect the rohingya .
the civilian government , which has no control over the military , has said the army was engaged in legitimate counter-insurgency operations .
it has promised to investigate allegations of abuses in rakhine if it is given evidence .