it s hard to imagine a president who could be more anti-american and more pro-terror than barack hussein obama .
and then my mind drifts to hillary and benghazi the obama administration is emptying the military s guantanamo bay detention facility of avowed terrorists captured fighting in afghanistan and iraq , but several american service members languish in another military prison for actions on those same battlefields that their supporters say merit clemency , if not gratitude.among the prison population at fort leavenworth , in kansas , are remaining members of the so-called leavenworth 10 , convicted service members doing terms ranging from 10 to 40 years for heat-of-the-battle decisions their supporters say saved american lives .
[ quote_box_center ] the very people who protect our freedoms and liberties are having their own freedoms and liberties taken away , said retired u.s. army col. allen west , a former congressman and political commentator .
i think it s appalling and no one is talking about this issue .
[ /quote_box_center ] the leavenworth 10 is the name given to a fluctuating number of men housed at leavenworth for actions in iraq and afghanistan that their supporters say were justified .
over the years , a handful have been paroled , and more have been incarcerated.among the more well-known cases is that of army first lt. clint lorance , who is serving a 20-year sentence for ordering his men to shoot two suspected taliban scouts in july 2012 in the kandahar province of afghanistan .
lorance had just taken command of the platoon after the prior leader and several others were killed days before .
the taliban suspects were on motorcycles and matched descriptions given by a pilot who flew over the area earlier and spotted them as scouts.a facebook page devoted to lorance s case has drawn more than 12,000 likes , and supporters have launched a website , freeclintlorance.com , dedicated to winning his release .
a whitehouse.gov petition calling for lorance to be pardoned garnered nearly 125,000 signatures , but the white house has not taken action.critics say lorance was given a military trial , and his conviction was based in large part on the testimony of men serving under him.it was september of 2010 when sgt .
derrick miller of maryland , on a combat mission in a taliban-held area of afghanistan , was warned the unit s base had been penetrated .
an afghan suspected of being an enemy combatant was brought to miller for interrogation and wound up dead .
miller claimed the suspect tried to grab his gun and that he shot him in self-defense .
but he was convicted and sentenced to life in prison.u.s .
army master sgt .
john hatley a highly decorated , 20-year vet who served in operation desert storm and did another three tours during the iraq war also is serving a life sentence at leavenworth .
his conviction stems from an april , 2007 , incident in iraq in which he and his unit captured enemies following a firefight .
he radioed a u.s. detention facility to notify officials he was bringing in four prisoners , but was ordered to let them go , according to his legal team.two years later , a sergeant who had served with hatley , jesse cunningham , was facing charges for assaulting another officer and falling asleep at his post .
as leverage for a plea deal , he told investigators that hatley and two other officers had taken the insurgents to a remote location , blindfolded them and shot each in the back of the head .
he claimed their bodies were dumped in a canal , though none was ever found.hatley , now 47 , insists he and his men let the insurgents go , but believes he was punished in the interest of the government s relations with baghdad .
when concerns over appeasing a foreign country are allowed to interfere with justice for the purpose of the u.s. government or the military demonstrating that we , the military or the u.s. government will hold our soldiers accountable using a fatally flawed military judicial system , it doesn t matter what the truth is ; it matters only that there is only the appearance of the truth , he wrote in a message to supporters posted on freejohnhatley.com.law experts say military service members face a daunting task once accused of committing crimes in the heat of war .
killing on the battlefield is not the same as [ a police officer ] killing someone on the streets , dan conway , an attorney who specializes in military law , told foxnews.com .
when a cop uses force , there s a line of duty investigation .
when a soldier uses force , it is investigated as criminal , and non-infantry investigators handle the case , many who have no combat experience .
if you had experts handling the investigation , you d have much more balance , he added.while the military rightly holds its soldiers to a high standard of justice , detainees housed at guantanamo bay have been freed even with no mitigating circumstances or reasonable belief of rehabilitation .
the release of gitmo detainees began during the presidency of george w. bush in 2005 when nearly 200 detainees were released before any tribunals were held.according to a march 2015 memo released by the office of the director of national intelligence , of the 647 detainees transferred or released , 17.9 percent were confirmed of re-engaging in extremist activity with another 10.7 percent suspected of doing the same .
via : fox news