johannesburg ( reuters ) - a senior official in south africa s ruling anc said on wednesday the party must act against those involved in corruption , and that the issue was damaging its image .
zweli mkhize , seen as a potential candidate to replace president jacob zuma as african national congress head at a party conference in december , made the remarks at a mining conference in johannesburg .
mining executives , bankers and investors have all expressed growing concern about governance in africa s most industrialized economy .
zuma , who must step down after a general election in 2019 , is the focus of numerous corruption allegations , making the issue a touchstone for those keen to rid the anc of his influence .
many of the allegations are linked to a slew of leaked emails , which reuters has not independently verified , that point to the gupta family , business friends of zuma s , using their influence to secure lucrative state contracts for their companies .
zuma and the guptas have consistently denied allegations of wrongdoing .
as a party , we should act on those who are involved ... those emails have come with a lot of revelations , mkhize , a straight-talking medical doctor , told the conference .
zuma is also under pressure to establish a commission of inquiry based on a report released last year by an anti-graft watchdog into allegations that brothers ajay , atul and rajesh gupta swayed the appointment of ministers .
if there is a proper judicial commission of inquiry , we should be able to put this issue to rest .
this is one of the major issues inside the anc , said mkhize , a member of the anc s top six leadership group .
mkhize said the graft allegations around the guptas - widely referred to in south africa as state capture - were a concern to the anc because of their effect on the image of the organization .
we do not have something that indicates that the anc itself is captured , he told reuters .
mkhize told the mining executives that the anc was concerned about tensions between the industry and the mining ministry .
the sides are locked in a bitter legal battle over revisions to an industry charter , which include raising the level of shares that blacks should own in mining companies .
mkhize has said he is available to be a candidate for the presidency if anc branches choose him .
speaking to reuters on the sidelines of the conference , he said it was too early to gauge his level of support .
the frontrunners are former cabinet minister nkosazana dlamini-zuma , zuma s ex-wife and preferred successor , and deputy president cyril ramaphosa , who has also spoken out strongly against corruption .
analysts have said mkhize , who hails from kwa-zulu natal , zuma s home province , could emerge as a compromise candidate .