toronto ( reuters ) - canada has to take a gradual approach to boosting immigration , with the government concerned about anti-immigrant sentiment and the country s capacity to integrate newcomers , a minister said on thursday .
canada s new three-year immigration plan , unveiled on wednesday , will see it increase its immigration intake by 13 percent over three years to help meet the needs of an aging population .
but the increase is below that recommended by a government advisory council in 2016 , which had wanted the figure to rise by 50 percent over five years .
it s easy to bring somebody in , it s another thing to make sure they succeed in canada , immigration and refugee minister ahmed hussen said by telephone from ottawa .
canada s immigration system focuses on bringing in skilled workers , but has struggled to connect them with job opportunities in keeping with their skills and credentials .
the immigration minister , himself a former refugee from somalia , said bringing newcomers to canada was only half of the job , and that supports were needed to ensure they integrated well into society .
canada has resettled more than 40,000 syrian refugees since 2015 and seen more than 15,000 asylum seekers walk across its border with the united states this year , with many saying they fear a u.s. immigration crackdown .
many of the latter group have gone to quebec , sparking an anti-immigrant backlash in the french-speaking province .
the military set up a tent encampment to house asylum seekers while they are processed .
both hussen and canadian prime minister justin trudeau say they are wary of anti-immigrant sentiment in canada .
i think in canada we re lucky that , broadly speaking , we have support ( but ) it s not consensus , there are people who oppose immigration , hussen said .
canada isn t some magical place that doesn t have worries about immigration , worries about security , worries about division and intolerant minds , trudeau said at a toronto conference on thursday .
trudeau made international headlines in january with tweets touting canada s welcome of refugees , coinciding with u.s. president donald trump s first travel ban .
but two years after mobilizing the country to bring in syrians , the canadian government is dialing down its involvement .
about 30 percent of resettled refugees in the next three years will be government-sponsored , compared with 46 percent in the previous three years .
look , we can t take every refugee from the world , hussen said .
what we can do is we can play our part .
hussen said canada offered to resettle some of the more than 600,000 rohingya refugees who have fled their homes in myanmar for neighboring bangladesh , but was told by the united nations high commission on refugees that was not necessary .
jean-nicolas beuze , the unhcr s canadian representative , said the agency is focused on providing for the immediate needs of rohingya refugees , with an eventual return to their homes in myanmar as the best solution .
canada s three-year immigration plan would see immigration rise by 40,000 to 340,000 people annually in 2020 .
that is below an increase to 450,000 by 2021 recommended by the advisory council , to offset an aging population and strains on the social safety net .