ankara ( reuters ) - turkey s measures against northern iraq will not target civilians and instead focus on those who organized the referendum on kurdish independence , turkish prime minister binali yildirim said on friday .
the comments appeared to back-track from those of president tayyip erdogan , who warned this week that iraqi kurds would go hungry if ankara halted the flow of trucks and oil across the border .
iraqi kurds overwhelmingly backed independence in the historic referendum on monday , defying neighbors , including turkey , who fear the vote could renew regional conflict .
in no way we will make the civilian residents there pay the price of the referendum , yildirim said in a speech in the northwestern turkish province of canakkale .
all the measures we will take will be against those who took the decision to hold the referendum .
ankara has vowed economic , security and political steps , but has so far specified little action .
in the immediate aftermath of the vote , erdogan said it could stop the flow of trade across the border , warning that kurds would go hungry .
( they ) will be left in the lurch when we start imposing our sanctions , he said in a speech on tuesday .
it will be over when we close the oil taps , all ( their ) revenues will vanish , and they will not be able to find food when our trucks stop going to northern iraq .
hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil a day flow across turkey along a pipeline from northern iraq , connecting the region to global oil markets .
iraq , including the kurdish region , was turkey s third-largest export market in 2016 , with exports totaling $ 8.6 billion .
economy minister nihat zeybekci said on friday there were currently no obstacles for exports to iraq .
turkey has the region s largest kurdish population and is fighting a three-decade-old insurgency in its largely kurdish southeast .
it fears the referendum will inflame separatist tensions at home .
the turkish military killed three kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) militants in a clash in northern iraq near the border with turkey on thursday evening and one turkish soldier was killed , security sources said .
they said four turkish soldiers were wounded in the firefight in the kanimasi area of iraq s dohuk district , across the border from turkey s cukurca district .
the clash occurred as turkish and iraqi troops held military exercises some 100 km ( 60 miles ) to the west at the habur border gate , part of coordinated steps by the two countries in response to the independence referendum .
turkish soldiers have for years been deployed in various parts of northern iraq , including at kanimasi , to prevent pkk militants crossing the border into turkey , security sources say .
commanders of the pkk , which is designated a terrorist group by turkey , the united states and european union , are based in the mountains of northern iraq .
turkish warplanes frequently carry out cross-border air strikes against pkk targets there but reports of clashes on land are rare .
more than 40,000 people have been killed in the conflict since the pkk launched its separatist insurgency in 1984 .