( reuters ) - pennsylvania governor tom wolf is expected to unveil his proposal for the state ’ s 2017 budget on tuesday even though state lawmakers have yet to fully agree on the current spending plan that has languished half-baked as political acrimony has escalated .
the state still has only a partial $ 23.4 billion emergency budget in place nearly a year after wolf made his 2016 budget proposal the first time , for $ 29.9 billion .
wolf , a democrat , had said he would support a negotiated budget of $ 30.8 billion , but state house republican leaders scuttled it at the last minute in december .
“ it ’ s a gigantic cloud hanging over this year ’ s process , ” said christopher borick , associate political science professor at muhlenberg college in allentown , pennsylvania , of the impasse and partial budget .
the incomplete deal , which wolf called “ garbage ” and a “ ridiculous exercise in budget futility ” before stripping it down and signing it in december , was hammered out after school districts across the state threatened to close because of the lack of funding .
one question now is whether wolf will use that tone , or a more conciliatory one , during tuesday ’ s budget address .
“ wolf is committed to his agenda .
i think he believes it ’ s the right thing to do , ” said g. terry madonna , public affairs professor at pennsylvania ’ s franklin & marshall college .
wolf took office in january 2015 pledging to restore education funding , to be paid for in part with a tax on natural gas extraction .
he has already said his new budget will include $ 200 million of additional funding for k-12 public schools , on top of the $ 377 million increase proposed in the now-defunct compromise budget that senate republicans had supported .
but while wolf may view his clear win in 2014 over incumbent republican governor tom corbett as a mandate from voters , republicans can point to how they increased their majorities in both houses of the state legislature in that election .
those results “ represented very mixed messages from the voters of the state , ” borick said .
“ that sowed the seeds very much for the type of gridlock we saw last year , where both sides felt empowered. ” the logjam makes fixes for the state ’ s now $ 2.3 billion structural budget deficit that much harder , moody ’ s investors service said in october when it threatened to lower its aa3 rating on pennsylvania ’ s nearly $ 11 billion of outstanding general obligation debt .