paris ( reuters ) - as he looks back on a momentous year , french president emmanuel macron might be tempted to have an extra glass of champagne this holiday season , and not just because he turned 40 on thursday .
a year ago , his newly created en marche movement was only just starting to gain traction , with the candidate inching ahead of his main center-right rival francois fillon in the polls .
but he still faced a full-throated challenge from far-right leader marine le pen , and the idea of a 30-something former economy minister with no party affiliation rising to become president of the republic appeared far-fetched .
a year on , and a few wobbles aside , macron looks to be sitting pretty : he s up in the polls again , the opposition is largely in disarray , the economy is picking up , and business and consumer confidence are strong .
with german chancellor angela merkel , 63 , bogged down in draining coalition negotiations , britain s theresa may , 61 , battling to make brexit work while holding her divided government together , and president donald trump , 71 , taking the united states in often unpredictable directions , macron is arguably the most stable and reliable leader in the west .
in the past few weeks alone he has hosted a global climate summit , convened middle east and african leaders to tackle islamist militancy in the sahel , brokered the return of prime minister saad hariri to lebanon from saudi arabia , and been at the forefront of discussions with israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu over the status of jerusalem .
next month he will visit china for four days , and in the coming months he is expected to become the first french leader to visit tehran since 1971 six years before his birth .
in europe , he is credited with standing up to the wave of nationalist populism and unabashedly backing eu integration at a time when such ideas have become a dirty word in many capitals .
macron s unexpected performance underscores that harsh anti-eu populism is not always a winning strategy , erik brattenberg , director of the europe programme at the carnegie endowment for international peace , wrote this week .
so as macron prepares to wind down a little bit at the end of the year , what are the risks ?
one of the former investment banker s shortcomings has been a tendency to use dismissive , even denigrating , language that has at times made him appear arrogant .
opponents have dubbed him president of the rich , a label that s proving hard to shake .
referring to those who oppose his economic reforms as slackers and suggesting that protesting workers should stop kicking up a bloody mess was ready fuel for the center-left opposition and dented his popularity .
[ nl8n1mg11o ] he faces a challenge to keep his ambitious agenda on track .
while he has pushed through changes to the labor rules with minimal unrest , he still needs to secure an overhaul to the pensions and unemployment benefit systems .
[ nl8n1mm3h0 ] in europe , his grand plans for a separate budget for the euro zone have been stymied in large part by germany s post-electoral impasse [ nl8n1oc2qi ] , and his talk of pan-european lists to run in next year s elections to the european parliament is unsettling parties and leaders across the continent .
he also can not bank on the opposition being disordered forever .
the center-right republicans party has now elected laurent wauquiez , a 42-year-old in the macron mould , as its leader , and the far-left la france insoumise keeps promising to put hundreds of thousands of protesters on the streets .
what s certain is that 2018 is unlikely to be uneventful .