obama drone gwyneth paltrow can t understand why she was once named the world s most hated celebrity by a magazine .
in a recent interview on the bbc show hardtalk at the cannes lions festival , the 43-year-old actress and goop lifestyle guru told host stephen sackur that she had a hard time believing she had earned that title from star magazine in 2013 .
first of all , i was like , i m the most hated celebrity ?
paltrow asked with a chuckle .
more than , like , chris brown ?
what did i do ?
all i can do is be my authentic self , the avengers star told sackur .
but i think there are things about me that make people draw conclusions .
for example , there is the perception that i grew up very wealthy and that i was given , you know that i was sort of raised with a silver spoon in my mouth , which inspires a lot of resentment .
paltrow added that while it is true that she attended an elite prep school in manhattan , her father , hollywood producer bruce paltrow , never gave me anything after graduation .
i never had any supplementation , he never helped me with my rent , i never had a trust fund , the actress said .
so the idea that i am spoiled or that i didn t work for what i have , that s just not accurate .
but i can see how somebody might have that perception .
paltrow has repeatedly defended her status as a self-made woman in recent months .
in february , the actress told glamour magazine that she had never taken a dime from her parents.but while that may be true , paltrow is , of course , the daughter of bruce paltrow and famed hollywood actress blythe danner .
in fact , a teenaged paltrow got her first acting role in the 1989 television movie high , produced by her famous father .
and the actress likely picked up some acting tips from her mother , who has more than 100 screen credits to her name .
paltrow told harper s bazaar last year that she was inspired to get into acting after watching danner s successful career.as for why she was once named most hated celebrity , paltrow could be said to present a somewhat different version of herself than she perhaps realizes.the actress once said that she feels incredibly close to the common woman .
but paltrow s lifestyle website , goop , frequently feels aimed at exactly the opposite of the common woman .
the publication s holiday gift guides regularly features items that are out of reach financially for regular women , including $ 46,000 board games and $ 12,000 vases ( not to mention a $ 15,000 24k gold vibrator featured in the website s first-ever sex issue ) .and common women don t really drink $ 200 smoothies ( with extra moon dust to boost sex drive ) , host president obama in their backyards or steam-clean their genitals to get an energetic release .
paltrow was also roundly mocked last year for pledging to live on $ 29 worth of food stamps for one week , only to quit four days in to the challenge.we have a few ideas maybe it was the time gwenyth held a fundraiser at her home for barack obama to help him win a second term ? who could forget when the most hated celebrity told obama you re so handsome , i can t speak properly .
and then there s her support for the most corrupt person to ever run for the office of president of the united states , crooked hillary : whatever the reasoning behind the dubious honor , paltrow likely doesn t mind all that much .
the actress told glamour that she very rarely lets negative criticism get to her head .
i don t lose sleep over it , she told the magazine of her critics .
it s my business to live my life and learn my lessons .
i don t care what anybody else thinks .
via : breitbart news