do you remember the stories of bags of cash given to president karzai in afghanistan ?
the dod thinks it was $ 300 million annually on ghost soldiers !
our government has spent $ 68 billion since 2002 helping afghanistan s military and security forces now president trump is asking the question that we all want to ask : where did this money go ? this will make you crazy !
how could the dod not check into this until recently ? according to the special inspector general for afghanistan reconstruction , john sopko , who recently sat down for an interview with sharyl attkinson of full measure , the ongoing problem may have been worse than anyone realized , but was being addressed by president donald trump s pentagon .
we ve been raising this concern about ghosts going back a number of years , sopko said .
actually i want to say we heard about it from ( afghan president ) ashraf ghani years ago , before he became president , he warned me about ghosts , so we started looking three years ago .
read more : ctwhat ?
sopko said , we started looking three years ago ?
the dod has been doing this since 2002 !
think of all of the millions stolen for about 10 years !
pitiful ! fox news reported in november about the $ 300 million annually given to afghanistan : the department of defense has pledged to closely monitor afghan active-duty security forces so that u.s. taxpayer money is not squandered on so-called ghost soldiers , stars and stripes reported.in a letter released friday to the pentagon , the office of the special inspector general for afghanistan reconstruction , or sigar , said it was concerned about significant gaps between the assigned force strength of the ( afghan national defense and security forces ) and the actual number of personnel serving .
the letter , obtained by foxnews.com , cites reports indicating discrepancies between the assigned force strength of the andsf and the actual number of personnel serving.in 2002 congress appropriated $ 68 billion to afghan active duty security forces or andsf you can only imagine the major fraud that took place from then on