new york ( reuters ) - last august , bernie sanders sat on a craigslist-bought beige couch in his washington office plotting to steal the social media spotlight from 10 republicans taking the stage for the first televised debate of the 2016 presidential campaign .
next to the democratic presidential candidate , 74 , sat 27-year-old hector sigala , his digital media director .
for the next two hours , sigala turned sanders ’ sometimes acerbic , sometimes funny running commentary into a stream of 140-character tweets using the hashtag # debatewithbernie that stole the show - at least on twitter .
some 17 million people were reached during the debate , according to the campaign ’ s twitter data reviewed by reuters .
it was the first in a string of twitter wins by sanders during a presidential contest widely viewed as a coming-of-age moment for social media in national politics .
sanders didn ’ t even stop when the debate was interrupted by commercials .
when an ad for a new tom hanks film appeared , he tweeted : “ tom hanks .
finally .
somebody who makes some sense. ” eight months later , sigala is a key lieutenant in the sanders campaign for the 2016 democratic presidential nomination , one of a new breed of digital media specialists who have become indispensable in an election where platforms like twitter allow candidates to communicate with supporters easily , bash opponents or swiftly counter-attack .
sigala goes everywhere – on dates , to parties and to restaurants – with his black backpack and macbook laptop just in case something tweet-worthy breaks .
he was driving his cousin to the airport last wednesday when donald trump , the frontrunner for the republican nomination , said women who end pregnancies should be punished if the united states bans abortion , comments that were widely condemned .
sigala pulled the car over and tweeted : “ your republican frontrunner , ladies and gentlemen .
shameful. ” sanders has close to 2 million followers on his twitter campaign account and has tweeted nearly 8,000 times .
his opponent , hillary clinton , has tweeted less , 5,000 times , but she has nearly 6 million followers .
sanders , however , has an edge because his tweets are much more personalized than clinton ’ s , say some social media strategy experts .
“ he ’ s been able to really resonate with ( different groups ) and connect with them on a level that many other candidates have not been able to do , ” said marketing consultant and social media strategy specialist dr. kay green .
while twitter could not provide data directly comparing the 2016 and 2012 presidential races , a spokesman said tweets about the democrat and republican primary debates held so far have been viewed 9 billion times .
on facebook , the number of interactions ( likes , posts , comments and shares ) related to the 2016 election is up exponentially .
facebook users engaged in 411.5 million interactions on average in january and february , up nearly threefold from the nearly 142 million per month average for all of 2015 .
“ the most obvious difference in the social conversations around the 2012 and 2016 presidential elections is , simply put , size , ” said kellan terry , an analyst with brandwatch , a company that tracks and analyzes data from social media sites .
“ the volume of social mentions around this year ’ s presidential election is massive. ” sigala and sanders met in 2012 when he interned in sanders ’ senate office in vermont .
sanders , he says , bonded with him during a stroll down church street in burlington , discussing a topic only internet nerds could love : net neutrality .
now , he manages both sanders ’ and his wife jane ’ s social media accounts .
in practice that means he is the person tweeting comments attributed to sanders .
on twitter , “ i am bernie sanders , ” sigala joked .
twitter tends to attract more millennials , who have largely backed the brooklyn-born vermont senator .
the tweets and posts that get the best reaction are those that appear to be directly from sanders ’ mouth .
“ he used to come up with a lot of quips himself , ” sigala said of sanders , but the rigors of the 2016 campaign schedule mean sigala is now often the one doing the tweeting .
tweets about sanders ’ bread-and-butter issues like climate change , healthcare , race and gender typically roll off sigala ’ s fingertips in a tone and style that would be hard to distinguish from the senator ’ s .
take , for example , a tweet from sanders ’ twitter handle on march 18 in response to a debate over student tuition that was posted by sigala in the first person : “ every public college and university in this country should be tuition-free .
i know my opponent thinks it ’ s a radical idea , i don ’ t , ” it said , taking a dig at clinton .
but some news events require sanders ’ sign-off .
on the day of the brussels bomb attacks , in which 32 people were killed , sigala had to wait hours before getting the go-ahead from a busy sanders to post a condolence message .
on a recent afternoon , sigala was sitting in a washington office posting messages to various social media sites while a college basketball game played on a nearby tv .
when he isn ’ t live-tweeting or reacting to breaking news , he ’ s referring to a microsoft word document that contains 54 pages of prepared tweets on a list of issues .
when he took over the @ berniesanders twitter account last may it had 50,000 followers .
he would check it obsessively each day to see how many new followers it had attracted .
now , with nearly 2 million followers , sigala is less focused on the numbers and more interested in figuring out which tweets perform best .
for example , he has discovered through trial and error that a tweet reading “ we have got to ” do something will do significantly worse than a tweet reading “ we got ta . ” “ that ’ s because it sounds like brooklyn bernie , ” sigala said with a laugh .