strasbourg , france ( reuters ) - the man expected to become the leader of france s center-right set out his vision for a multi-speed europe on thursday , rejecting the deeper integration sought by president emmanuel macron .
speaking in strasbourg , home to the european parliament , laurent wauquiez said some european union countries should be allowed to limit their commitment to the bloc to free trade , something that theoretically could allow britain to re-engage .
if the 42-year-old is elected next month to lead the republicans , his challenge will be to rebuild a once-powerful party that was blown apart by macron s presidential and parliamentary election triumphs .
with macron s fledgling republic on the move party dominating the center , wauquiez is likely to take the republicans to the right , fishing for support among eurosceptic national front sympathizers .
the republicans have only 100 lawmakers in the 577-seat national assembly , after others split to work more closely with macron , but are the largest opposition group .
with 27 members , europe isn t working .
we have to do something , wauquiez told reporters .
the eu should have a core of between six and 12 members states that would pursue closer cooperation on matters including tax harmonization and employment rights , he said .
other members of the euro zone would form a second tier .
countries wanting only free trade would form a third tier , including britain if it wanted .
i can not accept that everyone seems to be congratulating themselves that britain is leaving , wauquiez said .
in september , macron painted a sweeping vision for european renewal , calling for the eu to work more closely on defense and immigration and for the euro zone to have its own budget .
describing himself as a committed european , wauquiez rejected that as well as any plan to further enlarge the eu further .
macron s big mistake is to pit french sovereignty against the european project ... to think we need more federalism .
i on the other hand believe in a union of nation states , wauquiez told le figaro .
wauquiez served as the party s interim leader last year after former president nicolas sarkozy quit the post to contest the party primary for a second crack at the presidency .
one paris-based senior eu diplomat described him as a tough politician whose leadership of the republicans would squeeze the political space open to the national front .
the national front suffered its own bruising in the elections , with its leader marine le pen trounced by macron in the second round of the presidential vote and the party performing weakly in the parliamentary election .
le pen has softened her anti-eu stance in past weeks as her far-right party , split by deep internal divisions over its view on europe , seeks to reinvent itself .