quebec city , quebec ( reuters ) - quebec will ban face coverings for people giving or receiving provincial government services under a law passed on wednesday that rights groups have criticized as marginalizing muslim women in the mainly french-speaking canadian province .
while the law , which takes effect by july 1 , 2018 , does not specify which face coverings are prohibited , the debate has largely focused on the niqab worn by some muslim women , which covers everything but the eyes .
people affected by the law would include public-sector employees such as teachers , police officers , hospital and daycare workers .
like france , which passed a ban on veils , crosses and other religious symbols in schools in 2004 , quebec has struggled to reconcile its secular identity with a growing muslim population , many of them north african emigrants .
we are just saying that for reasons linked to communication , identification and safety , public services should be given and received with an open face , quebec premier philippe couillard told reporters in the province s national assembly .
we are in a free and democratic society .
you speak to me , i should see your face , and you should see mine .
it s as simple as that , he said .
the national council of canadian muslims said it was deeply concerned by the law s passage and was looking at its legal options .
this legislation is an unjustified infringement of religious freedoms , said executive director ihsaan gardee .
the law allows for exemptions under certain circumstances , although it did not provide details .
regulations setting out how the new law will be enforced are yet to come .
asked in the federal parliament whether he would challenge the law , canadian prime minister justin trudeau , who represents a montreal district , said he would continue to ensure all canadians are protected by the country s charter of rights and freedoms , while respecting the choices that different legislative assemblies can make .
france , belgium , the netherlands , bulgaria and the german state of bavaria have imposed restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils in public places , with denmark on track to set its own ban .
right-wing extremist groups and some local french-speaking media in recent years have targeted quebec s muslims as part of a broader debate on the accommodation of religious and cultural minorities in the province .
incidents of islamophobia have increased in quebec in recent years .
in january , six people were killed in a shooting at a quebec city mosque .
a french-canadian university student has been charged as the sole suspect .