washington ( reuters ) - in a heated moment during his unconventional and combative news conference on thursday , president donald trump ’ s command of the facts was openly challenged by a reporter who asked , “ why should americans trust you ? ” the issue was the margin of victory in the u.s .
electoral college , which trump asserted early in the news conference was the “ biggest ” since fellow republican ronald reagan , who was elected in 1980 and 1984 .
trump defeated hillary clinton by a 304-227 tally of state-by-state electors , who represent votes cast in the election .
seven electors voted for someone else .
“ we got 306 because people came out and voted like they ’ ve never seen before so that ’ s the way it goes , ” the president said .
twitter exploded with fact-checking of trump ’ s statement .
although proportionally he had 306 electoral votes on the night of the nov. 8 election , two of those electors defected when they cast official ballots on dec. 19 .
a quick check by a reporter at the news conference showed president barack obama , a democrat , amassed more electoral votes in 2008 ( 365 ) and 2012 ( 332 ) .
in 1988 , president george h.w .
bush , a republican , drew 426 electoral votes .
few observers , however , were expecting a white house reporter to confront trump about it in real time , while sitting in the east room .
within minutes the reporter , peter alexander of nbc news , stood and corrected trump , noting obama ’ s and bush ’ s tallies and asking whether americans could trust the president to state the facts .
“ why should americans trust you when you accuse the information they ’ ve received of being fake when you ’ re providing information that ’ s not accurate ? ” the tv correspondent asked .
trump seemed to blame his staff .
“ i was given that information , ” he replied .
“ actually , i ’ ve seen that information around. ” trump then called on another reporter .
on the 2016 campaign trail and since taking office on jan. 20 , trump has made criticizing the media a centerpiece of his communications strategy .
trump turned the tables later in the news conference , complaining again about coverage of his young administration .
“ i want to see an honest press , ” trump said .
“ the public doesn ’ t believe you people anymore . ”