detroit ( reuters ) - detroit public schools ’ emergency manager darnell earley is stepping down later this month , michigan governor rick snyder said on tuesday .
earley , who has drawn criticism from the teachers union and black state lawmakers for the crumbling state of the city ’ s schools , will leave the school district on feb. 29 , the governor said in a statement .
earley , who had formerly presided over the city of flint and its now lead-contaminated water system , has served as manager of the detroit schools since january 2015 .
the school system is drowning under $ 3.5 billion of debt , including $ 1.7 billion of bonds backed by property taxes .
detroit public schools is suffering from declining enrollment .
heavy pension and debt obligations have left the district in danger of running out of cash in april .
the governor said if the state senate passes legislation reorganizing the school and tackling the debt soon , the school system could revert to some form of local control .
if the debt is not addressed , the system will be “ virtually insolvent ” by april , snyder said .
a november report by earley said a bankruptcy by detroit ’ s school system could shift liabilities for pensions and bonds to the state and local governments .
the governor , whose approval is needed for the system to file for bankruptcy , is unlikely to support such a move .
snyder said on tuesday that earley has done a “ very good job under some very difficult circumstances , ” restructuring the school system , cutting costs and working to stabilize student enrollment .
the governor said he will appoint a transition leader before the end of the month to set in place his plan to restructure the system to address the district ’ s academics and finances .
the michigan black legislative caucus last week asked snyder to fire earley .
also last week , the union for detroit public school teachers sued the district , demanding earley ’ s immediate removal and a return of local control with a plan to repair the district ’ s crumbling buildings .
ivy bailey , interim president of the detroit federation of teachers , called earley ’ s departure a “ step in the right direction. ” under earley ’ s leadership as emergency manager of flint , the city switched its water supply from detroit to the flint river in april 2014 .
it switched back last october after tests found high lead levels in blood samples from flint children .
lead is a neurotoxin that can damage the brain and cause other health problems .
earley has said he is not to blame for the problem since the decision was made before his tenure .