this is a perfect example of big government gluttony and waste we should start here with cuts to the budget .
sitting at home collecting a paycheck the government employee is all too happy to just say , whatever , while hard working americans are working 6 months of the year to pay taxes dozens of employees at the gigantic agency created after 9/11 to prevent another terrorist attack have been on paid administrative leave for more than a year , many of them for as long as two and three years.it s part of a pervasive problem among the nation s federal government agencies , where it s a common practice to let employees collect their taxpayer-funded checks during investigations for wrongdoing and a series of other personal issues .
sometimes internal probes drag on with seemingly no end in sight , but that doesn t stop the compensation for those sitting at home .
paid administrative leave is supposed to be reserved for rare circumstances in which employees may pose a threat to themselves or others , result in loss of or damage to government property or otherwise jeopardize legitimate government interests.the reality is much different and the department of homeland security ( dhs ) is a recent example though there are countless others across the government .
dhs spent about $ 1.8 million last year to keep 88 employees on paid leave and many of them have been collecting their government pay without working for longer stretches .
four dhs employees were on paid administrative leave for three years or more and 17 for two years or more .
of the 88 , 53 face misconduct charges , 13 have security clearance problems and dhs had questions about the fitness for duty of 22 .
the chairman of the senate judiciary committee , iowa republican charles grassley , made the figures public this week and is demanding answers .
government employees getting paid to stay home , sometimes for more than a year , is detrimental to taxpayers and good government , grassley says .
this week the senator fired off a letter to dhs secretary jeh johnson with a detailed list of questions involving the circumstances surrounding the paid leave of his 88 employees.this is part of a broader and quite serious issue among government agencies .
in fact , last year a federal audit revealed that the u.s. spent an eye-popping $ 3.1 billion during a three-year period on salaries for government employees on paid administrative leave .
at least 57,000 workers were on paid administrative leave during the period analyzed and around 4,000 stayed home with full salary for three months to a year , according to the probe which was conducted by the government accountability office ( gao ) , the investigative arm of congress .
the scary part is that this particular audit only considered five agencies so the gao s report only features a snippet of the true problem.here are some of the reasons that the five investigated agencies the departments of defense , interior , veterans affairs , general services administration and the u.s. agency for international development granted administrative paid leave ; investigations for alleged misconduct , security threats , criminal conduct or adverse actions , donating blood , dismissals due to hazardous weather or emergency conditions , physical examinations to determine fitness for duty and voting .
attending conferences , conventions or meetings and performing tasks necessary for change of duty station are also covered under administrative paid leave.besides the typical incompetence of a bloated government , part of the problem is that there is no uniform policy for paid leave and instead each agency just makes their own .
the office of personnel management ( opm ) , the agency that manages the government s civil service , is evidently trying to correct this by implementing a government-wide policy .
earlier this year opm director katherine archuleta sent agency heads a memo to inform them that opm will begin collecting information from payroll providers to initiate the collaboration process , presumably to crack down on paid administrative leave.via : judicial watch