four candidates for fbi director are being interviewed today .
it looks like president trump is going for candidates who are apolitical .
john cornyn would be the only exception to the group interviewing .
why the texas republican senator ? the remaining three are : alice fisher -lawyermichael garcia judgeandrew mccabe assistant fbi director ( acting director ) we re hoping the assistant fbi director is being granted an interview out of courtesy and appearances .
he should be fired ! mccabe is under investigation and is a huge clinton crony !
the list of reasons not to give him the job are a mile long ! a few of our past reports on mccabe : republican turns tables on fbi : deputy director on the hot seat nowbreaking : crooked va governor , close hillary friend gave wife of fbi official overseeing hillary email investigation $ 467,500breaking : secret recordings about clinton foundation caused hostility , in-fighting between fbi agentsthe justice department interviews four candidates today : the justice department is interviewing four candidates on saturday for the permanent position of fbi director , an administration official with knowledge of the vetting process confirmed.the candidates include the current acting director , a sitting congressman , a new york judge , and a former top justice department official during the george w. bush administration .
news reports throughout the day friday cited as many as 11 people under consideration for the position.attorney general jeff sessions and deputy attorney general rod rosenstein plan to interview four candidates at the justice department on saturday afternoon but it was unclear whether additional interviews might take place at a later date.according to the administration official , the four candidates being interviewed saturday are acting fbi director andrew mccabe ; sen. john cornyn , texas republican the senate majority whip ; judge michael garcia , an associate judge at the new york court of appeals ; and alice fisher , an attorney at latham and watkins law firm in washington , d.c. , and a former assistant attorney general for the justice department s criminal division.president trump abruptly fired former fbi director james comey on tuesday , and mr. mccabe was appointed to fill the role on an acting basis.via : wt