leftist indoctrination for toddlers how i wish this wasn t a true story a three-year-old named lee defends the abortion of his sister in a new children s book by an author with her own ghost sister .
sister apple , sister pig by mary walling blackburn focuses on an adult topic : abortion .
the story follows lee as he ( or she , as the author stressed ) searches for his sister who might be an apple , a pig , or somewhere in a tree .
lee later decides sister is a happy ghost !
and explicitly says he s glad sister isn t around to inconvenience his parents.the free e-book is available on art publishing platform e-flux , the blaze reported .
the author , walling blackburn , is assistant professor of art at southern methodist university s meadows school of the arts and founder of the anhoek school .
lee is papa and mama s only child for now , although there once was a sister , the book began .
where does sister live now ?
at one point , lee explained to his papa , well , she used to live in mama and doesn t anymore .
after papa agreed , lee reiterated , she lived before me , but mama couldn t keep her .
mama says she is a ghost .
when lee s papa asked , [ d ] oes that make you sad or scared ?
lee changed his tune .
i m not sad that my sister is a ghost !
if you kept my sister , you would be tired , and sad , and mad !
when his father questioned why , lee continued : because we would be wild and loud and sometimes we would fight .
mama might be scared that she could not buy enough food for us .
mama might not have enough time to read to me , to paint with me , to play with me , to talk with me .papa also noted good reasons lee doesn t have a sister right here right now .
maybe you will have another sister when there is more time , and there is more money , papa said.but even during story time , lee couldn t forget about his lost sibling .
he whispered the secret to his uncle : the secret is that she s she s a ghost !
lee and his uncle pretend she s still there .
the ghost girl can sit beside me , his uncle offered.later , lee told his uncle , mama had an abortion before she had me , but reassures him that sister is a happy ghost !
even the uncle s friend , jess , wonders where the ghost sister is .
lee replied , ghost sister has her own things to do !
but that [ s ] he returns when i call her if i need her .
and he did , as the last page read , mama , papa , lee , ( and sister ) are about to head into the late afternoon towards home .
in the acknowledgements , walling blackburn thanked her own ghost sister and warned masochists , look elsewhere , because , between these pages you will not find the luxury of grief , culpability s sharp sting or salty guilt .
via : newsbusters