wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand prime minister-elect jacinda ardern said she would spend friday ironing out issues and ministerial posts with coalition partner new zealand first , a day after becoming the pacific nation s youngest leader in recent times .
the previous night s highly anticipated announcement by new zealand first leader winston peters that he would support 37-year-old ardern s labour party had ended a decade of center-right national rule and spelt big changes for the country s economy .
the new zealand dollar - the world s 11th-most traded currency - fell to five-month lows as investors grappled with heightened uncertainty and a more protectionist agenda .
when you are a hands off government , when you simply allow markets to decide the fate of your people , then that does not serve a country or it s people well , ardern told reporters in wellington .
you will see a proactive government by labour .
labour has released the names of the people who would be in the cabinet , saying it would announce their portfolios next week .
the include grant robertson , labour s spokesman for finance , and david parker , spokesman for trade .
ardern said on thursday she had offered the role of deputy prime minister to peters , who on thursday gave his backing to labour after inconclusive sept.23 elections , and he was considering it .
on thursday evening , labour said it would also stick to its promises to change the central bank s mandate and seek to renegotiate the trans-pacific partnership trade deals .
concerns about a more protectionist agenda weighed on the currency and stock markets on friday .
the new zealand dollar fell to five month-lows of $ 0.6971 against the u.s. dollar , after posting its biggest daily fall in more than a year on thursday .
the sentiment has now shifted toward more protectionist measures , said christina leung , economist at new zealand institute of economic research .
generally , financial markets don t like change , there is uncertainty over what this all means ... in the meantime that is reducing demand for new zealand assets , and that s why we are seeing the decline in the new zealand dollar .
the stock market was down 1.1 percent at the friday open , but later recouped losses to stand in positive territory .
ardern told radio earlier that most of the party s flagship policies , including a ban on some foreign ownership of housing , had survived the negotiations with peters in recent weeks .
with new zealand first we ve got a few more details to iron out , ardern said .
our plan remains , with a few minor changes ... we re finalizing in the next 24 hours the detail .
the election thrust the country into political limbo for almost a month with neither major party winning enough seats to form a majority and giving new zealand first the balance of power .
new zealand first and labour also needed support from the progressive green party , which said it would strike a confidence and supply agreement , meaning it was officially outside government but would hold ministerial posts and vote on key pieces of legislation like the budget .
ardern said the parties would release their agreements early next week and an announcement on ministerial posts would come later in the week .