the december tally in chicago ( so far ) is : december to date shot & killed : 29 shot & wounded : 189 total shot : 218 total homicides : 31six men were killed and at least 21 other people have been wounded in shootings across chicago over the holiday weekend .
the latest homicide happened early sunday in the englewood neighborhood on the south side.about 2:15 a.m. , 29-year-old tyree white was outside with a 28-year-old woman near west 59th street and south wentworth avenue , when someone walked up and opened fire , according to chicago police and the cook county medical examiner s office .
white , of the 200 block of east 121st place , was shot in the chest and was pronounced dead at the scene less than 30 minutes later , authorities said.a pregnant mother of three was killed by a hit-and-run driver , though the baby survived the tragedy.karla y. leanos had been crossing the street in north lawndale in the 4200 block of west ogden around 10 p.m. when she was hit by a 2008 chrysler traveling westbound at a high rate of speed , according to police and the cook county medical examiner s office .
the vehicle did not initially stop , police said .
a woman was shot in the back and taken to stroger , where her condition was stabilized , police said.saturday night , a 36-year-old man was fatally shot in the little village neighborhood on the southwest side , police said.the 36-year-old was sitting outside with other people in the 2800 block of west 21st place about 9:50 p.m. when a white suv pulled up and a passenger displayed gang signs and then fired shots , police said.black lives matter .just not the ones who are killed by other blacks in their own neighborhoods.the man was shot in the chest and mouth and was taken by a friend to mount sinai hospital , where he later died , police said .
the medical examiner s office could not immediately confirm the fatality.less than three hours earlier , a 28-year-old man was found shot to death in the west garfield park neighborhood on the west side.he was found about 7:20 p.m. in the 600 block of south tripp avenue with gunshot wounds to the chest and stomach , according to police and the medical examiner s office .
he was pronounced dead at the scene .
his name was being withheld sunday morning pending notification of his family.another man was killed christmas day in englewood .
officers responding to a call of shots fired at 11:36 a.m. friday in the 700 block of west 71st street found 20-year-old angelo frazier with multiple gunshot wounds to the thigh , authorities said.frazier was taken to stroger hospital , where he was pronounced dead less than an hour later , authorities said .
he lived in the 600 block of sullivan lane in university park .
about three hours earlier , a 22-year-old man was shot to death outside his west side austin neighborhood home.kylan d. collier was discovered unresponsive with a gunshot wound to the head about 8:30 a.m. on the stairs of the back porch of his home in the 5500 block of west monroe , authorities said .
he was dead at the scene .
the weekend s first fatal shooting happened about 4:50 p.m. thursday in the park manor neighborhood on the south side.a witness told police that 30-year-old craig harris went outside and four males were waiting for him in a gangway in the 7300 block of south vernon , authorities said .
police said the witness heard gunshots then ran inside to call police.harris , who lived on the same block as the shooting , was shot in the temple and pronounced dead at the scene , authorities said .
the latest nonfatal attack happened early sunday in the south side chicago lawn neighborhood.a 55-year-old woman went to answer her door in the 6700 block of south oakley avenue about 5:30 a.m. when she was shot in the shoulder and abdomen , police said .
two males were seen fleeing the scene .
the woman was taken advocate christ medical center in oak lawn in serious condition , police said .
less than 90 minutes earlier , a man was shot and critically wounded in englewood .
officers responding to a call of shots fired about 4:15 a.m. found a 25-year-old man in the driver s seat of a vehicle in the 6000 block of south laflin , police said .
he had suffered multiple gunshot wounds to the body and was taken in critical condition to stroger hospital.at 2:27 a.m. , two people were shot near the aragon ballroom in the uptown neighborhood on the north side .
a 68-year-old man was standing outside in the 1100 block of west lawrence when he heard gunfire and realized he d been shot in the leg , police said .
a 34-year-old woman sitting in her vehicle nearby also heard the shots and then suffered a graze wound to the forehead .
they were both taken to advocate illinois masonic medical center , where they were listed in good condition .
police said an unoccupied suv that had crashed into a building was discovered in the area of the shooting , but it was not immediately clear how the vehicle was connected to the investigation .
about 6:15 p.m. saturday in austin , a 16-year-old boy was standing outside in the 5200 block of west adams when two males came out from the alley and shot him in the left leg , police said .
he was taken to west suburban hospital in oak park , where he is listed in good condition.less than two hours earlier , a man was shot in the oakland neighborhood on the south side .
the 18-year-old man was shot in the abdomen about 4:30 p.m. in the 3800 block of south ellis during an attempted robbery , police said .
he was taken to northwestern memorial hospital , where his condition was stabilized .
at least 14 other people have been wounded in other shootings since 12:15 p.m. thursday.additionally , three people were shot saturday by chicago police .
a man and a woman were fatally shot in the west garfield park neighborhood just before 5 a.m. and a man was critically wounded in a separate police-involved shooting that afternoon in washington heights .
via : nbc chicago