( reuters ) - bernie sanders got his sweetest endorsement yet on monday when one of the founders of ben & jerry ’ s unveiled an ice cream flavor for the democratic presidential hopeful , inviting sanders ’ backers to enjoy a spoonful of “ political revolution. ” the flavor named “ bernie ’ s yearning ” is mint ice cream topped with a solid chocolate disk , to reflect sanders ’ campaign theme of economic inequality , according to ben cohen , co-founder of vermont-based ben & jerry ’ s .
“ the chocolate disc represents the huge majority of economic gains that have gone to the top 1 percent since the end of the recession .
beneath it , the rest of us , ” according to the label , which suggests eaters smash up the chocolate and mix it with the ice cream .
“ nothing is so unstoppable as a flavor whose time has finally come .
# feelthebern # berniesyearning , ” cohen said on both twitter ( @ yobencohen ) and his facebook page .
cohen launched the flavor on his own using “ ben ’ s best ” branding and said it is not an endorsement by ben & jerry ’ s , now a unit of unilever , the anglo-dutch consumer products maker .
sanders represents vermont in the u.s. senate .
cohen has made just 40 pints of the new ice cream and is giving 25 of them to the sanders campaign , he said on social media .
the rest will be awarded in a drawing among those who register at www.berniesyearning.com by feb. 3 .
sanders is polling strongly in iowa and new hampshire against rival hillary clinton in the bid for the 2016 democratic nomination .
the first voting will take place in one week at the iowa caucuses .
by late monday afternoon , # berniesyearning was a top-trending hashtag on twitter .
earl fando ( @ earlfando ) tweeted : “ ben & jerry ’ s have released an ice cream flavor named bernie ’ s yearning .
needless to say , people are reading the ingredients very carefully. ” christine odunlami ( @ christineodun ) tweeted : “ not only can you # feelthebern , you can now # tastethebern. ” others took advantage of the opportunity to take a jab at the sanders campaign .
wired-up patriot ( @ adhdpatriot ) posted : “ # berniesyearning ice cream : 1 .
must wait in long lines to get 2 .
very limited amount 3 .
extremely expensive or for short , like # berniecare. ” ( reporting by gina cherelus ; editing by dan burns and andrew hay ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .