new york ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton leads her republican rival donald trump by 5 percentage points among likely voters , down from a peak this month of 12 points , according to the reuters/ipsos daily tracking poll released on friday .
don ’ t miss : not enough money for a 'real ' coffins in venezuela carl icahn says he did n't sell herbalife shares burkini controversy goes on in france the aug. 22-25 opinion poll found that 41 percent of likely voters supported clinton ahead of the nov. 8 presidential election , while 36 percent supported trump .
some 23 percent would not pick either candidate and answered “ refused , ” “ other ” or “ wouldn ’ t vote. ” clinton , a former secretary of state , has led real estate developer trump in the poll since democrats and republicans ended their national conventions and formally nominated their presidential candidates in july .
her level of support has varied between 41 and 45 percent during that period , and her lead over trump in the tracking poll peaked this month at 12 percentage points on tuesday .
during the past week , clinton has been dogged by accusations by trump , which she has denied , that donations to her family ’ s charitable foundation influenced her actions while she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 .
questions have also surfaced again about her use of a private email server and address rather than a government one during her period at the state department .
meanwhile , trump and clinton also sparred over who would be a better advocate for african americans and other minorities , and trump hinted he could soften his hard-line stance on immigration .
in a separate reuters/ipsos poll that includes candidates from small , alternative parties , clinton leads the field by a smaller margin .
some 39 percent of likely voters supported clinton in the four-way poll , compared with 36 percent for trump , 7 percent for libertarian candidate gary johnson and 3 percent for green party nominee jill stein .
both polls were conducted online in english in all 50 states .
they included 1,154 likely voters and have a credibility interval of 3 percentage points .
the results may differ from the reuters/ipsos states of the nation project , which includes a separate weekly tracking poll that measures support for the major party candidates in every state and washington d.c .
the states of the nation , released on wednesday , estimated that if the election were held now clinton would have a 95 percent chance of winning by a margin of about 108 votes in the electoral college , the body that decides the election through a count of the candidates ’ wins in each state .