ulaanbaatar ( reuters ) - mongolia s parliament confirmed the nomination of motorbike enthusiast ukhnaa khurelsukh as prime minister on wednesday , putting the country back on track to receive funds from a $ 5.5 billion imf economic rescue package .
khurelsukh , of the ruling mongolian people s party ( mpp ) , received unanimous approval from the lawmakers in attendance for his confirmation as mongolia s 30th prime minister .
he will face challenges in bringing back foreign investment to the mineral-rich former soviet satellite and manage the country s heavy debt load .
the international monetary fund has approved an economic bailout program to help relieve debt pressures and buoy the currency , the tugrik , that includes austerity policies .
an imf visit to review the program that included the disbursement of $ 37.82 million of the funds was delayed in september until a new government was formed .
the imf had said that once a new government was in place , it would engage with the authorities on how best to move forward with the program .
khurelsukh succeeds jargaltulga erdenebat , who was voted out of office in september amid allegations of corruption and incompetence .
the new prime minister holds the title of colonel , although he only served in the military from 1989 to 1990 .
he projects a tough rule of law image , said dale choi , head of altan bumba financial group .
he s a very tough and strong guy himself .
i think the electorate likes it very much .
khurelsukh , 49. is seen as a leader to the party s so-called youth faction and is also a noted motorcycle enthusiast .
he is president of the fan club for harley-davidson in ulaanbaatar .
mongolia s democracy has been turbulent since its transition from a socialist state in 1990 , and no premier has completed a four-year term since 2000 .
government infighting and reshuffles have contributed to the delays of development projects .
the closest mongolia came to handing over the operations of state-owned erdenes tavan tolgoi coking coal mine to a consortium of mongolian mining corp , china shenhua energy and sumitomo corp was in 2015 , before the parliament speaker stepped in to block the deal .
we would hope to see the new government advance the privatization of tavan tolgoi , said thomas hugger ceo and a fund manager at asia frontier capital .
mongolia s coal miners are looking to ramp up production to meet growing demand from china , but longstanding transportation issues continues to hold back sales .
mongolia s proximity to china means it could play a large role in coal supply to china , said hugger , if a key railway is built .
there s no reason mongolia shouldn t be the largest supplier of coking and thermal coal to china .