former ag mukasey went there during two morning show appearances today .
he told bill hemmer he sees no crime in the russia probe then told maria bartiromo of fox business ( video below ) that obama may be guilty of obstruction in the investigation into hillary s email : president obama s statement that he thought she shouldn t be charged because she didn t intend to violate the law is the real clinton obstruction because that is a statement by him that this is the way i want that investigation to come out a take on the matter , for what it s worth .
mukasey : i don t see evidence of any crime in russia probe https : //t.co/b4knztdylk mister eerie ( @ psychogrotesque ) june 13 , 2017 mukasey : he was introducing an element that was not in the statute to know you re violating the law and he was saying that , that was the way he wanted the investigation to end .
obviously the justice department picked up on that .
in his testimony last week , former fbi director james comey said obama attorney general loretta lynch asked him to call the hillary clinton probe a matter , not an investigation , but mukasey said that s not breaking the law .
that s , i think , not obstruction because she s simply playing the same card the clinton campaign is playing , mukasey said.on tuesday , president trump said on twitter that lynch committed a crime and gave hillary clinton a free pass and protection .
a.g. lynch made law enforcement decisions for political purposes gave hillary clinton a free pass and protection .
totally illegal !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 13 , 2017meanwhile democratic lawmaker diane feinstein said she wanted to open an investigation into loretta lynch s statement , but mukasey said calling it a matter is just the tip of the iceberg .
then you re talking about how come the justice department didn t use the grand jury .
how come they interviewed her at the end and two days later jim comey came out with a statement , mukasey said , noting that the lynch interview was not recorded .
this was an un-serious investigation .
former ag mukasey digs into comey : devious former ag michael mukasey considers # comey s calculated move regarding his memo extraordinarily devious !
# drainthedeepstate @ potus # 1a pic.twitter.com/plovqsdfzf eternal vigilance ( @ uspatrol ) june 11 , 2017wow !
to call the fbi director devious is huge ! read more : fox news