tripoli ( reuters ) - france s foreign minister jean yves le drian was in libya on monday to meet rival political leaders and offer support for a deal aimed at stabilizing the strifetorn north african country .
libyan prime minister fayez al-seraj and the divided nation s eastern commander khalifa haftar signed an agreement in paris in july committing them to a conditional ceasefire and to work toward elections in 2018 .
the deal did not include other key factions .
western governments , worried about islamist militants and smugglers thriving in libya s chaos , are pushing a broader u.n.-backed deal to unify libya and end the instability that has weakened the country since the 2011 fall of muammar gaddafi .
in tripoli , le drian met seraj and planned to hold talks with abdulrahman swehli , a politician connected to some of haftar s rivals who heads a parliamentary council in the capital , libyan officials said .
le drian was also to visit misrata , swehli s home city and a base of opposition to haftar , before heading to benghazi to meet haftar and to tobruk to meet the head of an eastern-based parliament aligned with him .
the minister wants to consolidate this agreement by getting the parties not invited in july to support it , said a french diplomatic source .
he wants to ensure that everyone is playing the game and lay the groundwork for elections .
the french minister s visit is in line with president emmanuel macron s push for a deeper french role in bringing libyan factions together in the hope of countering militant violence and easing europe s migrant crisis .
our objective is the stabilization of libya in the interests of the libyans themselves , le drian said in a statement in tripoli .
a united libya , equipped with functioning institutions , is the condition for avoiding the terrorist threat in the long term .
he said the paris deal was meant to support the u.n.-backed accord for a government of national unity .
le drian met u.n. special envoy ghassan salame on sunday .
the french diplomatic source said the visit would fit into efforts by salame to announce a road map to elections during the coming u.n. general assembly .
seraj and haftar clearly want to measure themselves in elections , the source said .
libya would likely need to agree on a new constitution or electoral law before elections , which will be a difficult task for the country s divided institutions .
organizing polls would also involve big logistical and security challenges .
past western attempts to broker agreements have often fallen victim to political infighting among rival factions and armed brigades vying for power in the opec oil producer .
seraj s government has struggled to impose control and its presidential council is divided .
haftar has refused to accept its legitimacy .
he has been gaining ground , backed by allies egypt and united arab emirates .
the ceasefire between non-terrorist elements is in general respected , the french diplomatic source said .
haftar s advances are accompanied by a strengthening of seraj in the west so it s creating a fragile balance that encourages a compromise .