manila ( reuters ) - the philippines environment minister said he was hopeful that a ban on open-pit mining would be lifted before the end of the year after a government panel recommended its removal on tuesday .
lifting the ban would allow the development of some big-ticket mining projects including the $ 5.9 billion tampakan copper and gold mine .
open-pit mining is allowed under the mining laws of the southeast asian country , the world s top nickel ore exporter .
however , the former environment minister regina lopez banned it during her 10 months in office , saying the environmental degradation ruined the economic potential of places where it was done .
a staunch environmentalist , lopez stepped down in may after she failed to win congressional confirmation .
roy cimatu , a former soldier , replaced her and was confirmed in his post by lawmakers earlier this month .
the mining industry coordinating council said in a statement that a majority of the panel voted to recommend that the department of environment and natural resources lift the ban on open pit mining provided that mining laws , rules and regulations are strictly enforced .
cimatu , who co-chaired the council with finance secretary carlos dominguez , said he will follow the recommendation and present it at a cabinet meeting in the first week of november .
asked whether the ban will likely be lifted before the end of the year , cimatu said : hopefully .
we will strengthen the regulatory environment surrounding the implementation of open-pit mining , he told reporters .
the tampakan project in south cotabato province on the island of mindanao is the nation s biggest stalled mining venture .
its development was halted after south cotabato banned open-pit mining in 2010 , prompting operator glencore plc to quit the project in 2015 .
lopez has said the project would cover an area the size of 700 soccer fields in what otherwise would be agricultural land .
removing the ban would may also lead to the resumption of development of the $ 1.2 billion silangan copper and gold mine , also in mindanao , by philippine miner philex mining corp. miners praised the panel s recommendation , saying it is a positive step for the industry .
open-pit mining is an accepted method worldwide to extract shallow mineral deposits and a lot of our minerals are exactly that , ronald recidoro , executive director of the chamber of mines of the philippines , told reuters by phone .
the challenge is for it to be done safely and the environment is protected during and after the mining is accomplished .
however , president rodrigo duterte said last month he supported the open-pit mining ban given the environmental damage it causes though he would give mining firms time to find other ways to extract minerals .
lopez , in a facebook post on tuesday , said open-pit mines pose very high risks in tropical and archipelagic countries like the philippines where strong typhoons are normal .
the philippines is not a fit and proper place for open pit mining , she said .