paris ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of hard-left trade unionists marched through french cities on tuesday to protest against president emmanuel macron s labor law reforms , although turnout appeared lower than at demonstrations in previous years .
hitting back at macron s pledge to give no ground to slackers , some in paris carried placards reading : slacker on strike while in bordeaux demonstrators chanted : macron you re screwed , the slackers are in the streets .
the interior ministry said 223,000 protesters turned out across the country , compared with about 400,000 during march 2016 s demonstration .
riot police clashed with hooded youths in isolated skirmishes on the fringe of the march led by the communist party-linked cgt union in paris .
the union said some 400,000 had marched across france , down from its estimate for 2016 of 1.2 million .
labor unions have scuppered previous attempts to weaken france s labor code , but this time there was comfort for macron as two other unions , including the largest , the cfdt , declined to join the protests .
we ve been passing laws which take apart the labor code for 20 years .
the answer ( to unemployment ) doesn t lie in rolling it back further , said maxime durand , a train driver on strike .
after weeks of negotiation , the government last month set out measures including a cap on payouts for dismissals judged unfair and greater freedom for companies to hire and fire .
the reform makes no direct reference to the 35-hour week , a totem of the labor code , though it hands firms more flexibility to set pay and working conditions .
the government plans to adopt the new measures , being implemented by decree , on sept. 22 .
during a trip to athens on friday , macron told the local french community : i am fully determined and i won t cede any ground , not to slackers , nor cynics , nor hardliners .
he said the slackers comment was aimed at those who had failed to push through reforms in the past , although political opponents and some unions took it as an attack on the unemployed or on workers making the most of job protection .
we will make macron back down , far-left firebrand jean-luc melenchon , who has become macron s most vocal opponent in parliament , said on the sidelines of a protest in marseille .
french workers have long cherished the rights enshrined in the labor code , but companies complain it has deterred investment and job creation and stymied economic growth .
unemployment has been above 9 percent for nearly a decade .
macron s reforms are being followed in germany as a test of his resolve to reshape the euro zone s second-biggest economy , a must if he is to win berlin s backing for broader reforms to the currency union .
the cgt is france s second-biggest union , though its influence has been waning .
its leader philippe martinez said tuesday s nationwide protests were the first phase and more would follow .
he called macron s reference to slackers an insult to workers .
the president should listen to the people , understand them , rather than cause divisions , martinez told france 2 television .
cgt workers from the rail , oil and power sectors heeded the strike call but by the afternoon there was no apparent impact on power and refining production , spokespeople for utility edf ( edf.pa ) and oil major total ( totf.pa ) said .
just over 11 percent of the workforce at edf , which operates france s fleet of 48 nuclear reactors , took part in the strike , a spokeswoman for the state-owned utility said .
macron landed in the french caribbean on tuesday to survey the devastation wrought by hurricane irma on the territory of saint martin .
governments on the political left and right have been trying for decades to overhaul the 3,000-page labor code , but ended up watering down their plans in the face of street demonstrations .
macron was economy minister in the socialist government of president francois hollande , whose attempt at labor reform led to weeks of protests that at their peak brought 400,000 onto the streets , and stoked a rebellion within his own party .
hollande was forced to dilute his proposals , but so far there are no signs of macron feeling compelled to back down .
an opinion poll published on sept. 1 indicated that voters have mixed views on the reform .
nearly six in 10 said they opposed macron s labor decrees overall .
but when respondents looked at individual measures , most received majority support .
with economic growth accelerating , unemployment on a downward trend and the leading unions divided in their response to the reforms , it is not clear whether the protests will gain significant momentum .