brussels/dublin ( reuters ) - the united kingdom and ireland could reach agreement in hours on how to run their post-brexit irish land border , paving the way for a deal that would remove the last obstacle to opening free-trade talks with the european union .
a carefully choreographed attempt to showcase the progress of brexit talks collapsed at the last minute on dec. 4 when the northern irish party which props up prime minister theresa may s government vetoed a draft deal already agreed with ireland .
since then , may has been scrambling to clinch a deal on the new uk-eu land border in ireland that is acceptable to the european union , dublin , her own lawmakers and northern ireland s democratic unionist party , which keeps her government in power .
may and european commission president jean-claude juncker could meet early on friday to seal a border deal , the european commission s chief spokesman said .
we are making progress but not yet fully there , commission spokesman margaritis schinas said .
talks are continuing throughout the night .
early morning meeting possible .
a spokesman for pm may said brexit discussions were ongoing while a senior irish official said talks were moving swiftly and that a deal was possible in hours .
it is moving quite quickly at the moment , the irish official told a british irish chamber of commerce event in brussels .
i think we are going to work over the next couple of hours with the uk government to close this off .
i say hours because i think we are very close .
later on thursday , the political editor of the bbc said the leadership of the dup in belfast had not signed off on the border deal , meaning it could yet stumble , but may continued to plan to meet juncker and european council president donald tusk early on friday in brussels to finalize the agreement .
the political editor of sky news , quoting a dup source , said the party would continue to work on the border issue on friday .
moving to talks about trade and a brexit transition are crucial for the future of may s premiership , and to keep trade flowing between the world s biggest trading bloc and its sixth largest national economy after britain leaves on march 29 , 2019 .
but the eu will only move to trade talks if there is enough progress on three key issues : the money britain must pay to the eu ; rights for eu citizens in britain and british citizens in the eu ; and how to avoid a hard border with ireland .
as speculation swirled about whether london , dublin and brussels were about to clinch a border deal , european council president donald tusk s office said he would brief reporters at 0650 gmt on friday before departing for hungary .
the eu says may has an effective deadline of sunday night if she wants to seal a deal and hope to have agreement on trade talks in time for the eu summit on dec. 14-15 .
all sides say they want to avoid a return to a hard border between eu member ireland and the british-ruled province of northern ireland , which might upset the peace established after decades of violence .
the democratic unionist party ( dup ) insists that northern ireland , as part of the united kingdom , must leave the eu in the same way as the rest of the united kingdom .
to clinch a deal , though , may must ensure she has the support of the dup , whose leader told her bluntly on monday that it would not support her minority government s legislation unless the irish border draft deal was changed .
she must also convince her divided conservative party that the deal she makes is acceptable .
british foreign secretary boris johnson , a leader of the brexit campaign , insisted the whole of the united kingdom must take back control when it left the eu .
whatever way we devise for getting onto the body of the ( brexit ) talks , it s got to be consistent with the whole of the united kingdom taking back control of our laws , of our borders and of our cash , johnson told reporters .