andre vltchek anti diplomaticothe following is an interview with andre vltchek by alessandro biancchi , chief editor of the italian political magazine anti-diplomatico : alessandro bianchi : self-determination of peoples and respect for the borders and sovereignty of a country .
this is of the most complicated issue for international law .
how can it be articulated for the case of catalonia ? andre vltchek : personally , i m not very enthusiastic about smaller nations forming their own states , particularly those in the west , where they would , after gaining independence , remain in the alliances that are oppressing and plundering the entire world : like nato or the european union.clearly , the breaking of the great country of yugoslavia into small pieces was a hostile , evil design by the west , and particularly of germany and austria .
the dissolution of czechoslovakia after the so-called velvet revolution was a total idiocy.but catalonia ( or basque country ) , if it became independent , would become one of the richest parts of europe .
i don t think it would have any great positive or negative impact on the rest of the world .
as an internationalist , i don t really care if they are separate from spain or not , or whether they are even richer than they already are , as i care much more about what is happening in places such as afghanistan , venezuela or north korea.on the other hand , the way spain has now behaved in catalonia , after the referendum , is a total disgrace .
they decided to treat the catalan people in the same way as indonesians have been treating papuans for decades .
if this continues , it will all reach the point of no return : reconciliation will become impossible .
you can not start sexually harassing women and then break their fingers , one by one , just because they want to have their own state .
you can not injure hundreds of innocent people , who simply don t want to be governed from madrid .
that s absurd and thoroughly sick !
of course spain used to commit holocausts all over what is now called latin america , so it is in their blood .
but i don t think catalans will allow this to be done to them.what about the constitution of spain ?
look , there should be nothing sacred about constitutions .
in the west , they were written to protect the interests of the ruling classes .
when they get outdated , they should be moderated , or totally rewritten .
if catalans or basques want their independence , if they really want it , if it is so important for them , then why not they should have it .
spain is not a people s country .
it is an oppressive western bully .
i would have a totally different position if some part of bolivia or china were to try to secede.ab : different situation and different reality .
another issue of fundamental international concern in this period is the referendum of iraqi kurdistan , which is likely to become the new fuse ready to explode in that area .
would it be the new israel in the middle east as someone has affirmed ? av : well , that is really a very serious issue .
i have worked in the kurdish autonomous region of iraq already twice , even on the border with mosul , and what i saw there i did not like at all ! it is clearly a client state of the west , of turkey and to some extent , israel .
it is shamelessly capitalist , taking land from its own people , cheating them , just in order to pump and refine huge quantities of oil .
it treats syrian refugees like animals , forcing them to make anti-assad statements .
it is turning ancient erbil into some bizarre shopping mall with nothing public in sight .
its military top brass is mainly us/uk-trained and indoctrinated .
and it provokes baghdad , day and night.i really strongly disliked what i saw there .
if iraqi kurds were allowed to have their independence , the impact on the region would be huge and certainly negative .
baghdad should not allow it , even at the cost of an armed confrontation.ab : coming to the question of the moment : the nuclear escalation in north korean and a possible escalation of war on the korean peninsula .
what is your opinion about kim s strategy and what are the real risks ? av : there is only one real risk and danger : that the world is quickly accepting as inevitable the fact that the western thuggish regimes can get away with absolutely anything .
i see no other serious problem that the world today is facing.what is kim s strategy ?
to defend his people by all means , against the brutal force that has already murdered millions of men , women and children of korea .
that brutal force is the west and its allies .
it is all very simple , but only if one is willing to turn off the bbc and to use his or her own brain , it becomes obvious .ab : according to many , for pyongyang the nuclear bomb is becoming more and more vital because it is increasingly feared that the country will end up like iraq and libya .
do you not believe that the sanctions of the united nations are therefore totally ineffective and counterproductive because they fuel this escalation ? av : of course , but they [ sanctions ] are still imposed on the victim !
it is because almost no one dares to laugh straight in the faces of western demagogues and dictators .
the world resembles the areas occupied by the nazi germany and italy and japan during the wwii .
there , nobody would dare to vote independently , defending victims of fascism.ab : the us federation of science ( fas ) estimates that in 2017 north korea has fissile material to potentially produce 10 to 20 nuclear warheads even if it is strongly suspected that none can be considered ready for launch .
the us possesses 6,800 nuclear heads .
the french and british ( respectively 300 and 215 respectively ) included , nato s nuclear forces have 7,315 nuclear warheads , of which 2,200 are ready to launch , compared to 7,000 held by the russians , of which 1,950 are ready to launch .
with chinese ( 270 ) , pakistani ( 120-130 ) , indian ( 110-120 ) and israeli ( 80 ) , the total number of nuclear warheads is estimated to be around 15,000 by default .
the west is a nuclear oligopoly that can only create an escalation with those who feel threatened , and so the threatened search to procure them .
is north korea the only source of nuclear threat to the world , as it seems in the mainstream media ? av : of course , north korea is no threat at all .
i have already spoken about it during countless televised interviews .
i visited north korea and mingled with its people .
there , nobody wants war .
the north korean people paid a terrible price for their independence .
its civilians were murdered mercilessly in tunnels by western forces ; its women were brutally raped , entire villages and towns leveled to the ground , or burned to ashes .
all this is never discussed in the west , but is remembered in north korea.now , absolutely shameless british propaganda is preparing the world public for the inevitability of the war .
you know , if someone in this day and age still believes that the united states is the only culprit , he or she is perhaps living in some deep isolated trench or a cave .
indoctrination and brainwashing is mainly designed , made in europe , most evidently in the uk , where most of the people have already lost all their ability to think rationally .
the british colonialist propaganda apparatus is terribly sinister , but strategically it is simply brilliant !
it was utilized for centuries , and it even succeeded in programming the brains of the victims in the sub-continent , africa and elsewhere.of course , your numbers are correct and all that is happening is thoroughly absurd !
but day and night people are told that north korea represents a true danger to the world .
the same was said about the soviet union , china , cuba , iraq , afghanistan and many other countries .
most of these countries have already been destroyed.north korea s sin is that it refuses to surrender , to fall on its knees , to sacrifice its people .
it refuses to become a slave .
for centuries , european and later us colonialism punished such defiance in the most brutal ways .
western culture is , after all , based and built on slavery .
it demands absolute compliance , unconditional submission.if north korea is attacked , it should fight back !
and it will.ab : the united nations adopted the important treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons in july .
the united nations is often used ( in alternate ways and countries ) : this treaty is ignored by all nuclear powers , including by members of nato with us nuclear weapons ( including italy ) .
nato has banned member states from ratifying it .
can the west have a moralist attitude to those who pursue a deterrent in order not to not end up like saddam and gaddafi ? av : the west is like an army of brigands that has managed to overrun some city , to rape everything that moves , burn the center , loot houses and shops and then execute all leading thinkers and defenders .
a few days later they see someone stealing a bunch of bananas from a fruit stall .
and they catch him , and judge him , and feel totally morally righteous .
it is all so comical !
but that is not how you are supposed to see it ! ab : russia and china ( with iran , venezuela and many other countries ) are intensifying de-dollarization in their mutual exchanges .
does it envisage a gradual weakening of the dollar capable of affecting international finance and what geopolitical repercussions ? av : yes , definitely !
and you should talk about it to my friend , peter koenig , a true dissident , a former economist at the world bank , who is now actually advising many countries on de-dollarization.us dollars should not be used anymore .
western institutions should be ignored .
totally new structures should be , and are being erected .
china and russia are , of course , in the lead .
all this is extremely important and can change the world , in the near future.ab : venezuela , with the convening of the constituent assembly , turned off the coup attempts of the opposition .
in brazil lula is favored in polls , while in argentina the former president cristina fernandez is back in the senate with strong popular support .
so it was not the end of the progressive cycle , as the mainstream has for years stated ? av : of course it was not the end !
the desire of lain americans to live in just and egalitarian societies is too strong ; it can not be destroyed overnight.there were some serious setbacks in argentina and brazil .
and venezuela is suffering immensely , battered by its own shameless elites sponsored from abroad .
but the country is still standing.in brazil , temer is immensely unpopular .
his constitutional coup will soon backfire .
pt will be back , in its old form or in a new one .
and it will be much stronger than before .
the same goes for argentina .
you see , despite all the media manipulation , propaganda and shameless lies , people are already realizing that they were fooled .
they want some decency back , they want socialism and pride and hope !
they want true independence.in two weeks from now i m going back to south america .
my book of essays is being published by lom , soon , and lom is a very important left-wing publishing house in chile .
these days i go back to south america often .
it is one of the frontlines , battlegrounds , where people struggle against western imperialism and its lackeys ! these are very important , fascinating times !
i have just published my latest book , about the great october socialist revolution of 1917 , in russia .
its legacy is now relevant , more than ever before in history .
it gave birth to internationalism , and internationalism is the only movement , which can still save the world , and which can defeat western nihilism and its barefaced , cynical pillage of the planet !
* * * andre vltchek is a philosopher , novelist , filmmaker and investigative journalist .
he has covered wars and conflicts in dozens of countries .
three of his latest books are his tribute to the great october socialist revolution a revolutionary novel aurora and a bestselling work of political non-fiction : exposing lies of the empire .
view his other books here .
watch rwanda gambit , his groundbreaking documentary about rwanda and drcongo and his film/dialogue with noam chomsky on western terrorism .
vltchek presently resides in east asia and the middle east , and continues to work around the world .
he can be reached through his website and his twitter.read more from andre vltchek : 21st century imperialism filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv