paris/toronto ( reuters ) - air accident investigators from both sides of the atlantic have been struggling to decide who should lead a probe into an engine explosion that forced an air france a380 to make an emergency landing in canada , people familiar with the matter said .
two days after the damaged superjumbo landed at goose bay in labrador with more than 500 people on board , a formal investigation had yet to be announced , a step that typically takes hours .
experts from the united states and france , as well as planemaker airbus and u.s-based engine maker engine alliance , have been sent to goose bay .
but a spokesman for france s bea air accident agency said no investigation had yet been formally launched .
canada s transportation safety board ( tsb ) said it was currently leading the work of investigators from canada , france and the united states .
it s a long process and we re still gathering data and assessing .
many significant elements remain to be determined at this point , tsb spokesman alexandre fournier said by phone from ottawa .
fournier said a formal accident investigation had not been launched and jurisdiction remains to be confirmed .
the flight data recorder and cabin voice recorder will be arriving in ottawa on tuesday for analysis , he added .
the decision on who should lead an investigation depends on a number of factors including , first and foremost , the country where the incident took place .
airline sources said an uncontained explosion , which ripped off the outer-right engine s three-metre-wide fan together with its housing from the front of the engine , happened over greenland , which comes under danish jurisdiction .
under aviation law , denmark would officially own the investigation but it can delegate it to another country , such as canada .
denmark s accident agency was not available for comment .
france and the united states would automatically be part of any investigation , since the aircraft and engine were made in those countries respectively .
nobody was injured in the incident , in which air france flight 66 , originating in paris and bound for los angeles , declared a mayday and diverted to canada .
airbus has issued an alert to all operators of the aircraft that use the same type of engine , confirming the low-pressure compressor fan had been separated .
no cause had yet been identified , it said , according to one recipient .
in 2010 , a rolls-royce engine on a qantas a380 suffered mid-air damage after taking off in singapore .
an investigation blamed a leak from a badly made engine pipe .