moscow ( reuters ) - russia is concerned that japan is allowing washington to use its territory as a base for a u.s. military build-up in north asia under the pretext of countering north korea , russian foreign minister sergei lavrov said on friday .
his remarks came at a joint press conference with his japanese counterpart , taro kono , after talks between the two men in moscow , and prompted kono to defend japan s stance toward north korea and its ties with the united states .
japan had wanted to focus on resolving a seven-decade old territorial dispute between the countries but lavrov s comments on north korea cast a shadow over the meeting .
we are expressing deep concern , with facts to back it up , that japan along with south korea is becoming a territory for the deployment of elements of the u.s. global missile defense system which is being rolled out in that region under the pretext of the north korea threat , lavrov said .
we have no problems directly with japan , we do not see risks there .
we see risks because of the proliferation of a global u.s. missile defense system on the territory of countries that neighbor russia , including japan .
he said that in the past few weeks the united states had conducted military exercises in the region and adopted additional sanctions despite the absence of provocation from pyongyang .
we are alarmed that in the last two months when north korea conducted no tests or rocket launches , it seemed that washington was not happy about that , and tried to do things that would irritate and provoke pyongyang , lavrov said .
referring to u.s. officials , he said : it s as if they are hoping that they ( the north koreans ) will lash out again , and then it would be possible to engage in military options .
as you know , the u.s. leadership has said many times that all options are on the table , including military options , and we note that japanese prime minister shinzo abe , at a meeting with president trump in early november , said that he supports the american position 100 percent , lavrov said .
japanese foreign minister kono , after listening to lavrov s remarks , responded that japan and its allies were not seeking regime change in north korea .
he said tokyo had to act to defend itself after pyongyang test-fired missiles which flew over japan s territory .
this is unprecedented , the most important and most pressing threat not just to japan and russia but to the international community as a whole .
it s absolutely unacceptable , kono said , speaking through an interpreter .
we believe it s necessary to use all possible means and to increase the pressure on north korea as much as possible to stop its nuclear program and the rocket launches , he said .
japan welcomes the position of the united states , which is that to protect japan and south korea , all means of deterrence will be used .
earlier this year , japan s abe expressed hope of a breakthrough in tokyo s dispute with moscow over a group of islands in the pacific , but that prospect has now dimmed .
the islands are known in japan as the northern territories and in russia as the kurile islands .
at the end of world war two , soviet forces took control over the islands from japan .
the island dispute has meant that moscow and tokyo have still not signed a formal peace agreement to end war-time hostilities .
lavrov and kono said at their talks that they had made progress on measures to boost russian-japanese economic cooperation on the islands , and to ease access for japanese people wanting to visit .
they offered no details about any progress on resolving the core of the dispute , about who has sovereignty over the islands .