( ( this story contains obscene language in the 15 and 16 paragraphs ) . )
by manuel mogato and neil jerome morales manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte said on thursday he hoped a shift to target big networks in his war on drugs would satisfy bleeding hearts and interfering western states fixated on the high death toll in his brutal crackdown .
in a televised speech , duterte read a memorandum that removes police from the drugs war and places the philippine drug enforcement agency ( pdea ) in charge , then launched a curse-laden tirade at foreign critics of a campaign that has killed thousands of filipinos .
duterte appeared to target some european parliamentarians among a group called the progressive alliance , which on monday said it was extremely alarmed by the drugs war and warned the philippines risked losing trade privileges because of unchecked abuses by police during his signature campaign .
i am not interested anymore in using any other ( agency ) , just let pdea , he said .
they seem to want it , i want , as a last word , maybe this would suffice for the stupid european union guys .
they were all focused on how many deaths .
the european union delegation in manila issued a statement clarifying that it had no involvement in the visit by the progressive alliance .
it was unclear whether the decision to change tactics in the anti-drugs campaign was influenced by western pressure .
the administration on thursday said the shift was to target big fish , moving away from street level operations to go after big networks and suppliers .
police disbanded all 18 regional anti-drugs units on thursday .
presidential spokesman ernesto abella said the new aim was for pdea to target higher echelons of the syndicates , as well as their protectors in government .
that message will sound familiar , with similar announcements a year ago when a new phase of the drugs war was launched to catch producers and suppliers .
critics say that never happened and small-time dealers and users and the urban poor continued to bear the brunt of the 3,900 killings by police .
police say armed suspects resisted arrest in every one of those cases and they deny allegations victims were executed .
duterte was furious on thursday and appeared to suggest european lawmakers had warned the philippines could lose its u.n. membership .
duterte lashed out at western powers who colonized countries , started wars , stole oil from the middle east , and said they had import terrorism to their own shores .
he dared them to cut ties with the philippines and have their ambassadors leave within 24 hours .
he said his new alliances with russia and china - u.n. security council permanent members - would keep the philippines in the united nations .
we will be excluded in the u.n. ?
you son of a bitch .
go ahead .
you are interfering in our affairs because we are poor .
you give money and then you start to orchestrate what things should be done , he said .
you bullshit .
we are past the colonization stage .
don t fuck with us .
duterte s spokesman abella later clarified that duterte s expression of outrage was a reaction to the progressive alliance , which had falsely portrayed itself as an eu mission and made irresponsible statements .
the strategic shift in his war on drugs comes at a difficult time for duterte , who though still hugely popular , saw a sharp decline in ratings according to a poll released on sunday .
it also followed an anti-duterte protest last month by thousands of people and rare public outrage over the killing by police of a teenager .
several surveys released recently show doubts among filipinos about the validity of police accounts , and whether victims were all drug dealers .
with only a fraction of the manpower and budget of the police , pdea will have a challenge to keep up the intensity of the crackdown .
duterte placed pdea in charge in january and suspended police from anti-drugs operations .
but he reinstated them a few week later , arguing drugs had returned to the streets .
pdea spokesman derrick carreon said the agency was up to the task .
we are ready , we can do it , carreon said .
we will target the source , the so-called big fish .
removing these high-value targets will also eliminate the street level distribution and disrupt the entire network .
duterte acknowledged the death toll in pdea s operations was smaller than that of police , and said human rights groups and the media should be happy .
let s go there .
no death , no encounter .
so better for the bleeding hearts and media .
i hope i will satisfy you , he said .