new delhi ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis held talks with indian leaders on tuesday , vowing to jointly stamp out militant sanctuaries and seeking india s greater involvement in helping to stabilize afghanistan .
the comments come as president donald trump s administration has stepped up pressure on pakistan for more action against militant groups operating from its soil that are blamed for attacks in india and neighboring afghanistan .
islamabad denies giving material support to the militants and instead accuses its arch-rival of trying to use afghanistan as a base for anti-pakistan activities .
but mattis , the trump administration s first cabinet official to visit india , said the two countries would work together to fight terrorism .
there can be no tolerance of terrorist safe havens , he said in a statement .
as global leaders , india and the united states resolve to work together to eradicate this scourge .
washington welcomed indian efforts to promote stability in afghanistan , he added .
new delhi has committed $ 3 billion in development projects in afghanistan and trains afghan officers in india .
but it has not sent soldiers in the international effort to restore peace .
our engagement in afghanistan will continue , we shall expand our engagement , indian defence minister nirmala sitharaman said , following talks with mattis .
defence ties between india and the united states have expanded rapidly , with new delhi buying u.s. weapons worth $ 15 billion over the last decade , moving away from traditional supplier russia .
military experts say u.s. weapons transfers aim at bolstering indian capabilities to develop a counterweight against china s growing assertiveness in recent years .
indian and u.s. negotiators are now trying to move forward with a deal to supply the indian navy with 22 sea guardian drone aircraft , whose june approval by the u.s. government was the first such clearance to a non-nato ally .
india wants the unarmed drones to help its navy lengthen the duration of its surveillance in the indian ocean , where chinese naval ships and submarines make regular forays .
expanding naval cooperation with india was a top priority , mattis said , adding that three-way exercises involving the united states , india and japan boosted operational cooperation .
the united states has been critical of china s build-up of military facilities in the south china sea .
but new delhi turned down a u.s. suggestion of regional joint patrols with the indian navy , for fear of a chinese backlash .
china looms very large for both countries , said dhruva jaishankar , a specialist on india-u.s. relations at brookings india .
the strategic underpinning of india-us defense ties is in the common concerns they have over china , over its revisionism .
the indian air force has also asked for 90 armed avenger predator drones that experts say could be deployed for cross-border strikes , such as targeting militant camps india says exist on pakistan s side of disputed kashmir .
such a sale would need white house and congress approval , sources said .
but pakistan and , possibly , china could see the move as destabilizing .
dronemaker general atomics is pleased the indian government has won approval for the surveillance version of the drone , said vivek lall , its chief executive for u.s. and international strategic development .
not only will this platform enhance india s capabilities in the areas of maritime domain awareness and security , but the interoperability with one of the u.s. s most important strategic partners will contribute to security across the region .
the two sides will also discuss lockheed martin s ( lmt.n ) offer to build f-16 fighter planes in india as part of prime minister narendra modi s drive to build a domestic military industrial base .
we look forward to sharing some of our most advanced defense technologies , mattis said .
sweden s saab ( saabb.st ) is the other contender for the deal to supply at least 100 single-engine combat planes .