the domestic terror group is at it again watch photographers vie for the best angle while watching an aggressive , hateful group of angry protesters attack a lone man for simply wearing a trump hat vying hat .
not one of these men offered to help this person who appears to be by himself .
meanwhile , cops stand around and allow and innocent man to be assaulted .
what has happened to our america ? a young white man wearing one of donald trump s red make america great again !
hats was violently forced out of new york city s city hall park by a screaming leftist racist mob of predominantly self-described black and brown activists all while police stood by and did nothing.the mob was gathered to protest police as part of a # shutdowncityhallnyc rally in the park .
-via : gpyou ve got ta love how the apparent leader of this mob tells the innocent trump supporter , we do not condone violence while grasping a hat they took from him and only moments before he is shoved by the mob.watch : huge crowd of protesters escort out # trump supporter at # shutdowncityhallnyc pic.twitter.com/zhgd50mcxb alex rubinstein ( @ realalexrubi ) august 1 , 2016and then trump supporter shows up , gets pushed out to chants of `` racist '' # shutdowncityhallnyc @ dnainfony pic.twitter.com/oj2oe97m2h irene plagianos ( @ ireneplagianos ) august 2 , 2016black lives matter thugs celebrated the announcement that new york city police commissioner bill bratton will step down in september.bratton will take a job in the private sector , but he did not name the company.the resignation announcement comes a day after 200 anti-police protesters gathered in city hall park to demand the nypd be defunded and bratton be fired.nypd chief of department james o neill is set to replace bratton , 68 , who has been in his current post since december 2013 .
bratton also served as new york s top cop from 1994 to 1996 and was chief of the lapd from 2002 to 2009.during his first tenure as commissioner , under mayor rudolph giuliani in the early 1990s , bratton was credited with driving down crime with a widely copied , data-driven , crime-fighting strategy before his brash style made him an annoyance to the mayor , who forced him out.though de blasio was elected as a sharp critic of a police strategy known as stop-and-frisk which raised concerns over racial profiling and privacy rights he picked bratton as a sign that he would balance reform and further drive down crime .
when you see a policeman , remember that he is your friend , bratton said tuesday .
that s the vision and that s the passion that i ve had for 45 years .
-via fox newsa toast to bill bratton 's resignation at # shutdowncityhallnyc .
video by @ soellerpower pic.twitter.com/s7kdtnrdgw alex rubinstein ( @ realalexrubi ) august 2 , 2016