niamey ( reuters ) - mali and niger , two of the west african nations worst affected by jihadist violence , appealed on wednesday for international funding for a regional force they have set up to counter islamist insurgencies .
mali s president ibrahim boubacar keita and niger s mahamadou issoufou said the force assembled by the g5 sahel bloc mali , mauritania , burkina faso , niger and chad was crucial to fighting a threat that went well beyong their borders .
we bring this combat against terrorism not only to protect our own people and countries but for the whole world , issoufou told a news conference in niger s capital niamey .
for terrorism knows no border .
it will go to europe , it will go to the united states , he said .
the world has to be mobilized .
the idea of the g5 force was first dreamed up in 2015 , but only in july last year did the countries set it up .
it is expected to comprise around 5,000 troops .
french president emmanuel macron has said he expects it to be operational by the autumn .
islamist groups , some with links to al qaeda , seized mali s desert north in 2012 .
french-led forces scattered them the following year but they still attack peacekeepers , soldiers and civilian targets in mali , niger , burkina faso and ivory coast .
issoufou said a multinational force in the lake chad region , including soldiers from niger , nigeria , chad and cameroon , had had some success against islamist boko haram militants , but that this was financed by africa s biggest economy , nigeria , whereas no country in the g5 had sufficient resources .
it is important that the international community takes note of this and gets together to give us resources to ensure our mission can be accomplished , he said .
analysts see the g5 force as the basis of an eventual exit strategy for around 4,000 french troops deployed to the region on counter-insurgency missions , mostly in mali .
we have only limited means , but if we mutualize our power , our sovereign elements will have more force , more vitality than we imagine , malian president keita said .
issoufou said the force would be divided into three deployments across the sahel region : an eastern one consisting of chadian and nigerien forces , a central one with forces from niger , mali and burkina faso , and a western one with troops from mali and mauritania .