united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council on thursday approved the creation of a u.n. investigative team to collect , preserve and store evidence in iraq of acts by islamic state that may be war crimes , crimes against humanity or genocide .
the 15-member council unanimously adopted a british-drafted resolution , after a year of negotiations with iraq , that asks secretary-general antonio guterres to establish a team to support domestic efforts to hold the militants accountable .
british minister of state for the middle east alistair burt said britain would provide some $ 1.3 million to help establish the team .
there can never be adequate recompense for those who were forced to endure the wanton brutality of ( islamic state ) and the dead will not be brought back , but this resolution means that the international community is united in our belief that there should , at least , be accountability , burt told the council .
use of the evidence collected by the team in other venues , such as international courts , would be determined in agreement with the government of iraq on a case-by-case basis .
evidence is for primary use by iraqi authorities , followed by competent national-level courts , according to the resolution .
thousands of foreigners have fought with islamic state and some are already being prosecuted when they return home .
u.n. experts said in june last year that islamic state was committing genocide against the yazidis in syria and iraq to destroy the minority religious community through killings , sexual slavery and other crimes .
international human rights lawyer amal clooney and nadia murad , a young yazidi woman who was enslaved and raped by islamic state fighters in mosul , have long pushed iraq to allow u.n. investigators to help .
clooney and murad , who were both in the security council for thursday s vote , described the resolution as a milestone in the fight for justice .
nadia and i exchanged a warm smile when we saw the 15 hands go up in the chamber , clooney told reuters .
it s been a long time coming ; in the meantime , evidence has been lost and we ve lost some opportunities along the way , but the fact that we have this resolution now means that justice is finally possible , she said .
murad said she was very happy the council had acted .
the security council met during the annual gathering of world leaders for the u.n. general assembly .
we look ahead to the next steps and it s really the next steps that will define whether this piece of paper we acquired today will become real justice on the ground for yazidis and other victims of isis , clooney said .
iraq s foreign minister ibrahim al-jaafari officially requested international help in a letter to the security council last month .
the council could have established an inquiry without iraq s consent , but britain wanted iraq s approval .
islamic state s self-proclaimed caliphate effectively collapsed in july , when u.s.-backed iraqi forces completed the recapture of mosul , the militants capital in northern iraq , after a nine-month campaign .