did donald trump convince megyn kelly s loyal fan base that she really isn t so fair and balanced after all , or is she just getting worn down by dirty politics ? many news personalities are already worn out covering this year s election , but kelly has become part of the story .
she s survived sustained attacks from trump by buckling down and focusing on her job , and her primetime show the kelly file has never done better , averaging 2.5 million nightly viewers .
in a one-hour conversation , kelly spoke to variety for this week s power of women issue about trump , wanting to interview hillary clinton and whether she ll remain at fox news after her contract expires next year.do you think there s a double standard in the news business when it comes to women ?
let me put it to you this way .
one of the biggest lessons i ve learned in the past 10 months is we have a long way to go .
we as women in the country where we are , how we think of ourselves , what we re willing to accept we have a ton of work to do.do you think trump s attacks on you are different because you re a woman ?
i think the language is very different when he fights with women.has it been hard for you ?
it has not been enjoyable .
i wish it hadn t happened .
i hope it will stop his focus on me .
if he s determined not to stop , there s nothing i can do .
i don t like being the story .
i think it raises real first amendment issues .
i ve seen what s happened with michelle fields [ the former breitbart news reporter allegedly grabbed by trump s campaign manager ] and in my own world , there s another side to this behavior .
it poses real risks to the person under attack.what did you think when you read his tweet that you owe him part of your salary ?
i laughed.isn t it sexist ?
i ll leave that to someone else to label .
i ll say this .
i earn every dime of my salary .
i won t be giving it to anyone other than my three children .
the kelly file was the no .
1 show [ in cable ] in the time slot and no .
2 in all of cable news from the time i launched it .
trump called for people to boycott the show repeatedly .
the numbers went up .
when he realized the boycott had failed , he decided to take credit for the show s success.has this made it harder to cover him ?
i don t want to be reporting the news in a way that s fearful , or a way that seeks to curry favor or prove something .
it is difficult , because trump generates a lot of controversy , often intentionally .
so you have to cover that as a reporter .
i ll channel surf .
i ll look at cnn , or i ll look at my pals bill [ hemmer ] and martha [ maccallum ] , who are co-hosting my old show .
we re the same .
i give him no more coverage than the other journalists give him.you asked a series of pointed questions about the lawsuit against trump university at the last debate you moderated .
why do you think it took the media so long to report about that ?
i think the media believed that trump wasn t a serious contender for a long time until it became obvious they were wrong .
there is a lot to fact check trump on that poses challenges .
reporters only have so much time and energy for one particular subject , and i also think with trump , he s a master strategist at distracting you .
if he says something for which he s gotten into real trouble , he ll say something else and the media is quick to run to the next shiny thing.he also doesn t always answer the question he s being asked .
it s hard .
you have to really stay on it .
you need a situation where you pick one topic and you go 10 questions deep i do that on my show .
that s how you d have to handle trump .
listen , it s been a long time since i ve interviewed him.do you think you ll interview him again ?
to be honest , every time i prepare an invitation to sit down with him , he attacks me on twitter or elsewhere .
i had always been hoping i could reach out to him at a time when he wasn t angry .
i don t think it would be a good interview if he was angry at me but then he never stops with the attacks .
i was just about to ask him to sit down with me two weeks ago , but then he started up again out of the blue.after he gave the response about the size of his hands , it was remarkable how you kept a poker face .
you know , i haven t seen the debates .
i haven t seen the reaction shot .
there was definitely a moment where bret [ baier ] and i looked to each other and laughed .
did that just happen ? did you still use twitter ?
i barely go on twitter anymore .
i go on for the news .
i don t go to the mentions .
whenever i go to the mentions , i m sorry i did.have you felt supported by fox news ?
i have .
fox news has been in a tough position .
they care about me and they are not afraid of a fight , but we re in unchartered territory.have you had many conversations about this with your boss roger ailes ?
i ve had many conversations with him about the situation .
i think it s been hard on him , too .
i don t think he s enjoyed one piece of this .
he can see what happens in my life when trump starts off .
he really wants him to stop , but on the other hand , he s not going to run a news channel that doesn t provide access to the republican frontrunner for president.your contract is up after the election .
have you decided if you re staying at fox news ?
i haven t.you might not stay ?
never say never .
i don t know what s going to happen .
i ve had a great 12 years here , and i really like working for roger ailes .
i really like my show , and i love my team .
but you know , there s a lot of brain damage that comes from the job .
there was probably less brain damage when i worked in the afternoon .
i was less well known .
i had far less conflict in my life .
i also have three kids who are soon going to be school from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m .
i come to work at 3:30 .
i like to see my children .
having said that , my boss has been good about working with me to make me happy he knows i m a hard worker .
i ve had few problems here where i couldn t talk to him and say , can we work something out ? , and come away happy.would you consider your own talk show ?
i ve thought about that .
i don t know what the market looks like for that in 2016 .
many people have tried and failed .
i do love covering the news .
i just don t think that s the perfect thing for me.what about co-hosting a morning show like today ?
you have to wake up so early .
the alarm goes off at 3:30 a.m .
when i did america s newsroom , which started at 9 a.m. , i remember saying to the makeup artist at the time , if you could only know the afternoon me , you d like me so much better .
listen , this is a fickle business .
what if they called me and fired me tomorrow ?
i have to keep my options open.fox news won t do that .
one never knows .
everything is rolling along fine , and then you call huckabee f * ckabee and you re gone .
via : varietyof course , megyn kelly wasn t fired for her mistake during the 2014 huckabee interview .
watch here :