washington/united nations ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump on wednesday threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that vote in favor of a draft united nations resolution calling for the united states to withdraw its decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
they take hundreds of millions of dollars and even billions of dollars , and then they vote against us .
well , we re watching those votes .
let them vote against us .
we ll save a lot .
we don t care , trump told reporters at the white house .
the 193-member u.n. general assembly will hold a rare emergency special session on thursday - at the request of arab and muslim countries - to vote on a draft resolution , which the united states vetoed on monday in the 15-member u.n. security council .
the remaining 14 security council members voted in favor of the egyptian-drafted resolution , which did not specifically mention the united states or trump but which expressed deep regret at recent decisions concerning the status of jerusalem .
u.s .
ambassador nikki haley , in a letter to dozens of u.n. states on tuesday seen by reuters , warned that trump had asked her to report back on those countries who voted against us .
she bluntly echoed that call in a twitter post : the u.s. will be taking names .
several senior diplomats said haley s warning was unlikely to change many votes in the general assembly , where such direct , public threats are rare .
some diplomats brushed off the warning as more likely aimed at impressing u.s. voters .
according to figures from the u.s. government s aid agency usaid , in 2016 the united states provided some $ 13 billion in economic and military assistance to countries in sub-saharan africa and $ 1.6 billion to states in east asia and oceania .
it provided some $ 13 billion to countries in the middle east and north africa , $ 6.7 billion to countries in south and central asia , $ 1.5 billion to states in europe and eurasia and $ 2.2 billion to western hemisphere countries , according to usaid .
miroslav lajcak , president of the general assembly , declined to comment on trump s remarks , but added : it s the right and responsibility of member states to express their views .
a spokesman for u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres also declined to comment on trump s remarks on wednesday .
i like the message that nikki sent yesterday at the united nations , for all those nations that take our money and then they vote against us at the security council , or they vote against us potentially at the assembly , trump said .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians and the arab world and concern among washington s western allies .
he also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
the draft u.n. resolution calls on all countries to refrain from establishing diplomatic missions in jerusalem .
a senior diplomat from a muslim country , speaking on condition of anonymity , said of haley s letter : states resort to such blatant bullying only when they know they do not have a moral or legal argument to convince others .
responding directly to that comment on twitter , haley said : actually it is when a country is tired of being taken for granted .
a senior western diplomat , speaking on condition of anonymity , described haley s letter as poor tactics at the united nations but pretty good for haley 2020 or haley 2024 , referring to speculation that haley might run for higher office .
she s not going to win any votes in the general assembly or the security council , but she is going to win some votes in the u.s. population , the western diplomat said .
a senior european diplomat , speaking on condition of anonymity , agreed haley was unlikely to sway many u.n. states .
we are missing some leadership here from the u.s. and this type of letter is definitely not helping to establish u.s. leadership in the middle east peace process , the diplomat said .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the first name that she should write down is bolivia , bolivia s u.n .
ambassador sacha sergio llorentty sol z said of haley s message .
we regret the arrogance and disrespect to the sovereign decision of member states and to multilateralism .