brussels ( reuters ) - when theresa may visits brussels on friday , eu negotiators will be listening intently for signs the british prime minister is preparing to risk a domestic backlash and raise her offer to secure a brexit deal in december .
european union officials and diplomats from the other 27 member states involved in the process hope that within a week to 10 days of meeting european council president donald tusk , during a summit with ex-soviet neighbors , may will deliver movement on three key conditions so that her eu peers can launch a new phase of brexit negotiations when they meet on dec. 14-15 .
i don t know what room for maneuver may has , but what we can see is a willingness to act , one senior eu official told reuters .
another spoke of efforts to arrange the choreography of a deal over the next three weeks , including an eu-uk joint report pinning down interim accords to unlock talks on trade .
i feel the tectonic plates moving now , a diplomat handling brexit for an eu government said .
time is running out and a failure in the december council would serve nobody s purpose .
there has been only a day of top-level talks between the two lead negotiators since a mid-october summit that dismissed may s call for immediate talks on a future trade agreement .
but talks are continuing apace behind the scenes , ahead of a deadline of early december to strike a deal which can then be formalized by the 27 government leaders at the summit .
everyone is talking to everyone already , at all levels , the european commission s chief spokesman margaritis schinas told reporters on thursday when he confirmed that may would meet commission president jean-claude juncker and brexit negotiator michel barnier in brussels on monday , dec. 4 .
that is two days before envoys from the 27 meet on dec. 6 to discuss a first draft of the dec. 14-15 summit conclusions , including , crucially , whether the leaders should accept britain has made sufficient progress to merit opening trade talks .
hopes in brussels have been raised by reports in british media that may has secured backing from pro-brexit hardliners in her cabinet to increase the amount of a financial settlement of what britain owes to the union when it leaves in march 2019 .
if there is a political willingness in britain , we should be ready , a senior eu official said , while warning that nothing was being taken for granted .
may s room for maneuver to cut a deal that would please business while irritating britons who want a sharper break with brussels is limited .
and germany and france , the union s lead powers , have taken a tough line so far .
with german chancellor angela merkel distracted at home by a search for a new coalition , may can expect little focus from her to help smooth a deal , several diplomats said .
some in britain have suggested may could take advantage of merkel s weakness at home to drive a harder bargain .
but eu diplomats argue that merkel s troubles make it harder for her , and so for the 27 , to water down their existing demands .
so any brinkmanship around the summit could mean no deal in december .
that would create some kind of crisis in negotiations , the second eu official said , noting that time was already short to complete a treaty by late next year to ensure an orderly brexit .
but maybe that is necessary .
the sides already believe they are quite close on agreeing the scope of rights for expatriate citizens in britain and on the continent , though the eu will be particularly looking to pin britain down to accepting its demands that any agreement be subject to enforcement through the union s legal system .
the third key criterion for moving to phase two , an outline agreement on how to avoid the new eu-uk land border disrupting the peace in northern ireland , remains a potential stumbling block .
differences of opinion between london and dublin have been marked this month , worrying eu officials .
however , it is the financial settlement that has been the most concerning for the past few months .
officials believe that could be resolved by a combination of may stating clearly that britain will pay a share after leaving of two major eu budget lines , staff pensions and agreed but undisbursed spending .
british press reports , seen in brussels as planted leaks from may , suggesting she might offer to pay something like 40 billion pounds ( $ 53 billion ) have encouraged eu negotiators .
while that is well short of the 60 billion euros ( $ 71 billion ) the european commission has mentioned , that was always seen by eu officials as a maximum demand .
and they are willing , they say , to help may massage the public messaging of the amount in order to limit the political flak she takes at home .
on presentational issues , barnier is ready to help , not to call things by their real name , an eu official said .