rome ( reuters ) - lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri indicated on wednesday that he might withdraw his resignation next week , saying matters were positive and he would rescind his decision if they remained so , a statement from his press office said .
hariri announced his resignation in a televised statement while he was in saudi arabia on nov. 4 , prompting a political crisis in lebanon and thrusting it back into a regional tussle between riyadh and its main regional foe , iran .
lebanese officials say saudi arabia coerced hariri , a long-time ally of saudi arabia , into resigning and held him there against his will until an intervention by france led to his return to lebanon last week .
saudi arabia denies this .
hariri agreed to shelve the decision after meeting aoun last week , saying this was to allow for dialogue .
hariri wants all lebanese to commit to staying out of regional conflicts , a reference to the powerful armed shi ite group hezbollah , which saudi arabia accuses of sowing strife in the arab world with support from iran .
matters are positive , as you hear , and if this positivity continues we will announce , god willing , to lebanese next week with president michel aoun and parliament speaker nabih berri the withdrawal of the resignation , hariri said on wednesday .
he was speaking during a celebration to mark the prophet mohammad s birthday .
earlier on wednesday , aoun was quoted as saying that hariri would certainly remain prime minister and lebanon s political crisis will be resolved in a few days .
we have just finished talks with all the political forces , within and outside government .
there is a broad agreement , the newspaper la stampa quoted him as saying during a visit to italy .
aoun did not accept hariri s televised resignation , accusing saudi arabia of holding hariri in riyadh and forcing him to step down .
hariri eventually returned to beirut on nov. 22 and postponed his resignation .
he said on monday that he would stay on as prime minister if iran s lebanese ally , hezbollah , accepted a policy of staying out of regional conflicts .
asked about that demand , aoun a hezbollah ally said : hezbollah has fought against islamic state terrorists in lebanon and abroad .
but when the war against terrorism is finished , their fighters will come back to the country , la stampa reported .
the group has fought alongside president bashar al-assad s forces in syria against rebels seeking to oust him , including factions that were backed by saudi arabia .