cartagena , colombia ( reuters ) - pope francis , his eye bandaged and blackened after a minor accident in the popemobile , left colombia on sunday after appealing to the country to untie the knots of violence after a 50-year civil war .
his last day in the andean country got off to a rocky start when he lost his balance and bumped his head while riding in the popemobile .
he bruised his cheekbone and cut his left eyebrow , blood staining his white cassock .
the vatican said he received ice treatment and was fine .
a smiling pope continued the trip wearing a bandage over his cut .
i was punched .
i m fine , the 80-year-old pontiff joked afterward , the bruises on his face clearly visible .
at the end of the day , when he said mass for about 500,000 people in the city s port area , the bruise had swollen and he had a black bag under his eye .
if colombia wants a stable and lasting peace , it must urgently take a step in this direction , which is that of the common good , of equity , of justice , of respect for human nature and its demands , he said in a strong voice in the homily of the mass , accompanied by caribbean and salsa music .
only if we help to untie the knots of violence , will we unravel the complex threads of disagreements , he said .
the pontiff left colombia on an avianca flight to rome after watching a cumbia troupe perform traditional coastal singing and dancing with president juan manuel santos and his wife , maria clemencia .
francis used the trip to urge colombians deeply polarized by a peace plan to shun vengeance after a bloody civil war .
he also said leaders had to enact laws to end injustice and social inequality that breeds violence .
cartagena , a top tourist destination famous for its colonial walled ramparts , was the home to saint peter claver , a spanish priest who ministered to slaves in colombia in the 1600s , defying spanish colonial masters who treated them as chattel .
the pope used the occasion to again decry modern slavery and human trafficking and defend the rights of immigrants .
human rights groups estimate that millions of people around the world are victims of human trafficking and forms of modern slavery such as forced labor and prostitution .
here in colombia and in the world , millions of people are still being sold as slaves ; they either beg for some expressions of humanity , moments of tenderness , or they flee by sea or land because they have lost everything , primarily their dignity and their rights , the pope said just before praying before claver s relics .
some 300 afro-colombians who receive assistance from the jesuit religious order , of which the pope is a member , prayed with him in the church .
francis visited the impoverished neighborhood of san francisco and blessed the cornerstone of a shelter for at-risk afro-colombian girls vulnerable to child prostitution , drugs and violence .
earlier in the day , the first latin american pope said he was praying for the well-being of all countries on the continent but particularly venezuela , which has been caught up in a social and economic crisis .
i express my closeness to all the sons and daughters of that beloved nation , as well as to all those who have found a place of welcome here in colombia , referring to the tens of thousands of venezuelans who have crossed the border to find food and medicine .
from this city , known as the seat of human rights , i appeal for the rejection of all violence in political life and for a solution to the current grave crisis , which affects everyone , particularly the poorest and most disadvantaged of society , he said .
national human rights day is celebrated in colombia on sept. 9 , in honor of claver , who died in 1654 .
venezuela has been convulsed by months of near-daily protests against leftist president nicolas maduro , who critics say has plunged the oil-rich country into the worst economic crisis in its history and is turning it into a dictatorship .
world bodies and foreign governments have expressed concern about the shortage of food and medicine in venezuela and called for political dialogue between maduro and the opposition .
church leaders in venezuela have made a series of highly critical speeches since late last year .