senator john mccain just couldn t help himself .
while millions of americans were praying for his recovery , after he was diagnosed with brain cancer earlier this week , mccain took to twitter to admonish president trump over his decision to end a failed program that was supposed to train , fund and arm syrians to fight assad and isis.the program has been a complete failure and cost americans millions of dollars.the hill in february , 2012 , sen. john mccain ( r-ariz. ) and sen. lindsey graham ( r-s.c. ) , who both serve on the senate armed services committee urged that the united states arm opposition forces in syria .
war-hawks mccain and graham argued that arming rebel fighters in the country could help beat back a syrian government with close ties to iran .
breaking syria apart from iran could be as important to containing a nuclear iran as sanctions , graham said at a press conference in kabul , according to the new york times .
if the syrian regime is replaced with another form of government that doesn t tie its future to the iranians , the world is a better place .
where have we heard that strategy before ?
oh yeah in libya and in iraq .
how did that work out for america and for the middle east john ?
mccain was apparently well enough by yesterday to warn tweeted his sparring partners in congress that he d be back soon and told them to stand-by !
goodness knows , america couldn t survive without the votes and guidance of trump-hater and leader of the republican we don t have to do what the american voters elected us to do opposition party.i greatly appreciate the outpouring of support unfortunately for my sparring partners in congress , i 'll be back soon , so stand-by !
john mccain ( @ senjohnmccain ) july 20 , 2017only one hour later , war-hawk mccain fired back with another tweet admonishing president trump for ending the failed program created to assist the syrian opposition .
mccain accused president trump of caving to russia ( proving once again that mccain is anything but a team player when it comes to our president ) .reports admin ending prgm to assist syrian opposition irresponsible , short-sighted & plays into russia , assad 's hands https : //t.co/n7kvqn1vd6 john mccain ( @ senjohnmccain ) july 20 , 2017it s great to know that one of trump s biggest opponents , who happens to also be a member of the same political party , isn t going to let a life-threatening diagnosis keep him from offering constant criticism of our president h/t gateway pundit