donald trump got a late start on his incoherent twitter whining sunday but better late than never , we suppose .
once again , our so-called president is doing his best to convince the american people that the investigation into his administration s collusion with russia is fake while simultaneously complaining that republicans aren t doing enough to protect him from it .
as the phony russian witch hunt continues , two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold , democrats and russians !
president snowflake said , adding that it s very sad that republicans , even some that were carried over the line on my back , do very little to protect their president .
as the phony russian witch hunt continues , two groups are laughing at this excuse for a lost election taking hold , democrats and russians !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 23 , 2017it 's very sad that republicans , even some that were carried over the line on my back , do very little to protect their president .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 23 , 2017the donald has been doing his best lately to make his twitter timeline a safe space , banning anyone who expresses a dissenting view ( a gross violation of their constitutional rights ) but no matter how much he tries , the disdain felt for him by americans still manages to overcome his efforts to hide from how the country feels about him : emperor trump has no clothes .
eugene gu , md ( @ eugenegu ) july 23 , 2017it s actually hilarious that trump is now whining on twitter about losing the support of his very own party sad !
35 % sad !
( @ williamlegate ) july 23 , 2017did you seriously just write that ?
vikki v ( @ missvikkiv ) july 23 , 2017you feel better buddy ?
you get that out of your system ?
what a way to contribute .
good job .
quinn brown ( @ justinqbrown ) july 23 , 2017please show me the line in the constitution that says members of congress must protect their president .
and protect from what ?
lawrence o donnell ( @ lawrence ) july 23 , 2017maybe republicans are growing a spine and realize that trump s approval rating will be a liability for them in 2018 .
david putnam ( @ davidmputnam ) july 23 , 2017these tweets sound like they are coming out of pyongyang .
you want dear leader loyalty .
dani bostick ( @ danibostick ) july 23 , 2017grow the fuck up .
you re 71. act like .
just once .
jesus fucking christ .
cx ( @ cxcope ) july 23 , 2017do you need a safe space you half-sentient ball of cheeto-dusted phlegm ?
alicia lutes ( @ alicialutes ) july 23 , 2017yeah , so hate to break it to you , but their job is not to protect their president .
lt ( @ tassmaniand ) july 23 , 2017obama is so classy and his beautiful wife loves him it must be really weird to have to purchase wives .
pic.twitter.com/erie4lopa6 stevebannonsnose ( @ prezbannonsnose ) july 23 , 2017you re right .
they are disloyal .
they don t deserve you .
teach them a lesson and resign .
vitw ( @ josephwelch3rd ) july 23 , 2017always the victim .
poor donnie .
sad ?
?
?
barbara ( @ morbeek ) july 23 , 2017hahaha .
hahaha .
funniest damn tweet ever .
joann kline ( @ joannkline ) july 23 , 2017ah you poor jc beyond the wall ( @ jc_in_calgary ) july 23 , 2017trump is really getting nervous lately amid reports that he is desperately seeking ways to pardon not only his family and other co-conspirators but himself something innocent people do not investigate.it s time for republicans to stand up to the donald and impeach him .
as trump said during his campaign , you either have a country or you don t. most americans would prefer to still have a country when this is all over.featured image via getty images/screengrab