london ( reuters ) - christine keeler , the model and dancer whose liaisons with a british minister and a soviet diplomat at the height of the cold war shocked britain and embroiled the government in a notorious political sex scandal , has died aged 75 .
keeler s relationship with married minister of war john profumo , whom she met , aged 19 , while swimming naked at the grand buckinghamshire estate of his colleague william astor , shocked socially conservative britain in the early 1960s .
front-page revelations that she was also having an affair with a soviet naval attache , yevgeny ivanov , titillated the public and shone a light on the social and sexual mores of britain s secretive ruling establishment .
profumo was forced to resign after lying to parliament about their relationship .
the political and diplomatic firestorm helped bring down the conservative government of prime minister harold macmillan and the 1963 profumo affair is still seen as a watershed moment that changed british attitudes to sex and class .
keeler s son , seymour platt , told the guardian newspaper she had died on tuesday night after suffering for months from a form of lung disease .
she had led a humble lifestyle after the scandal but never escaped the notoriety it brought her .
there was a lot of good around chris s rather tragic life , because there was a family around her that loved her , platt was quoted as saying .
i think what happened to her back in the day was quite damaging .
the black-and-white photograph of a naked keeler sitting astride an arne jacobsen chair remains the defining image of the lurid scandal that has been retold several times on screen and stage , including as a musical .
it even added an expression to the british lexicon .
at the trial of stephen ward , the man who brought keeler and profumo together , a fellow showgirl was told that another establishment figure denied having sex with her .
well , he would , wouldn t he ? , responded mandy rice-davies .
in later life , keeler had regrets about how the scandal unfolded and said she had been a victim .
i wish , that at that time , i had been older so that i would have been able to have answered or spoke up for myself and stephen but i was only a young girl , she said .