riyadh ( reuters ) - a panel set up by the saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen to investigate civilian casualties found a series of deadly air strikes largely justified , citing the presence of armed militiamen at the homes , schools and clinics that were targeted .
the joint incidents assessment team said on tuesday it had discovered mistakes in only three of 15 incidents it reviewed , and maintained the coalition had acted in accordance with international humanitarian law .
saudi arabia and its allies have been bombing the iran-aligned houthi movement since the houthis seized much of northern yemen in 2015 .
the houthis have in turn fired rockets toward saudi cities and villages .
they say their attacks are in response to saudi strikes on yemeni cities and villages .
the war has killed more than 10,000 people .
the coalition has been repeatedly criticized for civilian casualties .
human rights watch accused it on tuesday of war crimes , saying air strikes that hit family homes and a grocery store were carried out either deliberately or recklessly , causing indiscriminate loss of civilian lives .
the united nations said on monday it had verified 5,144 civilian deaths in the war , mainly from coalition bombardment , and an international investigation was urgently needed .
the minimal efforts made towards accountability over the past year are insufficient to respond to the gravity of the continuing and daily violations involved in this conflict , u.n. human rights chief zeid ra ad al hussein said in geneva .
speaking in the saudi capital riyadh on tuesday , the panel s legal advisor , mansour ahmed al-mansour , told journalists the coalition had made an unintended mistake in bombing a water well-drilling rig north of yemen s capital sanaa last year after confusing it with a ballistic missile launcher .
the raid reportedly killed 30 people and jiat recommended the coalition provide appropriate humanitarian assistance , without elaborating .
it urged the same for strikes in sanaa in june and september 2015 when bombs targeting military objectives mistakenly hit civilian buildings due to a technical malfunction in aircraft systems .
mansour denied the coalition hit a u.n. compound in aden in june 2015 , which the u.n. secretary general said at the time caused serious structural damage and one casualty .
about a january 2016 attack near saada which killed a medecins sans frontieres ambulance driver and at least five other people , mansour disputed the vehicle was clearly marked and said the coalition had legitimately targeted it and an ammunition depot it was parked beside .
the vehicle was used for military purposes due to the secondary explosion in the vehicle , which was obvious , he said .
the investigators also absolved the coalition of responsibility for attacks on a coca-cola factory in december 2015 and a centre for the blind the following month .