berlin ( reuters ) - germany will have no choice but to restrict its economic ties with turkey to pressure its nato partner into releasing german citizens it imprisoned on political grounds , chancellor angela merkel said in remarks published on saturday .
relations between the two countries are strained by turkish president tayyip erdogan s crackdown on opponents after a failed coup last year .
germany and its partners in the european union say the crackdown undermines democracy .
turkey and germany are also at odds over berlin s refusal to extradite asylum seekers erdogan accuses of involvement in the botched coup against him .
we will have to further cut back our joint economic cooperation with turkey and scrutinize projects , merkel told the passauer neuen presse newspaper in an interview when asked how she wants to secure the release of germans held in turkey .
the simmering tensions have seeped into campaigning for a federal election in germany , especially after erdogan urged german turks to boycott the main parties in the vote on sept. 24 .
home to some 3 million people of turkish descent , germany has traditionally had good relations with turkey , which is also a major trade partner and tourist destination for german sun-seekers .
german officials have been enraged by turkey s arrest of around a dozen german citizens , including the german-turkish journalist deniz yucel , who has been held for more than 200 days .
merkel , whose conservatives are expected to win the election and secure her a fourth term in office , said on tuesday germany would restrict some arms sales to turkey .
foreign minister sigmar gabriel of the center-left social democrats ( spd ) who are trailing the conservatives in opinion polls , had earlier said that all major arms exports to turkey had been put on hold .
merkel said during a televised debate earlier this month that turkey should not become a member of the european union - turkey s largest trading partner with which it has a customs union .
she said she would talk to germany s eu partners to reach a compromise on ending turkey s accession talks with the bloc .