in nine months , americans will choose between a leader who will turn back the clock , and work diligently to undo the enormous amount of damage barack hussein obama has done to our nation , or they will choose a candidate who will continue down the same reckless path .
until yesterday , i truly believed we had a fighting chance to restore pride , honor and dignity to the office of the president of the united states and more importantly to the people of our nation who deserve so much more .
we have our favorite candidates , but in the end , there isn t a person left standing on the gop stage who we wouldn t rather see in office than the corrupt , marxist , gun-grabbing , pro-amnesty , everyone s a victim and voters rights for everyone candidates on the democrat party s side.2016 gop presidential frontrunner donald j. trump tells reporters here that his pledge to support the eventual gop nominee is now void because the republican national committee , along with local and state gop factions , is stacking debate audiences with donor class officials .
the rnc is in default , trump said at the press conference .
just so you understand , the rnc is in default .
when somebody is in default , that means the other side can do what they have to do .
the rnc is in default .
trump s point is that the rnc has defaulted through its actions against his candidacy on the pledge he signed earlier in the cycle , and his point is that because they have defaulted he can do whatever he wants .
trump is signaling he may not support the eventual gop nominee in 2016 if that nominee is not him.the significance of this development can t be understated .
the entire gop presidential primary election has focused on this question , which was launched to the center of discussion by the first question at the first gop debate in cleveland , ohio , back in august , 2015 .
that question , by fox news s bret baier , asked all the candidates on stage to raise their hands if they would support the eventual gop nominee .
trump was the only one who didn t raise his hand .
that , and several other unseemly questions from fox s megyn kelly about trump and women , catapulted into public view a then-private war between trump and fox that has lasted publicly to this day.in the coming weeks , the rnc eventually negotiated it out with trump to get him to sign a pledge to back the eventual nominee .
he signed it .
but trump is now arguing that the rnc hasn t been fair , and he says that means that the rnc , in his words , has defaulted on their end .
so trump says he can do whatever he wants if he doesn t win the nomination .
of course , all of this could end up being a moot point should trump win the nomination , as he s fairly heavily favored to do at this point .
but if he does lose , a world of possibilities has now opened up .
the rnc gave all the tickets to special interests that represensen .
ted cruz ( r-tx ) 97 % and rubio , trump said at the press conference , explaining how and why the rnc defaulted on their pledge.they walked on stage , the place went crazy .
it s sort of interesting .
one guy s got like very low in the polls , the other one is very low in the polls .
i m very high in the polls .
there s nobody there for me except my wife and my kids because i don t have donors .
i don t have donors and i don t have special interests .
but i think the rnc did a very poor job .
we ve warned them twice , because this happened twice before , and they don t [ fix it ] .all of this leads trump to believe that the rnc , like his opponents , is controlled by special interests and high-dollar donors who don t have the well-being of the american public in mind .
that , trump says , is why republicans have lost presidential elections in 2008 and 2012 and will lose in 2016 if the nominee isn t the right person .
i think the rnc is controlled , trump said .
the bottom line is the rnc is controlled by the establishment and the rnc is controlled by the special interests and the donors , and that s too bad .
and that s why the republican party has lost for president for so long .
overall , trump added , he s very disappointed in the rnc .
i m very disappointed in the rnc , republican national committee , trump said.i m very disappointed in the rnc because for three debates now the room has been stacked with special interests and donors as you know , as the press knows .
as an example , i gave two judges who were very conservative judges .
i was met with nice applause .
bush got up and stumbled through an answer and the place went crazy .
i said , what are they doing ?
and then i realized all of these people many of the people in that room i know , some are friends of mine .
some are waving to me and booing .
they re waving like this and they re booing they re having fun .
i get it .
some of them are friends of mine .
they are special interests .
they re lobbyists .
and that shouldn t be .
they have total control over the people i m running against .
total , absolute control .
i bring up the drug thing because the drug companies are going to go to competitive bid .
whether we save $ 100 billion a year or $ 350 billion a year , we re going to competitive bid .
these people can t say that because the drug companies give them a fortune to run for office.via : breitbart news if donald trump has what it takes to be our next commander in chief , he ll stay true to his word and won t run third party .
if he loves his country more than his ego , he wouldn t even consider it .
if donald trump could put his desire to have the rnc support him aside for just two seconds , he would see that he doesn t need them win .
he has enough support from so many cross-sections of america that he will likely win the election in a landslide .
the real irony is , the spineless rnc is the reason trump is consistently polling so high against the traditional establishment candidates .
his voters are anti-establisment and could care less if the rnc stacks the debates with bush or kasich supporters .
in fact , the obvious favoritism the rnc has shown for candidates polling in single digits will likely backfire and will cause more people to become actively engaged in the trump , cruz or carson campaigns .