new york ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate donald trump on wednesday accused rival ted cruz of stealing a victory in the iowa caucuses and called for another vote or nullification of cruz ’ s win .
trump , who finished second behind cruz , lit up twitter on wednesday with a series of posts saying the outcome was tainted because the cruz campaign had deliberately spread misinformation about trump ’ s stand on obamacare and an erroneous report that ben carson was dropping out of the race .
trump had gone into monday ’ s caucus voting ahead of the texas senator by five percentage points in a key poll but cruz ended up winning , four points ahead of the new york billionaire .
“ ted cruz didn ’ t win iowa , he stole it , ” trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) tweeted .
“ that is why all of the polls were so wrong and why he got far more votes than anticipated .
bad ! ” several social media users tweeted screengrabs of an alleged deleted tweet from trump ’ s official account , in which he said cruz “ illegally ” stolen the vote .
“ based on the fraud committed by senator ted cruz during the iowa caucus , either a new election should take place or cruz results nullified , ” trump wrote .
in another tweet , trump said cruz had lied about his opinion of president barack obama ’ s healthcare program .
“ and finally , cruz strongly told thousands of caucusgoers ( voters ) that trump was strongly in favor of obamacare and ‘ choice ’ - a total lie ! ” he said .
cruz had apologized to carson on tuesday because of an email from his campaign before the caucuses , which are the crucial first vote in the u.s. presidential nominating process .
“ the press is reporting that dr. ben carson is taking time off from the campaign trail after iowa and making a big announcement next week , ” the cruz email read , according to cnn .
“ please inform any carson caucusgoers of this news and urge them to caucus for ted cruz. ” “ many people voted for cruz over carson because of this cruz fraud , ” trump tweeted .
wednesday afternoon , cruz responded to trump ’ s twitter rant .
“ yet another # trumpertantrum , ” cruz ( @ tedcruz ) wrote in a retweet of one of trump ’ s posts .
“ @ realdonaldtrump very angry w/the people of iowa .
they actually looked at his record. ” carson had tweeted his feelings about the iowa vote on tuesday .
“ shameless tactics & dirty political plays defined yesterdays # iacaucus , ” he said , using a popular hashtag to refer to the voting .
“ there is no place for this kind of behavior. ” ( reporting by amy tennery ; additional reporting by melissa fares ; editing by bill trott ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .