everglades city , fla. ( reuters ) - as hurricane irma raged through everglades city , a tiny fishing village in a vast alligator-infested swamp , howie grimm hunkered down inside his house with his 88-year-old mother , a useless cell phone and a new job title .
he had been acting mayor for less than a week .
when the winds started to wane , he jumped in his truck and moved his mother to a higher perch a trailer on stilts because he knew a storm surge would follow the eye of the storm .
he watched from the trailer as the surge swallowed his truck .
and that s how it all started , my what do you call it ?
mayorism ?
he recalled with a laugh on monday , as he leaned on a flooded forklift in front of his business , grimm s seafood .
while most of south florida was spared the worst of the dangerous storm , this remote hamlet of about 400 residents in the southwest part of the state , felt the full wrath of irma s winds and waves .
and yet residents here seemed to take it in stride , surveying the damage with a good humor and a shrug of the shoulders .
little help had arrived from the outside world the day after the storm , but no one here seemed to be asking for much help , either .
in a town surrounded by marshlands , storms and floods are part of the deal .
the few residents that remained in this outpost for irma s landfall on sunday watched a surge up to eight feet high inundate roughly half of the homes and businesses - all the ones that were not up on stilts - and cake the town in gray swamp slime .
sammy hamilton , 83 , the city s mayor for 22 years until last week , lost two buildings housing tourism businesses , along with several vessels .
one of his 55-foot tour boats ended up in a tree an ornament of sorts .
that s how we decorate here for christmas , said hamilton , who stepped down over his handling of the town s sewer plant , which had fallen out of compliance with state environmental regulations and faces a major overhaul .
the florida department of environmental protection sued the city in 2015 , after inspectors caught the plant pumping sewage into nearby mangroves .
few residents expressed much anger with hamilton over the sewer plant or his resignation days before a major flood .
i love the old mayor , said grimm , the acting mayor , who had criticized hamilton s handling of the sewer debacle .
he s done a lot of good .
he just decided he d had enough .
everglades city is isolated geographically and culturally from the rest of south florida by 1.5 million aces of preserved wetlands .
founded in the late 1800s , it later became the last stop on the atlantic coast line railroad .
its historic rod and gun club , which has hosted a half dozen u.s. presidents , including harry truman when he dedicated the swampland surrounding the city as a national park in 1947 .
today , the city s economy rests on three main commodities : stone crabs , alligators and airboats .
the commercial catch of stone crabs once played a bigger role than tourism - which primarily involves scouting alligators on airboats - but that mix is changing , said vicky wells , a fifth-generation resident .
her brother was among those who happily made the switch from processing crabs to toting tourists around on airboats .
it was a lot more money for a lot easier work , wells said .
people here do whatever they need to do to feed their family .
and many do whatever is needed to protect their family from wind and water .
having weathered many storms , the wells family built their home a decade ago to withstand a major hurricane .
vicky s husband , bob wells , 72 , drove pilings 23 feet into the ground and used rebar to reinforce a concrete foundation every two feet .
he encased the windows in concrete , too .
we built this thing to stay .
it stayed , bob said .
across the street from the wells home , ricky collins , a 68-year-old everglades city native , washed muck from his driveway as his grandson pushed it out of his house with a broom .
the flood didn t rattle him , and he didn t think it would change how his neighbors , even the newer arrivals , viewed living there .
the difference in this town now is that we have a lot of foreigners i mean , people from out of state , he said .
but they ll stay , too .
they ll probably do better than we will , because they have better insurance and everything .
among the newcomers is marlene sassaman , 69 , who moved here four years ago .
she stayed for the storm and spent the next day mopping the mud out of her first floor .
if you have a strong house , you re fine , sassaman said as for the departure of the old mayor , she said she preferred to steer clear of any controversy .
let s just say he retired .
i don t want to go there , she said .
he was born and bred here , and his pappy was born and bred here i really love this place , because it s one of the last small towns in the country .