brussels ( reuters ) - nato needs to establish a new regional base for protecting the north atlantic against increased russian naval strength , a senior alliance general said on monday , as allies consider the next step in a military build-up reminiscent of the cold war .
general petr pavel , head of nato s military committee , will help put the case to allied defense ministers this week for a new planning and strategy base to be located in a chosen nato ally and focused on keeping atlantic shipping lanes safe from enemy submarines .
it would be the first such expansion in two decades after nato sharply cut back its commands in 2011 .
if we look at the growing capabilities of countries like russia and china , with a global reach , it is quite obvious that maritime lines of communication have to be protected , pavel , a czech army general , told reuters in an interview .
we observe increased russian naval activity in the arctic in the northern atlantic ... we also assess that for any future crisis , the reinforcement of europe and free lines of communication will be vital for european security , pavel said .
if approved , the new north atlantic command would survey a vast area and , in the event of any potential conflict with russia , have the task of making sea lanes safe for u.s reinforcements to europe .
strong in symbolism , the decision is unlikely to revive a much larger cold war-era atlantic command that was disbanded in 2002 , but it would broaden nato s new deterrent against russia .
despite nato s cooperation with moscow in the balkans after a 1997 pact formalized friendly ties , the alliance sees the kremlin s incursions in georgia and eastern ukraine and its seizure of crimea as unacceptable breaches of international law .
pavel described russia as a potential threat , while the west was alarmed by moscow s war games in september that massed tens of thousands of troops and may have tested electronic warfare tools on latvia , nato officials say .
since russia s 2014 crimea annexation , nato has sought to reassure its baltic allies by sending troops to the baltics , poland and the black sea , setting up a network of nato outposts , holding more exercises and preparing a rapid response force , including air , maritime and special operations components .
the united states have also returned tanks and troops to europe after a long drawdown at the end of the cold war .
russia condemns the moves as an aggressive strategy on its frontiers that threatens to destabilize eastern europe .
u.s. defense secretary jim mattis will join other allied defense ministers on wednesday and thursday to decide whether to approve the north atlantic command , as well as a logistics command to focus on moving troops more quickly across europe .
with renewed purpose since russia s annexation of crimea , nato allies are broadly in favor of the two commands .
many are keen to lock in u.s. support given president donald trump s early doubts about the alliance he now says he strongly backs .
pavel cautioned that cost is likely to be an issue for nato governments and said there were no short cuts in deterrence .
i believe we are now out of the realm of doing more with less .
we simply have to understand that wherever we want to do more , there will be resource implications , pavel said .
the alliance is being asked by trump to do more in afghanistan , in fighting islamist militants and to stop migrants from the middle east and north africa reaching europe .
many european nato nations are still struggling to meet an alliance goal by 2024 to spend two percent of economic output on defense every year .
we can call it modernization , we can call it adaptation .
we simply have to adapt to a new reality , pavel said .