sittwe , myanmar ( reuters ) - thousands of rohingya muslims trapped by hostile buddhists in northwestern myanmar have enough food and will not be granted the safe passage they requested from two remote villages , a senior government official said on tuesday .
the rohingya villagers said they wanted to leave but needed government protection from ethnic rakhine buddhists who had threatened to kill them .
they also said they were running short of food since aug. 25 , when rohingya militants launched deadly attacks in rakhine state , provoking a fierce crackdown by the myanmar military .
at least 420,000 rohingya have since fled into neighboring bangladesh to escape what a senior united nations official has called a textbook example of ethnic cleansing .
tin maung swe , secretary of the rakhine state government , said requests from the two villages for safe passage had been denied , since they had enough rice and were protected by a nearby police outpost .
their reasons were not acceptable , he said .
they must stay in their original place .
residents of ah nauk pyin , one of the two rohingya villages , said they hoped to move to the relative safety of a camp outside sittwe , the nearby state capital .
about 90,000 rohingya displaced by a previous bout of violence in 2012 are confined to camps in rakhine in squalid conditions .
but such a move was impossible , said state secretary tin maung swe , since it might anger rakhine buddhists and further inflame communal tensions .
in a nationally televised speech on tuesday , myanmar leader aung san suu kyi vowed to punish the perpetrators of human rights violations in rakhine , but did not address u.n. accusations of ethnic cleansing by the military .
the nobel peace prize laureate said that many muslims had not fled and urged foreign diplomats to study why certain areas of rakhine state had managed to keep the peace .
we can arrange for you to visit these areas and to ask them for yourself why they have not fled ... even at a time when everything around them seems to be in a state or turmoil , she said .
the rohingya residents of ah nauk pyin say they have no other choice but to stay , and their fraught relations with equally edgy rakhine neighbors could snap at any moment .
about 2,700 people live in ah nauk pyin , which sits half-hidden among fruit trees and coconut palms on a rain-swept peninsula .
its residents said that rakhine men have made threatening phone calls and recently congregated outside the village to shout , leave , or we will kill you all .
on tuesday morning , rakhine villagers chased away two rohingya men trying to tend to their fields , said maung maung , the leader of ah nauk pyin .
the rakhine deny harassing their muslim neighbors , but want them to leave , fearing they might collaborate with militants from the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , which carried out the aug. 25 attacks .
khin tun aye , chief of shwe laung tin , one of the nearby rakhine villages , said they had chased away the two rohingya men in case they were planning to attack or blow up our village .
they shouldn t come close during this time of conflict situation .
people are living in constant fear , he said .
the office of the united nations resident coordinator in myanmar told reuters it was aware and concerned about the situation and was discussing it with the myanmar government .
state secretary tin maung swe said reuters could not visit the area for security reasons , but said the authorities were assessing needs of those living there .
if they need food , we are ready to send it , he said .
don t worry about it .