dakar ( reuters ) - a once-fringe separatist movement in cameroon s anglophone regions is gaining ground after a year of state repression that has undermined moderate voices and raised concerns the majority french-speaking nation may face a prolonged period of violence .
soldiers shot dead at least eight people and wounded others in the two english-speaking regions on sunday , the anniversary of anglophone cameroon s independence from britain .
amnesty international said on monday at least 17 people had died in the clashes .
the growing influence of the separatists , who include armed radical elements , is one of the most serious threats to stability in the central african oil producer since president paul biya took power 35 years ago .
last year , separatists couldn t rally people on the streets .
but people have seen family members arrested and killed , and they have switched over , said tapang ivo tanku , an anglophone activist based in the united states .
like many moderates who say they are marginalized by biya s francophone-dominated government , tanku has campaigned for a peaceful solution : a two-state federation - one french speaking , the other anglophone - under one president .
i am in the minority now , he told reuters from new york .
the strife began in november , when english-speaking teachers and lawyers in the northwest and southwest regions , frustrated with having to work in french , took to the streets calling for reforms and greater autonomy .
six people were killed in those protests , and in the months that followed , the government deployed thousands of police and elite soldiers , implemented a blanket internet blackout and arrested dozens of activists , dubbing them terrorists .
the thousands who protested on sunday around the country were no longer calling for reform , but for a separate state for cameroon s nearly five million english speakers .
we told them our problems .
they responded with force , killing us , said a young student in bamenda , one of the largest anglophone cities .
we need our own country .
the true size and influence of the movement remains hard to gauge .
many leaders are in jail or exile , and it s unclear how strong alliances are between a multitude of factions with competing visions of how to achieve their goals .
few analysts believe a split is imminent .
there is no doubt the separatists popularity and ability to stir turmoil has grown , however .
separatists told reuters that they were responsible for an improvised bomb that last month wounded three policemen in bamenda .
nothing great can be achieved by using verbal excesses , street violence and defying authority .
lasting solutions to problems can be found only through peaceful dialogue , biya said in a statement on twitter following sunday s violence .
an uprising by biafran separatists in neighboring nigeria in the 1960s sparked a civil war that killed around 1 million .
the roots of the divisions go back a century to the league of nations decision to split the former german colony of kamerun between the allied french and british victors at the end of world war one .
the french cameroons gained their independence in 1960 and the british cameroons voted in 1961 to reunite with them under a federal government .
the federation was abandoned a decade later , however , after a referendum most anglophones considered a sham .
a separatist movement existed for decades underground , with activists sometimes communicating by passing notes to bus drivers going through different towns .
it simmered but never gained widespread popular support - until now .
southern cameroons political activist mark bareta said government arrests of key organizers in january and february have pushed independent separatist coalitions , many of which are run by diaspora cameroonians , together to form the southern cameroons ambazonia consortium united front ( scacuf ) .
scacuf and other groups are busily laying the groundwork for a new state , coordinating protests , gaining support on the ground , and - in some cases - orchestrating violent attacks .
they have printed thousands of light blue passports for ambazonia - the anglophones aspirational independent homeland - designed a currency and written a national anthem , five members told reuters .
in may , they set up their own satellite television network , the southern cameroons broadcasting corporation , which reaches up to 500,000 people , said scbc board member derric ndim .
its satellite transmission is not affected by government-enforced internet cuts , he said .
we are working to make a new country , and we are ready , said nigeria-based julius ayuk tabe , chairman of the governing council of ambazonia , which is spearheading the movement .
the cries of the people are getting louder .