excerpts from hillary clinton s closed-door paid speeches , including to financial firms , appeared to be made public for the first time on friday when wikileaks published thousands of hacked emails from her campaign chairman.the speech transcripts , a major subject of contention during the democratic primary , include quotes from clinton about her distance from middle-class life ( i m kind of far removed ) ; her vision of strategic governing ( you need both a public and a private position ) ; and her views on trade , health care , and wall street ( even if it may not be 100 percent true , if the perception is that somehow the game is rigged . )
john podesta , the clinton campaign chairman , was the latest victim in a wave of hacks on key figures in democratic politics and the political establishment in what administration officials say is an effort by russia to undermine the election .
clinton research director tony carrk sent the excerpts in an email to podesta and other senior aides , sourcing the the flags from hrc s paid speeches to the harry walker agency , the firm that represented clinton and arranged her dozens of public and private paid speech deals after she left the state department in early 2013.the email is dated jan. 25 , 2016 , with the subject line , hrc paid speeches .
carrk identified and sent the highlights in the email , telling podesta and clinton s communications director , jennifer palmieri , that there were a lot of policy positions that we should give an extra scrub with the campaign s policy department .
* clinton is aware of security concerns around blackberries * * clinton : at the state department we were attacked every hour , more than once an hour by incoming efforts to penetrate everything we had .
and that was true across the u.s. government .
* * clinton is more favorable to canadian health care and single payer * * clinton said single-payer health care systems can get costs down , and is as good or better on primary care , but they do impose things like waiting times .
* if you look at countries that are comparable , like switzerland or germany , for example , they have mixed systems .
they don t have just a single-payer system , but they have very clear controls over budgeting and accountability .
if you look at the single-payer systems , like scandinavia , canada , and elsewhere , they can get costs down because , you know , although their care , according to statistics , overall is as good or better on primary care , in particular , they do impose things like waiting times , you know .
it takes longer to get like a hip replacement than it might take here .
[ hillary clinton remarks to ecgr grand rapids , 6/17/13 ] two campaign spokespeople did not respond to a request for comment early on friday evening seeking confirmation on the authenticity of the excerpts.during this year s long-fought democratic primary , sen. bernie sanders repeatedly pressed clinton to release the transcripts of the speeches , which were delivered to a variety of groups , including major firms like goldman sachs and deutsche bank .
late last year , clinton said she would look into releasing the transcripts .
she never did , arguing that republicans and others should also release theirs .
let everybody who s ever given a speech to any private group under any circumstances release them , she told abc this february .
we ll all release them at the same time .
late into the primary , sanders argued that the american people had a right to know what clinton told well-heeled audiences on wall street about her economic policy .
we all rely on the market s transparency and integrity .
so even if it may not be 100 percent true , if the perception is that somehow the game is rigged , that should be a problem for all of us , and we have to be willing to make that absolutely clear , clinton said in one apparent excerpt , softening an assertion she has made frequently on the trail , that the economy is rigged in favor of those at the top .
in the same remarks , attributed to a 2014 speech to deutsche bank , clinton also said that much of financial reform really has to come from the industry itself .
the flagged excerpts don t provide context for clinton s remarks , but include several comments in which she appears to express strong pro-trade sentiments .
my dream is a hemispheric common market , with open trade and open borders , clinton is quoted as telling a brazilian bank in 2013 .
we have to resist , protectionism , other kinds of barriers to market access and to trade .
the apparent speech transcripts have spilled out into the public as young voters and progressives , including those who flocked to sanders campaign , still have questions about clinton and may turn to a third-party candidate in the fall.read more : buzzfeed