the new york times is set to launch a television ad during the academy awards that seems to heavily target statements made by president donald trump.the 30-second ad , entitled , the truth , features black text flashing on a white screen with the words the truth is , followed by a variety of statements.according to a report in the hill , at least three of the statements were in reference to trump .
the truth is the media is dishonest , reads one statement , a likely reference to trump s frequent comments slamming the media s honesty.here s another statement from the ad : the truth is alternative facts are lies .
that one s an obvious reference to a comment made by trump adviser kellyanne conway.the ad runs through a series of other phrases , some targeting conservative talking points such as we have to protect our borders , the emails are dangerous , and climate change is a hoax .
the ad finishes up with the phrase the truth is hard to find , which then switches to the truth is hard to know , and finally concludes with the truth is more important now than never .
mrctvthat final phrase is pretty clearly seen as a parting shot at the trump administration s relationship with the press : recently the times featured an article touting the renewed sense of mission for journalists in the trump era looking to take down the republican president by uncovering a watergate-style scandal.the new york paper is not alone in its pretentious claims of being the guardian of truth , on tuesday , the washington post added this slogan to its website : democracy dies in darkness .
apparently only the light of the post s reporting can save the nation from the darkness of a trump presidency.just on sunday , white house chief of staff reince priebus was forced to shoot down yet another misleading report from the times about supposed contact between the trump campaign and russian intelligence officials .
on nbc s meet the press , he told moderator chuck todd : i mean we ve spent days talking about a story that says that our campaign had constant contacts with russian spies .
and i can tell you , i ve talked to the top levels of the intelligence community .
and they ve assured me that that new york times story was grossly overstated , and inaccurate and totally wrong .it is this sort of fake news stuff that is enormously important that , when you get a front page story of the new york times without a single source on the record saying that your campaign had constant contacts they didn t say one contact .
they didn t say two contacts .
it doesn t matter .
we have not been informed of even that .
but to say , constant contact ?
on friday , nbc s today was thrilled by the upcoming times television spot , with reporter joe fryer declaring : no matter who wins , politics will likely take the stage sunday .the new york times will even debut its first-ever oscars ad , with the message , the truth is more important than ever .
a sign that with millions watching , hollywood s biggest night could become its most political .