ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan is encouraging businesses to borrow and spend to power the economic growth that has underpinned his long rule .
but after years of expanding credit , some turks are wary .
ankara hardware store owner nurgul says she and her husband have never taken out a loan for their joint business and she is suspicious of banks .
i think they want more people in debt , she said .
i ve borrowed for my mortgage and that left me with an excessive amount of debt .
the president , who has purged the civil service of suspected opponents since an attempted coup last year and is expected to run for reelection in 2019 , shares her mistrust .
he dubs interest rates means of exploitation and has declared himself their enemy .
since winning a narrow victory in a referendum in april to create a powerful new executive presidency , he has had turkey s banks in his sights , calling on them to cut interest rates to contribute to the country s growth .
we will pressure the banks , especially state banks , he said last week .
we will pave the way for investors to access credit easily .
government stimulus measures include expanding a credit guarantee fund , guaranteeing some of the loans banks write to smaller businesses .
it has backed loans worth 210 billion lira ( $ 60 billion ) so far .
bank loans grew by 12 percent in the first seven months of this year , almost double the rate in same period last year , according to regulatory data , a trend some economists say is worrying .
turkey has had one of the largest private credit expansions of any emerging market over the last decade , said william jackson of capital economics in london .
typically when you get credit booms on that scale , they are followed by a rise in non-performing loans and strains in the banking sector , he said .
it s hard to say when those might emerge , but i think it s clearly a big risk .
non-performing loans are at 3.1 percent after 3.2 percent last year .
cemil ertem , chief economy adviser to the president , said he expected the ratio to fall to 2-2.5 percent in time , on the back of stiff selection criteria applied by the credit guarantee fund .
since becoming prime minister nearly a decade and a half ago , erdogan has built his reputation on years of stellar growth .
his ak party has embarked on massive infrastructure projects , building roads , hospitals , subways and high-speed rail , and lifting millions out of poverty .
in 2002 , turkey s per capita gdp averaged $ 3,660 , behind both libya and gabon , according to world bank data .
last year , it was three times that at around $ 11,000 .
turkey now sits comfortably among the world top 20 economies and government ministers expect expansion of at least 5 percent this year , after a slowing to 3.2 percent last year .
the economy is a priority after the referendum process , said hatice karahan , an erdogan adviser .
soner cagaptay , a fellow at the washington institute think-tank and author of the new sultan : erdogan and the crisis of modern turkey , said sustaining prosperity was vital for the president s election prospects .
erdogan wins because he delivers economic growth .
he has built a plurality - not yet a majority - that supports the akp because he lifted so many people out of poverty , cagaptay said .
the akp has a loyal support base of religious conservatives but needs economic growth to retain its wider appeal , analysts say .
hurt by a faltering economy , it took 41 percent of the vote in june 2015 parliamentary elections , its worst showing since coming to power , although it regained ground in a second vote that year .
cagaptay estimates that about 10 percent of the electorate , or roughly 20 percent of akp voters , are not die-hard erdogan supporters .
it s that base that could easily abandon him should there be an economic collapse , he said .
while credit rating agency fitch rates turkey s debt as junk - citing the political risks that followed the failed coup attempt - it notes the economy is stronger than its peers .
the government recorded a 1 percent budget deficit last year , one of the lowest in emerging markets , despite sheltering 3 million refugees from the war in neighboring syria .
but that is now changing .
stimulus measures will weaken fiscal performance in 2017 , fitch said in july , referring to government forecasts of a deficit of 2 percent of gdp this year .
that figure is still relatively strong and the government said last month turkey would maintain fiscal discipline by reeling in spending .
rather than borrowing , some economists say turkey should focus on boosting its saving rate and foreign investment , something the government has pledged to do , along with an emphasis on structural reforms to spur growth .
foreign investment stood at $ 12.3 billion last year , down by more than $ 5 billion from a year ago , amid concern over the rule of law .
some 150,000 people have been sacked or suspended from their jobs since the coup attempt and 50,000 people have been arrested .