johannesburg ( reuters ) - african national congress ( anc ) mp makhosi khoza , a strident critic of scandal-plagued president jacob zuma , quit south africa s ruling party on thursday , labeling nelson mandela s 105-year-old liberation movement alien and corrupt .
the 47-year-old zulu linguistics expert , an anc supporter since the age of 12 , denounced zuma in july as a dishonorable and disgraceful leader due to the litany of scandals he has attracted during his eight years in power .
her comments earned her death threats and a provincial party disciplinary hearing , but khoza said she was not prepared to sit around and wait for the verdict from a party she said was willfully blind to the failings of its leader .
why haven t we charged zuma ?
why are we charging makhosi khoza ?
we are making a mockery of the rule of law .
we are making a mockery of the anc constitution , she said in an interview on the sabc , the state broadcaster .
charge zuma .
fire zuma from the anc , then i will know that you are serious about self-correcting .
khoza is believed to have been one of around 30 anc members of parliament who voted against zuma in an ultimately unsuccessful aug. 8 parliamentary no-confidence vote conducted by secret ballot .
anc spokesman zizi kodwa did not answer calls to his mobile phone .
the most serious allegations against zuma relate to his friendship with the guptas , a family of indian-born businessmen accused of using political influence to secure lucrative contracts with state-run companies and remain above the law .
zuma and the guptas , who employ zuma s son , duduzane , as a director of at least one of their companies , have denied any wrongdoing and say they are the victims of a politically motivated witch-hunt .
zuma s time at the helm of the anc comes to an end in december when the party chooses a new leader , although he will remain head of state until 2019 unless the anc removes him early , as it did with president thabo mbeki in 2008 .
as khoza fulminated on air , zuma s former wife nkosazana dlamini-zuma was sworn in behind closed doors as a member of parliament , cementing the belief she is his preferred successor against challengers led by deputy president cyril ramaphosa .
the parliamentary seat gives dlamini-zuma , ex-chairwoman of the african union commission in addis ababa , a platform from which to raise her profile ahead of december s party leadership conference .
separately , the pretoria high court delivered a blow to the gupta s media-to-mining commercial empire , throwing out its attempt to block india s bank of baroda , the last bank in south africa prepared to handle its money , from pulling the plug .
judge hans fabricius dedicated eight pages of his verdict to the allegations against the guptas , questioning why police and prosecutors had failed to act despite years of stunning media revelations and numerous formal criminal complaints .
i could not help wonder whether , unbeknown to me , democracy and the rule of law had somehow been suspended , he said , lamenting the decline from the optimism and idealism of the self-styled rainbow nation immediately after apartheid ended .
could it be possible that the future , so bright in 1994 , was now only history ?
he continued .
do the various investigating bodies of the police service ... still remember their constitutional duty to combat and investigate crime ?
gary naidoo , editor of the gupta-owned new age newspaper and the family s de facto spokesman , was not available for comment .