paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron has a reputation for disarming hostile audiences with repartee and humor , but his latest verbal jousting on a trip to africa has drawn criticism at home .
in an interview broadcast late on wednesday , macron dismissed as ridiculous suggestions he had offended burkina faso s president roch marc kabore when he quipped with students that kabore had left the room to fix the air-conditioning .
the exchange came during a boisterous 90-minute question-and-answer session at ouagadougou university earlier this week that followed macron s promise of a new era in relations between france and africa .
when one of the students in the audience grilled macron over what he would do about burkina faso s constant power cuts , the 39-year-old replied : you speak to me like i m a colonial power , but i don t want to look after electricity in burkina faso .
that s the job of your president .
earlier heckles turned into laughter and applause .
when kabore later left the hall , macron joked : you see , he s gone .
he s left to fix the air-conditioning .
shortly after , a smiling kabore returned to his seat .
macron s remark touched off a social media frenzy , splitting those who defended it as lighthearted banter and others who complained of paternalistic overtones .
far-right rivals accused him of bordering on racism .
that s ridiculous , macron said in an interview with france 24 .
we have a relationship of equals , that means we can joke with one another .
macron has courted trouble with his language before .
he was widely criticized this summer after saying that africa faced civilisational problems .
in france he has provoked anger by describing opponents as slackers and urging workers to stop kicking up a bloody mess .
firing back at his critics , macron said it was those who deemed it inappropriate to joke with an african leader who were guilty of patronizing the continent .
i would have had a laugh about it with any european leader with whom i have this kind of relationship .
i don t with ( german chancellor ) angela merkel , but i do for example with ( european commission president ) jean-claude juncker , he said .
( fixes typo in para 9 , adds tv in media identifier )