beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s prime minister saad al-hariri resigned on saturday , saying he believed there was an assassination plot against him and accusing iran and its lebanese ally hezbollah of sowing strife in the arab world .
his resignation , a big surprise to beirut s political establishment , brought down the coalition government and plunged lebanon into a new political crisis .
it thrust lebanon into the front line of a regional competition between sunni saudi arabia and shi ite iran that has also buffeted syria , iraq , yemen and bahrain .
a saudi government minister said hariri was in riyadh to ensure his safety .
hariri , who is closely allied with saudi arabia , alleged in a broadcast from an undisclosed location that hezbollah was directing weapons at yemenis , syrians and lebanese .
in comments directed at iran , he said the arab world would cut off the hands that wickedly extend to it .
hariri s coalition , which took office last year , grouped nearly all of lebanon s main parties , including hezbollah .
it took office in a political deal that made michel aoun , a hezbollah ally , president , and was seen as a victory for iran .
the resignation risks exacerbating sectarian tensions between sunni and shi ite muslims and returning lebanon to paralysis in government .
an official at the u.s. state department said it was following the situation closely and noted that hariri had been a strong partner in building strong national state institutions and in the war on terror .
the official added the united states expects an orderly political process in lebanon and will remain supportive of the legitimate institutions of the lebanese state .
it was not immediately clear who might succeed hariri , lebanon s most influential sunni politician .
the prime minister must be a sunni in lebanon s sectarian system .
aoun must appoint the candidate with most support among mps , who he is expected to consult in the coming days .
we are living in a climate similar to the atmosphere that prevailed before the assassination of martyr rafik al-hariri .
i have sensed what is being plotted covertly to target my life , hariri said .
rafik al-hariri was killed in a 2005 beirut bomb attack that pushed his son saad into politics and set off years of turmoil .
a u.n.-backed tribunal has charged five hezbollah members over the killing .
hezbollah denies involvement .
the saudi-owned pan-arab television channel al-arabiya al-hadath reported that an assassination plot against hariri was foiled in beirut days ago , citing an unnamed source .
saudi arabia s gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan said in a television interview that hariri s personal security detail had confirmed information of a plot to kill him .
lebanon s internal security force said in a statement on the reports that it had no information about the matter .
hariri said hezbollah and iran had brought lebanon into the eye of a storm of international sanctions .
iran was sowing strife , destruction and ruin wherever it went and he accused it of a deep hatred for the arab nation .
aoun s office said hariri had called him from outside lebanon to inform him of his resignation .
he has postponed a visit to kuwait and directed military and security agencies to maintain stability , it said .
hariri flew to saudi arabia on friday after a meeting in beirut with ali akbar velayati , the top adviser to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei .
afterwards , velayati described hariri s coalition as a victory and great success .
sayyed hassan nasrallah , the leader of hezbollah , will address hariri s resignation in a televised speech on sunday , hezbollah-affiliated media reported .
a member of hezbollah s central committee , sheikh nabil kawouk , accused riyadh of being behind hariri s resignation , saying in a speech reported by lebanon s al-jadeed television : god protect lebanon from the evil of saudi arabia s reckless adventures .
walid jumblatt , the leader of lebanon s druze minority , said lebanon was too weak to bear the consequences of hariri s resignation , saying he feared political and economic fallout .
we can not afford to fight the iranians from lebanon , he told reuters , advocating an approach of compromise with hezbollah in lebanon while waiting for regional circumstances to allow saudi-iranian dialogue .
iran s foreign ministry said hariri s departure was a plot to create tension in lebanon and the region .
hariri s resignation was done with planning by donald trump , the president of america , and mohammed bin salman , the crown prince of saudi arabia , said hussein sheikh al-islam , adviser to iran s supreme leader .
sabhan , the saudi minister , echoed the language of the lebanese politician saying in a tweet : the hands of treachery and aggression must be cut off .
israeli politicians also used hariri s resignation to criticize iranian influence in lebanon .
his words are a wake-up call to the international community to take action against iranian aggression , prime minister benjamin netanyahu said .
hezbollah s close ties to iran and its support for syrian president bashar al-assad in his war with rebels have been a major source of tension in lebanon for years .
beirut has adopted a position of disassociation from the conflict , but this has come under strain with hezbollah and its allies pushing for a normalization of ties .
since taking office , hariri had worked to garner international aid for lebanon to cope with the strain of hosting some 1.5 million syrian refugees .
the government s collapse complicates preparations for next year s parliamentary elections , lebanon s first since 2009 .
finance minister ali hassan khalil told reuters there was no danger to lebanon s economy or its currency .
joseph torbey , head of the association of banks in lebanon , said there was no risk to monetary stability because the central bank had large reserves and there was confidence in lebanese banks .
lebanon has one of the world s highest ratios of debt-to-gdp and last month passed its first budget since 2005 , one of the few achievements of the coalition government .
the united states is considering new sanctions on hezbollah , as part of a tougher stance against iran and its allies , that lebanese politicians have fretted could hurt the economy .