berlin ( reuters ) - the premier of germany s most populous state has become the most senior member of chancellor angela merkel s conservative bloc to throw his weight behind french president emmanuel macron s proposals for deepening and reforming the european union .
in an article for thursday s frankfurter allgemeine newspaper , armin laschet , premier of north rhine-westphalia , embraced proposals for a common european army , intelligence service and , in the long term , a common finance minister .
the proposals could offer a basis for cooperation with the social democrats ( spd ) , who vote on thursday on whether to enter talks on supporting a new conservative-led government .
spd leader martin schulz , a former european parliament president , is an outspoken advocate of closer european integration .
in a time of eurosclerosis , with ( eurosceptic ) populists inside europe and instability on the periphery , macron wants to work with us to overcome the crisis , wrote laschet , his party s vice-president .
europe s crisis , forced by brexit , offers the chance at last to confront the challenges .
merkel and most of her party colleagues have been more cautious in their reception of macron s reform proposals , which include closer cooperation on defense , migration and a deeper integration of the euro currency zone .
he was less specific in addressing macron s proposals for changing the euro zone s governance mechanisms , saying only : we need better conditions for investment , and we need harmonization of corporation tax .
schulz has said that the spd , reluctant to repeat the bruising experience of being deserted by voters after governing for four years with merkel in coalition , will discuss macron s proposals at its three-day party congress starting on thursday .
what are our possibilities , our options , our instruments for ensuring that germany embraces these french ideas ?
schulz asked earlier on wednesday .
france is making proposals and germany is not engaging .
this is not acceptable .