the shocking truth about how close we are to becoming a one-party fascist statethis is the most brilliant and scary analysis of where we , as a nation are today last year a retired border patrol officer by the name of zach taylor went on camera to explain the driving force behind the unprecedented surge in illegal immigration happening on our southern border .
taylor went on to note that what was happening at our border was not due to a spur of the moment event , or a humanitarian crisis , but asymmetrical warfare .
the surge we saw at the border was apart of a larger more chilling event that served one purpose and one purpose only , to show our enemies that our southern border had been compromised and the government wouldn t do a damn thing about it.the border was destroyed because of the actions taken by president barack obama under the guise of his deferred action for childhood arrivals ( daca ) plan .
simply put , daca rewrote our immigration laws and created the incentive for illegal aliens to break our laws as obama deliberately undermined our nation s sovereignty by simply creating his own .
the culmination of obama s daca has resulted in over 790,000 illegal aliens entering the country from the middle of 2013 to may of 2015 , for a total of 2.5 million new illegal immigrants since obama took office in january of 2009.while the threat comes from without , in this case millions of illegal immigrants , it could not have been possible without the enemy already being inside of the united states .
as mr. taylor states , if asymmetrical warfare is going to be successful , the first thing that has to be done is to compromise america s defense against invasion because they have to have their personnel inside the united states to affect the infrastructure our hospitals , our schools , our electric grid , our power supplies , our water supply basically what we call infrastructure [ which ] effects the degeneration from inside the united states .
by drawing away the resources that are intended to protect the united states border in order to care for the illegal immigrants , the border is now wide open and our infrastructure is overloaded .
yet , the crisis on the border is only a small part of the larger warfare that s being waged against our country at the hands of our own president .
today the obama juggernaut is systematically bankrupting our country , and undoing the constitutional arrangements our founders left to us , writes david horowitz in his book fight fire with fire .
the contempt of the obama party for consultative and representative government is relentlessly on display .
horowitz goes on to give the example of what our enemy represents with the following statement uttered by then senate majority leader harry reid as he defended his refusal to negotiate with republicans over obamacare and the debt crisis .
reid stated in these words : we are here to support the federal government .
that s our job .
end quote .
you ll notice that representing the people for whom our constitution makes sovereign is not included in reid s statement.horowitz then writes the following : my years as a radical prepared me to see much of this coming .
but even i never thought we would be looking so soon at the prospect of a one-party system and a fascist state .
those words may sound hyperbolic , but take a moment to think about it .
if you have transformed the taxing agency of the state into a political weapon and obama has ; if you are setting up a massive government program to collect and file the financial and health information of every citizen , and also to control their access to care ; and if you have a spy agency that can read the mail and listen to the communications of every individual in the country , you don t really need a secret police to destroy political opponents .
you already have the means to do it .
this is all the more troubling when you look at the sheer amount of data the obama administration , or shall i say the obama government , is collecting on each and every individual living in the united states .
to effect the degeneration of the country from within the obama administration has weaponized the irs , doj , and fbi to target americans who oppose their agenda .
now , the white house has added a key tool in their arsenal by prying into our most personal information at the most local levels , all for the purpose of racial and economic justice .
on saturday , paul sperry of the new york post , uncovered the latest obama plan that is aimed at collecting personal data for a secret race database .
sperry writes , unbeknown to most americans , obama s racial bean counters are furiously mining data on their health , home loans , credit cards , places of work , neighborhoods , even how their kids are disciplined in school all to document inequalities between minorities and whites .
it may sound conspiratorial but under this government the only conspiracy is that being committed against americans who are too distracted by today s latest ginned up political crisis.sperry continues by noting that , this orwellian-style stockpile of statistics includes a vast and permanent network of discrimination databases , which obama already is using to make disparate impact cases against : banks that don t make enough prime loans to minorities ; schools that suspend too many blacks ; cities that don t offer enough section 8 and other low-income housing for minorities ; and employers who turn down african-americans for jobs due to criminal backgrounds .
big brother barack wants the databases operational before he leaves office , and much of the data in them will be posted online .
this means that so called civil-rights attorneys like those working for the aclu and urban activist groups will be able to exploit them to show patterns of racial disparities and segregation , even if no other evidence of discrimination exists .
such databases have never before existed .
obama is presiding over the largest consolidation of personal data in us history .
he is creating a diversity police state where government race cops and civil-rights lawyers will micromanage demographic outcomes in virtually every aspect of society , concludes sperry .
if you were to add all the databases created under this administration , including the obamacare database , known as midas , which retains tens of millions of obamacare enrollees information , you could quiet literally make the claim that the federal government has data on every single american citizen .
in the hands of someone like obama this becomes of grave concern given his willingness to use such information against his opponents .
now that this information will be made public in order to extort communities deemed too segregated .
whether it be through the withholding of federal funds for a local community showing a pattern of racial disparity or lawsuits against a school that disciplines minorities more than whites , it doesn t much matter .
the government will be able to force you to act in a way that it deems socially acceptable as obama drastically changes the racial makeup of america by enshrining an infrastructure that will continue long after he s gone.all the while this is happening below the surface and under the radar from most americans , we remain and for good reason , distracted by the latest crisis of the day .
a christian owned oregon bakery is forced by the state to pay a fine for not baking a cake for a lesbian couple , a woman is killed by an illegal immigrant and 7-time convicted felon in san francisco , four marines and one navy officer are executed by an islamic jihadist ; none of this would be happening but for obama s actions .
he knew that isis had put out a hit list specifically targeting our military , and he did nothing .
he cheered on the supreme court ruling that legalized gay marriage knowing that it would be used in a way to exploit and destroy businesses specifically owned by christians .
he created the sanctuary city policy that has served to protect illegal immigrants while they rape , murder , and assault american citizens like kate steinle in san francisco.all of this is happening because of the enemy we have in the white house .
the country is being brought to its knees by overt acts such as the jihadist attack that was met with no response , to covert acts such as the obama race database .
yet , no resistance is met to counter the agenda of the obama adminstration .
even the capacity of the american people to determine their own national interests are being torn asunder without any fight , without even so much as a whimper from congress .
without a pushback , the adminstration goes about acting without repercussion held to no degree of accountability .
with impeachment and the power of the purse both taken off the table by congress , america is literally at the whim of obama as the only checks that exist today on what the president can do is what he personally thinks he can get away with and what his political incentives are.so the adminstration pushes full steam ahead without any concern for the american people themselves .
nowhere is this more apparent , on a foreign policy scale , than with the adminstration s nuclear deal with iran .
as andrew mccarthy of national review writes , at the u.n. today , the obama administration is colluding with our enemies and other foreign sovereigns to deprive the american people through their elected representatives of the power to determine what obligations they will accept under international law .
the obama administration has taken the position that russia , china , and , yes , iran , have a vote on our national security , but we do not .
and in this betrayal , congress has , at best , been a witless aider and abettor .
at worst , they ve gone along with the adminstration in committing treason against the united states of america.i believe in the latter.via : politically short