obama spoke to a lgtb group a few days ago where he expressed his genuine concerns regarding religious institutions but that gay rights come before religious freedom .
it s obvious obama s taking a swipe at the kim davis case .
the pope met with kim davis and gave her encouragement but did the pope discuss religious freedom and gay rights with obama ?
as soon as the pope took off for rome , obama lets it rip on gay rights .
demonizing those who are religious and those who choose not to support the gay community is typical obama he ll forever be remembered as the great divider who really doesn t want to find common ground .
i guess that s what old radicals are really good at !
we affirm that we cherish our religious freedom and are profoundly respectful of religious traditions , he insisted during a dramatic speech at a lgtb fundraiser in new york city on sunday night , praising the progress made on gay rights under his administration .
but we also have to say clearly that our religious freedom doesn t grant us the freedom to deny our fellow americans their constitutional rights .
the fundraiser for the democratic national committee was specifically billed as an lgbt gala held in new york city in coordination with obama s trip to the united nations assembly.during his speech , obama asserted that his administration was respecting what he described as genuine concerns of religious institutions but suggested that republicans were using the issue just to earn more votes , as they did in 2004 .
america has left the leaders of the republican party behind , he declared proudly.he ridiculed ben carson for suggesting that prison turns you gay and added that another republican candidate had boasted of his introduction of a constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage , likely referring to sen. sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) 96 % .alluding to gov .
mike huckabee , obama mocked a candidate who said that americans should just disobey the supreme court s ruling entirely .
i m sure he loves the constitution except for article iii , obama said mockingly .
and maybe the equal protection amendment .
and 14th amendment , generally .
debbie wasserman shultz was in attendance at the fundraiser , and star trek s george takei also was expected to attend.obama proudly told the audience that he would not back down in his efforts to make progress for the lgbt community , and called for all of them to remain vigilant to hold the line on important legal gains in the country .
what makes america special is , is that though sometimes we zig and zag , eventually hope wins out , he said .
but it only wins out because folks like you put your shoulder behind the wheel and push it in that direction .
via : breitbart