washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. supreme court , which delivered major rulings in 2012 and 2015 preserving president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law , on tuesday declined to take up a new , long-shot challenge to obamacare brought by an iowa artist .
the court turned away an appeal by matt sissel , who had asserted that the 2010 affordable care act violated the u.s. constitution ’ s requirement that revenue-raising legislation must originate in the house of representatives , not in the senate , as the healthcare law did .
the high court left in place a 2014 ruling by the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia circuit upholding a lower court ’ s dismissal of the lawsuit , which was backed by the pacific legal foundation , a conservative legal group .
the suit targeted the law ’ s “ individual mandate ” that americans obtain health insurance or pay a tax penalty .
in a 6-3 ruling last june , the supreme court rejected a conservative legal challenge and upheld nationwide tax subsidies crucial to the healthcare law .
in 2012 , the justices ruled 5-4 that the law ’ s requirement that americans obtain insurance or pay a penalty was authorized by the power of congress to levy taxes .
a three-judge appeals court panel was unanimous in finding that sissel ’ s interpretation of the law was at odds with u.s. supreme court precedents , including the high court ’ s ruling in 2012 .
the court found that the penalty for not obtaining insurance was a form of taxation .
the law was passed by obama ’ s fellow democrats in congress in 2010 over the unified opposition of republicans , and conservatives who call the measure a government overreach have fought it since its inception .
the landmark law was designed to provide healthcare for millions of uninsured americans .
obama this month vetoed legislation passed by the republican-led congress that would have dismantled the law .
in the spring , the supreme court will hear arguments in a case brought by religious groups seeking an exemption from a provision of the law that requires them to provide contraception coverage in their health insurance policies .
the case is sissel v. department of health and human services , u.s. supreme court , no .
15-543 .