london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may told her cabinet on tuesday britain s objective in leaving the eu should be a deal that enables it to set rules suited to its situation , her spokesman said after a cabinet meeting to establish long-term goals for exit talks .
having secured a deal to move european union departure negotiations to the next stage last week , tuesday s discussion marked the start of may s next battle over brexit : what kind of long-term relationship will britain have with the bloc ?
in making that decision , may must manage deep divisions at home , including among senior ministers , over whether to align britain s economic future with the eu , or diverge from the bloc and seek a more global role .
she will then have to go out and strike a deal in brussels , where the eu is adamant that britain can not enjoy the full benefits of membership after leaving , wary of the need to deter others members from following suit .
the pm said it was clear what the cabinet s objective is : a deal which secures the best possible trading terms with the eu , enables the uk to set rules that are right for our situation and facilitates ambitious third-country trade deals , the spokesman said .
the meeting lasted almost two hours and saw 25 ministers speak on a subject at the heart of the country s fraught debate over leaving the eu .
it was the first time cabinet has tackled the so-called end state of the negotiations since the referendum vote to leave in june last year .
further cabinet talks are expected early next year to firm up the best means of achieving may s goals - the stage of the discussion most likely to push ideological differences between hard and soft brexiteers out into the open .
asked whether there was agreement on may s key aims , the spokesman said : yes , it s clear what we want to achieve .
it was set out in a good , clear , detailed discussion in which there were contributions from a large majority of the cabinet .
on the eve of the meeting , eu chief negotiator michel barnier offered a reminder of the difficult talks that also lie ahead in brussels , repeating the bloc s position that london s huge financial sector would not be given special treatment .
may s spokesman said she had ruled out a final economic partnership with the eu modeled on the european economic area - whose members allow free movement in exchange for full access to the eu s single market - and her aim was to get a more ambitious deal than the one signed between canada and the eu last year .
the brexit secretary ( david davis ) and the prime minister were clear that britain would be seeking a bespoke deal .
before talks resume in brussels , may must maintain a delicate balancing act to keep hardline brexit ministers like foreign minister boris johnson behind her , without alienating those like finance minister philip hammond who believe britain should be more wary of diverging from eu norms and standards .
may needs the full backing of her cabinet after a misjudged snap election in june stripped her conservative party of its majority in parliament , weakening her authority both at home and in brussels .
should she stumble , opposition labour party leader jeremy corbyn says he is ready to take her place , predicting another national election in 2018 in an interview with grazia magazine .
the veteran socialist led labour to unexpected gains in the june 8 vote , and has promised to deliver a brexit more focused on protecting jobs and workers rights .
that has been interpreted as meaning preserving ties with the eu in many areas .
but , may has outlasted many of the dire prognoses offered after her june election flop .
that is partly due to fears that fresh elections would put corbyn in charge , and partly because few conservative rivals want the task of delivering a decision which remains unpopular with large swathes of the electorate .
a poll on saturday showed 51 percent of britons would now keep eu membership while 41 percent want to leave the bloc .
the shift was mostly among those who did not vote in last year s referendum , while around nine in 10 leave and remain voters were unchanged in their views .