washington ( reuters ) - supreme court justices on monday signaled they are likely to leave in place a lower-court ’ s ruling that virginia ’ s republican-led legislature unlawfully considered race when drawing u.s. congressional districts by packing black voters into one of them .
the court heard oral arguments in the case at a time when democrats are accusing republicans in various states of taking actions to reduce the influence of black , hispanic and other voters who often favor democrats .
the focus of the case is on the composition of the majority-black u.s. house of representatives district held by democrat bobby scott , the only black member of virginia ’ s congressional delegation .
the eight justices , down one following the feb. 13 death of conservative antonin scalia , heard an appeal by current and former republican house members challenging the june 2015 lower court ruling that threw out the district .
following that ruling , some black voters from scott ’ s district were moved to an adjoining district , which is currently represented by white republican randy forbes , one of the challengers in the case .
this is likely to make the district a possible democratic pickup in the nov. 8 election .
without scalia , the court could split 4-4 with its four liberals on one side and four conservatives on the other , which would leave intact the lower-court decision .
none of the court ’ s liberals indicated they are likely to back the republican challengers .
the court may not even decide the merits of the case .
the justices could instead rule that house members from adjoining districts do not have legal standing to challenge new boundary lines that imperil their re-election prospects .
some of the justices signaled hostility to the idea that elected house members should receive legal protection when their ability to win re-election is put in doubt .
“ this is now an incumbency-protection standing rule , ” liberal sonia sotomayor said of the challengers ’ legal argument .
liberal elena kagan said even if lawmakers suffered an injury , the question remains whether they have a “ legally recognized interest ” in their re-election prospects .
several voters in scott ’ s district challenged the redistricting plan , approved by the republican-led legislature in 2012 , saying it minimized minority voting power in violation of the federal voting rights act and the u.s. constitution ’ s guarantee of equal protection under the law .
the voters who brought the case in 2013 argued that the district that scott represents , stretching from richmond to norfolk , was racially “ gerrymandered , ” cramming black voters into it and reducing black influence in neighboring districts .
a ruling is due by the end of june .
the case is wittman v. personhuballah , u.s. supreme court , no .
14-1504 .