washington ( reuters ) - the united states has decided to deny egypt $ 95.7 million in aid and to delay a further $ 195 million because of its failure to make progress on respecting human rights and democratic norms , two sources familiar with the matter said on tuesday .
the decision reflects a u.s. desire to continue security cooperation as well as frustration with cairo s stance on civil liberties , notably a new law that regulates non-governmental organizations that is widely seen as part a growing crackdown on dissent , said the sources , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
u.s. officials were especially unhappy that egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi in may allowed the ngo law to go into effect .
human rights groups and activists have said that it effectively bans their work and makes it harder for charities to operate .
egyptian officials had assured u.s. officials earlier this year that the law , which restricts ngo activity to developmental and social work and introduces jail terms of up to five years for non-compliance , would not go through , the sources said .
spokespeople for the white house and the state department were not immediately available for comment .
egypt is an important mideast partner for the united states because of its control of the suez canal and its border with israel .
the sources said the administration had decided to reprogram $ 65.7 million in fiscal year 2017 foreign military financing funds ( fmf ) and $ 30 million in fiscal year 2016 economic support fund ( esf ) funds .
reprogramming means these funds would be used for other purposes and would not go to egypt .
the administration made a separate decision to withhold $ 195 million in fiscal year 2016 foreign military financing funds which , had it not acted , would have expired and ceased to be available at the end of the current fiscal year on sept. 30 .
the second decision also illustrated the administration s ambivalence toward egypt .
under u.s. law , the administration is required to withhold 15 percent , or $ 195 million , of the $ 1.3 billion it gives egypt annually in fmf funds unless it can certify that cairo is making progress on advancing human rights and democracy .
however , the administration can issue a national security waiver that allows the funds to go through .
this year , the administration again decided it could not certify egyptian progress on rights and it chose to issue the national security waiver but it is still going to withhold the $ 195 million .
that money will now go into an account where it will be held pending egyptian improvement on human rights and democracy .
this means that egypt could eventually get the money if its record on democracy and civil liberties improved .
strengthened security cooperation with egypt is important to u.s. national security , said one source , adding that u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson felt it was in the interests of the u.s. to exercise the waiver .
we remain concerned about egypt s lack of progress in key areas , including human rights and the new ngo law , the source said .
egyptian rights activists have said they face the worst crackdown in their history under sisi , accusing him of erasing freedoms won in the 2011 arab spring uprising that ended hosni mubarak s 30-year rule .
egyptian lawmakers have said the ngo law was needed to protect national security .
the egyptian government has long accused human rights groups of taking foreign funds to sow chaos , and several are facing investigation over their funding .