like obama and his regime , this occupier and obama supporter believes he is above the law .
the city of detroit begs to differ , and would like fairey to pay them back for the damage he has done to various buildings in the city .
shepard faireyfamed street artist shepard fairey , who visited detroit last month to create the largest mural of his career , faces felony charges of tagging other properties across the city on his own time.a warrant for his arrest was filed in 36th district court on friday .
he faces two counts of malicious destruction of property , which carry a maximum penalty of five years in jail , plus fines that could exceed $ 10,000.police , who accuse the artist of causing about $ 9,000 in damage , said that the next time he comes to detroit , they will arrest him if he doesn t turn himself in first .
just because he is a well-known artist does not take away the fact that he is also a vandal , said detroit police sgt .
rebecca mckay , who oversees the city s graffiti task force .
and that s what we consider was done , in these instances , was vandalism .
fairey told the free press he intended to leave illegal marks in the city .
he arrived in may to paint the 18-story mural on one campus martius for dan gilbert s bedrock real estate services and others , but before the work began , he said he would be doing more .
i still do stuff on the street without permission .
i ll be doing stuff on the street when i m in detroit , fairey said last month .
his signature black-and-white andre the giant face has since appeared on several buildings downtown , in eastern market and along jefferson avenue.fairey s legal troubles in detroit open a window into the evolution of street art , from its illegal origins into its more professionalized genre recognized in museums and galleries .
fairey has always liked to play both sides of the street , accepting major commissions like the one campus martius mural but also retaining his street credibility by continuing to work in the shadows , tagging private property without authorization.an exhibition of fairey s prints is also currently on view at the library street collective in downtown detroit .
this is a whole genre that s become institutionalized , and you ll always have some outliers go back to where they started and where they get their inspiration , said elysia borowy-reeder , executive director of the museum of contemporary art detroit.on another front , the crackdown on illegal graffiti suggests that the reputation detroit has had for years among artists elsewhere as a kind of wild wild west of opportunity needs amending .
while inexpensive studio space , a supportive artists community and the chance to help shape the future of the city remain powerful incentives to live and work in detroit , the notion that anything goes , including illegal activities that have made the city a haven for unauthorized street art , is no longer true .
that reputation lingers but change happens slowly and it s catching up , said borowy-reeder .
the city is becoming more mature .
via : detroit free press