bill clinton was falsely confident in his plan to end north korea s nuclear threat with diplomacy .
over 20 years later , his efforts , along with those of every president succeeding him , have been futile.every president since clinton has allowed north korea s nuclear ambitions to go unchecked .
perhaps now that north korea allegedly has the capability of striking our mainland , america really needs is a president who is willing to stand up to north korea s brutal dictator and let him know he s not playing with barack obama anymore.will president trump be the one to finally put an end to north korea s threatening rhetoric by refusing to ignore kim jong un s threats ? north korea now has an intercontinental ballistic missile that can range most of the continental u.s. , and a new defense intelligence agency assessment suggests that north korea has successfully miniaturized nuclear warheads for its missiles.in the early 1990s , clinton faced a growing nuclear threat from north korea , but he ultimately chose diplomacy and deals over the application of military force .
i was determined to prevent north korea from developing a nuclear arsenal , even at the risk of war , clinton wrote in his memoirs .
he decided to change course after receiving a sobering estimate of the staggering losses both sides would suffer if war broke out .
watch clinton brag about his great success with north korea : nkorea flashback : bill clinton on his deal with north korea `` the world will be safer . ''
whoops .
pic.twitter.com/hdf86yqbeq mark dice ( @ markdice ) august 8 , 2017clinton chose the agreed framework , promising billions of dollars in aid for a north korean nuclear freeze .
this is a good deal for the united states , he said at the time .
north korea will freeze and then dismantle its nuclear program .
south korea and our other allies will be better protected .
the entire world will be safer as we slow the spread of nuclear weapons .
the north koreans negotiated in bad faith , however , offering false promises to convince the u.s. to unwittingly subsidize their nuclear program .
the country began enriching nuclear material , and north korea conducted its first nuclear test a little over a decade later .
north korea has since continued its steady march to becoming a fully-armed nuclear power .
evidence suggests that north korea will achieve its nuclear weapons goals much sooner than analysts and experts previously expected.north korea advanced its program throughout the bush and obama administrations , bringing the u.s. to the risky situation it now faces .
north korea best not make any more threats to the united states , donald trump declared to the white house press pool tuesday .
they will be met with the fire and fury like the world has never seen .
he has been very threatening beyond a normal state , and as i said , they will be met with the fire and fury and , frankly , power the likes of which this world has never seen before .
while the casualty count in a north korean crisis might have been high in the 1990s , the cost of a conflict now that north korea has nuclear weapons would be in the millions .
the daily caller