i wonder how many government funded trucks will be following mooch s kids this summer ?
oh , that s right she s a good mom .
there s no need for government intervention government-sponsored food trucks will be stalking students this summer with the goal of giving out thousands of healthy free lunches officials don t trust parents to provide.officials at st. paul public schools recently announced they re working with the local food bank second harvest to dispatch a mobile food truck to expand locations offering students free lunches during the summer .
last year the district supplied 71 locations , and the truck will help to add another 10 to 15 in 2015 , kstp reports.the district s director of nutrition services , stacy koppen , said the truck will drive around to different locations between 10:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. to help feed the city s needy youngsters .
the truck will track down students at spots like suggested basketball courts or fields where kids like to play , according to the news site.the very expensive-looking specially rigged step van features a billboard with grinning teens alongside the message kids and teens : get your free meals here .
the district apparently didn t offer the details on how the new program is financed , or how much the truck cost , and the news station didn t bother to ask .
school officials said the truck will be manned by volunteers.koppen said the district serves 29,000 lunches a day during the school year , but only 6,000 a day during the summer , so officials reasoned a truck is necessary to make sure students aren t starving .
time and again , we such a steep decline that we wonder , where are these children going ?
are they getting the healthy , nutritious food they need for their health and academic success ?
koppen told ktsp .
we want to make sure that when children return to school for the next school year , that they are at the optimal health status and that they are ready to learn , she said , adding that the free food is available to all , not just low income kids.minneapolis public schools have used food trucks to give away lunches since at least 2013 .
the hopkins district in minnesota , as well as districts in colorado , new york , massachusetts , indiana , california , tennessee , and other states have also launched trucks to take free food to students during the summer.in new york city , organizations can also apply to have school food trucks deliver meals to students on site upon request.most , if not all , of the school food trucks seem to be funded at least in part by the u.s. department of agriculture , as part of the federal free and reduced-price school lunch program .
each summer , the united states department of agriculture reimburses school districts for all meals prepared and served at no cost to any child under the age of 18 , the grand junction daily sentinel reports.the news site explained that school district 51 expanded its free summer lunch program to dispatch a food truck to patrol local neighborhoods and seek out students .
the usda will pay for food and staff labor but not for the purchase of a food truck or the cost of running it , according to the daily sentinel.in district 51 , the cost of the truck and expenses are covered by a $ 50,000 grant from the western colorado community foundation.via : eag news