nicosia ( reuters ) - cypriot president nicos anastasiades said on saturday he planned to seek a second five-year term in elections scheduled for january 2018 , pledging to pick up the pace of reunification talks which collapsed in acrimony in mid-2017 .
anastasiades , 71 , a conservative , was widely credited with leading a renewed bid to reunite cyprus , split in a turkish invasion in 1974 after a brief greek-inspired coup .
failure to reach a solution is not in the interests of either greek or turkish cypriots , and naturally , not of turkey either .
i want to believe turkey will see the benefits of a solution , anastasiades , who represents greek cypriots in peace negotiations , told supporters in nicosia .
peace talks collapsed in july after the sides failed to agree on the status of turkish forces on the island , as well as intervention rights of turkey in cyprus stemming from a 1960 independence treaty .
anastasiades has faced criticism at home for either granting too many concessions in talks , or of tactical errors which hampered prospects of a deal .
the simmering conflict remains a source of tension between nato allies greece and turkey and one of the obstacles ankara has to face in its long-frustrated bid to join the european union .
a historic opportunity to end the decades-old conflict was missed , united nations secretary-general antonio guterres wrote in a report to the security council on sept. 28 .
to date , there is no sign of the peace negotiations resuming .
anastasiades is expected to run against at least three other contenders , including nicolas papadopoulos , son of late president tassos papadopoulos who rejected a united nations reunification blueprint for cyprus in 2004 .
elections will be held on jan. 28 , with a runoff a week later if a single candidate does not muster a majority in the first round .
the early days of anastasiades s presidency in 2013 were marked by a financial meltdown triggered by the exposure of the island s banks to indebted greece and fiscal slippage .
the island required a 10 billion euro ( $ 11.8 billion ) international bailout .
contingent upon winding down one commercial bank and seizing deposits in a second .
cyprus made a successful exit from the programme in 2016 .
( $ 1 = 0.8459 euros )