mexico city ( reuters ) - canada s prime minister justin trudeau on friday urged mexican lawmakers to improve women s rights , delivering a sharp rebuke to a key trading partner that has struggled to curb years of femicide , drug violence and rights abuses .
in a visit to the mexican capital amid tense talks in the united states to save the north american free trade agreement ( nafta ) , trudeau met human rights organizations that briefed him on the violence and challenges faced by many of the country s women .
in an address at the mexican senate , trudeau told lawmakers that the stories he had heard from the rights groups about the treatment of women were unacceptable , and pressed for gender imbalances to be addressed in an updated nafta .
i challenge you to use your position and power to strongly push for the rights of women and girls in mexico , trudeau said .
we must move the needle forward on gender inequality .
trudeau s comments serve as a reprimand of mexican president enrique pena nieto s failure to tackle years of drug crime .
violence against women in mexico has risen dramatically since the previous administration declared war on organized drug trafficking about a decade ago .
mexico and canada share values , and that certainly includes gender equality and enhancing women s rights , pena nieto s office said in a statement after a request for comment on trudeau s remarks .
the national citizen observatory of femicide ( ocnf ) , which uses government statistics , reported that 2,735 women were murdered in mexico last year , up sharply from 2,383 the year before .
un women , a branch of the united nations , says on its website that mexico has taken steps in recent years to improve gender equality , but has struggled to fully implement and enforce its own regulations .
trudeau and his wife arrived in mexico city on thursday and attended roundtable discussions with non-governmental organizations to discuss violence against women , human rights , free speech as well as the risks faced by journalists and activists .
although trudeau did not give details on how an updated nafta could protect women s rights , he said that canada supports broader inclusion of women in the world economy .
we know that the success of any society depends on the full participation of women across social , economic and political life , he added .