beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party will meet next month to discuss amending the constitution and to talk about the ongoing fight against graft , state media said on wednesday , ahead of march s expected passing of a new anti-corruption law .
fighting deeply ingrained graft has been a key policy plank for president xi jinping in his first term in office , and that battle will take on a new hue with the setting up of the national supervision commission as he begins his second term .
trial work has already begun for that commission , which is likely to be formally codified in law in march at the meeting of china s largely rubber stamp parliament .
the new body will take over from the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) and merge multiple anti-graft units into a single body .
it will also expand the graft campaign s purview to include employees at state-backed institutions rather than just party members .
in a short report , xinhua news agency said the party s politburo , one of its elite ruling bodies , had met and decided to hold two important meetings next month - one on amending the state constitution and the other specifically on fighting corruption .
xinhua gave no details of what the constitutional amendment might entail , but chinese legal scholars have said the country needs to amend its constitution before it can set up the new supervision commission to ensure there is a proper constitutional basis for its powers .
the constitution clearly defines china s top political institutions , such as the judiciary and the prosecutor , in order to grant them state power and changes need to be made to these definitions to make room for a similarly powerful supervision system , scholars argue .
the party will discuss the amendment , or amendments , at a plenum next month , xinhua said without giving an exact date or saying whether it was one amendment or more .
the constitution , which is different from the party constitution , was last amended in 2004 to include guarantees to protect private property and human rights .
the other meeting , a full session of the anti-corruption watchdog the ccdi , will be held from jan. 11-13 , the report added , again without giving details .
xi has vowed that his war against graft will not ease until officials at all levels dare not , can not and do not want to be corrupt .
xi told top party leaders in october revision of the anti-graft architecture would include the scrapping of a controversial shuanggui system of secret interrogations , and the introduction of a new detention system .
the latest draft of the new supervision law , unveiled last week , adds protections for graft suspects as part of efforts to revise the interrogation system .