gaza ( reuters ) - palestinian islamist group hamas s leader in gaza said on thursday a reconciliation deal with president mahmoud abbas s fatah faction was collapsing , just 10 weeks after the agreement was reached .
the rivals signed a deal brokered by cairo on oct. 12 after hamas agreed to hand over administrative control of the gaza strip , including its border crossings with egypt and israel , a decade after seizing control of the enclave in a civil war .
the deal bridged a deep gulf between abbas s western-backed mainstream fatah and hamas , an islamist movement designated a terrorist group by western countries and israel .
but continued disputes have delayed its implementation .
yehya al-sinwar , hamas s chief in gaza and a key architect of the unity agreement , offered a bleak outlook on thursday , suggesting the deal could suffer a similar fate to numerous reconciliation attempts over the past decade .
the reconciliation project is falling apart .
only a blind man can t see that , sinwar said in comments published by pro-hamas media .
one of the latest disputes came earlier this month when hamas , according to fatah officials , missed a milestone to complete the handover of gaza to abbas s west bank-based government .
hamas says it has given up all administrative control in gaza .
rami al-hamdallah , the prime minister , said hamas had not transferred moneys as agreed , while hamas said hamdallah s government had not paid salaries in gaza as agreed .
sinwar in the past has said his group would not go back to governing gaza and that he was committed to making the deal succeed .
fatah officials declined immediate comment .
reconciliation is collapsing because some people want to get from it the relinquishing of arms and the closing of tunnels , said sinwar without elaborating , but in apparent reference to fatah .
during the last gaza war , in 2014 , hamas fighters used dozens of tunnels to blindside israel s superior forces and threaten civilian communities near the frontier .
israel and the united states have called for hamas to be disarmed as part of the pact between it and the palestinian authority , so that israeli peace efforts with palestinian president mahmoud abbas , which collapsed in 2014 , can proceed .
hamas has rejected the demand .