paris ( reuters ) - marine le pen has acted to reassert her authority over france s far-right national front with the forced departure of her deputy , but still faces a struggle to persuade the party base that she has what it takes to win an election .
the exit of florian philippot , who quit last week over policy differences with le pen since her resounding defeat by emmanuel macron in may s presidential election , shows the 49-year-old daughter of party founder jean-marie le pen can be tough when required .
but her past flip-flops over policy , and less-than-assured performance in a tv debate against macron before the presidential run-off , have raised doubts about whether she can take the national front from being a major factor in french politics to a party that can hold power .
le pen s image has seriously deteriorated , said frederic dabi of polling group ifop , who carried out a survey on sept 7-8 that shows only 27 percent of voters think she has the stature of a president , down seven percentage points since march .
her problem in terms of image is not authority , she is seen as being very firm , but it is competence , stature , he said .
can she be seen as an alternative to emmanuel macron ?
it s not looking that way .
le pen took a lower-than-expected 33.9 percent of votes in the presidential run-off , while her party won only 8.75 percent in the second round of parliamentary elections that followed .
however , support for the european far-right may not have peaked despite setbacks in the netherlands and austria too .
at the weekend , the anti-immigrant alternative for germany scored 12.6 percent in federal elections , becoming the first far-right party to enter the bundestag in more than half a century an outcome le pen praised .
[ nl8n1m6092 ] [ nl5n1m50pj ] a lawyer by training , le pen took over the party in 2011 and quickly managed to build a broader following .
she succeeded in detoxifying its image , distancing it from the anti-semitic labels it attracted under her father , and adopting pro-welfare economic policies that appealed to a wider range of voters .
out went her father , the one-eyed former paratrooper who reveled in provocative comments , expelled from the party in 2015 .
in came the daughter s softer image , with talk of lowering the retirement age and protecting workers .
she went on tv to talk about her love of gardening .
a lot of that image adjustment was down to philippot , a graduate of france s elite ena administrative school who joined the party in 2011 and quickly rose to the top , an architect of le pen s 2012 and 2017 campaigns .
but having broken with her father and now with philippot , le pen must now show that she can get the policy mix right before another possible presidential bid in 2022 .
the dispute with philippot came to a head over the party s anti-euro stance .
for her supporters , le pen s willingness to sacrifice her closest aide when he refused to do what he was told underscores her leadership credentials .
it shows that she gives priority to what s good for the party above personal considerations , gaetan dussausaye , the head of the party s youth group , told reuters .
she knows what she wants , she s got strong beliefs and she ll do whatever is necessary to defend them , said dussausaye , who is a member of the national front s top political committee .
but others worry about her flashes of aggression and lack of preparedness in the presidential debate , followed by the elections underperformance .
they believe this means she has work to do to persuade the grassroots and beyond them , a big enough number of voters that she s a winner .
a survey by odoxa pollsters , carried out on sept 6-7 , showed that the biggest danger for le pen may come from within from inside the family as much as the party .
this showed marion marechal-le pen , marine s niece , who temporarily stepped away from politics , is the only top official seen as an asset by a majority of party members surveyed .
more than half saw marine le pen as a liability .
jerome riviere , a former conservative lawmaker who joined le pen s campaign team , praised her openness to adjustments , including softening her anti-euro stance .
a good party chief needs to be representative of what grassroots activists want , he said .
but le pen s handling of the break with philippot led others to conclude that she no longer knows where she stands .
there is a rise in influence of people who advise her in a way that is not true to her beliefs or good for the party , alain avello , a regional councillor , told reuters .
avello , who once described himself a marine-ite , is one of several national front members to have quit the party after philippot s departure .
a crucial question will be how much le pen now allows the party s policies to evolve .
philippot had long advocated a tough anti-euro and pro-welfare policy , which le pen had backed .
but others want the party to re-focus on its anti-immigrant , economically liberal roots .
it is expected to decide a new strategy and policies at a congress in march .
in a letter to national front members the day philippot quit , le pen said the debate on overhauling the party would continue until the congress .
she will tour france to meet supporters , who will be asked in a questionnaire how they want the party to change .
it is important to me that you , national front members , be the ones to decide , le pen said .