be careful what you wish for is an age-old adage .
earlier this month , donald trump tweeted that if you want to know about hillary clinton s honesty and judgement , all you need to do is ask the family of ambassador chris stevens , who died in the horrific terrorist attacks in benghazi on september 11 , 2012.via freakoutnationon tuesday , after the house benghazi committee released its report on the attacks a report that once again exonerated clinton and confirmed that the numerous hearings are simply a waste of taxpayer dollars aimed at smearing the 2016 democratic nominee ambassador stevens sister spoke to the new yorker about the hearings , and trump has likely dissolved into a steaming pile of seething rage over her remarks.dr .
anne stevens , who serves as her family s spokesperson , made it very clear that no matter what republicans say , hillary clinton is not to blame for benghazi .
in fact , she says the blame lies with republicans in congress .
it is clear , in hindsight , that the facility was not sufficiently protected by the state department and the defense department .
but what was the underlying cause ?
she said .
perhaps if congress had provided a budget to increase security for all missions around the world , then some of the requests for more security in libya would have been granted .
certainly the state department is underbudgeted .
prior to the attacks , the gop cut embassy security a move clinton warned would be detrimental to america s national security back in 2011 : for fiscal 2013 , the gop-controlled house proposed spending $ 1.934 billion for the state department s worldwide security protection program well below the $ 2.15 billion requested by the obama administration .
house republicans cut the administration s request for embassy security funding by $ 128 million in fiscal 2011 and $ 331 million in fiscal 2012 .
( negotiations with the democrat-controlled senate restored about $ 88 million of the administration s request . )
last year , secretary of state hillary clinton warned that republicans proposed cuts to her department would be detrimental to america s national security a charge republicans rejected .
[ gop vice presidential nominee paul ] ryan , [ rep. darrell ] issa and other house republicans voted for an amendment in 2009 to cut $ 1.2 billion from state operations , including funds for 300 more diplomatic security positions .
under ryan s budget , non-defense discretionary spending , which includes state department funding , would be slashed nearly 20 percent in 2014 , which would translate to more than $ 400 million in additional cuts to embassy security.stevens goes on to drop the hammer on any words republicans want to put in the mouths of her or her family : i do not blame hillary clinton or leon panetta .
they were balancing security efforts at embassies and missions around the world .
and their staffs were doing their best to provide what they could with the resources they had .
the benghazi mission was understaffed .
we know that now .
but , again , chris knew that .
it wasn t a secret to him .
he decided to take the risk to go there .
it is not something they did to him .
it is something he took on himself.stevens says that the recently-released report concluded absolutely nothing new , and that clinton did her best to keep people safe even in spite of fierce opposition from republicans : she has taken full responsibility , being head of the state department , for what occurred .
she took measures to respond to the review board s recommendations .
she established programs for a better security system .
but it is never going to be perfect .
part of being a diplomat is being out in the community .
we all recognize that there s a risk in serving in a dangerous environment .
chris thought that was very important , and he probably would have done it again .
i don t see any usefulness in continuing to criticize her .
it is very unjust.stevens says that the gop s investigations are nothing but a witch hunt conducted purely for political reasons .
with the many issues in the current election , to use that incident and to use chris s death as a political point is not appropriate , she adds , explaining that everyone did their very best in response to this event .
in fact , her brother had a lot of respect for clinton and her ability to intensely read the issues and understand the whole picture .
could this be the final nail in the coffin of the gop s ridiculous , money-wasting witch hunts ?
probably not , unfortunately.featured image via getty images/justin sullivan