new york ( reuters ) - some 5.8 million homes and businesses in florida and nearby states still had no power on tuesday after the pummeling from hurricane irma , as utility companies scrambled to get the lights back on in one of the biggest power restoration efforts in u.s. history .
the total number of customers , representing about 12 million people , dipped from a peak of more than 7.4 million customers , or about 15 million people , late on monday .
fuel shortages in the state also eased as 37.6 percent of gas stations were without fuel statewide , down from 46 percent monday evening , according to fuel information service gasbuddy .
major utilities in florida - including nextera energy inc s florida power & light , duke energy corp and emera inc s tampa electric - have mobilized tens of thousands of workers to deal with the outages after irma landed early sunday and carved a destructive path up florida , which has a population of about 20 million .
fpl , the state s largest utility , said its outages dipped to around 2.5 million customers by tuesday evening from a peak of more than 3.6 million on monday morning , but that was still more than half of its customers .
in total about 4.5 million fpl customers were affected by the storm , with more than 1.7 million having their service restored already , mostly by automated devices .
we restored power to about 40 percent of the customers impacted by irma in just one day , fpl spokesman rob gould told a news conference on tuesday .
by comparison , only 4 percent of 3.2 million customer outages following hurricane wilma in 2005 were addressed in the same time .
the faster restoration time was due to $ 3 billion fpl spent on improvements including underground lines , concrete poles and intelligent devices to help restore power , gould said .
more than 60,000 workers from across the united states and canada were involved in the restoration efforts , including those from the affected companies and other utilities , said tom kuhn , president of the edison electric institute , an industry trade group .
the industry s irma response is one of the largest power restoration efforts in u.s. history , kuhn said .
some florida utilities , including fpl , had warned customers it could take weeks to restore power in the hardest hit areas .
however , fpl , said on tuesday that would restore power to eastern florida by this weekend , and to western florida by sept 22 .
the state s gas supplies were severely disrupted before and during the storm as ports were closed , cutting florida off from waterborne deliveries the state relies on .
as ports began to reopen , queues of tanker trucks waited to be refilled .
gainesville and miami had the highest number of stations out of fuel on tuesday afternoon , with 62 percent and 49 percent respectively , according to gasbuddy .
it was too soon to say what the power restoration would cost fpl , but in 2016 , the company said it spent about $ 315 million to restore power after hurricanes hermine and matthew , according to nextera s federal filings .
most of those costs were related to matthew , which caused a third as many outages as irma did for fpl .
to recover restoration costs , fpl files with state regulators and , if approved , adds a storm surcharge on the monthly bills of its nearly 5 million customers .
that surcharge was capped at around $ 4 per month for the average residential customer , according to nextera s 2016 annual report .
the company said , however , it could request an increase if storm restoration costs exceed $ 800 million in any calendar year .
florida s second biggest power company , duke , serving the northern and central parts of the state , said it still had about 1.2 million outages tuesday morning , according to the company s website , while duke s outages in north and south carolina climbed to about 160,000 .
in georgia , utilities reported around 1.2 million customers without power tuesday morning , down from a peak of more than 1.4 million on monday night .
fpl said its two nuclear plants in florida were safe .
both reactors at its turkey point facility , about 30 miles ( 48 km ) south of miami , remained shut early tuesday , while both reactors at its st. lucie plant , about 120 miles ( 190 km ) north of miami , were operating at full power .