what a role model for women and young girls , a presidential candidate who has one foot in prison and the other on the campaign trail that hillary if she s not lying she s never mind , she s probably lying clinton is merely the first woman to earn a major party nod but she follows these party standard-bearers who also tried to break the ultimate glass ceiling:1872 : equal rights party , victoria woodhullnearly 50 years before women earned the right to vote , victoria woodhull headlined a progressive all-star ticket , running with former slave and abolitionist leader fredrick douglass .
woodhull s agenda was well ahead of the reconstructionist times ; the newspaper editor turned presidential nominee championed suffrage , civil rights and free love which is a radical threesome.1888 : equal rights party , belva lockwoodlockwood was born in a log cabin and the first woman to argue a case before the supreme court , but her bootstraps story didn t impress some wags of the day .
old lady lockwood , the atlanta constitution warned , would subject the country to petticoat rule .
she got 4,100 votes in an age when half the electorate women still could not vote and most blacks were still disenfranchised.1940 : surprise party , gracie allenlike donald trump s candidacy , what began as a joke between comedian gracie allen and her husband and show time side-kick george burns , soon became a national amusement .
allen , who s political slogan was down with common sense , vote for gracie and vowed to resolve the california-florida boundary dispute , seized the nation s attention with a series of campaign stops and satirical policy platform .
it s estimated that she received 42,000 votes in november.1968 : communist party usa , charlene mitchellmitchell , a card-carrying member of the cpusa from age 16 , was the first african-american woman to be nominated for president .
the ticket , which made it onto only two state ballots , received just over 1,000 votes.1972 : socialist worker s party , linda jennessat age 31 , jenness could not have actually served if she had been elected but that was part of the point .
we think that constitutional requirement is ridiculous , jenness said .
turning 35 does not make you a genius , politically , as so many of our politicians have proven .
jenness was an outspoken anti-war candidate and vocal critic of rival nominees , the republican richard nixon and democratic george mcgovern.1976 : people s party , margaret wrightthe world war ii shipyard worker featured in the 1980 documentary the life and times of rosie the riveter fronted the people s party ticket , a coalition of various socialist and anti-war organizations .
the party received 49,016 votes , or .06 % of the national total.1980 : right to life party , ellen mccormackmccormack s single-issue candidacy brought the pro-life agenda to the nation s attention .
after a successful run as a democrat that earned her 238,000 primary votes and raised over $ 500,000 in campaign contributions , mccormack s 1980 campaign received 32,000 votes in the three states in which she qualified .
i think we are teaching working mothers it is more prestigious to work than be home with their children , the self-described housewife once said.1984 : citizens party , sonia johnsonfor entire list go here : nydaily news