manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte s honeymoon period may be over , but his deadly anti-drugs campaign will not wane , his office said on monday , after a fall in ratings that his opponents said showed public disillusionment with his rule .
duterte has enjoyed strong opinion poll numbers since winning the presidency in last year s elections but heavy scrutiny of his war on drugs , which has killed thousands of filipinos , appears to have impacted his ratings .
trust and satisfaction in duterte fell to the lowest of his presidency in the third quarter of this year , a survey showed on sunday , although sentiment about his leadership remained positive overall .
the honeymoon period of the president is usually for a year , so this is expected , duterte s communications secretary , martin andanar , said in a radio interview , adding it should motivate the government to deliver on its overall objectives .
the social weather stations survey was conducted between september 23-27 , two days after thousands of filipinos rallied to denounce duterte s drugs war and his authoritarian leadership style .
the high death toll has stoked international alarm , although domestic polls have shown filipinos are largely supportive of his tough measures to fight crime and drugs .
police say they have killed 3,900 drug suspects during their anti-narcotics operations and deny executions have taken place , as human rights groups have alleged .
but the campaign has been under the microscope of late , due largely to the high-profile killing by police of a 17-year-old student on aug. 16 , which led to a senate probe .
a murder investigation is under way .
police said he was a drug suspect killed because he opened fire on them while resisting arrest , but security camera footage showed him in police custody .
his family insists he was executed .
staunch critics of duterte were quick to take advantage of a survey slump they said reflected public discontent and scepticism about his drugs war .
it s very encouraging to know that the filipino people are beginning to see the light , said senator antonio trillanes , a fierce opponent who has recently accused duterte of concealing assets when he was davao city mayor .
they are now seeing duterte for who he really is : a lying , rude , amoral , corrupt and oppressive former mayor who is totally incompetent about governance at the national level .
presidential spokesman ernesto abella also said the honeymoon was over , but duterte was not motivated by popularity ratings and was bent on making sure that he addresses the three campaign themes which is crime , corruption and illegal drugs .
duterte s office frequently cites polls , including sws , as a sign of his public support .
peace and order are also one of the cornerstones of the 72-year-old leader s economic agenda , which aims to lift the country s growth to 7-8 percent during his six-year term .
senator risa hontiveros said the ratings dip showed duterte s authoritarian style of governance is losing its appeal and support .
the writing on the wall is simple and clear : president duterte can not govern based on fear , lies and killings , hontiveros said in a statement .