dems panic in 5 4 3 2 1 donald trump s presidential campaign started recruiting election observer volunteers late friday , after the republican nominee claimed the only way he would lose pennsylvania is if cheating goes on in certain areas .the application form on the campaign website links directly to a page soliciting campaign donations with the text : i am your voice .
trump repeated claims at a friday night rally , without evidence , that he fears a rigged election perpetrated in part by voter fraud.no republican candidate for president has won pennsylvania since 1988 , and in 2012 the state s then republican government , in court over a voter id law , admitted in legal papers that its lawyers knew of no instances of in-person voter fraud in the state .
the law was struck down in 2014.despite this , trump warned that pennsylvania voters needed monitoring .
we re gon na watch pennsylvania , he said on friday .
go down to certain areas and watch and study and make sure other people don t come in and vote five times .
the only way we can lose , in my opinion and i really mean this , pennsylvania is if cheating goes on .
i really believe it .
so i hope you people can sort of not just vote on the 8th go around and look and watch other polling places and make sure that it s 100 % fine , he added.election observers are not unusual and are often relied on to field complaints and concerns from voters .
depending on state law , campaign representatives may be barred from the role .
in pennsylvania , only election officials , certified poll watchers or qualified voters with valid reasons can bring challenges on the grounds of identity or residence , according to the advancement project , a civil rights group.the state s election code states that a voter shall have the right to cast his or her vote : without the use or threat of force , violence or restraint ; without the infliction or threat of infliction of injury ; without any intimidation or coercion upon or against his or her person ; or without any other action intended to deny any individual s right to vote .
guardian