tokyo ( reuters ) - a baby brought into a japanese municipal assembly chamber by his lawmaker mother was promptly ejected because his presence was against the rules , an official said on friday , highlighting the hurdles faced by working women in japan .
yuka ogata , a member of the kumamoto city assembly , brought her seven-month-old son into the chamber on wednesday but she was asked to take him out because of a rule limiting attendance to assembly members , city official naoya oshima said .
ogata tried to stay but the speaker of the assembly eventually persuaded her to take the infant out .
she handed him over to a babysitter and returned .
i wanted to highlight the difficulties facing women who are trying to juggle their careers and raise children , the 42-year-old ogata was quoted by the asahi shimbun daily as saying .
ogata was not immediately available for comment .
economists say given japan s rapidly aging population , bringing women into the workforce is essential .
prime minister shinzo abe has made increasing the number of women workers a key part of his economic plan , pledging , among various measures , to increase daycare for children .
he told the united nations in 2013 that he would create a society where women can shine , but little progress has been made .
japan ranked 114 out of 144 in the world economic forum s 2017 global gender gap report , falling 13 places since abe took power .
abe appointed only two women to ministerial posts in a cabinet reshuffle in august , down from three and five respectively in his previous two cabinets .
only 14 percent of japan s lawmakers are women .
japanese labor law has no official system in place for maternity or parental leave for politicians .
in 2000 , a national lawmaker in abe s liberal democratic party took three days off from parliament to give birth , prompting the legislature to allow maternity leave for members .
a total of 12 lawmakers have taken advantage of the time off , being granted up to three months of maternity leave at the most , the mainichi shimbun daily reported this year .