maybe hillary s russian uranium deal included a cameo of russian warships on the dnc stage ?
it certainly wouldn t surprise anyone .
on the last night of the democratic national convention , a retired navy four-star took the stage to pay tribute to veterans .
behind him , on a giant screen , the image of four hulking warships reinforced his patriotic message.but there was a big mistake in the stirring backdrop : those are russian warships.while retired adm. john nathman , a former commander of fleet forces command , honored vets as america s best , the ships from the russian federation navy were arrayed like sentinels on the big screen above.these were the very soviet-era combatants that nathman and cold warriors like him had once squared off against .
the ships are definitely russian , said noted naval author norman polmar after reviewing hi-resolution photos from the event .
there s no question of that in my mind .
naval experts concluded the background was a photo composite of russian ships that were overflown by what appear to be u.s. trainer jets .
it remains unclear how or why the democratic party used what s believed to be images of the russian black sea fleet at their convention.in a new survey of american military personnel , donald trump emerged as active-duty service members preference to become the next u.s. president , topping hillary clinton by more than a 2-to-1 margin .
mta spokesman for the democratic national convention committee was not able to immediately comment tuesday , saying he had to track down personnel to find out what had happened.the veteran who spotted the error and notified navy times said he was immediately taken aback .
i was kind of in shock , said rob barker , 38 , a former electronics warfare technician who left the navy in 2006 .
having learned to visually identify foreign ships by their radars , barker recognized the closest ship as the kara-class cruiser kerch .
an immediate apology [ from the committee ] would be very nice , barker said .
maybe acknowledge the fact that yes , they screwed up .
via : military times