21st century wire says so much for caring about the environment and individual responsibility protesters in dc who claim to be there protesting for women s rights ( even though it seemed quite clearly to be a women against president trump protest ) are taking criticism for leaving the city with tens of thousands of placards and signs laying about on the sidewalks , streets , in front of national monuments , the white house , and trump international hotel .
no problem , the government will pay for it rtthey may have attracted the headlines , but the anti-trump protesters who attended the massive women s march in washington dc , are now drawing criticism for abandoning their placards at landmarks and on the capital s streets.organizers say that more that 2.5 million people took part in demonstrations around the world on saturday , as protesters voiced opposition to president donald trump while also calling for the protection of civil liberties.people are leaving their signs on paths leading to the white house # womensmarch # washington pic.twitter.com/cr6yaeezza earthboy ( @ earthboy17 ) january 22 , 2017the largest of the events was held in washington , dc where over half a million people took to the streets , according to ap .
many , if not most , of the protesters came equipped with placards criticising trump and highlighting their various causes.following the march , tens of thousands thousands chose to leave their signs outside various dc landmarks including the white house and the trump international hotel.this action received significant support on social media , with some people supporting it as a graphic , lingering illustration of the sentiments behind the mass gathering.thousands of signs find their final resting spot leaving a message for trump outside of the white house .
# womensmarch # womensmarchdc pic.twitter.com/kmwgjzljdv jaime ( @ wojo4hitz ) january 22 , 2017 # womensmarch protestors are also leaving their signs in front of the white house.lots of them .
pic.twitter.com/bcghxtbvbf jack jenkins ( @ jackmjenkins ) january 21 , 2017people are leaving their women 's march signs outside the trump hotel https : //t.co/elq9ewscvi pic.twitter.com/zx4rpasahq washington post ( @ washingtonpost ) january 21 , 2017many others however , were critical of the move , describing it as selfish littering .
i guess the environment or personal responsibility isn t something they re concerned about , conservative blogger the gop report wrote on twitter.seeing this pic all over time lines .
how can leaving signs as trash all over be 'beautiful ' ? ?
`` beautiful end to the # womensmarch '' pic.twitter.com/vrvw7yt7zg fionaravenhunter ( @ lisaflanery ) january 22 , 2017i get idea of leaving # womensmarch signs @ trump hotel & white house , but who do we think will have to clean this up ?
fyi not trump .
pic.twitter.com/ny2ahpw9tm joseph kitchen ( @ josephlkitchen ) january 22 , 2017video of a man wearing a pro-trump make america great again hat cleaning up rubbish received more than 4,000 retweets and 5,000 likes man wearing a make america great again hat picking up trash after the women 's march in washington , d.c. # womensmarch pic.twitter.com/47zjcagm31 caleb ecarma ( @ calebecarma ) january 21 , 2017continue this report at rtread more election news at : 21st century wire election coveragesupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv