manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte , in an apparent policy shift , said on wednesday he planned to ask china to make clear its intentions in the disputed south china sea during asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) meetings in vietnam .
china claims almost the entire strategic waterway where $ 3 trillion worth of sea-borne goods passes every year , building and militarizing artificial islands .
brunei , malaysia , the philippines , taiwan and vietnam also have conflicting claims .
so , it s about time , either in the bilateral or in the plenary , i should be bringing this important matter to the surface , duterte told reporters before leaving for vietnam .
he said china had to make it clear to southeast asian countries its intentions in the south china sea .
you want to control the passage or do we have the free passage ?
he said , adding he would not be confrontational .
since coming to office 16 months ago , the firebrand leader has been conciliatory to beijing , despite a ruling from an international arbitration court favoring the philippines in its territorial dispute with china .
in the past , duterte has repeatedly said he will raise the sea dispute at the proper time and avoided the issue when manila hosted two regional meetings this year .
the two countries will also negotiate a military protocol to avoid maritime miscalculations , manila s defense minister said on wednesday following a brief standoff near a philippine-occupied island in a disputed part of the south china sea .
delfin lorenzana said the philippines tried to put up makeshift structures on a sand bar about 4 km ( 2.5 miles ) off thitu island in the spratly archipelago in august , but china objected and sent ships to the area .
duterte sought to defuse tensions by ordering troops to pull out .
construction was stopped .
we intend to sit down with china to draft and agree on a protocol to resolve immediately any incident , he said , adding he hoped talks could start this year .
china-philippines relations have often been frosty over the south china sea , but ties have warmed under duterte , who prefers to not provoke beijing and wants to tap it for loans and investment .