london ( reuters ) - russia , the only major power that has not called on iraq s kurds to cancel a referendum on independence next week , has swiftly become the top funder of kurdish oil and gas deals , with as much as $ 4 billion pledged in less than a year , industry sources say .
washington , european countries , turkey and iran have all lined up to oppose a move by iraq s kurds to hold a sept. 25 independence referendum , which the kurds consider the culmination of decades of struggle for a state of their own , but iraq calls a violation of its constitution .
this week , the white house issued a statement calling the planned vote provocative and destabilizing , noting that it will take place not only within the autonomous kurdish region itself but on territory that is disputed .
but moscow has issued no such call to cancel the vote .
instead , with the planned referendum just days away , russian state oil giant rosneft announced its latest investment last week , to help iraqi kurdistan develop its natural gas industry , for domestic supplies and eventual export .
the full value of the deal has not been disclosed officially , but according to industry sources familiar with it , it is worth more than $ 1 billion .
it is rosneft s third giant venture in the kurdish region since february , transforming moscow from an outsider with little profile in kurdistan into the region s biggest source of cash .
according to the industry sources , rosneft s deals since it first arrived in kurdistan last december are worth around $ 4 billion in total .
that exceeds the $ 2 billion in financing the kurdish region has previously received for oil sales from international trading firms that pre-pay for its exports , and $ 1.5 billion it has received from neighbor turkey .
it also marks a big change in focus for the iraqi kurds , who have had close ties with washington since 1991 when the united states offered them protection from saddam hussein , the dictator later toppled by u.s. forces in 2003 .
moscow has been effectively filling the gap as the united states has been pulling back from iraq , said a senior source in erbil , capital of the iraqi kurdish region .
publicly , moscow says it supports iraq s territorial integrity while also recognizing the aspirations of the kurds for a homeland .
the 35 million kurds are spread over iraq , iran , turkey and syria .
we are interested that the kurdish people like any other nation on the planet can fulfill its hopes and aspirations , foreign minister sergei lavrov said in july .
we start from the fact that the legitimate aspirations of the kurds , like other peoples , need to be fulfilled within the framework of existing international legal norms .
but unlike other powers , moscow has avoided giving a verdict on the legality or wisdom of holding the referendum itself .
the foreign ministry in moscow said it had nothing to add to lavrov s comments on the matter from july .
the russian position is : let s wait and see the outcome of the referendum , said hoshiyar zebari , one of iraq s pre-eminent kurdish politicians , who served as foreign minister , deputy prime minister and finance minister in baghdad from 2003 until last year and now advises kurdistan s regional government .
they seem to understand our situation , zebari told reuters , adding that moscow expected the kurds would use the outcome of the referendum as part of a process of negotiation with baghdad .
according to a diplomatic source , the kurds took notice in june when lavrov signaled to a kurdish delegation at a meeting in st petersburg that russia would not oppose the referendum .
during previous meetings , lavrov always focused on iraq s territorial integrity , said the source , who was present at the meeting on the sidelines of russia s economic forum in st petersburg .
this time , he said that russia understands the ambitions of kurdish people for independence .
and even though he added that it needed to be done carefully , it was a big signal .
at around the same time as that meeting took place , rosneft was signing its second of this year s three major oil investment deals with kurdish officials .
days later , the kurds announced the date of their referendum .
the russians are not the first foreigners to come to kurdistan looking for oil .
the kurds have long argued that as an autonomous region of iraq they have the authority to make agreements with foreign companies about pumping the oil on their territory .
iraq s central government , meanwhile , says any deals to export oil from kurdistan are illegal without baghdad s blessing .
for several years , american companies were at the forefront of negotiating deals with the kurds , on the assumption that baghdad would eventually authorize them .
the highest-profile deal was announced by exxon mobil , then under the leadership of ceo rex tillerson , now u.s. secretary of state .
but after signing a landmark deal to develop kurdish oil fields in 2011 , exxon did little exploration , and has since handed some of the blocs back to the kurdish government .
while washington remains friendly with the kurds and sees them as a bulwark against islamic state , it is concerned about their independence bid leading to the breakup of iraq or a rupture with turkey .
the united states has long encouraged the kurds to avoid unilateral steps , such as the referendum , that might destabilize the baghdad government or antagonize ankara .
russia , meanwhile , is looking for more friends in the middle east after returning in force to the region with a decisive military intervention in syria .
its main regional allies are iran and the syria of president bashar al-assad , and having friends in kurdish territory , located between syria , iran and turkey , would be geopolitically useful .
kurdistan has estimated recoverable reserves at 45 billion barrels of oil and 5.66 trillion cubic meters of gas , which could rise further with exploration .
for rosneft , run by igor sechin , a close ally of president vladimir putin , it potentially offers a cheap source of crude supplies to refineries in europe , and a big boost to rosneft s gas ambitions .
in 2014 , erbil started oil sales via a pipeline through turkey .
it has generally conducted those deals with pre-financing , obtaining money in advance from international trading firms and turkey before the oil is delivered .
rosneft began its involvement with a small pre-finance deal at the end of last year along the lines of deals the kurds had previously reached with global traders .
the russian firm loaned the kurds around $ 280 million , guaranteed by future oil sales , according to industry sources .
in february 2017 , rosneft ramped up its cooperation by agreeing to lend the semi-autonomous region $ 1.2 billion , becoming the first big foreign oil company to publicly commit to pre-financing kurdish exports .
kurdistan s minister of natural resources ashti hawrami called the deal a ground-breaker for the region that would help its economic independence - a crucial condition for seeking political independence .
by that point , turkey had invested some $ 1.5 billion and international trading houses such as vitol , petraco , trafigura and glencore had collectively loaned the kurds some $ 2 billion .
russia became the kurds single biggest financer with its next deal in june this year to lend money and help search for more oil , bringing its total investments close to $ 2.8 billion .
this week s russian pledge to invest more than $ 1 billion in kurdistan s gas infrastructure could help the region become a major gas exporter to turkey and europe one day , rosneft says .
the independence referendum won t be a problem .
holding the referendum will not affect our work .
we are doing business in an autonomous region in iraq that has been recognized by law , rosneft spokesman mikhail leontev said this week .
this place is run by iraqi kurdistan s nation and it is the people of iraqi kurdistan who live there .
that is why we don t think we are embarking on an adventure .