new york ( reuters ) - pennsylvania ’ s $ 2 billion budget deficit is a “ time bomb ” that could cause “ fiscal catastrophe the likes of which we have never seen ” if it is not resolved , governor tom wolf said in his budget address on tuesday .
wolf proposed a $ 32.7 billion fiscal 2017 budget that would add $ 200 million of funding for k-12 public schools and another $ 110 million to early and special education programs .
including pension contributions , the budget would be nearly $ 33.3 billion .
to pay for the increases , wolf would increase personal income taxes by nearly 11 percent to 3.4 percent , expand sales taxes , raise taxes on tobacco products and implement a 6.5 percent severance tax on natural gas producers , according to documents released during his speech .
but dominating wolf ’ s message was the budgetary crisis escalated by political gridlock .
wolf , a democrat , and the republican-led legislature have disagreed since this time last year , when wolf proposed his first budget .
now seven months after the start of fiscal 2016 on july 1 , the state still has only a partial $ 23.4 billion emergency spending plan .
wolf had been ready to sign a negotiated $ 30.8 billion agreement but it was scuttled in december .
wolf reminded lawmakers of that turn of events on tuesday .
in web-streamed remarks , he urged them to send the agreement back to him .
“ house republican leaders just walked away , ” he said during his speech at the state capitol in harrisburg .
some booed in response .
“ yelling will not make it go away , ” wolf said .
“ we need to do what ’ s right , ” he continued , to applause .
he later told lawmakers to “ find another job ” if they could not reach a solution .
his 2017 proposal is built upon the eventual approval of that compromise budget for the current fiscal year .
senate republicans , who had passed the budget compromise , said wolf was “ doubling down ” on last year ’ s proposal .
“ this retread budget proposal offers superficial changes to his sizable tax-and-spend plan that has already been soundly opposed by taxpayers , ” senate majority leader jake corman said in a statement on tuesday .
unless next year ’ s deficit is closed , property taxes for homeowners will skyrocket , wolf said .
more than 23,000 teachers and school employees would be cut , as would special education and pre-kindergarten programs .
services for senior citizens , the mentally ill , child care and domestic violence shelters also would be slashed , he said .
wolf ’ s address was no olive branch , said muhlenberg college political scientist christopher borick .
“ he turned up the heat , ” borick said .