detroit ( reuters ) - president barack obama , facing republican criticism over the state of the economy , did a detroit victory lap on wednesday to showcase the auto companies his administration helped save , but the industry has not turned out the way he hoped in 2009 .
obama has held out his bailout of general motors ( gm.n ) and chrysler during the u.s. recession as examples of tough decisions he made that paid off both for the economy and the environment .
“ the auto industry here in the united states has figured out that we can make more fuel-efficient cars that reduce the carbon pollution that is causing climate change , and make a profit - and put more people to work , ” obama told a crowd at a united auto workers union center for workers at gm .
but car companies are still churning out gas-guzzling sport utility vehicles to meet consumer demand , going against obama ’ s hope that higher fuel-economy models would win the day .
sales of suvs rose 16 percent in 2015 , while car sales fell 2 percent .
although new suvs are more efficient than prior models , they still burn more gasoline than cars .
about 59 percent of u.s. vehicle sales last year were sport utility vehicles , pickup trucks or other big vehicles , up from 54 percent in 2014 .
low gas prices have boosted the trend .
a ford motor co ( f.n ) plant in michigan that obama visited a year ago is ending production of small cars in 2018 and is expected to switch to suvs to help meet soaring demand .
the white house noted the industry was on track to double fuel efficiency and cut emissions by half by 2025 .
during a stop at the north american international auto show , obama sought to give a push to electric cars .
obama joked that he was in town to browse for a new car himself because he had to give up his limo , affectionately known as “ the beast , ” when he leaves office next year .
he sat in the driver ’ s seat of a 2017 chevrolet bolt ev , an all-electric car the white house said could travel about 200 miles ( 320 km ) on a single charge .
the president declared it a nice-looking car .
electric vehicle sales fell last year by 6 percent to 115,000 , and the administration has said it would not meet its goal of getting 1 million plug-in cars on u.s. roads by 2015 .
to date , about 400,000 electric vehicles have been sold .
without naming names , the president pounded republicans for opposing the bailout and trying to outdo each other by “ peddling fiction ” about the state of the u.s. economy .
“ when one says our economy is terrible , the next says it ’ s terrible , and on fire , and covered in bees ! ” he said .
“ these are the same folks who would have let this industry go under , ” he said .
obama ’ s visit to detroit did not include a stop in nearby flint , which is in the throes of a water contamination crisis that has forced the state ’ s republican governor to apologize .
obama pledged his support to the community .
“ if i were a parent up there , i would be beside myself that my kid ’ s health could be at risk , ” he said .