beirut ( reuters ) - lebanon s parliament approved contentious taxes needed to finance a public sector pay rise on monday and prime minister saad al-hariri warned the alternative was a collapse of the lebanese pound in six months .
without taxes it would have been better in popular terms , but six months later the lira would have collapsed , hariri said after the parliament session .
if we carried out the ( public sector salary law ) without revenues it would be a disaster for the country .
lebanon has a debt-to-gdp ratio of 148 percent , one of the highest in the world , and recorded a fiscal deficit of $ 4.9 billion last year .
parliament approved a $ 917 million rise in public sector salaries and a series of tax increases to fund it in july .
despite objections from business and some political groups , president michel aoun ratified the laws in late august and people have since begun receiving increased salaries .
but in september the constitutional council annulled the tax law after a political party brought a legal challenge and the council referred it back to parliament for amendments .
a lebanese official told reuters the taxes approved on monday remained mostly as they were before being challenged in the constitutional council and do not contain any substantive amendments .
a key argument of those opposing increased taxes is that the lebanese government offers little in return .
the country s infrastructure has been awaiting repair since the 15-year civil war ended in 1990 - roads are clogged with cars , beaches are littered with waste , internet links are slow or patchy and cuts to power and water supplies are frequent .
sami gemeyal , leader of the christian kataeb party which filed an appeal against the earlier version of the law , said it would do all it could to challenge it again .
we will study it and see if it is possible to contest the law at the constitutional council , said gemeyal .
kataeb is the only major political party not part of lebanon s coalition government .
lebanon expects to hold a general election next year and the public sector pay rises have proved a popular move .
but the business community has warned higher taxes could damage lebanon s fragile economy , which has been battered by conflict in neighboring syria .
growth fell from 8-9 percent to below 2 percent after war began in 2011. business leaders say lebanon instead needs better tax collection , a credible economic plan and a budget to be passed for the first time since 2005 .
the banking sector , the cornerstone of lebanon s economy , objected strongly to the law .
the changes raised corporation tax to 17 percent from 15 percent and also applies taxes on bank transactions in a way bankers say amounts to double taxation .
the effective tax rate on banks currently stands at around 15 percent , but would rise to around 50 percent if the proposed tax changes are enacted , freddie baz , group strategy director of bank audi and board member of the association of banks in lebanon ( abl ) lobby group , told reuters .
the laws have provoked a number of street protests , with people asking for pay rises and also protesting hikes which raised value-added tax ( vat ) by 1 percentage point to 11 percent .
the head of lebanon s general labor union beshara al-asmar said before the vote on monday there would be a complete strike which would ground the country to a halt if positive results were not achieved .