osaka , japan ( reuters ) - ethnic koreans living in japan are nervously watching growing tensions over north korea and are wary of a possible backlash against their community as pyongyang ramps up its sabre-rattling .
while public antipathy towards koreans does not appear to have escalated in reaction to the north s latest nuclear test and missile launches , the community has been the target of abuse by japanese nationalists after similar incidents in the past .
the north conducted its most powerful nuclear test ever last week , and in late august fired a ballistic missile over hokkaido in northern japan in a new show of force .
in the western japanese city of osaka home to the country s largest population of ethnic koreans few are willing to talk publicly about north korea , and those that do have mixed views on pyongyang s actions .
pu kyon ja , owner of the store selling korean traditional clothes and a second-generation korean resident in japan , said she felt the north s pursuit of nuclear weapons was a natural reaction against threats from the united states .
i can t say this loudly but i secretly think well done on north korea s development of missile and nuclear capabilities , she said .
north korea is under great pressure ( from the international society ) , which i believe should end .
i m watching over the current situation with great hope , she added .
on the other hand , chung kap-su , another second-generation korean in the town , said he hopes north korea stops further provocations and pursues a peaceful path by seeking dialogue with south korea .
north korea can t defeat ( the united states ) , so i hope it changes its way .
some 453,096 south koreans and 32,461 north koreans lived in japan last year , according to government data .
many were forced to move there during japan s occupation of the korean peninsula before and during world war two .
japan passed an anti-hate law last year , which may be discouraging fresh acts of abuse against the community , but the issue still bears watching , said moon gyeong-su , professor of ethnic korean studies at ritsumeikan university in kyoto .
when north korea launches missile or conducts nuclear tests , for example , korean schools have been an easy target for bullies and accusations ( in japan ) , he added .