jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian prosecutors charged a former parliament speaker on wednesday in connection with a $ 170 million graft scandal after he held up proceedings for hours at the opening of his trial , saying he was ill. setya novanto has been brought to trial by the corruption eradication commission ( kpk ) , which suspects extensive pilfering of public funds linked to a national identity card program .
novanto , who resigned as speaker of parliament this week , has denied wrongdoing .
he had managed to cling to power through several previous corruption cases and repeatedly missed summonses for questioning by the anti-graft agency in connection with this case in recent months , saying he needed heart surgery .
novanto , who arrived at court in a white shirt and a bright orange jacket usually worn by the kpk s graft suspects , said he had diarrhea and needed medical attention .
prosecutors from the kpk said he was lying and that doctors had given him a clean bill of health earlier on wednesday .
he declined to confirm to the court details like his name or place of birth .
after long delays to allow doctors to examine novanto , the presiding judge at the jakarta corruption court let prosecutors read out the charges , which included unlawful intervention in the procurement process of the id cards .
we are sure the defendant is healthy and can follow the court proceedings .
this is part of the defendant s lies , prosecutor irene putri said as defense lawyers called for more medical examinations for their client .
the kpk is investigating state losses amounting to about $ 170 million linked to the national electronic identity card scheme after allegations that sums ranging from $ 5,000 to $ 5.5 million - generated by marking up procurement costs - were divided up among politicians in parliament .
kpk investigators last month put novanto under armed guard in hospital and then took him into custody .
novanto s case has riveted the media and captured the attention of social media users , many of whom have mocked him in widely shared posts .
the allegations against novanto have reinforced the perception among indonesians that their parliament , long regarded as riddled with entrenched corruption , is a failing institution .
indonesia was ranked last year at 90 out of 176 countries on transparency international s corruption perception index .
the watchdog has singled out parliament as indonesia s most corrupt institution , and in july called on president joko widodo to protect the kpk against attempts by the legislature to weaken the commission s powers .