united nations ( reuters ) - britain , france , germany , sweden and italy called on the united states on friday to put forward detailed proposals for peace between israel and the palestinians and described as unhelpful a decision by president donald trump to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital .
trump s reversal of decades of u.s. policy on wednesday sparked a palestinian day of rage on friday .
thousands of palestinians demonstrated , scores were hurt and at least one was killed in clashes with israeli troops .
amid anger in the arab world and concern among washington s western allies , the united nations security council met on friday at the request of eight of the 15 members - britain , france , sweden , bolivia , uruguay , italy , senegal and egypt .
in a joint statement after the meeting , britain , france , germany , sweden and italy said the u.s. decision , which includes plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv , was unhelpful in terms of prospects for peace in the region .
we stand ready to contribute to all credible efforts to restart the peace process , on the basis of internationally agreed parameters , leading to a two-state solution , they said .
we encourage the u.s. administration to now bring forward detailed proposals for an israel-palestinian settlement .
egypt s u.n .
ambassador amr aboulatta said the u.s. decision would have a grave , negative impact on the peace process .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said the washington has credibility as a mediator with both israel and the palestinians and accused the united nations of damaging rather than advancing peace prospects with unfair attacks on israel .
israel will never be , and should never be , bullied into an agreement by the united nations , or by any collection of countries that have proven their disregard for israel s security , haley said .
haley said trump was committed to the peace process and that the united states had not taken a position on jerusalem s borders or boundaries and was not advocating any changes to the arrangements at the holy sites .
our actions are intended to help advance the cause of peace , she said .
we believe we might be closer to that goal than ever before .
earlier on friday , u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said during a news conference in paris that any final decision on the status of jerusalem would depend on negotiations between israelis and palestinians .
united nations middle east envoy nickolay mladenov warned there was a risk of violent escalation .
there is a serious risk today that we may see a chain of unilateral actions , which can only push us further away from achieving our shared goal of peace , mladenov told the u.n. security council .
israel considers all of jerusalem to be its capital .
palestinians want the eastern part of the city as the capital of a future independent state of their own .
most countries consider east jerusalem , which israel annexed after capturing it in the 1967 middle east war , to be occupied territory , including the old city , home to sites considered holy to muslims , jews and christians alike .
a u.n. security council resolution adopted in december last year underlines that it will not recognize any changes to the 4 june 1967 lines , including with regard to jerusalem , other than those agreed by the parties through negotiations .
that resolution was approved with 14 votes in favor and an abstention by former u.s. president barack obama s administration , which defied heavy pressure from long-time ally israel and trump , who was then president-elect , for washington to wield its veto .