the hill during a recent interview , clooney describes conservative criticism of democrats associated with film producer harvey weinstein as a little pot and kettle , noting the prior sexual harassment allegations levied against conservative figures like roger ailes and bill o reilly .
yeah , that s a little pot and kettle there , unfortunately .
but i think that everything gets politicized these days .
the reality is that this is a problem deeply ingrained in our society , clooney told the daily beast when asked about criticisms coming from conservatives in the days since a new york times report that detailed accusations of sexual harassment against weinstein .
it was something that was talked about a lot on the left with roger ailes , bill o reilly , and donald trump , and it s something that s going to be talked about a lot on the right with harvey weinstein , clooney added .
i think that rather than politicize it , there should be talk on both sides about the really bad behavior by powerful men and the horrible acts they commit .
it s pretty crazy to me .
page six a former er actress claims that she was sexually and racially harassed daily on set and george clooney helped blacklist her from hollywood when she complained.b.s.clooney helped blacklist me when i spoke up abt harassment on er .
'women who dont play the game lose career ' i did https : //t.co/ur466nckii ghoul please ( @ vanessathought ) october 10 , 2017 clooney helped blacklist me when i spoke up abt harassment on er .
women who don t play the game lose career i did , tweeted vanessa marquez , who played a nurse on the show s first three seasons. # newpicwhen ur racially & sexually harassed on set daily & go2your producer ( john wells ) for help in '95 ? u r blacklisted from hollywood 4ever # er pic.twitter.com/ptm06gww7m ghoul please ( @ vanessathought ) july 7 , 2017she accused actor eriq la salle and a crew member of being p sy grabbers and said racial abuse about her mexican heritage came from anthony , noah , julianna , referring to cast members , anthony edwards , noah wyle , and julianna margulies.marquez said she complained to executive producer john wells .
wells was the boss & i 1st reported it to him.his 1st question : did george do something to u , she tweeted .