bucharest ( reuters ) - romania s justice minister proposed a significant overhaul of the judicial system on wednesday which the president called an attack on the rule of law that would set the country back a decade .
romania is seen as one of the eu s most corrupt states and brussels keeps its justice system under special monitoring .
attempts by the ruling coalition of social democrats and junior partner alde to weaken a crackdown on high-level corruption triggered the country s largest street protests in decades at the start of the year .
justice minister tudorel toader proposed a slew of changes on wednesday ranging from the way chief prosecutors are appointed to setting up a special prosecuting unit for crimes committed by magistrates .
the proposals ... constitute an attack against the rule of law , the independence and proper functioning of the judiciary as well as the anti-corruption fight , centrist president klaus iohannis said in a statement .
if this mix of measures is adopted by the government and approved by parliament , romania s efforts for more than 10 years will be wiped out and the justice system will go back to a time when it was subordinated to politics .
under romanian law , the president appoints chief prosecutors who have been proposed by the justice minister and received non-binding approval from the superior magistrates council ( csm ) , the top watchdog that safeguards judicial independence .
toader also proposed that the justice minister , who is politically appointed , take control of the judicial inspection unit from the csm .
analysts and magistrates have said this would lead to political interference in the justice system .
the prosecutor general s office said these proposals were an alarm signal , adding that prosecutors had not been consulted .
toader declined to answer questions but told reporters the proposals were within normal and necessary parameters for the rule of law .
the proposals will be send to the csm for an opinion before being submitted to the government and ultimately parliament for approval .