why would any sane person choose to enlist in our military when we don t even have a commander in chief who is fighting this war to win ?
last week , in the wake of russian and us airstrikes on isis oil convoys , we asked three important questions : who are the commodity trading firms that have been so generously buying millions of smuggled oil barrels procured by the islamic state at massive discounts to market , and then reselling them to other interested parties ?
in other words , who are the middlemen ? can it possibly be true , as officials now claim , that the obama administration refrained from bombing islamic state oil trucks because washington thought the group was only making $ 100 million per year instead of $ 400 million ? is it likely , considering how cavalier the us is about collateral damage from drone strikes , that the pentagon refused to take out islamic state s revenue stream because the military was afraid of killing a few innocent truck drivers who by definition knew they were transporting illegal crude for a terrorist organization ? the first question is , for now anyway , unanswerable .
as to the second and third , here s what we said : perhaps the us overestimated the effect its airstrikes were having on islamic state s oil production capabilities and perhaps the pentagon was concerned with killing innocent truck drivers , but it could also be that , as sergei lavrov suggested earlier this month , the us has until now intentionally avoided hitting isis where it hurts in order to keep them in the game and ensure they can still be effective at destabilizing assad .
if you cut off the oil trade , they lose the ability to battle the regime.whatever the case , it s too late now , because just as russian airstrikes and the iranian ground presence forced the us to do something anything to prove to the world that america is serious about fighting terrorism , moscow s targeting of isis oil convoys has forced the us to get on board ( the russians are going to hit them anyway , so there s no point in vacillating ) .american airstrikes reportedly destroyed 116 oil tanker trucks earlier this month and another 280 today in paris mastermind abdelhamid abaaoud s former fiefdom of deir ez-zor.of course the us would hate to catch isis off guard risk killing innocent truck drivers , so prior to the november 16 strike , us planes dropped leaflets warning the drivers to get out of your trucks now , and run away from them .
here s the leaflet ( note the stick figures running for their lives ) : here s some commentary from colonel steve warren from operation inherent resolve ( delivered at a press conference earlier this month ) : early sunday morning in al-bukamal , which is the southern blue circle number two , you see two blue circles there .
they both represent tidal wave ii operations , but we re in the southern one the one further towards the bottom of your screen , there.in al-bukamal , we destroyed 116 tanker trucks , which we believe will reduce isil s ability to transport its stolen oil products.this is our first strike against tanker trucks , and to minimize risks to civilians , we conducted a leaflet drop prior to the strike .
we did a show of force , by we had aircraft essentially buzz the trucks at low altitude.so , i do have copy of the leaflet , and i have got some videos , so why don t you pull the leaflet up .
let me take a look at it so i can talk about it.as you can see , it s a fairly simple leaflet , it says , get out of your trucks now , and run away from them .
a very simple message.and then , also , warning : airstrikes are coming .
oil trucks will be destroyed .
get away from your oil trucks immediately .
do not risk your life .
and so , these are the leaflets that we dropped about 45 minutes before the airstrikes actually began.and here s an amusing bit from the post-presser q & a : q : on bob s question , too , if if it s so important to cut off the oil shipments , the critical revenue source for isis , why did it take so long to take out 116 oil tanker trucks ? col .
warren : no , that s a great question , jim .
thanks for asking it.so , a little history on operation tidal wave ii .
initially , we , you know , we have been striking oil infrastructure targets since the very beginning of this operation.what we found out was that many of our strikes were only minimally effective .
we would strike pieces of the oil infrastructure that were easily repaired.when we came to that realization , we conducted some more study i think i talked about this last week , a little bit we conducted some more study , and determined how to better strike the oil infrastructure itself , different pieces of the system.during the course of that study , we also determined that part of the illicit oil system , from the oil coming out of the ground at a at a pump head , to the end of that chain , which is the distribution network.so , this is a decision that we had to make .
we have not struck these trucks before .
we assessed that these trucks , while although they are being used for operations that support isil , the truck drivers , themselves , probably not members of isil ; they re probably just civilians .
so we had to figure out a way around that .
we re not in this business to kill civilians , we re in this business to stop isil to defeat isil.so basically , it took the us 13 months to figure out that the best way to cripple islamic state s oil trade was to bomb the oil.to the extent that occurred to anyone previously , the idea was dismissed because the truck drivers are probably not members of isil .
well then who are they ?
sure , they may not be suiting up in all black and firing rpgs at toyota corollas packed with spies for a propaganda video , but it s not like they don t know who they re working for.also , as mentioned above , the us hasn t exactly been shy about engaging targets even when there are women , children , and bedridden hospital patients in the vicinity so it s hard to imagine that anyone at the pentagon was worried about islamic state s truck drivers.whatever the case , the us is apprently set to give isis a 45 minute heads up when the pentagon plans to bomb an oil convoy which we suppose makes sense.it s the least the cia can do for an old friend .
via : zero hedge