21st century wire says if you haven t seen hillary clinton s bizarre and shrill performance the other night , it should be required viewing for anyone following the current 2016 presidential election.clearly , something was very wrong with the democratic party candidate during this segment , as she shouted flippantly , made some very strange statements almost as if she was parodying herself in a saturday night live skit by anthony brian loganon wednesday , september 21st , 2016 , hillary clinton gave a speech / address to the laborers international union of north america in which she went completely off the rails .
her pitch was to support labor unions and be anti-right-to-work , something that donald trump has praised and supported .
during the midst of her speech , something went left .
not with the environment of the place she was delivering the speech .
not with the camera equipment .
but with hillary herself .
the bios mainframe seemed to have obtained a virus.when she begins to talk about why she isn t 50 points ahead of trump , hillary begins to shout and point with a scowl on her face .
maybe the numbers have her upset to the point where she can t contain it anymore ?
it s hard to tell .
but whatever the case is , her behavior does not appear to be presidential.and that brings up the question she raised during her tirade .
why aren t i 50 points ahead of trump ?
well , the answer to the question is simple .
the reason for that is because of her behavior , as exhibited in the aforementioned video to the labor union .
also , countless other videos .
such as the video of her collapsing to the point where one of her shoes flew off and landed under a vehicle during the 9/11 ceremony in new york city .
the video of her having what appears to be parkinson s related episode in a coffee shop where her head moves back and forth in an awkward , somewhat violent way .
the constant coughing fits .
the parkinson s fit after the coronation speech at the 2016 dnc .
last but not least , the constant corruption .
emails , benghazi , clinton cash , the list goes on and on.so maybe the answer to the question she raised and the question many people have about hillary s behavior is much more easy to explain .
a fear of losing and a general problem with hillary herself , whether that be medical or just her personality in general .
all hillary , and hillary supporters can do at this point is hope these problems don t reveal themselves during the debate on monday september 26th or her chances at becoming the president will be over .
which , in reality , is good for america anyway https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=ztlznfidezi .
read more election news at : 21st century wire 2016 files