new york ( reuters ) - when u.s. senate republicans unveil their plan to overhaul america ’ s healthcare system , they will face a skeptical public that already does not buy the justification for an earlier version that passed the house of representatives , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on wednesday .
the june 9-13 poll shows that a majority of the country thinks the american health care act would be harmful for low-income americans , people with pre-existing health conditions and medicaid recipients .
overall , 41 percent of american adults oppose the house plan , while 30 percent support it .
another 29 percent said they “ don ’ t know , ” according to the poll .
“ it ’ ll make people ’ s deductibles skyrocket ” said shannon sowards , 39 , of memphis , tennessee , a trump supporter who took the poll .
“ so i ’ m not for this healthcare act .
i ’ m for insurance for everyone. ” the senate is expected to release its full plan on thursday .
( click here to view the poll 's topline results : tmsnrt.rs/2sqhmm3 ) the gap between what republicans say their plan will do and what people think it will do further complicates matters for senate republicans , who already have been criticized for drafting their bill in secret .
“ it would be great if a politican had the nerve to be brutally honest ” and tell people that healthcare costs are going up , said joseph antos , a healthcare expert at the american enterprise institute , a conservative think tank .
“ none of them seem to. ” for years , republicans have promised voters they would replace democratic former president barack obama ’ s healthcare law , which they say is too costly and intrusive .
when house republicans pitched their health plan earlier this year , u.s. house speaker paul ryan boasted that it would lower premiums , protect people with pre-existing conditions and improve public “ access ” to high-quality , low-cost healthcare .
u.s. representative tom macarthur of new jersey , who helped shape the house bill , said it “ would make coverage of pre-existing conditions sacrosanct for all americans. ” the nonpartisan congressional budget office , however , presented a different view of the bill .
it estimated that under the house plan 23 million people would lose their health coverage by 2026 in an effort to cut the federal deficit .
according to the poll , nearly 60 percent of adults said they thought it would make insurance more expensive for low-income americans and people with pre-existing conditions .
fifty-seven percent said it would make medicaid less available , and 69 percent said it would cut federal money for planned parenthood .
thirteen percent felt that the house plan would improve the quality of their healthcare , and 9 percent said it would make their healthcare cheaper .
about 28 percent of americans said they would be “ less likely ” to support their congressional representative if he or she supported the house plan .
another 16 percent said they would be “ more likely ” to support their representative and 33 percent said it would make “ no difference. ” republican respondents were more supportive of the house plan than others .
and even those republicans who did not like the house plan said that it is probably an improvement over the current healthcare system .
“ it ’ s not going to change my political views ” said barb huntington , 64 , of murrells inlet , south carolina , a trump supporter who took the poll .
huntington , who buys health insurance through her state ’ s obamacare exchange , said her premiums went up by $ 25 per month this year .
huntington said she would not be surprised if they keep going up no matter what the republicans do .
“ it ’ s going to be like that every year , and we ’ ll be lucky to have what we have , ” she said .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english across the united states .
it gathered responses from 1,492 adults , including 671 democrats and 501 republicans .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 3 percentage points for the entire group , 4 percentage points for democrats and 5 percentage points for republicans .
( click here for the survey questions and methodology : tmsnrt.rs/2tty3ei )