washington ( reuters ) - if americans were looking for clarity on leading republican presidential candidate donald trump ’ s world views , they might have come away disappointed from thursday night ’ s debate .
asked who he trusts on national security , trump had warm words for three men with world views that differ from one another , and who diverge sharply on some key issues from trump himself .
they are former diplomat richard haass and retired u.s. army officers gen. jack keane and col. jack jacobs .
his mention of the eclectic trio did little to satisfy mounting calls for him to announce a list of his campaign foreign policy advisors , who traditionally take top posts should he be elected .
his debate comments appeared to be more words of admiration for the three men than a signal he was forming the nucleus of a national security team .
trump has been rejected by a significant swath of his party ’ s foreign policy establishment .
almost 110 republican foreign policy veterans have signed a letter pledging to oppose trump , saying his proposals would undermine u.s. security .
the three men trump mentioned have different views of the 2003 iraq invasion , arguably the most controversial foreign policy decision in a generation .
trump says he opposed the war , calling it a disastrous intervention and accusing the administration of then president george w. bush of misleading americans .
keane is a defense hawk who helped devise the 2007 iraq “ surge ” — a move to send tens of thousands more u.s. troops to iraq to quell sectarian strife — and served as an informal consultant to bush .
keane told reuters on friday he has never spoken to trump .
keane , now chairman of the board of the institute for the study of war think tank , said he has briefed seven presidential candidates from both parties , whom he declined to identify .
“ i don ’ t comment publicly on any candidate , their proposals , their policies .
i have never done .
i won ’ t do it , ” he said .
haass is a centrist foreign policy thinker and president of the council on foreign relations , a think tank seen as a fixture of the u.s. foreign policy establishment .
the state department ’ s policy planning director at the time of the iraq invasion , he wrote later that he was largely against the war .
“ i did not believe in the iraq war , ” haass said in a 2009 interview with national public radio .
trump has proposed barring muslims from entering the united states , demanded that mexico fund a wall to control illegal immigration across the u.s. border , and praised russian president vladimir putin .
he has called for building up the u.s. military while also saying he wants allies to pick up more of the burden in conflicts such as syria and iraq .
he has vowed to destroy islamic state .
a spokeswoman for haass , iva zoric , said that he briefed trump on foreign policy in august 2015 .
in a tweet late on thursday , haass wrote : “ i do not endorse candidates .
what i have done is offered to brief all candidates , & have briefed several , d ( emocrat ) & r ( epublican ) alike. ” jacobs , now a frequent television commentator , won the medal of honor , the highest u.s. military decoration , in the vietnam war .
he has expressed skepticism regarding large scale american military interventions in the middle east and has suggested that waterboarding , an interrogation technique that many call torture and that trump has endorsed , is ineffective .
trump softened his stance on torture on friday , saying he would not order the u.s. military to break international laws on how to treat terrorism suspects .
jacobs has been critical of political leaders who send american troops on missions without what he considers a well-defined strategy .
jacobs , writing in 2007 , criticized the post-invasion plan for iraq , including the “ foolish decision ” to disband the iraqi army .
pressed on thursday night to identify his foreign policy advisers , trump said that haas and keane were “ excellent ” and that he liked jacobs “ very much. ” jacobs declined to comment on whether he was helping trump .
“ i have many people that i think are really excellent but in the end it ’ s going to be my decision ” on national security matters , ” trump said .
keane , who appears frequently before congressional committees and on television , has accused u.s. president barack obama of not acting forcefully to help moderates in libya and syria .
he called obama ’ s 2011 withdrawal of u.s. combat forces from iraq an “ absolute strategic failure , ” and charged that he lacks a strategy to contain the spread of islamic state and help moderates in the region .
keane told reuters that as a strict rule , he will not join campaigns as an advisor , nor endorse political candidates .
( editing by stuart grudgings ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .