today s act of terror against a gop congressional baseball team by a bernie sanders supporter was about as ugly and hateful as anyone could imagine .
but no one should be surprised by this violent act , given how many leaders in the democrat party have been calling for violence against anyone who disagrees with their radical progressive agenda , starting with our former president and community organizer , barack obama .
below , is a list of 6 prominent democrats who have called for violence against americans who disagree with them .
of course , their actions have largely been ignored and deemed acceptable behavior by their allies in the mainstream media # 1 .
president obama s grassroots organizing for action , in a message to supporters , said that voters turned their back on them and it is time respond by fighting harder than we ever have before .
that barack obama would suggest democrats fight harder than ever before should come as no surprise to anyone who s been paying attention .
the former president and community organizer is no stranger to calling for violence against anyone who doesn t agree with him.in 2008 , he made a comment about rubbing out his opponents the chicago way when he suggested if they [ republicans ] bring a knife to the fight , we [ democrats ] bring a gun .
obama also joked about rubbing out his opponents # thechicagoway : '' if they bring a knife to the fight , we bring a gun , # obama , philly , 2008 john kass ( @ john_kass ) august 10 , 2016here s a video highlighting some of our former community organizer in chief s violent comments : scrapping any intention to work with the new administration , the message from ofa s barackobama.com said , we re not backing down .
the email to supporters was a clear rallying cry to fight the incoming trump administration , despite obama s pledge to help the new team.ofa s jeremy bird said , if you re anything like me , you re still sorting through the events of the past week and a half .
it s hard there s no way to sugarcoat that .
vulnerable communities are feeling like this country has turned its back on them .
and years of hard work are on the chopping block , seemingly overnight .
maybe you re feeling disillusioned , cynical , or frustrated .
but now is not the time to walk away now is the time to get in the ring and fight harder than we ever have before .
washington examiner # 2 .
hillary clinton s former running mate tim kaine called for democrats to fight in the streets against trump .
kaine , whose son was recently charged for his involvement in a riot during a pro-trump event , had appeared on msnbc in january , calling for members of his party to fight in congress , fight in the courts , fight in the streets , fight online , fight at the ballot box .
kaine s 24-year-old son linwood kaine was charged in may with fleeing police on foot , concealing his identity in a public place , and obstructing legal process , after a masked group he was with threw smoke bombs into a pro-trump rally in minneapolis , minnesota in march. # 2 .
former u.s. attorney general loretta lynch posted a video urging people to march , bleed , and die in the streets.in february , obama s attorney general posted a video in which she urged people to march and bleed in the streets to resist the president and his administration .
it has been people , individuals who have banded together , ordinary people who simply saw what needed to be done and came together and supported those ideals who have made the difference .
they ve marched , they ve bled and yes , some of them died .
this is hard .
every good thing is .
we have done this before .
we can do this again , lynch stated. # 3 .
hillary clinton made a video where she told democrats to resist and to stay engaged through activism .
she praised the people who were marching and protesting against anyone who doesn t agree with their progressive agenda .
let resistance plus persistence equal progress for our party and for our country .
clinton wrapped up her video by telling democrats to , keep fighting !
watch : # 4 .
madonna tells women s march that she fantasizes about blowing up the white house.during the unhinged aging pop star s vulgar speech at the rally , she demanded that this was the beginning of a revolution , and called trump s win a horrific moment of darkness .
yes , i m angry .
yes , i am outraged .
yes , i have thought an awful lot about blowing up the white house , madonna said .
but i know that this won t change anything .
we can not fall into despair .
-big league politics # 5 .
comedian kathy griffin made a career-ending decision to hold an isis inspired bloodied , decapitated head of president trump up for a video , as part of a comedy act .
no one but kathy and some hate-filled democrats thought it was funny : # 6 .
three weeks before president trump s inauguration , another unhinged comedian rosie o donnell tweeted : donald trump is mentally unstable .
she added , less than 3 weeks to stop him america .
stop him ?
was rosie calling for someone to harm or to take out donald trump before his inauguration ?
it sure sounds like it to us !