the trump bashing continues a washington post columnist reviewed a fashion layout/interview ivanka trump did with harper s bazaar and totally bashed the lovely ivanka .
you d think it would be somewhat middle-of-road since it s in the arts and entertainment section of the washington post .
it s almost like ivanka was set up by harper s to have wapo trash the article .
fyi-if you happen to subscribe to vogue , harper s bazaar or people magazine , you are putting money in the pockets of the democrats .
it s pretty sick to trash a person who s done nothing but lead a successful life as a wife , mother and successful business woman .
pretty nasty ! here s just a small piece of the garbage washington post put out on ivanka trump : here s the title and writer of the hit piece : fashion photographs are all about fresh narratives , but ivanka trump is selling the same old story by robin givhanthis woman is the wapo fashion critic ?
the headline , growing up trump : ivanka trump tells all , promises that the story will give readers something if not authenticity , then at least some tidbit that will allow people to know her better , to know her as more than the titles that are applied to her .
daughter , mother , business woman , sister.writer lisa depaulo questions trump on her friendship with chelsea clinton , her father s unorthodox presidential campaign and her self-declared women s advocacy .
she answers ; she doesn t answer .
it s a familiar , coy dance.the pictures , however , are a blatant study in avoidance .
in both images , by photographer mark seliger , viewers see trump in profile .
she never looks her audience in the eye .
her gaze is focused off into the distance .
the viewer is kept more than an arm s length away .
as she stands perched on the ladder , we look up at her .
she is elevated .
the positioning suggests that she is , in some way , above politics and above the fray.but also , in her rather regal gown set against a grimy landscape , her privileged life and position are underscored .
she makes it very clear in the accompanying article that her wealth has afforded her a host of advantages .
in the story , she comes across as self-aware .
and in the imagery , she is comfortably advantaged.photos by mark seligerread more : washington post