geneva ( reuters ) - rohingya refugees fleeing myanmar have testified that a consistent , methodical pattern of killings , torture , rape and arson is taking place , united nations human rights investigators said on friday after a first mission to bangladesh .
the fact-finding team , led by former indonesian attorney general marzuki darusman , said the death toll from the myanmar army s crackdown following rohingya insurgent attacks on aug. 25 was unknown , but may turn out to be extremely high .
we have heard many accounts from people from many different villages across northern rakhine state .
they point to a consistent , methodical pattern of actions resulting in gross human rights violations affecting hundreds of thousands of people , darusman said in a statement .
the team of three independent experts spent six days interviewing some of the 600,000 rohingya from myanmar s northern rakhine state who are in refugee camps near cox s bazar .
an advance team of u.n. rights officers have been conducting comprehensive interviews for weeks , it said .
we are deeply disturbed at the end of this visit , darusman said .
radhika coomaraswamy , another member and veteran u.n. human rights investigator , said she was left shaken and angry by the testimonies .
the accounts of sexual violence that i heard from victims are some of the most horrendous i have heard in my long experience in dealing with this issue in many crisis situations , she said .
one could see the trauma in the eyes of the women i interviewed .
when proven , this kind of abuse must never be allowed to go unpunished .
the u.n. team , which was established by the u.n. human rights council in march , renewed its appeal for access to rakhine state and for talks with the myanmar government and military to establish the facts .
the third member , christopher sidoti , said that rohingyas must be allowed to return to rakhine if they wish , but only after mechanisms are put in place to ensure their safety .
that may require the placement of international human rights monitors in rakhine state , he said .