( reuters ) - it was an awkward coalition riven by political and sectarian differences , facing an elusive , fanatical enemy dug into an urban maze of narrow streets and alleyways .
so , could iraq s government really deliver on its vow to vanquish islamic state ?
in the end , the army , shi ite muslim paramilitaries and kurdish peshmerga fighters mustered rare unity to end islamic state s reign of terror in iraq s second city mosul , seat of the ultra-hardline sunni insurgents caliphate .
baghdad s victory in july 2017 after nine months of fighting was the coup de grace for the caliphate and came three years after a jihadist juggernaut seized one third of iraq .
but even with supportive u.s. air strikes , baghdad s triumph came at a devastating cost for the once-vibrant , multicultural city in northern iraq and the surrounding region .
when islamic state militants first arrived in mosul in june 2014 after sweeping aside crumbling iraqi army units , many mosul residents initially welcomed them .
the militants were sunni muslims , like many in mosul who had accused the forces of then-shi ite prime minister nuri al-maliki of widespread sectarian abuses .
islamic state consequently presented itself as mosul s savior .
but as jihadists brandishing ak-47 assault rifles began imposing an islamist doctrine even more brutal and mediaeval than al qaeda , its popularity soon faded .
maliki s successor , haider al-abadi , had long been seen as an ineffective leader who could not make tough decisions .
however , a u.s.-backed campaign against is in mosul offered abadi a chance to emerge as a steely statesman capable of taking on a group that had terrorized a sprawling city with beheadings in public squares while staging deadly attacks in the west .
just smoking one cigarette , an act is saw as anti-islamic , earned you dozens of lashes .
children were used as informers .
women in minority communities were turned into sex slaves .
but taking back mosul was never going to be easy .
long before the first shot was fired , abadi and his advisers and military commanders had to tread cautiously , taking into account sectarian and ethnic sensitivities that could splinter the united front he urgently needed to establish .
iraqi and kurdish intelligence agencies had recruited informers inside mosul , from ex-soldiers and army officers to taxi drivers , who would face instant execution if caught .
even if an alliance of convenience was struck , glossing over sectarian splits , mosul itself posed formidable physical obstacles .
key districts consisted of ancient little streets and alleyways inaccessible to tanks and armored vehicles , and they were so densely populated that u.s.-led coalition air strikes risked heavy civilian casualties .
so , street by street , house by house , fighting was unavoidable .
such challenges first popped up in mosul s hinterland as kurdish forces slowly advanced against fierce is resistance .
in one village , a single is sniper hunkered down in a house held up hundreds of kurdish fighters , the u.s. special forces advising them and 40 of their vehicles .
eventually , his rifle went silent after three air strikes on the house .
as pro-government forces inched forward , the united nations warned of a possible humanitarian disaster and expressed fear that jihadists could seize civilians for use as human shields , and gun down anyone trying to escape .
is fighters both iraqis and foreigners - were experts at carrying out suicide bombings and assembling homemade bombs .
many houses were booby-trapped .
iraqi military commanders had to factor these lurking perils into their gameplan .
in interviews , is insurgents shed light on what iraqi forces were up against .
they were quite open about their ideology and what they were willing to do to transform the middle east .
one man said he had used rape as a weapon of war against more than 200 women from iraqi minorities , and had killed 500 people .
after months of grueling fighting , iraqi forces finally attained the outskirts of mosul , but any celebrations were premature .
bombs littered dusty roads .
car bombs were exploding .
a mosul resident explained that his child no longer flinched as explosions shook his street because many people , including the young , had grown numb to the daily bloodshed .
each side resorted to desperate measures to gain an edge .
in north mosul , people walked by fly-infested , bloated corpses of militants who had been left on roadsides for two weeks .
iraqi soldiers explained that the stinking bodies had been left there to send a clear message to residents - don t join is or you will suffer the same fate .
caught in the middle were civilians who had suffered under the is reign of terror for three years and were now wondering if they would survive a relentless battle to liberate them .
parents waited patiently after weeks of fighting for a largely unknowable right moment to make a dash for iraqi government lines , clutching their children , risking a run-in with jihadists from places as far away as chechnya .
as much of east and west mosul was pulverized by coalition air strikes or is truck and car bombs , the city was reduced to row after row of collapsed or gutted housing .
in the end , is suffered its most decisive defeat and watched their self-proclaimed caliphate evaporate in iraq , then in syria as kurdish-led forces retook raqqa , is s urban stronghold there .
but those victories will be followed by tough questions about the future of both iraq and syria .
preserving the shaky understanding forged between the different communities in the run-up to the mosul campaign will be essential to saving iraq as a state in the future .
it did not take long for the mosul coalition to fray .
in october , iraqi forces dislodged kurdish peshmerga fighters from the oil city of kirkuk and other disputed areas and baghdad imposed curbed air travel to and from the semi-autonomous kurdistan region in retaliation for a kurdish independence referendum held in northern iraq in september .
the battle for raqqa , which became is s operational base in syria , had a different feel to it as u.s.-backed kurds and arabs in the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) tightened their siege .
the fighting seemed slower and more measured , step by step along abandoned streets where journalists were given access .
in the weeks before raqqa s fall in october , young female sdf fighters faced off against hardened militants and suffered losses .
but that did not curb their enthusiasm and some said they would eventually like to join kurdish pkk militants in turkey and help advance their 33-year-old insurgency there .
the victors in iraq and syria now face new challenges as they rebuild cities shattered by the showdown with is .
after is s defeat in raqqa , raqqa residents formed a council to run the city but they had no budget when it was first set up , just residents streaming into their tin , run-down headquarters demanding everything from instant jobs to getting their damaged farmland back .
syrian kurdish fighters were inspired by the ideas of abdullah ocalan , head of the pkk militants who has been imprisoned in turkey for almost 20 years .
turkey views the political rise of syria s kurds as a threat to its national security and is fiercely opposed to the idea of kurdish autonomy on its doorstep .
the kurdish groups who led the fight against islamic state in its former capital raqqa must now navigate a complex peace to avoid ethnic tension with the city s arab majority and to secure critical u.s. aid .
so , life for raqqa s victors will remain fraught with risk .