nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s supreme court on friday nullified president uhuru kenyatta s election win , citing irregularities , and ordered a new poll within 60 days , an unprecedented move in africa where governments often hold sway over judges .
the ruling , broadcast to a stunned nation on television , sets up a new race between kenyatta , 55 , and veteran opponent raila odinga , 72 .
kenyatta called for calm and respect for the ruling and said he would run again in a televised speech .
but he later struck a more combative note , criticizing the court for ignoring the will of the people and dismissing the chief justice s colleagues as wakora ( crooks ) .
in odinga s western heartland , cheering supporters paraded through the streets chanting and waving tree branches .
kenya , a u.s. ally in the fight against islamists and a trade gateway to east africa , has a history of disputed votes .
a row over a 2007 poll , which odinga challenged after being declared loser , was followed by weeks of ethnic bloodshed that killed more than 1,200 people .
kenya s economy , the biggest in the region , slid into recession and neighboring economies wobbled .
chief justice david maraga announced the supreme court s verdict that was backed by four of the six judges , saying the declaration of kenyatta s victory was invalid , null and void .
details of the ruling will be released within 21 days .
in the court room , a grinning odinga pumped his fist in the air .
outside , shares plummeted on the nairobi bourse amid the uncertainty , while kenyatta s supporters grumbled .
but the mood on the streets of the capital was jubilant rather than angry .
judges said they found no misconduct by kenyatta but said the election board failed , neglected or refused to conduct the presidential election in a manner consistent with the dictates of the constitution .
kenya s judiciary went through sweeping changes after the 2007 election violence in a bid to restore confidence the legal system .
friday s ruling is likely to galvanize pro-democracy campaigners across africa , where many complain their judiciaries simply rubber stamp presidential rule .
this is a monumental and unprecedented decision , very remarkable and courageous that will be watched carefully with keen interest across the continent , said comfort ero , the head of the africa program for the crisis group think-tank .
kenyatta struck a conciliatory note in his televised address .
the court has made its decision .
we respect it .
we don t agree with it .
and again , i say peace ... peace , peace , peace , he told the nation .
that is the nature of democracy .
but later he criticized the court , telling a rally at a nairobi market : earlier , i was the president-elect .
( chief justice ) maraga and his people those wakora ( crooks ) have said let that election get lost ... let maraga know he is dealing with the incumbent president .
he spoke in kiswahili .
official results had given kenyatta 54.3 percent of the vote , compared to odinga s 44.7 percent , a lead of 1.4 million votes .
kenyatta s ruling party also swept the legislature .
those results triggered angry protests and at least 28 people died in the police clamp-down that followed .
for the first time in history of african democratization a ruling has been made by a court nullifying irregular elections for the president , odinga said outside the court .
later , he called for the commission to resign and face criminal prosecution .
international observers , including former u.s. secretary of state john kerry , had said they saw no manipulation of voting and tallying at polling stations .
but the election board was slow posting forms showing polling station results online .
thousands were missing when official results were declared , so opponents could not check totals .
court experts said some documents lacked official stamps or had figures that did not match official tallies .
the chairman of the election board said there would be personnel changes , but it was not clear if that would be enough for the opposition .
sweeping out the whole board would complicate efforts to hold a new poll within two months .
in a nation of more than 40 ethnic groups , tribal loyalties often trump policy at election time .
kenyatta s kikuyu is the biggest of kenya s tribes but still a minority .
odinga is a luo .
odinga s strongholds include his ethnic heartland in the west ; the coast , where many of the nation s muslims live ; and the urban slums .
residents of all three areas feel neglected by central government .
kenyatta , whose kikuyu tribe has produced three out of kenya s four presidents , has his main support base in the central region .
kenyatta and odinga are both scions of political families .
kenyatta s father , jomo kenyatta , was the nation s founding president and had a long-running rivalry with odinga s father .
oginga odinga was originally kenyatta s deputy but eventually left the government to unsuccessfully contest the presidency .
raila odinga has contested the last three elections and lost each time .
after each one , he claimed the votes were marred by rigging .
in 2013 , the supreme court dismissed his petition .
this time , his team focused on proving the process for tallying and transmitting results was flawed , rather than proving how much of the vote was rigged .
residents in the western city of kisumu , where odinga has strong backing , cheered and motorcycle drivers hooted their horns .
today is a special today and i will celebrate until i am worn out , said 32-year-old kevin ouma .
in the eastern rift valley town of kinangop , a stronghold for the ruling party , small groups gathered and complained .
over 8 million people supported the election of uhuru kenyatta but the supreme court has ignored this in the ruling which is very shameful , said matheri wa hungu .
kenyan shares , which rallied after kenyatta was declared winner , tumbled by 3.5 percent on friday and prompted the authorities to suspend trading for half an hour .
the shilling kes= fell by 0.4 percent and kenya 's dollar bonds fell .
but although analysts said there was likely to be short-term volatility , the ruling could be a long-term win for kenya .
the population s lack of faith in the system is one of the reasons why politics often descends into violence , said emma gordon , a senior analyst at risk analysis firm verisk maplecroft .
while this decision cements the view that the ( election board ) was biased , it demonstrates that independent checks and balances do exist .
for a graphic on kenya 's presidential election , click : here