joe wilson was right ! obviously , there are more than 5 lies obama has told during his presidency , but who has enough time in the day to count them all ?
if past presidents are remembered for their signature achievements , obama will be remembered for his signature lie : if you like your health care plan , blah , blah , blah .
the reader knows the rest .
although the most consequential of obama s lies it got him re-elected it s far from his only prevarication.i ve counted 75 significant lies since his campaign for president began , but that doesn t begin to tally the casual fibs and hyperbole he spouts seemingly every day .
here are five that illustrate just how much obama s presidency is built on falsehoods.obama made this claim in september 2009 , when addressing the nation s schoolkids .
by then , the blogosphere knew that baby obama had never spent a night under the same roof as his father , let alone two years .
for years , obama and his advisers invested enormous political capital in what biographer david remnick called obama s signature appeal : the use of the details of his own life as a reflection of a kind of multicultural ideal .
remnick called obama s autobiography a mixture of verifiable fact , recollection , recreation , invention and artful shaping .
in other words , the truth is never good enough.obama spun this fiction at a september 2012 univision forum knowing it was false .
in fact , the bizarre , deadly idea to let american guns walk into mexico , where they were used by drug cartels to kill dozens , began in october 2009 .
three months earlier , white house press secretary jay carney had made the same bogus claim virtually word for word at a press conference and got shot down on national tv .
it began in fall 2009 , corrected white house correspondent jake tapper , then with abc.carney refused to acknowledge he lied , and the president continued to lie weeks later .
it s all part of obama s ducking of responsibility it s always someone else s fault.obama said this in response to bill o reilly s question about the irs scandal : you re saying no corruption ?
if there were not even a smidgen of corruption , as obama insisted , it is hard to understand what outraged him , or at least seemed to , when news of the irs scandal first broke .
it s inexcusable , and americans are right to be angry about it , and i am angry about it , obama said in may 2013 .
obama routinely expressed anger when some new scandal erupted on his watch irs , the failed obamacare website , the va scandal , fast and furious but never before had he shoved a scandal down the memory hole so quickly.and how could obama know there wasn t a smidgen of corruption before the investigation was even over ?
perhaps because the administration knew that any proof of that was gone with deleted emails and destroyed hard drives ? during that same super bowl sunday interview , obama made this claim in response to o reilly s inquiry about the attack on the american consulate in benghazi .
obama continued to dissemble : the notion that we would hide the ball for political purposes when a week later we all said , in fact , there was a terrorist attack taking place and the day after i said it was an act of terror , that wouldn t be a very good coverup .
in fact , it was exactly a week after the attack , on sept. 18 , that obama took his first questions about benghazi .
bizarrely , he did so to david letterman .
here s what happened , obama said .
you had a video that was released by somebody who lives here , sort of a shadowy character who who made an extremely offensive video directed at at mohammed and islam .
we know now that the administration knew this wasn t true .
not a week later ; not even the very night of the attacks.on many levels , this was obama s most telling lie .
he only deals with the world as he sees it , not as it is.obama told this whopper to his assembled staff on his first day in office .
he promised it to the press .
instead , his administration refuses to hand over documents and obama refuses to answer questions .
as liberal constitutional scholar jonathan turley assessed the presidency , barack obama is really the president richard nixon always wanted to be .
what do these lies , just a sample of many , tell us ?
obama never stopped artfully shaping his life.the scary thing is he might actually believe these lies .
he believes that posting a shot from his personal photographer online is transparent .
that targeting conservative groups for audits isn t corrupt .
that everything that has gone wrong with his presidency is bush s fault.knowing that , how can we believe anything that he says ? jack cashill is the author of you lie !
the evasions , omissions , fabrications , frauds and outright falsehoods of barack obama ( broadside books ) , out oct. 7.via : nyp