kiev ( reuters ) - ukraine says it will review a request from georgia to arrest and extradite former georgian president mikheil saakashvili , one of the most colorful and divisive figures in the politics of both countries , if he re-enters ukraine in the next few days .
brought in to help drive reforms after the 2014 ukrainian uprising that ousted a pro-russian leader , saakashvili has been at loggerheads with the kiev authorities since quitting as governor of the odessa region last year and accusing president petro poroshenko of abetting corruption .
stripped of ukrainian citizenship while on a trip abroad , he will try to re-enter ukraine via the polish border on sunday , his staff and lawyers say , and expects to be greeted by supporters and lawmakers sympathetic to his cause .
it is unclear how ukrainian border guards will respond .
the justice ministry is sending the request from georgia ... to ukraine s general prosecutor for an extradition review , deputy justice minister serhiy petukhov told a news conference .
saakashvili s representative olena galabala said : if there are any questions regarding the extradition of saakashvili , then firstly they need to let him into ukraine and then resolve this issue .
otherwise it looks like intimidation .
saakashvili took power in georgia after a peaceful pro-western uprising , known as the rose revolution , in 2003 .
he was president at the time of a short and disastrous five-day war with russia in 2008 , a conflict that his critics argued was the result of his own miscalculations .
the 49-year-old is now wanted on four separate criminal charges in georgia , including abuse of office , which he says were trumped up for political reasons .
loathed by the kremlin , saakashvili was once a natural ally for poroshenko after moscow annexed ukraine s crimea region in 2014 .
but he has become one of the president s most vocal critics casting doubt on the western-backed authorities commitment to tackle entrenched corruption .
saakashvili has accused the ukrainian authorities of using pressure tactics to deter him from returning to kiev , where he has launched a campaign to unseat his former ally poroshenko .
saakashvili s spokeswoman and his brother , david , were both questioned by authorities at the weekend .
in this way they re trying to influence me to change my mind about coming back , saakashvili said in a post on facebook .
you know me very badly - this just further strengthens my resolve to defend ukraine and ukrainians from the dirty dealers and their lawlessness .
interior ministry spokesman artem shevchenko said david saakashvili s permission to reside in ukraine had been annulled because his work permit had been withdrawn .
we didn t detain him .
the kiev police ensured the delivery of the georgian citizen to the migration services , he told news agency interfax ukraine .
poroshenko s office says saakashvili failed to deliver change while governor of odessa .
they have also said his citizenship was withdrawn because he allegedly put false information on his registration form .
saakashvili says the decision was politically motivated .
saakashvili last year founded a party called the movement of new forces , whose support is in the low single digits and which has been seeking to unite reformist opposition forces .