washington ( reuters ) - as republican leaders desperately seek ways to derail the presidential campaign of billionaire donald trump , many of the party ’ s 31 state governors are staying out of the fray .
new mexico governor susana martinez endorsed marco rubio on friday , making her only the 10th governor to back one of the four republican presidential rivals left in the race .
much more typical is governor rick scott of florida , who said on thursday he would not endorse a candidate before his state ’ s hotly contested march 15 primary .
such reluctance to commit contrasts sharply with previous elections , when governors lined up solidly behind eventual nominees , helping to winnow the field of candidates early on .
the 2016 election differs because a chaotic race has divided republicans , convincing many to keep a low profile in hopes of avoiding a possible backlash from voters who are increasingly contemptuous of party leaders , republican officials say .
“ it ’ s a lose-lose political situation , ” said fergus cullen , a former new hampshire republican party chairman .
new jersey governor chris christie last week took a risk , after dropping out of the presidential contest himself , and endorsed trump , the billionaire businessman .
that decision has done little for either of them , according to a new poll .
almost two-thirds of 1,372 adults polled , both republicans and democrats , said christie ’ s endorsement made no difference in their feelings toward trump , the republican front-runner .
the nationwide reuters/ipsos poll was conducted feb 29-march 4 .
christie has faced relentless criticism since he announced his support for trump last week .
six newspapers in his home state have called on him to resign .
in past elections , a governor ’ s endorsement could produce a burst of positive news coverage and the support of well-connected local leaders for a presidential contender .
that would encourage other elected officials to endorse the candidate as well , creating an impression that the candidate was a favorite of those who knew best and encouraging others to drop out of the race , said david karol , a university of maryland political science professor who has found that endorsements were a strong predictor of electoral success between 1980 and 2004 .
“ the absence of most of the governors this late in the process really indicates the paralysis and division in republican elite circles , ” karol said .
ahead of election day on nov. 8 , many governors did not want to talk about trump , who has unnerved his party ’ s establishment with his abrasive tone and policy positions , including plans to build a wall on the u.s.-mexican border , deport 11 million illegal immigrants and temporarily bar muslims from entering the country .
eighteen undecided republican governors , contacted by reuters , declined to be interviewed on their views of the race .
national republican leaders are struggling for a strategy to stop trump from becoming the nominee , as democrats revel in the chaos they hope will boost their chances of keeping the white house .
george w. bush , elected president in 2000 , had the support of 26 of the party ’ s 30 republican governors before primary voting even started , according to figures compiled by james madison university political science professor martin cohen , who with karol is a co-author of “ the party decides : presidential nominations before and after reform. ” in 2012 , 10 of 29 republican governors had endorsed mitt romney by the time he clinched the presidential nomination .
this year , governors are not sending a clear signal to voters .
five have endorsed rubio , a senator from florida who has won one nominating contest so far .
two have endorsed john kasich of ohio , the only governor left in the race , who has won no contests .
two have trump .
one has backed senator ted cruz of texas .
three others endorsed candidates who have since dropped out of the race .
the governors who have made endorsements so far have had little impact .
rubio lost in tennessee , south carolina and arkansas , despite the backing of governors in those states .
kasich got only 4 percent of the vote in alabama on tuesday after that state ’ s governor robert bentley endorsed him .
iowa governor terry branstad called on voters in his state to reject cruz before the state ’ s february caucuses .
cruz won .
so far , only texas governor greg abbott has picked a winner .
he endorsed cruz , who won texas on tuesday .
trump has put many governors in a difficult position .
the real estate developer is expected to easily win mississippi ’ s republican primary next tuesday , for example , but his support for planned parenthood and government-backed health insurance , among other policies , put him at odds with the conservative positions backed by governor phil bryant .
bryant will support trump should he end up being the party ’ s nominee , but he has not decided whether to endorse a candidate before the primary , an aide told reuters .
in theory , governors should be in a position to shape the outcome of this year ’ s nominating contests .
republicans at the state level have delivered tax cuts , abortion restrictions and other conservative victories from maine to arizona , while their counterparts in charge of congress have been locked in a stalemate with democratic president barack obama .
but the plethora of establishment-minded candidates this year has made it more difficult for governors and other senior officials to decide who to back , let alone try to shape the outcome with an endorsement .
republican governors in maryland , florida , wyoming , indiana , wisconsin , north dakota , south dakota , arizona , nebraska and michigan declined to say whether they would back trump if he were the party ’ s nominee .
governors in utah , oklahoma , north carolina and georgia have yet to endorse a candidate but would back trump if he won the nomination , aides said .
massachusetts governor charlie baker told reporters this week he would not vote for trump in november .
( additional reporting by nick carey , sharon bernstein , ian simpson , alex dobuzinskis and scott malone ; editing by kevin drawbaugh , howard goller and alistair bell ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .