moyo , uganda ( reuters ) - a south sudanese military commander said he had defected with more than 200 soldiers to the country s largest rebel group , amid a showdown between president salva kiir and his former military chief .
lieutenant colonel chan garang , an ally of former army chief paul malong , defected to join the largest rebel group fighting kiir , he said .
all three men are ethnic dinkas and any split within the powerful group could represent a threat to kiir .
the four-year civil war has split the country into a patchwork of fiefdoms , created africa s biggest refugee crisis in two decades and led to ethnic cleansing .
a third of the 12 million-strong population has fled their homes and half are dependent on food aid .
in may , kiir fired malong , whom u.n. investigators accused of directing ethnic militias responsible for the rape , torture and murder of civilians .
malong , who is also on a u.s. sanctions list , briefly fled north but returned to the capital , where he has been under house arrest ever since .
over the weekend , kiir s troops surrounded malong s house in juba and unsuccessfully attempted to disarm his bodyguards .
an armed standoff continues outside his house .
garang is the first malong loyalist to join the rebels .
garang said he defected because allies of malong s were being badly treated , troops had not been paid for seven months and other tribes were being discriminated against .
i left juba because when are you are a supporter of paul malong , you will be arrested , garang told reuters via satellite phone .
we are preparing our army so that we can launch an attack on juba .
salva kiir divided the tribes so we need him to go .
garang told reuters he took more than 200 soldiers with him , although a rebel press release put the number at 150 .
a photo provided by the rebels showed more than 30 armed men but their identities were unclear .
army spokesman lul ruai koang said they were not aware of any defection from their ranks .
malong was unreachable by phone , but his wife lucy ayak distanced her husband from the defected commander .
[ garang ] is not happy with the government and he has deserted .
why is he saying it is the issue of general malong ?
she asked reuters .
south sudan s war began in december 2013 between troops loyal to kiir and rebels of former vice president riek machar , a nuer .
oyet nathaniel , a senior rebel official , told reuters that garang had brought 150 men with him and that anyone deciding to join them against kiir is a welcome development , regardless of their background .
there are several rebel groups , but none of them is well-funded or well-armed .
( this version of the story was refiled to remove repetition in second to last paragraph )