wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand and australia have begun talks about screening procedures for asylum seekers holding out in a papua new guinea detention center , new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern said on monday , amid reports of worsening health conditions there .
australia has been refusing new zealand s offer to take up to 150 of the detainees from the australian-run camp on manus island , but ardern s comments have raised speculation that australian prime minister malcolm turnbull is ready to accept .
the center was closed almost three weeks ago after png s high court ruled it was illegal , but more than 400 detainees have refused to leave , citing concerns for their security if they were moved to transit centers as planned .
more than 150 men at the center were seriously ill without access to basic first aid or medicine , said advocacy group asylum seeker resource centre ( asrc ) , which is calling for safe resettlement of the men .
a team from the group , which is based in australia , visited the center last wednesday , a spokeswoman said .
the deteriorating state of the men s bodies was obvious to me as i was shown around , said jana favero , the group s campaigns director .
this is a medical emergency festering inside a humanitarian crisis .
medical conditions requiring urgent care ranged from chest pain and undiagnosed episodes of unconsciousness to infections and chronic diarrhea among others , the group added .
turnbull has been refusing new zealand s offer as he worries asylum seekers could view it as a back door to australia , undermining the country s tough immigration policies .
ardern said the conversations were about establishing the screening processes .
to be clear , we have not started that process , she told radio new zealand .
but i think that certainly we re a bit further along than we have been before - we haven t even had officials having those discussions in the past .
the united nations , which has warned of a looming humanitarian crisis , last week urged australia to accept new zealand s offer to take the men .
turnbull has insisted the priority was an existing refugee swap deal negotiated last year with former u.s. president barack obama .
the men holed up in the camp depend on erratic food supplies smuggled in by supporters .
they lack power and running water .
australia s sovereign borders immigration policy that refuses to let asylum seekers arriving by boat reach its shores has been heavily criticized by the united nations and human rights groups , but has bipartisan domestic political support .