athens ( reuters ) - greece began debating on monday a bill allowing people to change their gender identity without medical treatment , a move that was welcomed by human rights groups but exposed political divisions and church opposition .
greece currently requires persons who wish to have their desired gender legally recognized to be diagnosed with gender identity disorder and have their reproductive organs removed .
this practice has been widely condemned as a violation of human rights though is common in many european countries .
the bill , tabled by the leftist syriza party and to be put to a vote on tuesday , says that changing legal gender is a matter of personal choice and should not be contingent on medical tests , therapies or surgeries that are all optional .
it has been condemned as immoral by greece s influential orthodox church and as a monstrosity by far-right wing politicians .
the draft legislation says persons have the right to change legal gender twice , and applicants must not be married .
a court will decide on their application .
a group of supporters rallied outside parliament holding a banner reading : transgender rights are human rights .
i can t wait !
the moment the bill passes , i m changing my identity , said raffaela , 40 , adding that she has lived in waiting for 27 years .
the ironic stares , the mocking when people see that my identity doesn t correspond to my looks , will finally end , she told reuters , covered in a rainbow flag .
an article setting the minimum age for the change to 15 years has bared cracks in prime minister alexis tsipras coalition .
his ally , the right-wing independent greeks , said it would vote against it unless the age was amended to 17 years .
campaigners say the bill is a step in the right direction but falls short of fully recognizing the rights of transgender people .
denmark was the first european country to allow legal gender changes without any medical intervention in 2014 .
the government has 153 deputies in the 300-seat parliament .
the bill is expected to be approved in principle by ruling lawmakers and center-left parties .
the main conservative opposition , new democracy , tabled its own proposals .
to have access to the labor market , to travel and deal with daily life under a name that they want , and which corresponds to how they feel , should not be negotiable , said ruling syriza lawmaker anneta kavadia .
the holy synod , the ruling body of the greek orthodox church , thinks differently .
the proposal , it said , was an affront to society , and a threat to the sanctity of family .