beijing ( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party enshrined president xi jinping s political thought into its constitution on tuesday , putting him in the same company as the founder of modern china , mao zedong , and cementing his power ahead of a second five-year term .
a key xi ally , top corruption fighter wang qishan , will not be on the new politburo standing committee , the apex of power in china , to be revealed on wednesday as he was not among those named on tuesday to the 204-member central committee .
whether or not the powerful wang would remain on the standing committee , which currently has seven members , despite being beyond the customary retirement age of 69 , had been among the key questions to be answered at the week-long party congress , which ended on tuesday .
wang could still assume another senior role over the next few months .
as expected , the party unanimously passed an amendment to include xi jinping thought on socialism with chinese characteristics for a new era as one of its guiding principles .
the party will announce its new standing committee , headed by xi , at around midday ( 0400 gmt ) on wednesday , culminating a twice-a-decade leadership reshuffle .
as expected , the amended constitution affirmed that xi s signature fight against corruption , which has ensnared more than 1.3 million officials , will continue .
unexpectedly , xi s belt and road initiative , an ambitious program to build infrastructure linking china with its neighbors and beyond , was also included in the party constitution .
also included was a commitment to supply-side industrial reforms , and giving play to the decisive role of market forces in resource allocation , a commitment xi had made early in his first terms that many investors say he has failed to deliver on .
the party exercises overall leadership over all areas of endeavor in every part of the country , the party said in a statement reflecting xi s ongoing efforts to strengthen the party and its place in contemporary chinese society .
if no clear successor to xi is named to the new politburo standing committee , it will further fuel speculation that xi may look to retain power beyond the customary second five-year term .
this is about further erasing any distinction between xi jinping and the party , said jude blanchette , who studies the party at the conference board s china center for economics and business in beijing , referring to xi s thought getting into the constitution .
add on to this having supply-side structural reform and one belt one road written into this , which were xi s signature policies , this makes questioning or non-compliance with those tantamount to betrayal of the party .
xu hongcai , deputy chief economist at the china centre for international economic exchanges , a beijing think-tank , said party control was needed to push through the market reforms key to restructuring the world s second-largest economy .
to build a market economic system in such a big country , it s impossible without the leadership of the party , he said .
others have argued that the two are contradictory .
when you put supply-side reform and market playing a decisive role in the same document , then that just shows they have to almost choose one , said alex wolf , senior emerging markets economist with aberdeen standard investments in hong kong .
china s blue-chip shares climbed to a 26-month high on tuesday , led by infrastructure and property stocks , as xi wrapped up a congress that began with his three-and-a half hour speech envisioning a more prosperous , confident china .
the yuan strengthened against the dollar .
xi rapidly consolidated power after assuming party leadership in late 2012 and then the presidency the next year .
the party gave xi the title of core leader a year ago , a significant strengthening of his position .
whether xi was able to have his name crowned in the party constitution had been seen as a key measure of his power , elevating him to a level of previous leaders exemplified by mao zedong thought and deng xiaoping theory .
no other leader since mao has had an eponymous ideology included in the document while in office .
deng s name was added after his death in 1997 .
a list of 133 committee members for the central commission for discipline inspection released on tuesday included zhao leji , who heads the party s organisation department , a strong sign that he will take over from wang as anti-corruption chief .
china s top banking regulator , guo shuqing , and veteran banker jiang chaoliang , front runners to succeed zhou xiaochuan as central bank governor , both made it to the central committee .
the constitutional amendment , along with xi s work report and a work report of the graft watchdog to the congress , were passed by a show of hands .
when xi next asked for any no votes or abstentions for the amendment or two work reports , the sound of none echoed throughout the chamber , as officials shouted out from different sides of the hall .