sulaimaniya , iraq ( reuters ) - on the eve of an independence referendum in iraq s kurdistan region , one man is campaigning against a yes vote which he fears could stoke tension in the middle east .
with the 5 million kurds in iraq who are eligible to vote united by dreams of statehood , the outcome of the sept. 25 referendum in the autonomous region in northern iraq is in no doubt .
but with baghdad making clear it opposes independence for a region that has abundant oil reserves , some voters fear now is not the time to start moves to break away from iraq and rich businessman shaswar abdulwahid qadir has taken up their cause .
despite being branded a traitor by political enemies , he has taken on the establishment by launching a no for now campaign to explain the economic and political risks of a yes vote .
a no vote is better for our people , better for kurdistan s future , the 39-year-old businessman told reuters after a rally on saturday in a soccer stadium in sulaimaniya , iraqi kurdistan s second largest city .
warning against the consequences of an independence declaration , he said : it will bring to our people an unstable situation after the referendum .
qadir s goal is not to resist independence forever .
but he fears a yes vote now would unleash the wrath of governments in iraq , iran , turkey and syria which could see it as a precedent that could encourage separatist-minded kurds in those countries .
iraq s parliament voted on tuesday to reject the referendum and authorized the prime minister to take all measures to preserve iraq s unity .
western powers want a delay because they are worried the vote will derail cooperation between iraq and the kurds against islamic state in syria and iraq .
qadir is almost alone among kurds in raising his voice openly against the yes campaign led by president masoud barzani and his kurdish democratic party ( kdp ) , which say independence would be preceded by dialogue with baghdad .
but qadir believes there are others who share his concerns .
at the rally in sulaimaniya , qadir was welcomed into the stadium by dancers in colorful traditional dress and by a crowd chanting his name .
but he delayed the start by an hour to allow the stadium he helped refurbish to fill up and it never did .
about 2,500 people attended , filling only about one third of the arena .
after he began speaking , a scuffle broke out when a man in the crowd tried to throw something at qadir during his speech .
the businessman says he is undeterred by criticism and attacks which he says have affected his business .
i m ok with all of it , because i believe in another way for kurdistan , he said .
critics say qadir has used his media conglomerate to advance his agenda and the fortune he made through a business empire that includes real estate , television stations and a theme park make his life very different to those he says he represents .
many kurds have been hit by baghdad s decision to cut funding to iraqi kurdistan in 2014 in protest at its construction of a pipeline to export oil to turkey .
such actions by baghdad have increased antagonism among the kurds , who suffered under late iraqi dictator saddam hussein , and increased their desire for independence a desire uniting the about 30 million kurds in iraq , iran , syria and turkey .
but interviews by reuters in several cities in iraqi kurdistan showed that some voters are worried about the possible fallout of the referendum even though they favor independence .
some are worried it could embolden the entrenched elite in iraqi kurdistan , which has long been plagued by political disunity and where barzani has been a powerful force for more than two decades and president since 2005 .
this referendum is not for the country , it s for the dictators in power , said ahmed nana , a 22-year-old barista at a coffee shop in sulaimaniya .
we all want a passport , a nationality , we want a reason to be proud , to have our own country .
but right now , this referendum is a sideshow to distract from our political problems .
parliament has not met since a coalition government broke up in 2015 and some factions support independence but not necessarily under barzani s leadership .
the regional government has called presidential and parliamentary elections for nov. 1 , but many kurds doubt the voting will go ahead and the independence referendum has widened political divisions .
nothing has polarized kurdish society as much as this vote , said bahra saleh , an analyst at the american university of iraq , sulaimani .
compounding the stalemate is the economic crisis triggered by baghdad s decision to cut funding and compounded by low oil prices and the conflict with islamic state .
the region is billions of dollars in debt and public salaries have been steeply cut since 2014 , particularly affecting civil servants , peshmerga fighters and teachers .
before holding the referendum , the regional government needs to prepare the region economically for the region to sustain itself , said mohammad tofiq raheem , a leader of the gorran party which was part of the coalition that ended in 2015 .
the regional economy depends partly on turkey s goodwill to allow oil exports but also on trade with iraq .
there is also a generational split .
older kurds hope the long struggle for statehood , dating at least to the division of the middle east by colonial powers after world war one , will now end but younger people are driven by more than nationalism .
independence is what we ve been dreaming of for years , the said saleh , the analyst .
but not like this .
in a way that makes sense , in a way that won t risk civil war .