b b but the russians !
how can the media be bothered with one of the most incredible and very real stories of espionage that includes a major threat to our national security when they ve got a fake russian-trump connection to prove on february 10 , 2017 , fox news maria bartiromo went nuts on varney and company ! here is the transcript of maria s incredible and under-reported story to stuart varney:3 congressional it employees have been fired for accessing members computer networks without permission .
maria s on the show , knows more about this .
can you fill me in a bit.here are their names stuart .
let me tell you what the 3 people that were fired on thursday : abid , imran and jamal awan .
they were barred from computer networks at the house of representatives on thursday because they accessed congressmen and congress people s computer networks unauthorized .
at a minimum they were fired .
at a minimum we know that they accessed computers unauthorized and they did so in foreign intelligence , foreign affairs and intelligence committees .
okay ?
so they were getting very important information , government information .
they accessed these computers .
that is the least of it .
there s also some talk that people are looking into what ties they have into terrorism .
are they impacted by the muslim brotherhood ?
are they a part of the muslim brotherhood ?
one of them has a criminal background ! how is it possible that 3 brothers are hired , muslim brothers just saying , to work in congress and deal with our most intelligent and sensitive information , number one ?
they were all making $ 160,000 !
why were they paid so much ?
22 years old one of the guys , the other was 25 .
they re making $ 160,000 , $ 161,000 and $ 165,000 .
and one of them has a criminal background ! i hear what you re saying , i mean , these intelligence committees handle our terror strategies right ? they got in on benghazi by the way.yes , and they also worked for many democrats in the house.they are thinking that they may be also one of the reasons debbie wasserman schultz got hacked.there s so much more to come on this stuart , it s an incredible story .
i think it s amazing ! as it turns out , maria bartiromo was correct .
there is way more to this story ! here is the incredible breakdown of what happened with former dnc chair debbie wasserman schultz s pakistani muslim it employee and why he potentially poses a real threat to our national security .
daily caller s investigative reporter luke rosa also lays out how wasserman schultz has impeded the criminal investigation of the awan brothers : abid , imran , and jamal awan were barred from computer networks at the house of representatives in february.three pakistani brothers who managed the it affairs for several democratic government officials were relieved of their duties in february on suspicion that they accessed specific computer networks without permission , also known as hacking.imran awan , who started working for wasserman schultz in 2005 , received $ 164,600 in 2016 , with close to $ 20,000 of that coming from wasserman schultz.his brother jamal , who started working as a staffer in 2014 , was paid $ 157,350.12 in 2016 .
abid , who started working in 2005 , was paid $ 160,943 in 2016.imran s wife , hina alvi , who was employed as a staffer since february 2007 , was paid 168,300 in 2016 .
rao abbas was paid $ 85,049 in 2016.most of the house members fired the awans subsequently .
only debbie wasserman schultz kept imran awan on the pay roll up to the day he got arrested for bank fraud after trying to flee the country.the rest of the family fled to pakistan and brought with them tens of thousands of tax-payer money with them.democrats were willing or unwillingly compromised by the awans and sensitive information leaked to foreign enemies .
gpon monday judge napolitano dropped this bomb on the imran awan investigation.judge napolitano says awan was selling us secrets to foreign agents.even fox news liberal host geraldo rivera went off on this unbelievable story .
where is the rest of the mainstream media ?
why are they ignoring this story ?