hillary heads to dc for an exclusive fundraiser hosted by one-percenter lesbians hillary clinton will be in washington , d.c. , on monday night for a fundraiser hosted by and attended by predominantly lesbian supporters.about 120 people are expected to attend the event , which is being billed as an intimate fundraiser at the woman s national democratic club .
the cost to attend is $ 2,700 per person .
for the more generous , those willing to bundle $ 27,000 ahead of the event also get to attend a special reception with clinton.the event is being hosted by claire lucas and her partner , judy dlugacz , who founded a travel company called olivia , which sells cruises targeting the lesbian community .
lucas told the huffington post that she and dlugacz decided a couple of weeks ago that they wanted to do something to support clinton s presidential run , so they started reaching out to their network of contacts to gauge interest .
the result is monday s event , which lucas estimates will be about 75 percent lesbian attendees from around the country .
that s atypical for an lgbt political fundraiser , which are by and large organized and attended by gay men .
we had such a big group of people wanting to attend , said lucas , who acknowledged it is unusual that the event will have such a strong lesbian presence.the clinton event lands just as president barack obama has declared june as lgbt pride month , something he has done for several years .
there are two other pride-related fundraising events for clinton s campaign in d.c. this week , though she is not expected to attend them.the first , on june 10 , is being hosted by gay democratic activist lane hudson at the howard theater .
the second one , on june 11 , is being hosted by lgbt supporters at lost society .
that event will include appearances by sen. tammy baldwin ( d-wis. ) , the first openly lesbian u.s. senator , and four other openly gay members of congress : reps. jared polis ( d-colo. ) , david cicilline ( d-r.i. ) , sean patrick maloney ( d-n.y. ) and mark takano ( d-calif. ) .clinton is a vocal supporter of lgbt rights and featured a gay couple in the campaign kick-off video she used in april to announce her presidential run .
that couple later invited clinton to their wedding.via : huffington post