no conflict of interest here !
only the most pro-abortion president in the history of the united states would have an expert who butchers babies for a living being paid by the american taxpayer to advise on healthy baby births deborah nucatola the planned parenthood doc with the stone-cold heart and the lucrative skill of crushing babies in just the right spot has been advising the obama administration on family planning policy since 2010.from april 2010 through april 2014 , nucatola was one of several experts the u.s. health and human services office of population affairs ( opa ) and the u.s. centers for disease control and prevention ( cdc ) division of reproductive health tasked with creating federal guidelines for quality family planning services .
a member of the expert work group and the technical panel on clinical women s services , nucatola was actively engaged in the multistage process that produced the government s 2014 report , providing quality family planning services ( qfp ) .her responsibilities as a technical consultant and an expert included analyzing research summaries and professional advisories , providing individual feedback on the government s initial recommendations , reviewing the cdc-opa staff s core recommendations , giving her expert opinion , and then approving the recommendations .
( see the report s appendices for the names of expert work group members and technical experts , and detailed descriptions of the experts involvement in formulating the report s recommendations .
) what s the goal of those government recommendations ?
to help clients achieve their desired number and spacing of children and increase the likelihood that those children are born healthy .
leave it to the obama administration to tap an abortionist for expert advice on ensuring that children are born healthy an abortionist , mind you , who relishes butchering a 17-weeker and bagging up a tiny infant s heart , lung , liver to sell for a few extra bucks.taxpayers reward barbarismthe barbaric nature of nucatola s chosen work , however , is all too clear .
that s reprehensible .
sen. rand paul and others have announced plans to defund planned parenthood in light of the nucatola debacle .
good , but not enough.we need to delegitimize planned parenthood and delegitimize the cruel doctors whose expertise consists in knowing which parts of the unborn baby to crush in order to to harvest the money-producing parts intact .
we need to insist that being an expert in baby dismemberment disqualifies instead of qualifies a doctor from being an expert consultant for the government an expert on making sure children are born healthy , no less.planned parenthood runs a bloody business .
many americans are seeing , for the first time , the chilling , violent reality of abortion and the insatiable greed driving america s abortion business .
now , the question is : what is congress willing to do about it ? read more of exclusive story : the federalist