seoul ( reuters ) - the leaders of south korea and china on saturday agreed on the need to manage the security situation on the korean peninsula in a stable way and to resolve north korea-related tensions peacefully after a summit meeting , the south s presidential office said .
for this , the two countries will strengthen strategic talks on all levels , presidential spokesman yoon young-chan told reporters in danang , vietnam , where a meeting between south korean president moon jae-in and china s xi jinping was held on the sidelines of an apec summit .
xi told moon that he encouraged south korea to resume dialogue with north korea and re-engage with them for reconciliation and de-nuclearisation , state news agency xinhua reported .
tension on the korean peninsula rose last month as north korea s leader kim jong un and u.s. president donald trump exchanged war-like threats and insults over the north s nuclear and missile development program .
china has been urged by both south korea and the united states to take a more active role in curbing north korea s nuclear and missile ambitions .
beijing has said it is complying with united nations security council sanctions and doing all it can to curb the isolated state s provocative actions .
during saturday s summit , moon and xi also agreed to quickly normalize bilateral exchanges in all sectors , yoon added , repeating what was said in the agreement announced last month when the two countries agreed to end a year-long standoff over the deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system .
south korean companies with chinese customers had suffered due to backlash from china , which has vehemently opposed the deployment of the terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) system .
xi urged south korea to take a responsible attitude on thaad that stands the test of history , xinhua said .
xi was quoted as saying it would be new beginnings and a good start by yoon .
meanwhile , the two agreed for moon to visit xi in china in december to hold another round of summit talks , while moon invited xi to south korea during the pyeongchang winter olympic games , which falls in february next year , the spokesman said .
the chinese president said he would try , and if he were unable to make it he would send a high-ranking team of envoys , cited yoon .