new delhi/tokyo ( reuters ) - japan s prime minister shinzo abe will lay the foundation stone for india s first bullet train in prime minister narendra modi s home state this week , in a tightening of ties just days after new delhi ended a dangerous military confrontation with china .
the move by abe , who starts a two-day visit to india on wednesday , highlights an early lead for japan in a sector where the chinese have also been trying to secure a foothold , but without much success .
modi has made the 500-km- ( 311-mile- ) long high-speed rail link between the financial hub of mumbai and the industrial city of ahmedabad in western gujarat a centerpiece of his efforts to showcase india s ability to build cutting-edge infrastructure .
the leaders will launch the start of work on the line on thursday , india s railways ministry said in a statement .
this technology will revolutionize and transform the transport sector , said railways minister piyush goyal , welcoming the prospects for growth brought by japan s high-speed shinkansen technology .
in tokyo , a japanese foreign ministry official told reporters , we would like to support make in india as much as possible , referring to modi s signature policy to lure investors in manufacturing .
and for that , we want to do what s beyond the mumbai-ahmedabad line and achieve economies of scale .
india would make all-out efforts to complete the line by august 2022 , more than a year earlier than planned , the government said this week .
japan is providing 81 percent of the funding for the 1.08-trillion-rupee ( $ 16.9-billion ) project , through a 50-year loan at 0.1 percent annual interest .
ties between india and japan have blossomed as modi and abe increasingly see eye-to-eye in countering growing chinese assertiveness across asia .
japanese investment into india has surged in areas ranging from automotives to infrastructure in the remote northeast , making tokyo its third-largest foreign direct investor .
india and japan are also trying to move forward on a plan for new delhi to buy japanese amphibious aircraft - shinmaywa industries us-2 - in what would be one of tokyo s first arms transfers since ending a self-imposed embargo .
tokyo hopes that by gaining a head start on rival exporters of rail technology such as china and germany , its companies will be able to dominate business in one of the most promising markets for high-speed rail equipment .
in 2015 , china won a contract to assess the feasibility of a high-speed link between delhi and mumbai , part of a network of more than 10,000 km ( 6,214 miles ) of track india wants to set up , but little progress has been made .
bullet train critics say the funds would be far better spent to modernize india s slow and rickety state-controlled rail system , the world s fourth largest .
but a $ 15-billion safety overhaul has hit delays as a state steel firm proved unable to fill demand for new rail .