london ( reuters ) - an improvised explosive device exploded on a packed rush-hour commuter train in london injuring 22 people on friday in what police said was the fifth terrorism incident in britain this year .
here is what we know about the incident : emergency services said they were called to reports of a fire on a train at parsons green station in west london at 8.20 a.m. ( 0720 gmt ) .
the train was traveling from wimbledon in south london toward the city center during the morning commuter rush-hour .
there were reports in local media that there had been an explosion and people suffered facial burns at 8.40 a.m. at 10.15 a.m. , police declared they were treating it as a terrorism-related incident .
the london ambulance service said they had taken 18 people to hospital following the incident , which witnesses say prompted a stampede to leave the train .
none of the casualties are suspected to have sustained serious injuries .
the national health service said others had taken themselves to hospital , bringing the total number treated to 22 .
london fire brigade said six fire engines , two fire rescue units and about 50 firefighters were in attendance .
british prime minister theresa may will chair a meeting of the national security committee at 1.00 pm ( 1200 gmt ) .
britain s top counter-terrorism officer said the blast was the result of an improvised explosive device .
pictures shared on social media showed embers burning from a white bucket which had been wrapped in a plastic shopping bag .
wires were protruding from the bucket and witnesses described an acrid smell filling the carriages .
a former ministry of defence head of counter-terrorism told sky news it looks a pressure cooker device that has malfunctioned .
the broadcaster also reported that the device did not fully detonate .
the metropolitan police s counter terrorism unit is leading the investigation into the incident , with support from the british transport police .
mark rowley of the metropolitan police said the intelligence services were supporting the police response .
there have been no details or information about any suspects who might be linked to the blast .
rowley would not be drawn on whether the attacker was on the train at the time of the explosion .
it s very much a live investigation , and we re following down the lines of enquiries , rowley said .
he did not comment when asked if he had any idea who did it .