the media research center recently published a study showing that 91 % of the coverage donald trump received during his campaign was considered negative or hostile .was it even necessary to prove that almost all of candidate trump s media coverage was negative or hostile compared to hillary clinton s ?
for the most part , the media mocked anyone who even suggested hillary had a part in the benghazi attack that took the lives of 4 innocent americans .
they ignored and even laughed at the brave victims who came forward and publicly accused hillary of enabling her sexual predator husband , while referring to her as a champion of women and girls .
the media did everything in their power to push hillary s email scandal to the bottom of the news pile , but were finally forced to address it when fbi director james comey came forward and announced his investigation into her unsecured email server that was being used for official state department business.after several months of keeping a pretty low profile , hillary is coming out with excuses about why she lost the election .
the timing is a bit suspicious however after an inside account of hillary s disastrous campaign was just released by an insider who wrote a tell-all book titled shattered that offers a less than charitable view of the real hillary clinton.watch hillary in her latest video , as she hilariously blames the press for losing the election : here s the second part of hillary s appearance where she tells the crowd she was on her way to victory until fbi director james comey ruined it for her : politico in addition to receiving far more network coverage , the networks spent far more airtime focusing on the personal controversies involving trump , such as his treatment of women , than controversies surrounding clinton , such as her email practices or the clinton foundation.for the study , mrc analyzed all 588 evening news stories that either discussed or mentioned the presidential campaign on the abc , cbs and nbc evening newscasts from july 29 through october 20 ( including weekends ) .
of the total newscasts , the networks devoted 29 percent of their time to the campaign .
the study did not include comments from the campaigns or candidates themselves , instead focusing on what the correspondents , anchors , expert commentators , and voters on the street said in order to try and hone in on any sort of slant from the networks.though neither candidate was necessarily celebrated , clinton largely just stayed out of the line of fire .
even when they were critical of hillary clinton for concealing her pneumonia , for example , or mischaracterizing the fbi investigation of her e-mail server network reporters always maintained a respectful tone in their coverage , the study found .
this was not the case with trump , who was slammed as embodying the politics of fear , or a dangerous and vulgar misogynistic bully who had insulted vast swaths of the american electorate .
it doesn t really surprise me , i think most people got the sense that this was a hostile place for trump , the establishment media , said rich noyes , director of research for the mrc .
i would say looking at the big picture , the trump campaign and to a lesser extent republicans in general wanted this to be a referendum on obama the clinton campaign , the democrats , once trump was picked wanted this be a referendum on donald trump .
television news has for the past 12 weeks has been giving the democrats the campaign they wanted .