amsterdam/united nations ( reuters ) - an inquiry by the global chemical weapons watchdog found sarin was used in a march attack in syria on an opposition-held town , just days before the banned nerve agent killed dozens in a separate attack nearby , sources told reuters on wednesday .
the march 30 air strike in the northern syrian town of latamneh injured around 70 people who suffered nausea , foaming at the mouth and muscle spasms .
samples analysis results show clear presence of sarin , a source told reuters of the findings by the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons ( opcw ) .
the report by the opcw syria fact finding mission is due to be finalised within weeks .
the fact finding mission reported in june that sarin was used in an april 4 attack on the town of khan sheikhoun that killed dozens of people and prompted the united states to launch missiles on a syrian air base .
syria agreed to destroy its chemical weapons in 2013 under a deal brokered by russia and the united states .
the syrian government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons during the country s more than six-year civil war .
the opcw fact finding mission is only responsible for determining if chemical weapons were used in attacks in syria .
a joint united nations and opcw investigation , established by the u.n. security council in 2015 , determines who is to blame .
this team - known as the joint investigative mechanism ( jim ) - has already found syrian government forces were responsible for three chlorine gas attacks in 2014 and 2015 and that islamic state militants used mustard gas .
it is due to report to the security council this month on who is to blame for the april 4 khan sheikhoun attack .
the 15-member security council is due to renew the mandate for the jim by mid-november .
however , russia has publicly questioned the work of the inquiry and some diplomats said it was uncertain if moscow would support extending the mandate .
the russians don t like what the jim has come up with so far , so they are muttering about not allowing a rollover , said a council diplomat , speaking on condition of anonymity .
russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia declined to comment on the future of the inquiry on wednesday .
renewing the u.n. joint investigative mechanism now should be the security council s top priority , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said in a statement on wednesday .
we owe it to the innocent people - including children - who have suffered and died at the hands of the syrian regime to continue to push for full accountability for these horrific crimes , she said .
u.n. war crimes investigators said in a report last month that syrian forces had used chemical weapons more than two dozen times , including in a sarin attack on the town of khan sheikhoun in april that killed more than 80 people .