london ( reuters ) - one of the chennai six group of ex-british soldiers jailed in india was dragged to a psychiatric hospital and force-fed anti-psychotic tablets during his time in jail , a london court considering whether to extradite indian tycoon vijay mallya was told on thursday .
mallya , 61 , is wanted in india on fraud and money-laundering charges relating to his defunct kingfisher airlines and indian authorities want to recover about $ 1.4 billion they say kingfisher owes .
the businessman , co-owner of the force india formula one team , who moved to britain in march last year , says the case him is politically motivated and is fighting extradition on several grounds including a claim that jail conditions in india are incompatible with british human rights laws .
as part of this , his lawyer quizzed prison conditions expert dr alan mitchell about a conversation he had had two days ago with one of the former british soldiers who had been held for four years in india on weapons-smuggling charges after the vessel they were working on strayed into indian waters in 2013 .
the soldiers were released from jail in chennai , eastern india , after a successful appeal and began arriving back in britain last week .
the ex-soldier , named only as a , said he had been grabbed by 15 prison guards and prisoners and taken to a psychiatric hospital because he had been excessively walking around the prison , mitchell told london s westminster magistrate court .
while in the psychiatric hospital , he stated he was tied up , gagged , he was beaten and he was forcibly injected .
in addition he described being force-fed anti-psychotic tablets that he managed to spit out , mitchell said .
asked by mallya s lawyer clare montgomery about assurances given over the treatment of mallya , who she said had diabetes , coronary artery disease and sleep apnoea , mitchell said the british government had likewise told parliament that the chennai six were being well looked after .
despite assurances having been given in parliament , a was extremely disappointed by what effect the involvement of the high commission and the uk government had on conditions in which he and his fellow prisoners were held , he said .
mark summers , the lawyer representing the indian government , said mitchell s evidence involved an uncorroborated account which could be used as a platform for a compensation claim against the uk government .
he said conditions in chennai would bear no relation to the jail in mumbai where mallya would be held .
another hearing in the london extradition case against mallya will be held on jan. 10 with a decision expected at a later date .