washington ( reuters ) - emotions over abortion simmered on the sidewalks outside the u.s. supreme court on wednesday , with hundreds of activists on both sides of the issue staging dueling rallies and anti-abortion lawmakers joining the fray .
“ if you support life , let me hear you scream , ” south carolina republican u.s .
senator tim scott told anti-abortion demonstrators , eliciting yells and applause .
“ we are talking about 10 fingers and 10 toes and one precious heart .
we are here for the right reasons. ” the court heard arguments in a legal challenge to a restrictive , republican-backed texas abortion law , with a ruling expected by the end of june .
it was the latest flashpoint in america ’ s culture wars .
christina bennett , a member of the national black pro-life coalition , shared her story during the anti-abortion rally about how her mother made a last-minute decision not to abort her .
“ i ’ m so grateful for my life and i love my life , ” bennett said , defending the texas law at issue in the case that imposes regulations on abortion doctors and clinic buildings , rules that supporters of the measure state are intended to protect women ’ s health .
anti-abortion protesters held large posters with photos of aborted fetuses and signs that read , “ protect women , protect life. ” one young woman clutched rosary beads in her hands and had red tape over her mouth with the word “ life ” written on it .
republican u.s. house of representatives speaker paul ryan addressed the anti-abortion rally , but was barely audible over screams from abortion rights protesters shouting , “ stop the sham ! ” abortion rights advocates contend the texas law is not aimed at protecting women ’ s health but rather at imposing burdensome regulations that would force abortion clinics to close .
demonstrator hannah friedman , a george washington university student , held up a coat hanger with # wewontgoback scribbled across the front , a reference to how unsafe abortions were performed before the supreme court legalized abortion nationwide in 1973 .
“ i think it ’ s really important to speak against the pro-life rhetoric going on behind me , with people using the bible to defend their own personal beliefs and then inflict those beliefs upon me and my life and my decisions , ” friedman added .
“ this has been one of the most challenging , difficult and intense years of our lives , ” amy hagstrom miller , founder of whole woman ’ s health , one of the abortion providers that challenged the law , told supporters .
“ after all , we have nothing to hide and we stand in the light . ”