geneva ( reuters ) - north korea does not want to start a nuclear war and the world is not seeking to overthrow its leader kim jong un , the u.n. disarmament chief said on tuesday .
izumi nakamitsu , u.n. high representative for disarmament affairs , said there was hope for a peaceful end to the tension caused by the nuclear ambitions of north korea , also known as democratic people s republic of korea ( dprk ) .
i don t think dprk wants to start a nuclear war , she told a news conference in geneva .
on monday , the u.n. security council unanimously decided to step up sanctions on north korea after its sixth and largest nuclear test , prompting a war of words between diplomats at the conference on disarmament in geneva .
asked if the pressure on north korea was pushing the world to the brink of nuclear war , nakamitsu said u.n. officials were in touch with all sides and nobody - including north korea - saw a military solution to the crisis .
that is just too catastrophic , she said .
i think we all understand the consequences of a military escalation , a military solution .
that s why we keep saying that it would not be a solution for anyone , including dprk .
she added : maybe i m missing something but as far as i hear , no one is really asking for any collapse of dprk , quite the contrary .
no one is talking about regime change , quite the contrary .
she was also hopeful that , as in the past , increased nuclear tensions might yield progress in disarmament talks .
when people say that because the international security environment is so difficult , tensions are so high , that we can t discuss disarmament , that is historically not accurate .
u.n. secretary general antonio guterres has offered to play a role in mediating , as has switzerland .
so far no such steps have been taken , but the united nations was prepared to get involved if asked to do so , nakamitsu said .
we are definitely preparing ourselves , exploring scenarios as part of our normal contingency planning .