paris ( reuters ) - during his rapid rise to the presidency , france s emmanuel macron was sometimes referred to as a lucky general a leader with the right skills for the job but also a generous dose of the good fortune needed to win the day .
the 39-year-old certainly took advantage of a string of lucky breaks , especially a corruption scandal that derailed the campaign of front-running , center-right rival francois fillon .
but six months into his occupation of the elysee palace , there are niggling signs macron s luck could be starting to turn .
in particular , the uncertain political picture in germany has complicated his ambition to reform europe s single currency zone , something he has put at the heart of his presidency and that stands or falls on franco-german cooperation .
and while changes he introduced early on to france s employment rules provoked less unrest than expected , the impact on the economy has so far been muted .
his plans to amend the pensions and benefits system may not be so readily accepted .
from a fiscal point of view , one of his main objectives is to bring the national deficit below 3 percent of gross domestic product for the first time in a decade .
yet current indications are that he will struggle with that goal , leaving france at odds with the eu s executive commission .
and within his own party en marche , formed as a grassroots movement a little over a year ago there is unease among some members about a top-down structure that goes against the ethos that propelled him to a five-year term in may .
some breaks continue to fall in macron s favor .
france last week won the right to host the european banking agency in a lucky dip against dublin , and domestically he faces little serious opposition from either the left or right .
but his biggest ambitions rely on a deep and sustained relationship with chancellor angela merkel , whose position after 12 years as germany s leader has been weakened over two months of so-far fruitless talks to form a governing coalition .
we are naturally paying close attention to everything that might help stabilize the political situation ( in germany ) , benjamin griveaux , a close macron ally who was recently named the government s new spokesman , said on monday .
without a strong partner it will obviously be more difficult to carry out the president s ambitious european project .
at one level , the fact that merkel is now talking to germany s social democrats ( spd ) about a grand coalition , after overtures to the liberals and greens failed , is positive for macron since the spd is more avowedly pro-eu .
but there s no guarantee the spd will sign up to macron s agenda , even if its leader , martin schulz , is a former european parliament president who is committed to the project .
schulz has only gone as far as to say macron s ideas need to be discussed in coalition talks with merkel , while other spd officials say domestic reforms to health insurance and pensions are a more pressing consideration .
europe is not a theme where we can simply push things through , said johannes kahrs , a budget expert for the spd in parliament and leader of the party s conservative wing .
macron s ideas for overhauling the euro zone , including the creation of a region-wide budget , finance minister and separate parliament , may be just too ambitious for germany to swallow .
it would be nice if the conservatives went along with the idea of a budget for the euro zone , but they need to want it , said kahrs .
it would make no sense to try to bully them .
even as he focuses on his grand ambitions , macron and his finance minister , bruno le maire , must battle to get the state s historically overstretched finances in order , while hoping that france s currently steady growth rate doesn t falter .
the budget deficit has been falling and should dip just below 3 percent next year , but from the european commission s point of view that is insufficient .
it wants more done on the structural deficit , which strips out the business cycle .
if macron and le maire are to achieve more , it will likely mean cutting deeper into regional budgets , where planned reductions have already provoked anger among mayors .
unemployment figures show job creation is at a record high but the jobless rate still ticked higher in the third quarter , rising to 9.7 percent .
while it is forecast to decline again , the french rate remains way above germany s of 5.6 percent .
jean pisani-ferry , a leading economist and former adviser to macron , believes perhaps the biggest risk macron faces is ensuring his european strategy pays off , because his domestic agenda will in large part be influenced by it in turn .
yet that depends a lot on germany , and the wider eu .
he s making a huge political investment ( in europe ) , said pisani-ferry , a professor of economics and public management at sciences po university .
and if you re making a huge political investment , you want at some point some pay-off .
if there is no pay-off whatsoever , then obviously there will be domestic political consequences .
it will be a setback for him .