kampala ( reuters ) - a spate of unsolved murders of young women in uganda is putting rare public pressure on a police force long accused by opposition politicians of spending more time suppressing political dissent than tackling crime .
widespread media coverage of the appearance of 20 corpses beside roadsides south of the capital since may reflects public anger with police for repeatedly saying they have arrested the perpetrators , only for another body to be discovered .
it s terrifying , susan kabul , 29 , told reuters , standing near the garbage-littered bank of a drainage channel where the latest murder victim was discovered .
the police need to tell us who is slaughtering people like this .
the government has defended the police , and police say they have arrested 30 suspects and charged 13 of them , listing possible motives ranging from domestic rows through sexual abuse to ritual murder linked to human sacrifice .
ritual killing is one of the motives that we suspect , we also think there might be cases of jilted lovers , police spokesman asan kasingye said by telephone .
other theories might come up as investigations progress .
there have been occasional individual cases of alleged ritual murder in the east african nation , but this is the first time there has been such a large number of people killed in similar circumstances in the same area .
in a nod to the public outrage , lawmakers stopped work for two days this week after the 20th body was found , saying ministers had failed to appear before the legislature over the killings in three districts on the outer edge of kampala .
government spokesman ofwono opondo accused them of populism .
they spoke as if the government is doing nothing , he said .
they should leave police to work without pressure .
the legislature is dominated by supporters of longstanding president yoweri museveni , who has been in power since 1986 .
the constitution was changed in 2005 to remove a two-term limit , allowing him to extend his rule , and parliament is discussing removing an age cap .
his son is a major general and powerful presidential adviser .
opposition leader kizza besigye , who contends that museveni stole his victory in last year s election , has been charged with treason .
police often break up opposition rallies with teargas , beatings or detentions .
the opposition and rights activists have long accused security forces of neglecting crime to focus on political control .
police can t secure women in a small area - all the attention is on politics , on who is criticizing museveni , said sarah birete of the centre for constitutional governance .
government spokesman opondo said police were doing a good job .
some people start disguised as political activists and degenerate to criminals , i think they are unhappy that the police is on their back , he said .
the police is right to focus on all forms of crime that can cause insecurity .
uganda is ranked among the world s most corrupt countries by watchdog transparency international .
the ugandan government s inspector general said in a 2014 report that the police force was the most corrupt public institution in the country and noted crimes were rarely investigated .
in wakiso , the district south of kampala where most of the victims have been found , few residents have faith that the killings will stop .
i have stopped moving about at night .
he could be a serial killer .
i don t know where he will strike next , said deo busulwa , who lives a stone s throw from the canalside bank location of the latest grisly discovery , of mother-of-two maria nabilawa .
many residents suspect the victims are killed elsewhere and the bodies dumped .
kasingye said they had arrested nabilawa s husband in connection with her killing .
( story refiles to add dropped word in fifth paragraph . )