beijing ( reuters ) - not enough effort is being put into teaching china s ethnic minorities standardized mandarin chinese during beijing s fight to eradicate poverty , a top advisor to the government said on saturday .
chinese president xi jinping has declared war on poverty , and instructed local governments to eliminate impoverishment to create a moderately well-off society by the beginning of 2021 , in time for centenary of the ruling communist party .
while regional authorities have dolled out supportive policies , funds and programs in china s poorest regions , they are failing to teach ethnicities enough mandarin , zhu weiqun , said in an article in the state-backed global times newspaper .
efforts to teach minority peoples mandarin are not up to scratch in various places , said zhu , who is head of the minorities and religions committee of the chinese people s political consultative conference , an advisory body .
i regularly come across low level cadres who with great effort use a mouthful of dialect to talk about their poverty alleviation plans without realizing that dealing with their own deficiencies in speaking mandarin is an urgent task , he said .
china promotes the use of standardized mandarin , based on the dialect of beijing , and encourages ethnic minorities to learn the official language in a bid to improve unity in multi-ethnic areas of the country .
but there has been resistance to the push for standardization in regions such as tibet and xinjiang , where tibetans and uighurs , a turkic speaking mostly muslim minority , often consider language integral to their cultural identity .
beijing denies that mandarin promotion damages minority culture , arguing that learning the official language gives minorities greater opportunities for work and schooling .
zhu said in the article that communication issues with workers from xinjiang could cause a vicious cycle when companies group the workers together hindering their ability to work with others .
over 70 percent of the population speaks mandarin , but there levels of fluency in west china are 20 percent lower than in the east , with only 40 percent of people able to speak mandarin in some rural areas , zhu said .
using standardized mandarin to alleviate poverty , using poverty alleviation to promote standardized mandarin , does not only have an economic importance , but also has a deep political importance , he said .