tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the organization of american states ( oas ) said late on sunday that honduras should hold new presidential elections , after the electoral tribunal declared conservative president juan orlando hernandez the official winner of the bitterly contested nov. 26 presidential vote .
the tribunal said that hernandez beat center-left challenger and tv star salvador nasralla by 1.53 percentage points , according to the official count , sparking fraud accusations and calls for renewed street protests .
in a nationally televised address , tribunal head david matamoros said all the challenges presented to it had been resolved and votes were recounted at select polling stations , declaring hernandez the president-elect for the republic of honduras .
oas secretary general luis almagro questioned the tribunal s decision .
the people of honduras deserve an electoral process that confers them democratic quality and guarantees .
the electoral process that the tribunal concluded today clearly did not provide that , almagro said in a statement .
he said the election was marred by irregularities and deficiencies and called for a new general election .
in a video posted on facebook , nasralla said it was clear there had been fraud before , during and after the election , calling the tribunal s decision a desperate move .
the candidate said he was headed to washington to meet with almagro , as well as officials of the u.s. state department .
the outcome of those meetings would help determine what steps to take next , he added .
the oas electoral observer mission said late on sunday it could not confirm that the election had been intentionally manipulated but added that the process had been riddled with issues .
honduras has been roiled by political instability and violent protests since the vote , which initial counts suggested nasralla had won .
the count has been questioned by the two main opposition parties , including the opposition alliance against the dictatorship , headed by nasralla , as well as a wide swath of the diplomatic corps .
however , european union election observers said the vote recount showed no irregularities .
after comparing a large random sample of voting records provided to us by the alliance and the original records published on the tribunal s website , the mission observed that the results presented practically no differences , said jose antonio de gabriel , the adjunct head of the eu s mission .
former honduran president manuel zelaya , who backed nasralla , took to twitter , saying hernandez is not our president and urging people to take to the streets in protest .
tv broadcast images of protesters setting up flaming barricades and blocking roads in cities around the country .
the tribunal had initially declared nasralla the leader in an announcement on the morning after the vote , with just over half of the ballot boxes counted .
it then gave no further updates for about 36 hours .
once results started flowing in again , nasralla s lead began narrowing and eventually disappeared .
that prompted national protests , in which 22 people were killed , including two police officers , according to a tally by the committee of detained disappeared persons in honduras .