nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan authorities banned protests in central nairobi and other hotspots as they tried to keep a lid on mounting political turmoil in the build-up to a repeat presidential vote .
the order issued on thursday covered business districts in nairobi , the western city of kisumu and the port of mombasa - the scenes of repeated demonstrations since the supreme court annulled the last vote in august , citing irregularities .
the main opposition , which has held rallies calling for electoral reforms and the sacking of vote officials , said it would take to the streets again on friday , and on a daily basis from monday , despite the ban .
the protests are covered by the bill of rights in the constitution .
we do not hold the protests as a favor by the state , dennis onyango , the spokesman for opposition leader raila odinga , said .
politicians and activists from all sides have traded insults and accusations since the court ruling , raising fears of a repeat of the ethnically charged violence that killed around 1,200 people after a contested 2007 vote .
president uhuru kenyatta , whose august election victory was annulled by the court ruling , is due to stand again against odinga on oct. 26 .
but this week odinga announced he was withdrawing from the race , because of failure to reform the election board .
the board responded that the vote would go ahead anyway with the names of odinga and the other original candidates on the ballot paper .
at least 17 demonstrators were hospitalized on wednesday with bullet wounds and other injuries , said medical workers in kisumu , an opposition stronghold .
the opposition has accused the police of using excessive force while the government has accused the protesters of destroying private property .
reuters saw footage of a crowd attacking a policeman with stones and sticks during protests in the western town of homa bay , near kisumu .
marius tum , the homa bay police boss , said 14 people had been arrested and would be charged with assault and participating in unlawful assembly .
odinga s spokesman onyango did not immediately respond to a request for a comment on the incident .
the standoff has spooked investors in the region s richest economy .
the all share index on the nairobi bourse was 0.43 percent lower at the close , amid low volumes , traders said .
in august , only odinga and kenyatta polled more than one percent .
three of the other candidates - abduba dida , japheth kavinga and ekuru aukot - told reuters they intended to stand again .
the political battle in this country has been between the odingas and the kenyattas for the longest time , said aukot .
voters will be looking for a neutral person who can pacify the country .
a kenyan rights group said this week that at least 37 people were killed in protests immediately following the aug. 8 poll .
the opposition did not call any protests on thursday .