lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - a pakistani court on wednesday summoned a police officer investigating the case of a missing peace activist who is believed to have been kidnapped by unidentified men this month .
four activists critical of the army and its attitude towards militant groups went missing this year but reappeared after about a month .
two later said pakistani military intelligence agents abducted and tortured them .
the military denied the accusations .
the latest activist to go missing is raza mehmood khan , 40 , a member of aghaz-i-dosti ( start of friendship ) group that works to build peace between arch-rivals pakistan and india .
he has not been heard from since dec. 2 and his family filed a writ of habeas corpus in a court in the eastern city of lahore in the belief he has been unlawfully detained , a lawyer acting for his family said .
the lahore high court took up the case on wednesday and the presiding judge , anwar ul haq , asked for the officer in charge of the police station handling the case to appear at the next hearing on dec. 19 .
the lawyer , usama malik , told reuters a neighbor had called police on the night of dec. 2 to report that khan was being kidnapped by unknown men .
khan s brother and police arrived to find khan gone , along with his mobile telephones and computer , the lawyer said .
police were not available for comment on the court summons on wednesday .
police said earlier they had no suspect in the case and they were investigating .
on the day of his disappearance , khan had spoken at a forum on militancy .
everyone discussed their views and , of course , raza was very critical , said a friend , rahim-ul-haq .
khan had also posted comments on facebook critical of the military and its suspected link to some islamist hardliners who at the time were protesting against the civilian government .
liberals in pakistan have long criticized what they see as the military s use of some militant factions to further its political and security objectives .
the army denies sponsoring militant factions .
it regards security policy , especially towards neighbors india and afghanistan , as its responsibility .