carlsbad caverns national park , n.m. ( reuters ) - u.s. president barack obama and his family escaped the blistering heat of the chihuahuan desert on friday when they went through a maze of ancient caverns where the only sound was the drip-dripping from stalactites .
the subterranean adventure was the first stop on a working vacation during which obama will spend some time with his teenaged daughters while making the case for more spending on conservation and curbing climate change .
it was just like any other family holiday , except the entourage of secret service agents , aides and press who follow obama wherever he goes had to descend the 754 feet ( 230 m ) on elevators in eight shifts .
“ how cool is this ? ” he said to the press in the dark , damp alien landscape of the “ big room , ” the best known of the labyrinth of limestone caves that actor will rogers once called the “ grand canyon with a roof on it. ” the president is helping celebrate the centennial of the national park service while highlighting his plan to reduce climate-changing carbon emissions , which he sees as part of the legacy of his time in office .
the white house has said the changing climate evidenced by droughts , increased flooding and wildfires and stronger storms has put national parks at risk .
the obamas were due to fly west later on friday to the sierra nevada mountains and yosemite , the country ’ s oldest national park and one of its most popular landmarks .
visits to national parks have surged due in part to lower gasoline prices .
still , roads , sewer systems and visitor centers in national parks are aging , and the government is grappling with a $ 11.5 billion backlog of maintenance projects .
at carlsbad , elevators broke down in 2015 , though they seemed in good shape for the obamas ’ descent .
during his time in office , which will end on jan. 20 , 2017 , obama has added 20 sites to the national park system , protecting more than 265 million acres of public land and water and historic sites with new parks , monuments and restrictions for development , more than any other president .
interior secretary sally jewell said national park visits in 2016 were on pace to beat last year ’ s record of 307 million .
tourists contributed an estimated $ 300 billion to the economy , supporting about 2 million jobs , she told reporters .
she wants congress to remember those numbers as it considers investments in public lands .
republicans have slammed obama for adding sites at a time when the government does not have enough funding to look after existing ones .
“ to me , there is little point in conserving lands or allowing the federal government to acquire even more land if we are not going to take proper care of them , ” senator lisa murkowski , a republican from alaska who is the chairman of the senate energy and natural resources committee , said last year .