beirut ( reuters ) - a first convoy of the military operation that turkey is carrying out in syria s idlib province crossed into the area late on thursday , two rebels and a witness said .
the convoy included about 30 military vehicles , said abu khairo , a commander in a free syrian army ( fsa ) rebel group based in the area , and it entered syria near the bab al-hawa border crossing , according to a civilian witness .
it was heading to sheikh barakat , a hilltop that overlooks large areas of rebel-held northwestern syria , but also the afrin area held by the kurdish ypg militia .
the convoy was escorted by fighters from tahrir al-sham , an alliance of jihadist groups including the former al qaeda affiliate previously known as the nusra front , abu khairo said .
the turkish army convoy is entering under the protection of tahrir al-sham to take positions on the front line with the ypg , another fsa official in the area said .
turkey said on saturday it was carrying out a military operation in idlib and surrounding areas as part of a deal it reached with russia and iran last month to enforce a de-escalation zone in northwest syria .
the zone is one of several set up around syria to reduce warfare between rebels , including groups backed by turkey , and the government , which is supported by both russia and iran .
tahrir al-sham opposes the de-escalation deal with the government , but its role in escorting the turkish reconnaissance team on sunday indicated there might not be any direct military confrontation between its fighters and turkey .
the turkish military operation in idlib will also include syrian rebel groups involved in the euphrates shield operation that ankara launched in syria last year further to the east , turkish president tayyip erdogan said on saturday .
tahrir al-sham and euphrates shield rebels have fought previously and the jihadist alliance has this year battled other insurgents in idlib and surrounding areas in an effort to consolidate its control .
turkey s decision to launch the euphrates shield campaign a year ago was aimed partly at pushing islamic state from its border , but also at stopping the kurdish ypg from gaining more sway .
backed by the united states in its battle against islamic state , the ypg has seized much of northeastern syria and was trying to link that territory up with its canton in afrin .
turkey regards the ypg as an extension of the kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) that it is fighting at home , and by gaining a presence in sheikh barakat , its forces would surround afrin on three sides .
several turkish military vehicles , ambulances and tankers were visible in photographs published by turkey s anadolu news agency late on thursday stationed at a village near turkey s reyhanli border gate opposite bab al-hawa .