ljubljana/belgrade ( reuters ) - in 2009 , serbian general vladimir lazarevic was convicted by a u.n. court of war crimes over the forced deportation of more than 700,000 ethnic albanians during the 1989-99 kosovo war .
the squat , bespectacled lazarevic was one of the chief executors of a systematic effort to empty the then-serbian province of ethnic albanian civilians and raze their homes in the last bloody chapter in the collapse of yugoslavia .
this week , two years after he was released from jail , the 68-year-old found a new job lecturer to the next generation of serbian soldiers at the country s military academy .
where a war crimes conviction might count as a minus in most countries , in serbia it has become a badge of honor .
the role models for the cadets should be serbian generals , in particular those who have proven themselves in the toughest of times , defence minister aleksandar vulin told the vecernje novosti newspaper on wednesday , confirming the appointment .
the move has alarmed human rights activists in the balkan country .
but lazarevic is not alone .
he is one of a trio of convicted serbian war criminals who have risen to political prominence since serving out their sentences , testing trust in the country s claim to have left behind its dark past and embraced western democracy .
civil society activists and western diplomats are warning of the damage to serbia s image abroad and to the slow process of reconciliation in the region a key condition of integration with the european union .
accession talks with the eu opened at the end of 2015 and are not expected to end before 2022 .
the message is very dangerous ; it s playing with fire , said natasha kandic , a prominent human rights lawyer in serbia who has spent years documenting war crimes in kosovo and elsewhere in the former yugoslavia .
this is not even historical revisionism , it s the introduction of crime as a recommended act , kandic told reuters .
it s the end of any vision of european integration , good neighborly relations , regional cooperation none of that makes any sense after this .
a spokeswoman for the eu s foreign policy arm did not respond to a request for comment .
reuters could not obtain a phone number for lazarevic , who rarely appears in the media .
a spokeswoman said vulin was not immediately available to comment .
convicted war criminal nikola sainovic , a close ally of late serbian strongman slobodan milosevic during the kosovo war , was appointed to the governing board of serbia s co-ruling socialist party within a week of being released in 2015 .
former army officer veselin sljivancanin , convicted in the hague over the killing of more than 200 croat prisoners of war at a pig farm in the croatian town of vukovar in 1991 , is now a regular feature at events of the ruling progressive party of conservative president aleksandar vucic .
lazarevic , sainovic and sljivancanin have always denied any wrongdoing .
while there is no law barring them from political roles , their prominence and the enthusiasm with which they have been embraced sit uneasily with the image vucic has projected of a reformed former ultranationalist determined to take serbia into the european mainstream .
vucic , serbia s information minister during the kosovo war , wowed european capitals this year with his choice of a lesbian technocrat as prime minister .
the appointment of vulin , a hardliner and former ally of milosevic s exiled widow , as defense minister in june was seen as a nod to nationalists and serbian ally russia , however .
last week , vulin told a gathering of army veterans that serbia need no longer feel ashamed but quietly proud of officers such as lazarevic , the bravest of the brave .
afterward , washington s ambassador to belgrade , kyle scott , took to twitter .
unfortunately , months of work on improving serbia s image in the us can be undermined with just one statement , he wrote on oct 11 .
kosovo , which declared independence with western backing in 2008 but is not recognized by serbia , said the appointment demonstrated that serbia has never changed .
we are deeply disturbed by the systematic glorification of war criminals in serbia , and their rehabilitation in senior political , security , and education institutions , kosovo s deputy prime minister , enver hoxhaj , told reuters .
kosovo s prime minister , ramush haradinaj , is himself a veteran of the war , a former guerrilla fighter against serbian forces who was twice tried and twice acquitted of war crimes by the u.n. court in the hague .
but convicted war criminals have made it into public office in other parts of the former yugoslavia : the mayor of the northern bosnian town of velika kladusa , fikret abdic , is a notorious former warlord , while johan tarculovski , the only macedonian to be convicted of war crimes in the hague , is now a member of parliament .
the gradual normalization of relations between serbia and kosovo is central to serbia s eu accession hopes , but the process has dragged on for years .
hoxhaj lamented what he called the silence of the international community on serbia s derailing from the alleged commitment to european values , democracy , rule of law and international justice .