dublin ( reuters ) - britain s talks on exiting the european union can not progress , as london wishes , to trade relations until it give more clarity on what will happen at its border with ireland , irish foreign minister simon coveney said on friday .
the border with northern ireland , which will be the uk s only land frontier with the eu after its departure , is one of three issues brussels wants broadly solved before talks on trade can start in december at the earliest .
on the border issue , i m sorry but we need more clarity than we have right now .
we can not move ahead to phase two on the back of a promise that we don t see any delivery mechanism to make a reality , coveney told a conference .
we don t need all the answers but we certainly need to have more assurance than we have today and we need some understanding that if the trade negotiations collapse , which could happen , that the irish issues will still be resolved and prioritized .
with close trading links to britain , ireland is considered the eu member most at risk when its neighbor leaves the bloc .
that means it needs to plan for all eventualities and is already doing so , coveney said .
ireland has called for britain and the eu to reach a bespoke customs union partnership to eliminate the risk of a hard border returning between it and northern ireland , which until a 1998 peace deal was separated by military checkpoints because of 30 years of sectarian violence in the province .
however , dublin wants britain to commit to a fallback option , including potential special arrangements for northern ireland , to avoid a customs border should britain s plan of maintaining the closest possible ties with the eu fall through .
if those assurances are forthcoming , dublin will probably be britain s closest friend in the trade talks but if london maintains its current position , some sort of customs border on the island of ireland can not be avoided , coveney said .
ireland s central bank has told irish firms to do more to prepare for an abrupt british departure and speaking at the same conference , allied irish banks chairman said ireland must be ready for a car crash brexit .
we must plan for the worst possible car-crash brexit if the ultra-brexiteers , the head-bangers , are prepared to blow up the british economy in the name of taking back control , richard pym said .