washington ( reuters ) - the trump administration plans to cap the number of refugees admitted to the united states in the coming year at 45,000 , two people with knowledge of the decision said on tuesday , and advocates said this historically low level is insufficient in the face of growing humanitarian crises worldwide .
that figure would be the lowest ceiling for refugee admissions since the u.s .
refugee act was signed in 1980 .
since then , the ceiling has never been set below 67,000 and in recent years has been around 70,000 to 80,000 .
the secretaries of state and homeland security are consulting with members of congress on wednesday , according to one white house official .
the president ’ s decision on the refugee limit will be announced following that consultation , two officials said .
the wall street journal first reported the 45,000 figure on tuesday .
by law , the president is required to consult with members of congress about the number of refugee admissions before the start of each fiscal year , on oct. 1 .
the number of refugees actually admitted to the country , which can fall below the cap , dropped to its lowest in the fiscal year after the sept. 11 , 2001 terror attacks with only around 27,000 admitted .
for fiscal year 2017 , which ends sept. 30 , former president barack obama established a cap of 110,000 refugees for permanent resettlement in the united states .
after taking office in january , president donald trump issued an executive order lowering the maximum number to 50,000 for 2017 , saying that more would be “ detrimental to the interests of the united states. ” critics said if the 2018 level is set even lower , it could damage the international reputation of the united states .
“ it ’ s tragic , ” said robert carey , former director of the office of refugee resettlement under obama .
“ it ’ s really moving away from the commitments the government has had for protections of refugees from both republican and democratic administrations , ” he said .
“ some people will die. ” in a speech to the united nations last week , trump said that more could be done to help refugees in their home regions .
offering financial assistance to hosting countries “ is the safe , responsible , and humanitarian approach , ” trump said .
but that type of assistance “ ignores all the people who have fled to places that are still not safe , ” said another former obama administration official , anne richard .
“ those are the people that the u.s. program really rescues , ” said richard , a former assistant secretary for refugees and migration at the state department .
she said other countries might try to follow suit by closing the door to more refugees .
a september 2016 study by the libertarian think tank the cato institute found that of 3.3 million refugees admitted to the united states between 1975 through 2015 , 20 were convicted of planning or committing a terrorist attack on u.s. soil .
a spokesman for the department of homeland security declined to comment ahead of trump ’ s final decision on the cap .
the state department did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
david inserra from the conservative think tank the heritage foundation said congress should have more of a say in setting the cap to avoid radical swings in the numbers when there is a change in administrations .
“ when president obama increased the number dramatically republicans said they didn ’ t want that but the consultation process didn ’ t give them any authority to stop it , ” he said .
“ now the same is going to be true for the other side . ”