admitting somalis who d been settled for years in pakistan like the ohio state jihadi and his family is only one of them .
another refugee absurdity was revealed recently the obama administration has agreed to admit illegal aliens intercepted at sea by australia and held in camps outside that country , on two pacific islands.the number of people said to be affected is reported to range from 1,600 to nearly 2,500 ; my colleague nayla rush has an overview here .
these are people australia has decided do not warrant refugee status ( or what our law would consider asylum ) .
therefore they have no right to move to australia .
but for a variety of reasons , australia can not , or does not want to , send them back , and the refugees won t accept offers of resettlement in new guinea or cambodia because they re holding out for a first world country .
what s more , their presence in those australian-run camps on the islands of nauru and manus ( the latter owned by papua new guinea ) has become a political headache .
most are from iran , with smaller numbers from pakistan , afghanistan , iraq , somalia , and elsewhere.i can see why australia would want this deal ; it costs oz taxpayers $ 2 billion to run the two island detention facilities and closing them down would rid the government of the headache .
but if australia doesn t consider them refugees , why should we take them ? it appears we re doing this as a favor to australia ; some speculate it s a quid pro quo for australia s taking some u.s.-bound illegals in camps in costa rica , though how that s comparable isn t clear , and australia has denied any such bargain .
the chairman of the house and senate judiciary committees , bob goodlatte and chuck grassley , also want to know why we re doing this , and they wrote to the secretaries of state and homeland security asking for details on the secret agreement to bring the illegal aliens here .
when capitol hill staffers asked the state department how many such refugees would be resettled here under the secret deal , they were told the number was classified .
read more at : nro