berlin ( reuters ) - germany s foreign minister urged parliament on tuesday to extend a military mission training kurdish peshmerga fighters in northern iraq , saying to withdraw the german force would raise the risk of a new civil war there .
germany resumed its military mission last month after a brief suspension following a referendum for independence in the semi-autonomous kurdistan region of northern iraq .
the vote was rejected by baghdad and triggered an iraqi military offensive that recaptured disputed areas of the north from the peshmerga .
german foreign minister sigmar gabriel , who will step down soon as his social democratic party returns to opposition after heavy losses in the sept. 24 election , was appealing to likely participants in the next government , particularly the greens , not to oppose an extension of berlin s military mission in iraq .
germany has about 150 soldiers training kurdish forces to fight islamic state militants in iraq and syria .
but the sharp rise in tensions between the kurds and iraq s central government has raised concern in germany about the mission s future .
gabriel said , however , the more international groups are active there , the lower the chance of a new escalation .
a withdrawal would be the wrong signal to the parties to the conflict , as if we were resigned to accepting the danger of a new civil war , he told reporters .
he said the berlin government had met with a variety of parties recently to urge a political solution to tensions between the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) and baghdad .
we hope that the very fragile ceasefire holds and that a political solution can be achieved .
a new civil war in iraq would bring unbelievable suffering to this country , which has already suffered too much as a result of political conflicts in recent years .
iraqi kurds voted overwhelmingly to break away from iraq in the sept. 25 referendum , defying the central government in baghdad as well as neighboring turkey and iran who have their own kurdish minorities .
in retaliation , iraqi government forces and the allied , iran-backed popular mobilisation militia recaptured the oil city of kirkuk and other disputed territories held by peshmerga just outside official krg boundaries .
on oct. 27 iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi declared a pause in the offensive , though it was unclear whether there was any official agreement on a ceasefire.the german cabinet has urged the bundestag ( lower house of parliament ) to vote to extend the mission by three months to give the next government time to review all foreign missions .
chancellor angela merkel s conservatives are trying to form a new coalition with the pro-business free democrats and the environmentalist greens after losing considerable support to the far right in the sept. 24 election .