new york ( reuters ) - new york city ’ s mayor bill de blasio announced a $ 82.2 billion budget plan for the 2017 fiscal year on tuesday , and promised an overhaul of the city ’ s ailing public hospitals that treat large numbers of undocumented patients .
de blasio , who hails from progressive circles of the democratic party , took office in 2014 after winning a landslide victory on a platform to reduce inequalities in the city .
“ at its core , our budget is our roadmap for lifting up communities , ” de blasio said .
“ the strategic investments we have put to work in every neighborhood , coupled with disciplined fiscal management , are producing real results for new yorkers. ” de blasio said the city ’ s public hospital system , recently rebranded as health & hospitals , is facing spiraling costs due to undocumented patients and would see a $ 1.8 billion deficit by 2020 if the city took no action .
the executive budget dedicates $ 2 billion to overhauling the $ 7.5 billion system , which treats around 1.4 million people per year .
about a third of its patients are undocumented immigrants and cost the system over $ 2 billion each year , the mayor said .
health & hospitals core revenue from treating poorer patients on federal and state support is under pressure as more private hospitals compete for these patients .
that has left the system with a larger share of undocumented patients .
the executive budget plan for the fiscal year beginning july 1 closely tracks a preliminary budget estimate of $ 82.1 billion the mayor presented in january .
the total budget represents a small increase over the previous year ’ s $ 81.7 billion spending plan .
the executive budget increases the city ’ s reserves by $ 250 million , bringing its retiree health benefits trust fund to $ 3.7 billion .
general reserves amount to $ 1 billion and $ 500 million is allocated to the city ’ s capital stabilization reserve .
budget officials said reserves were the highest in the city ’ s history .
the mayor has repeatedly stressed the need to prepare for an economic downtown in which the city would have to “ go it alone ” with reduced federal and state support .