new delhi ( reuters ) - india is deploying thousands of riot police and shutting down internet services in two northern states , as it prepares for the sentencing on monday of a self-styled godman whose followers went on the rampage after he was convicted of rape on friday .
gurmeet ram rahim singh s cult dera sacha sauda has a vast rural following in punjab and haryana states , where frenzied mobs burned down gas stations and train stations and torched vehicles after a local court found him guilty of raping two women in a 2002 case .
at least 38 people were killed and more than 200 injured in the violence in haryana , officials said , drawing sharp criticism for the state government run by prime minister narendra modi s bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) .
the case has also highlighted the indian heartland s fascination with spiritual gurus , who enjoy immense political clout for their ability to mobilize millions of followers frustrated by the shortcomings of the state .
security forces have cordoned off a jail in rohtak city , 70 km ( 44 miles ) from new delhi , where singh - also known as the guru of bling for the clothes he wears in the movies he has starred in - is being held .
the judge who convicted singh will hold a special hearing inside the prison in rohtak around 2.30 pm local time ( 0900 gmt ) on monday to decide the punishment , in a move that officials hope will prevent his followers from gathering in the streets like they did on friday .
singh faces a minimum of seven years in prison .
the town of sirsa , home to dera s headquarters , is already under lockdown , bs sandhu , haryana s police chief , told reuters .
school and colleges have been ordered shut , the government said .
we re fully prepared , we have a contingency plan in place , sandhu said , adding that more than 10,000 police would patrol the state as it awaits singh s sentencing .
neighboring punjab , where violence was sporadic , has summoned more than 8,000 paramilitary and police , banned large gatherings and switched off mobile internet connections across the state until tuesday , its top administrator said .
our intelligence reports caution that there could be arson and some other incidents , karan avtar singh , the chief secretary to punjab government , told reuters .
in godman singh s two films , messenger of god and its sequel , there are sequences in which he fights off villains and tosses burning motorbikes into the air .
in his spiritual avatar , singh dresses in plain white traditional clothes , giving sermons or planting trees .
in the movies he dons bejeweled costumes , rides motorbikes and sends bad guys flying .
the haryana government has faced severe criticism from opposition congress and a state court for failing to stop the rioting and vandalism .
singh , whose verified twitter profile calls him a saint , philanthropist , sportsman , actor , singer , movie director , writer , lyricists , and autobiographer , has been photographed with senior bjp leaders including haryana chief minister manohar lal khattar .
last year a haryana minister announced the state would donate 5 million indian rupees ( $ 78,000 ) to singh s dera to promote sports .
bir kumar yadav , bjp s haryana spokesman , said the party had been associated with singh only in his capacity as a social worker who had spread awareness about public sanitation and cleanliness .
modi also weighed in on sunday , vowing tough action against anyone trying to break the law .
i want to assure my countrymen that people who take the law into their own hands and are on the path of violent suppression - whether it is a person or a group - neither this country nor any government will tolerate it , he said in his monthly radio address , without directly mentioning the recent violence .
singh s conviction in a rape case is the latest in a series of cases involving spiritual leaders who have been accused of sexually abusing followers , amassing untaxed money and finding favor with politicians .
besides the rape charges , he is also under investigation over allegations that he convinced 400 of his male followers to undergo castration , allegations he denies .
( $ 1 = 64.0000 indian rupees )