ever since last month , the us media and the left wing politicians have been up in arm about alleged rise of nazism in america .
by now , the coverage has been incessant and beyond hysterical , as pundits and antifascist activists claim that a viable white supremacist movement is threatening to take over the country which is a media-driven alternative reality .
what america s mainstream media establishment will not mention is the us government s own role , particularly that of the obama administration and hillary clinton s state department ( and funded by her campaign financier george soros ) in helping to fuel the scourge of nazism in eastern europe , in the ukraine .
likewise , republicans and so-called conservatives will not want to mention party luminary senator john mccain s own personal role in promoting ukraine s far right parties and helping shoe-horn them into power in 2014 after a successful us-backed coup d etat and putsch , and the disastrous junta which has followed.the following open letter was posted by aleksandr gontar from donetsk in eastern ukraine , skillfully articulates the current farce in the united states and the feigned righteous indignation from the progressive left over the recent staged political altercation in charlottesville , virginia i always considered myself as a person with left-wing views , but looking at what is happening in the us i can t escape the thought that the american left , in its majority , is the dumbest and most useless comrade on the planet .
as a minimum , to profess liberal views and at the same time to call oneself leftist is a bit silly.the desperate fight of american comrades against nazis in general is comical .
they are shocked by a torchlight procession in charlottesville , while regular torch processions in the capital of ukraine , which they so fervently support in its fight for democracy , don t shock them .
i speak as well about simple red-blue rainbow plankton , as well as about the famous fighters against oppression a la tom morello ( whom i respect as a musician ) and other celebrities , cosplaying che guevara with a red star on the cap .
a nightmare , nazis are in america !
they hoisted the colors of the confederates and shaved their heads !
oh my god .
american nazis are the same clowns as american anti- fascists , by the way.kids , come into the ukraine , we will show you nazis .
real ones .
who kill people kill massively , proceeding from the racial theory .
they kill in savage ways like the ss did in the 40 s. we will show you a whole state that erects monuments to the ideologists and performers of the holocaust , of jewish riots , of the genocide of poles .
who sweep away monuments to the liberators of mankind from nazism .
a state with a nazi ministry of truth , repressions against dissent , promotion of racial hatred in schools , on tv , in children s books .
a state in which the ministry of internal affairs supervises a website that incites the committing of murder of unreliable citizens , openly publishing all their personal information as well as members of their families.so , when you will have such things in america , we will talk .
when you have , instead of a car crashing into a crowd of anti-fascists , these anti-fascists like cattle are herded into the local house of trade unions and will be burned with molotov cocktails ( finishing off with steel poles those who try to escape ) , when the fbi creates a website on which it will publish the addresses of those who criticize trump and the white race , and the organized alt-right will start to go to these addresses , who , after your murder , will be called patriots and will be released , so then we will believe in your whining about nazis.and for now , suck on it , mr american anti-fascists.this letter was originally published at stalker zone , translated by ollie richardson and angelina siard.read more alt right news at : 21st century wire alt right filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv