conakry ( reuters ) - at least one person was killed and several wounded when guinean security forces opened fire to break up a riot in the bauxite mining hub of boke , witnesses said on wednesday .
boke has suffered waves of rioting rooted in a perceived failure of mining to raise living standards , despite 15 million tonnes of aluminum ore being extracted annually by the west african nation s largest mining companies societe miniere de boke ( smb ) and companie bauxite de guinee ( cbg ) .
rioters on wednesday pillaged a gendarmerie post and set fire to a security forces vehicle , before guinean forces opened fire to push them back .
they also blocked streets to prevent mine workers from going to work , although smb said its basic operations were still in order .
we feel the tension has increased somewhat , frederic bouzigues , general manager of smb , told reuters .
many of our employees have not been able to get back to work and this affects us even if our essential operations are not blocked .
guinea sits on about a third of the world s bauxite , but it remains one of the world s poorest countries , and unemployment around mining sites is not significantly lower than in other places .
residents of boke protested this week over electricity shortages , another major gripe of residents .
the government said calm had now been restored , after two days of demonstrations .
i saw one person dead at the hospital , witness mamadou diallo told reuters by telephone .
it was a young man of 25 years .
i saw about twenty people wounded , he added .
similar riots at the end of april paralyzed boke , and youths trashed several government buildings before being pushed back by security forces firing live rounds , also killing at least one protester .
it was a difficult situation but we took steps to restore calm , government spokesman damantang albert camara said by telephone .
boke residents complain that while seeing none of the wealth from mining , they still suffer associated problems such as pollution from dust blowing off the back of trucks .