baghdad ( reuters ) - prime minister haider al-abadi declared final victory over islamic state on saturday after iraqi forces drove its last remnants from the country , three years after the militant group captured about a third of iraq s territory .
the announcement comes two days after the russian military announced the defeat of the militants in neighboring syria , where moscow is backing syrian government forces .
iraqi forces recaptured the last areas still under islamic state control along the border with syria , the military said .
honorable iraqis : your land has been completely liberated .
the dream of liberation is now a reality , abadi said in a televised address .
he was speaking with five iraqi flags and dozens of servicemen from different branches behind him .
we have accomplished a very difficult mission .
our heroes have reached the final strongholds of daesh and purified it .
the iraqi flag flies high today over all iraqi lands .
daesh is an arabic acronym for islamic state , also known as isis .
several squadrons of iraqi helicopters flew over baghdad carrying iraqi flags at noon , in an apparent rehearsal for a victory parade that iraq is planning to hold in coming days .
the government said the declaration meant iraqi forces had secured the western desert and the entire iraq-syria border , and marked the end of the war against islamic state .
abadi declared dec. 10 a national holiday to be celebrated every year .
state television aired celebratory songs praising government forces and militias , and showed scenes of celebration on the streets of baghdad and other provinces .
the u.s.-led coalition that has been supporting the iraqi forces against islamic state welcomed the news , as did brett mcgurk , the u.s. special presidential envoy to the coalition .
we congratulate the prime minister and all the iraqi people on this significant achievement , which many thought impossible , he said in a series of tweets .
we honor the sacrifices of the iraqi people , its security forces , and the kurdish peshmerga , and admire the unity in their ranks that had made this day possible .
the u.s. state department also issued a statement of congratulation .
mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , fell in july after a grueling nine-month campaign backed by a u.s.-led coalition that saw much of the northern iraqi city destroyed .
islamic state s syrian capital raqqa also fell to a u.s.-backed kurdish-led coalition in september .
the forces fighting islamic state in iraq and syria now expect a new phase of guerrilla warfare , a tactic the militants have already shown themselves capable of .
abadi said iraq had entered the post-victory over daesh phase and must be prepared for future threats .
daesh s dream is over and we must erase all its effect and not allow terrorism to return .
despite announcing final victory , we must remain vigilant and prepared against any terrorist attempt on our country , for terrorism is an eternal enemy .
the war has had a devastating impact on the areas previously controlled by the militants .
about 3.2 million people remain displaced , a u.n. statement said on saturday .
islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi , who in 2014 declared in mosul the founding of a new islamic caliphate in iraq and syria , released an audio recording on sept. 28 indicating he was alive following several reports of his death .
he urged his followers to keep up the fight despite setbacks .
baghdadi is believed to be hiding in the stretch of desert in the border area .
his followers imposed a reign of terror on the populations they controlled , alienating even many of those sunni muslims who had supported the group as allies against the heavy-handed rule of the shi ite majority-led government of the time .
the militants took thousands of women from the yazidi minority , which lives in a mountain west of mosul , as sex slaves and killed the men .
driven from mosul and raqqa , islamic state was progressively squeezed this year into an ever-shrinking pocket of desert , straddling the frontier between the two countries , by enemies that include regional states and global powers .
in iraq , the group faced mainly u.s.-backed iraqi government forces and kurdish peshmerga fighters , and iranian-trained shi ite paramilitaries known as popular mobilisation .
abadi praised the popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) and iraq s top shi ite cleric grand ayatollah ali al-sistani , whose fatwa calling volunteers to fight islamic state led to pmf s creation .
still , the prime minister said the state should have a monopoly on the use of arms .
disarming the pmf is seen as abadi s most difficult test after islamic state s defeat .
weapons should only be in the state s hands .
the rule of law and respect for it are the way to build the state and achieve justice , equality , and stability , he said .
abadi called for unity , which he said was the main reason for the victory , a reference to the contribution of different communities , including sunni tribal fighters .
however , iraq faces a fresh internal conflict after it retaliated economically and militarily against the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government for holding a referendum on independence despite baghdad s opposition .
the joy of victory is complete with iraq s unity after it was on the verge of division .
the unity of iraq and its people is the most important and greatest accomplishment , he said .