paris ( reuters ) - in his first seven months in office , president emmanuel macron has faced little opposition .
but come sunday , the once-dominant republicans elect a new leader they hope might recover the party s voice .
frontrunner to lead the party of former presidents jacques chirac and nicolas sarkozy is laurent wauquiez , an ambitious 42-year-old who like macron passed through the elite ena school and promises to shake up the political establishment .
there are few policy parallels between the two men , however .
wauquiez is a relentless critic of the 39-year-old president , dismissing him as out of touch with rural france , weak on security and too much in favor of closer european integration .
in his campaign to lead the party , wauquiez has charted a rightward path to attack macron s social and economic reforms .
the right is waking up .
it is back and i want to be clear : we re not going to be told what we can say or think any more , wauquiez told reuters .
the future of france s democracy can not be a centrist swamp that gathers both socialists and right-wingers around macron .
he will inherit a party in disarray , divided in its response to both macron s poaching of party stalwarts and economic policy that encroaches on their turf .
its candidate francois fillon was eliminated in the first round of this year s presidential election , and the party has had a caretaker interim leader since .
wauquiez bills himself as the champion of small-town , rural france - a france , he says , with which macron has no connection as he pursues a start-up nation .
they have no roots , they are completely out of touch with reality in this country , wauquiez told a rally in provins , outside paris , referring to macron and his lieutenants .
addressing campaign rallies in open-collar shirts , wauquiez says macron s tax policy will hammer the middle class and pensioners , denounces his labor reforms as a sham and accuses the government of being too soft on radical islam .
he has also drawn up future battlelines over the deeper european integration sought by macron .
he is the leader the right needs , said jacqueline mercier , 72 , after a rally in paris .
he is young , he is dynamic and his ideas truly represent us .
not all party loyalists agree and there is discord among its lawmakers too .
while wauquiez is popular with more conservative supporters , his bid to take the party fishing in waters of the far-right national front alarms party moderates .
several senior-ranking party members have warned they could jump ship .
if the right turns its back on the center , we will be in opposition for 20 years , said mael de calan , one of two junior politicians challenging wauquiez s leadership bid .
even so , inside macron s camp , some ministers are cautioning against underestimating the threat of wauquiez .
we need to be wary because he is very gifted , very strong and there s nothing he won t do .
he will establish a violent fight , gerald darmanin , macron s budget minister and former member of the republicans , told the newspaper le monde .
polls show wauquiez winning 60 to 75 percent of the votes on sunday for an outright first-round win .
more than 230,000 party members have the right to take part in the online election , but far fewer are expected to do so .
france is due to hold its next presidential election in 2022 .