for someone that ran on the drain the swamp platform , the current occupant of the white house has a funny way of showing it .
donald trump jr. has found himself in the middle of an email scandal ( the irony is palpable , isn t it ? )
in which he included trump s son-in-law jared kushner and former campaign manager paul manafort in the messages .
junior wanted to gather damaging information in 2016 against his dad s opponent , hillary clinton .
the problem is that he sought to collude with a hostile foreign government to get that info in order to get his father elected .
it s unethical and possibly illegal .
but , to donald trump that s politics !
which brings us full circle back to that drain the swamp campaign vow the former reality show star made .
most politicians would have gone to a meeting like the one don jr attended in order to get info on an opponent .
that s politics !
it tweeted.most politicians would have gone to a meeting like the one don jr attended in order to get info on an opponent .
that 's politics !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 17 , 2017no , amateur , most people would not have met with russians to obtain information .
most of them would call the fbi after a russian made contact in order to arrange a meeting.one twitter user wrote , many people supported you because you weren t the stereotypical politician .
and now , look !
you ve become that stereotype .
many people supported you because you were n't the `` stereotypical politician '' .
and now , look !
you 've become that stereotype luke waltham ( @ lukewaltham ) july 17 , 2017we ve been lied to repeatedly about that meeting.if the meeting don jr. went to was normal , why did he lie about it over and over ?
why did kushner lie about it on his security application ?
adam best ( @ adamcbest ) july 17 , 2017most politicians would not have gone to a meeting like the one don jr attended in order to get info on an opponent .
that 's treason !
eugene gu , md ( @ eugenegu ) july 17 , 2017the fbi should have been called in .
that s a no-brainer.no !
most people would have reported the proposition to the fbi.only the trumps would be fool enough to take the meeting .
# nicetrytrump val broeksmit ( @ bikinirobotarmy ) july 17 , 2017lol no they would n't , this must be your team right about now .
pic.twitter.com/xwa7unh0rl brandon keating ( @ brandontalks ) july 17 , 2017meeting with russian spies is not opposition research .
robert caruso ( @ robertcaruso ) july 17 , 2017no , not really .
true , most politicians are scumbags , but your kind is on a whole other level .
you 're swine , pal .
pic.twitter.com/ipixj00r4q michael roffman ( @ michaelroffman ) july 17 , 2017you really are off your rocker .
the whole lot of you is guilty as hell and i hope you burn for it .
you and your dumb son .
cx ( @ cxcope ) july 17 , 2017so , is it still a witch hunt ?
pic.twitter.com/uthscbr5fm vic berger iv ( @ vicbergeriv ) july 17 , 20177 in 10 americans think the fbi should arrest his cel phone first because he 's just making this worse the entire world is laughing at don anton newcombe ( @ antonnewcombe ) july 17 , 2017so much for draining the swamp charles capel ( @ charliecapel ) july 17 , 2017team trump can t even come up with a defense over junior s scandal .
when trump was on the campaign trail , he called on russia to hack hillary clinton s emails .
donald is so defensive and the signs are there that he possibly knew about the meeting before it even took place in his own building .
junior was well aware , according to the emails he released on twitter , that the information was coming from the russian government that the kremlin-connected lawyer was offering him .
again , this is a no-brainer but we re dealing with the trump administration here , and they do not understand that attempting to collude with russia is as bad as colluding with russia .
welcome to amateur hour at the white house.photo by andrew harrer-pool/getty images .