any sane person would think that after donald trump decided to freak the world out by threatening a nuclear war with north korea , then he would at least pretend to be working to keep some semblance of order after creating so much chaos .
that s not what happened , though .
the former reality show star was caught playing 18 holes of golf with some random dude named michael fazio .
while the rest of us are on pins and needles because a bloviating windbag wants to have a pissing contest with the north korean dictator , trump is hanging out with mike at the 18th hole.fazio posted the picture of him and trump out on a golfing date on instagram , saying that he had a fantastic day golfing with # 45 @ realdonaldtrump at trump bedminister [ sic ] today and added that they had an exciting match which came down to the 18th hole .
however , that picture was quickly deleted but not before it was discovered then circulated on twitter by social media users.after it was posted on instagram , social media friends of mike s wrote , awesome bro !
while trump made war noises at north korea , presumably in between holes.trump golfed with a random person today .
it 's the middle of the day on a wednesday .
golf games last ~3 hours.he .
does .
no .
work .
pic.twitter.com/jjhe57eqv7 p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 9 , 2017 '' we had an exciting match which came down to the 18th hole . `` wow .
just wow .
p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 9 , 2017who is the person who set up the game ? this is the person who `` set up '' the game .
who is he ?
pic.twitter.com/qwr8lfyqcg p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 9 , 2017trump tweeted this ~1.5 hours ago .
did he tweet it when he was golfing with mike fazio ?
did they laugh about it together ?
pic.twitter.com/g0qanjrg0s p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 9 , 2017good old mike posted it on facebook , too.i guess nobody gave mike the memo to not let the world know trump does n't do sh * t every day he posted it on facebook , too .
pic.twitter.com/kaatxtd0bh p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 9 , 2017well , mike must have deleted that post on facebook .
he claims to be the owner/ president at prime staffing nyc , according to his profile.the white house ( again ) failed to disclose this excursion to the press pool and we can imagine why .
a friend of trump s , richard levine , appears to have set up the outing , according to a washington post reporter.yes !
a donor to the donald j. trump foundation and one of @ realdonaldtrump 's most frequent golf partners .
https : //t.co/dqte4nqgmc david fahrenthold ( @ fahrenthold ) august 9 , 2017while trump threatened to nuke north korea , who in turn would lash out at south korea , etc , he was out with the owner of a new york city staffing company .
but according to trump , he is working hard while on his 17-day vacation at his luxury golf course .
of course , he takes breaks now and then to tweet out threats of nuking the world and that s totally normal , right ? read more : photo by chip somodevilla/getty images .