fort lauderdale and new york ( reuters ) - when more than 7.4 million homes and businesses are without power after a hurricane , utility workers tend to get noticed a bit more than usual .
that s what gus beyersdorf , 40 , and his colleague nick jensen , 32 , utility workers from wisconsin , found out while inspecting power lines in florida on monday .
the two - among the thousands of power-line workers brought in from out-of-state by major utilities - spent about five minutes outside a house in fort lauderdale , when two cars with women who said they lived in the neighborhood stopped to inquire about the return of power to their homes - obviously trying to get their attention .
i think you guys are sexy .
men in hard hats are attractive !
said one of the women , obviously just joking with the wisconsin men , but also making it clear that she would like it if they would get the power turned back on at her house .
major utilities in the state - including florida power & light co , duke energy corp and tampa electric - have mobilized tens of thousands of workers to deal with the enormous power outages , which by monday evening numbered more than 7.4 million homes and businesses after hurricane irma landed as a category 4 storm early sunday .
while the numbers in florida were declining slightly , more outages were being reported in georgia and other states as irma , now a tropical storm , moved north .
beyersdorf and jensen left northern wisconsin on friday morning and raced to southern florida to be in place ahead of irma s impact .
between 2,000 and 3,000 utility workers from out-of-state are staying at bb & t stadium in broward county , which is home to the national hockey league s florida panthers , said beyersdorf .
power losses in georgia , which were nearing 900,000 as of 3 p.m. edt , were expected to increase as the storm moved north .
in florida , the state s biggest electric company said its outages dipped to 3.3 million from a peak of 3.6 million earlier on monday .
a total of almost 4.5 million florida power & light customers have been affected by the storm , with about 1 million getting service restored , mostly by automated devices .
we ve never had that many outages , and i don t think any utility in the country ever has , fpl chief executive eric silagy said at a news conference on monday .
it is by far and away the largest in the history of our company .
fpl said it was still assessing the damage and could not yet say when it would restore service to most customers .
some homes and businesses could be without power for weeks , especially in the hardest-hit areas like southwest florida , the nextera energy inc unit said .
it took a week for matthew , jensen said , referring to a hurricane that last year did not make landfall in florida but caused power outages .
this one is going to take a lot longer .
as irma pushed north , outage figures were increasing at other large utilities , including units of duke energy , southern co and emera inc. duke s outages held around 1.2 million on monday evening , while emera s tampa electric utility said outages eased to about 320,000 from a peak earlier on monday of over 330,000 .
fpl said its two nuclear plants were safe .
both units at its turkey point facility , about 30 miles ( 48 km ) south of miami , were shut by early monday .
at its st. lucie nuclear plant about 120 miles ( 190 km ) north of miami , fpl reduced power at unit 1 because of salt buildup from irma in the switchyard , nrc spokesman roger hannah said .
the plant s other reactor , unit 2 , continued to operate at full power .
irma is expected to sap demand for fuel for a time , goldman sachs analysts said in a note on monday , but they cautioned that supply could remain strained because of refining capacity offline after hurricane harvey , which hit texas two weeks ago .