jakarta ( reuters ) - nearly 20 percent of high school and university students in indonesia support the establishment of a caliphate in the world s largest muslim-majority country over the current secular government , a new survey showed this week .
indonesia has in recent years seen its long-standing reputation for religious tolerance come under scrutiny as hardline islamic groups muscle their way into public and political life in the young democracy .
the vast majority of indonesians practice a moderate form of islam and the country has sizeable minorities of hindus , christians , and people who adhere to traditional beliefs .
religious diversity is enshrined in its constitution .
the survey by a jakarta-based organization polled over 4,200 muslim students , mostly in top schools and universities on java island , home to over half the country s population .
nearly one in four students said they were , to varying degrees , ready to wage jihad to achieve a caliphate .
this indicates that intolerant teachings have already entered top universities and high schools , pollster alvara , which carried out the survey , said in its report released tuesday .
the government and moderate islamic organizations must start taking tangible steps to anticipate this and be present in student circles with language that is easy for them to understand , the report added .
a presidential spokesman declined to comment on the findings .
hardline islamic groups late last year led mass street rallies against jakarta s former governor , a christian , whom they believed had insulted islam .
they eventually succeeded in derailing basuki tjahaja purnama s re-election bid in april this year , and he was subsequently jailed for blasphemy .
the ruling was criticized globally as unjust .
groups like the islamic defenders front ( fpi ) call for sharia law to be imposed on the country and believe its leaders should only be muslim .
the survey showed that the vast majority of students disagree with the establishment of an islamic caliphate and violence .
but authorities have repeatedly warned against the creeping influence of radical islamic thought among student organizations and in campus activities .
president joko widodo and his government are trying to contain the rising influence of hairline groups , especially in universities and islamic boarding schools .
a presidential decree banning any civil organizations deemed to go against the country s secular state ideology was approved by parliament last month .
hizb-ut-tahrir , a largely peaceful organization that calls for the establishment of a caliphate in indonesia , was the first group to be disbanded under the decree .
president widodo has made several speeches at islamic boarding schools around the country emphasizing indonesia s diversity and the importance of national unity .
in september , widodo called at a conference of around 3,000 university rectors for the promotion of the country s secular ideology , pancasila , in education .