cairo ( reuters ) - egypt has blocked the website of human rights watch just one day after the organization released a report on systematic torture in the country s jails .
reuters attempted to access the website late on thursday but was unsuccessful .
egyptian authorities keep insisting that any incidents of torture are isolated crimes by bad officers acting alone , but the human rights watch report proves otherwise , joe stork , deputy middle east director at human rights watch , said on thursday .
the report titled we do unreasonable things here , based on the accounts of 19 former detainees and the family of another , claimed egyptian authorities used arbitrary arrests , enforced disappearances , and torture .
rather than address the torture crisis in egypt , the authorities have blocked access to a report that documents what many egyptians and others living there already know .
egypt s foreign ministry lambasted the report in a statement on wednesday , saying it defamed the country and ignored progress made on human rights in recent years .
the report ... is a new episode in a series of deliberate defamation by such organization , whose politicized agenda and biases are well known and reflect the interests of the entities and countries sponsoring it , said foreign ministry spokesman ahmed abu zeid .
egypt first blocked access to a number of news websites including al jazeera and huffington post arabic in may after similar actions by its gulf allies saudi arabia and the united arab emirates .
but since , hundreds of other news sites and blogs have been wiped from egyptian screens with the most recent count according to the association for freedom of thought and expression , a non-government organization tracking the affected sites through software that monitors outages , at 424 .
journalists see the campaign against them as a step toward banning all but the most state-aligned media , effectively reversing the private media boom that flourished in the final decade of former president hosni mubarak s rule and which they say helped push him from power in 2011 .
the government has offered no comment on the reason behind the blockages .