( the september 15 story was refiled to correct to $ 4.4 trillion tax cut , not cost of plan in third paragraph ) by emily stephenson and alana wise ( reuters ) - republican presidential nominee donald trump unveiled a plan on thursday for $ 4.4 trillion in tax cuts , offering less generous tax breaks than his original $ 10 trillion plan but proposing to cut the current top rate for the wealthiest taxpayers .
trump ’ s proposal , which he detailed in a speech in new york , would reduce the top individual rate to 33 percent from the current 39.6 percent .
it would raise the standard deduction and cap itemized deductions , which he said would reduce tax loopholes .
trump said his plan would not add to the federal deficit .
trump said the $ 4.4 trillion tax cut would actually cost less , about $ 2.6 trillion , under a mechanism known as dynamic scoring , which assumes that tax cuts will lead to faster growth , which in turn would allow at least some of the tax breaks to pay for themselves .
trump also offered a “ penny plan ” for cutting federal spending .
he said he would shrink government programs outside of defense by 1 percent each year .
but entitlement programs such as social security and medicare would be shielded from any cuts .
the original tax plan laid out by the new york businessman last september was criticized by democrats and republicans alike for its costly price tag .
democrat hillary clinton , who will face trump in the nov. 8 election , denounced it as catering to the very wealthy and ignoring the working class .
some economists also questioned the assumptions underpinning the plan he outlined on thursday .
in his speech to the economic club of new york , trump predicted his updated package to reduce taxes , curb government regulation and take a tougher stance on negotiating trade agreements would produce annual economic growth of 3.5 percent .
“ everything that is broken today can be fixed , and every failure can be turned into a great success , ” trump said .
he added the plan would create 25 million jobs over a decade .
trump set 4 percent as a goal for economic growth , in a message reminiscent of that of his former republican rival jeb bush .
the u.s. economy last achieved 4 percent growth during the administration of democratic president bill clinton in the 1990s .
the economy grew 2.4 percent last year .
oren cass , a fellow at the manhattan institute and domestic policy director of republican mitt romney ’ s 2012 presidential bid , said the plan for 1 percent cuts in some programs would not be enough to pay for trump ’ s proposals .
“ it doesn ’ t square , ” cass said .
“ the penny plan is an idea that ’ s been out there for a while , but it does touch entitlement spending as well. ” maya macguineas , president of the bipartisan committee for a responsible federal budget , welcomed the scaling back of trump ’ s original tax-cut proposals but said the plan would still leave the country on an unsustainable budget path .
“ he ’ s moving in the right direction by pursuing a less costly tax plan and identifying some spending cuts to help pay for it .
but the plan appears to rely on rosy assumptions and murky policy changes , ” she said in a statement .
other groups have predicted more adverse effects from trump ’ s policies .
earlier this week , global economic research firm oxford economics projected the u.s. economy could be $ 1 trillion smaller than otherwise expected in 2021 if trump becomes president .