the hypocrisy of the hollywood elites who would hide the truth about a sexual predator is beyond the pale if i had a bucket list , i d say raising my four girls to be strong , good women would be number one .
-matt damon , 2010 interviewreally matt ?
what about the chance that you allegedly had in 2004 to save untold numbers of women from being victims of the disgusting hollywood kingpin and billionaire harvey weinstein ? though the new york times has been widely celebrated for its article exposing decades of sexual-harassment accusations against harvey weinstein , one journalist claims the paper sat on an earlier article detailing the producer s misconduct .
sharon waxman , founder of the wrap , writes that her own investigate reporting , which took her on an international trip to uncover rumors of weinstein s sexual misconduct , was cut from the times in 2004 under pressure from several hollywood elites .
waxman alleges in the wrap that matt damon and russell crowe called her directly to dispel the reports she was following about miramax s italian head fabrizio lombardo , who was allegedly hired to take care of weinstein s women needs .
she says that because of their influence , and interference from weinstein , whose company was a big advertiser in the times , the article was edited to remove the more salacious details .
damon and crowe had previously worked with weinstein on pictures like good will hunting , master and commander : the far side of the world , and cinderella man.waxman claims that the gutted story could have exposed weinstein much earlier .
i had people on the record telling me lombardo knew nothing about film , and others citing evenings he organized with russian escorts , waxman said .
she also alleges that she tracked down an intern in london who had been paid off in a settlement with weinstein .
i was devastated after traveling to two countries and overcoming immense challenges to confirm at least part of the story that wound up running last week , more than a decade later , she writes .
vulture