berlin ( reuters ) - the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) party called on thursday for the repatriation of half a million syrian refugees living in germany , saying the war there was nearly over and that president bashar al-assad had urged refugees to return home .
earlier on thursday , syria s army declared victory over islamic state , saying its capture of the jihadists last town in the country marked the collapse of their three-year , hardline reign in the region .
however , fighting is continuing in many areas , the united nations says , in a complex civil war in which millions have been killed or forced to flee their homes , many to neighboring countries or to europe .
the afd s proposal for repatriating syrian refugees is its first since it swept into germany s lower house of parliament , the bundestag , in september s federal election on an anti-immigrant platform .
it is the third largest party in the new bundestag but the proposal is very unlikely to win approval as mainstream parties including chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , the biggest bloc , have refused to work with the afd .
in its proposal , the afd said the new german government should immediately start talks with syrian authorities over a deal to repatriate the refugees .
this deal should ensure that the returnees will be accepted in syria and accommodated only in safe areas , the afd said in a statement adding that damascus must guarantee not to persecute citizens who escaped the military draft .
the proposal said syrian refugees children in germany should now be taught the syrian school curriculum , either by syrian teachers already resident in germany or by teachers sent by the syrian government for this purpose .
the statement , signed by the two party leaders alexander gauland and alice weidel , said the syrian government should work with germany to finance the repatriation , which they said should be free for the individual refugees .
the greens party , which is expected to join merkel s new conservative-led coalition , said the afd proposal showed the party to be irresponsible , inhumane and heartless .
no subject is too abysmal , no populism is too dirty for you .
shame on you !
greens politician luise amtsberg said on her facebook account , commenting on the proposal .
immigration is one of the difficult issues where merkel s conservative bloc , the left-leaning greens and the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) are struggling to forge a common stance in their coalition talks .
since the beginning of the year , some 156,000 people have applied for asylum in germany , more than 25 percent of them from syria , making them the biggest national group , data from the federal interior ministry showed on thursday .