because people who scale border walls and break the law to get into our country deserve the same taxpayer funded benefits as legal citizens right ? caving into the demands of the open borders movement and pro-immigrant spanish media , the department of homeland security ( dhs ) will refrain from enforcing immigration laws in areas of flint , michigan affected by a water crisis .
the water amnesty is the latest of many reprieves issued by the obama administration to help illegal immigrants nationwide .
judicial watch has reported on many of them , including recent hurricane , earthquake , ebola and severe weather amnesties.this one involves the widely reported water situation in flint , which is located about 66 miles northwest of detroit .
last year researchers discovered that the city s drinking water was contaminated with lead from decaying old pipes .
the problem arose after a switch in 2014 in the city s water source to save money .
soon complaints mounted that the water smelled and looked strange and academic researchers discovered that it was toxic .
this all occurred after a 7-1 vote by the flint city council to stop buying detroit water and join a new pipeline project , according to a local news report.now there s a state of emergency and the feds have stepped in , supplying the area with free bottled water and special filters to install at home until the local water supply is clean .
for weeks immigrant rights groups complained that residents had to show identification to receive their free goods from the government and illegal aliens were being left out .
national spanish-language media outlets blasted the obama administration for discriminating against illegal aliens .
one reported that undocumented immigrants weren t getting help for fear of being deported , instead opting to drink contaminated water or pay out of pocket to buy some .
another major spanish-language newspaper wrote that illegal immigrants and their children suffered lead poisoning and couldn t get clean emergency water because they didn t have identification cards .
when the national guard went door to door distributing potable water , many were scared to open because they feared the uniformed persons were immigration agents who would deport them , the paper wrote.the anti-defamation league ( adl ) , which claims to combat bigotry and protect civil rights for all , joined the cause expressing horror and indignation that the government denied undocumented immigrants free water and filters because they couldn t provide a photo id or social security number .
in a spanish-language statement the group s michigan chapter referred to news reports that flint-area fire department stations distributing water were requiring identification .
but even in places that aren t requiring id , illegal immigrants are scared to come out and get their potable water out of fear that they will be deported , the adl stresses in its announcement .
we are calling on the national guard to order all fire departments and other centers distributing supplies that no one be rejected .
like a good lapdog the obama administration obliged .
this week dhs issued a statement in english and spanish guaranteeing that u.s. customs and border protection ( cbp ) and u.s. immigration and customs enforcement ( ice ) would not conduct enforcement operations at or near locations distributing clean water in flint or surrounding areas .
moreover , dhs officials do not and will not pose as individuals providing water-related information or distributing clean water as part of any enforcement activities , the statement assures .
the agency s priority is to support state and local government efforts to distribute clean water , the statement says , adding that dhs stands ready to assist those in need .
via : judicial watch