united nations ( reuters ) - the united states was further isolated on monday over president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as israel s capital when it blocked a united nations security council call for the declaration to be withdrawn .
the remaining 14 council members voted in favor of the egyptian-drafted resolution , which did not specifically mention the united states or trump but which expressed deep regret at recent decisions concerning the status of jerusalem .
what we witnessed here in the security council is an insult .
it won t be forgotten , u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley said after the vote , adding that it was the first veto cast by the united states in more than six years .
the fact that this veto is being done in defense of american sovereignty and in defense of america s role in the middle east peace process is not a source of embarrassment for us ; it should be an embarrassment to the remainder of the security council , haley said .
the u.n. draft resolution affirmed that any decisions and actions which purport to have altered the character , status or demographic composition of the holy city of jerusalem have no legal effect , are null and void and must be rescinded in compliance with relevant resolutions of the security council .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians and the arab world and concern among washington s western allies .
in the wake of the decision of the united states ... the situation has become more tense with an increase in incidents , notably rockets fired from gaza and clashes between palestinians and israeli security forces , u.n. middle east peace envoy nickolay mladenov told the security council ahead of the vote .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
the draft u.n. resolution had called upon all countries to refrain from establishing diplomatic missions in jerusalem .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu thanked haley and trump for the veto in a video clip posted on his facebook page .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
following the u.s. veto , egypt s foreign ministry said arab states , which had agreed earlier this month to seek a security council resolution , would meet to evaluate the situation to determine what their next steps might be .
palestinian foreign minister riyad al-maliki said the palestinians would seek a rare emergency special session of the 193-member u.n. general assembly on trump s decision .
under a 1950 resolution , an emergency special session can be called for the general assembly to consider a matter with a view to making appropriate recommendations to members for collective measures if the security council fails to act .
only 10 such sessions have been convened , and the last time the general assembly met in such a session was in 2009 on israeli actions in occupied palestinian territories .
any outcome of such a session is non-binding , but carries political weight .