washington/london ( reuters ) - britain s brexit minister told a business audience in washington on friday that he hoped talks to leave the european union would produce a good deal for both sides , although he conceded that discussions were getting a bit tense .
david davis had just returned on thursday from brussels , where eu officials warned that so far progress in their negotiations had fallen short of what was needed to move on to discussion of their future relationship .
i am a determined optimist , davis told the u.s. chamber of commerce .
because i fundamentally believe that a good deal is in the interests of both the uk and the eu and the whole of the developed world .
davis came under pressure from the u.s. chamber s head of international affairs , myron brilliant , to lay out a clear path for brexit for the 7,500 u.s. companies with operations in britain - one that had predictable transition periods that minimized business disruption .
negotiations so far have centered on britain s eu budget obligations , with the eu insisting the bill be agreed before talks can proceed to discuss areas like international trade .
davis declined to say whether britain would be open to paying for access to the single market during any post-brexit transition period and said london was closely examining the bill for exiting the eu .
it is getting a bit tense .
i rule nothing in , nothing out , davis said .
britain would expect to conclude a free-trade agreement with the united states once a transition period with the eu ends , davis said .
but he cautioned that any deal between two large economies such as britain and the united states would be quite complex .
davis appeared to seek to draw a line between britain s ambitions for global free-trade agreements and the protectionist line being followed by u.s. president donald trump , who has sought to impose trade tariffs and threatened to quit the north american free trade area in order to boost domestic industry .
davis said britain would press for further liberalization of services and engage with international bodies like the world trade organization .
trump has said the united states would consider ignoring wto rulings .
britain has been courting the united states as it leaves the eu , with prime minister theresa may becoming the first foreign leader to meet u.s. president donald trump after his inauguration in january .
she called on trump then to renew the special relationship between the two countries , and she has pinned hopes on securing a trade deal with the country soon after brexit to show that britain can prosper outside the eu .
but she has been criticized by opposition politicians for trying to cozy up to trump , whose unpredictable policy stances on issues such as trade and other international obligations have raised concern over whether washington will stick to its global agreements .