havana ( reuters ) - cuban opposition leaders said they failed to get anyone nominated as a candidate for municipal elections , falling at the first hurdle as the communist-run island embarks on a political cycle that will end 60 years of castro brothers rule .
this month s municipal elections are the first stage in a process that will conclude with a new national assembly voting in february for a president to replace 86-year-old raul castro , who has promised to step down after two five-year terms .
some cubans hope the handover of power from the leaders of the 1959 revolution to a new generation will bring more political openness .
others neither expect nor want much to change , pointing out that castro will remain head of the communist party , the only legal party in cuba .
in the one part of cuba s political cycle where dissidents stand a chance of winning , neighborhood nomination assemblies have in recent weeks chosen candidates for elections to 12,515 ward positions in towns across the nation of 11 million people .
several hundred dissidents had sought nomination - an unprecedented number - although none made it through to the list of 27,221 candidates , according to opposition electoral platforms otro18 and candidates for change .
dissident leaders blamed their failure partly on repressive tactics by authorities , but said they had shown there were viable political alternatives .
the process of democratization from below has started , said manuel cuesta morua , spokesman for otro18 .
the government did not reply to a request for comment .
reuters was unable to verify the opposition s figures and their efforts were not reported by state-run media , meaning most ordinary cubans did not hear about them .
in cuba s provincial and national votes , candidates are nominated by commissions composed of representatives of communist party-controlled organizations such as the trade union federation .
cuba s leaders say the country s elections are more democratic than western models , which they say are characterized by big business and corruption .
the fractured opposition has traditionally called cuban elections a farce and boycotted them .
even so , opposition electoral platforms have emerged over the past few years , saying the time is ripe to change cuba from within the system .
the election comes at a delicate time , as cuba battles to keep a detente with the united states alive and its economy afloat as aid from key ally venezuela dwindles .
several dissidents told reuters that authorities prevented them from attending or speaking at neighborhood nomination assemblies , shifting the dates or seeking to intimidate them .
state security threatened me , said abdel legra , who decided against nominating himself as he did not want to get his neighbors , most of whom work for the state , in trouble by backing him .
the problem is that the vote is by hand count , it s public .
the postponement of the electoral cycle by a month , which authorities said was due to damage caused by hurricane irma , put a spanner in the works for several dissidents , who had already planned trips abroad .
the communist party says it does not intervene in the elections .
but in a leaked video , first vice president miguel diaz-canel , castro s probable successor , said the party would seek to discredit counter-revolutionary candidates .
cuba brands all dissenters as mercenaries funded by foreign governments and exiles , out to topple the government .
in 2015 , two dissidents managed to get nominated but said election officials altered their autobiographies to say they had ties to counter-revolutionaries based or financed abroad .
one of those , hildebrando chaviano , said he did not attend his assembly this year , saying he felt it would be a circus .
authorities visited his neighbors days before , he said , warning them not to vote for him .
that assembly ended up nominating the current municipal delegate , a party veteran .
many dissidents said they would continue taking part in grassroots politics to get their voices heard .
chaviano said he was giving courses on leadership and economics .
this is just the beginning , he said .