maungdaw , myanmar ( reuters ) - along the main road that stretches nearly 40 kilometers north from maungdaw town in myanmar s violence-riven rakhine state , all but one of the villages that were once home to tens of thousands of people have been turned into smouldering ash .
hundreds of cows roam through deserted settlements and charred paddy fields .
hungry dogs eat small goats .
the remains of local mosques , markets and schools - once bustling with rohingya muslims - are silent .
despite strict controls on access to northern rakhine , reuters independently traveled to parts of the most-affected area in early september , the first detailed look by reporters inside the region where the united nations says myanmar s security forces have carried out ethnic cleansing .
nearly 500 people have been killed and 480,000 rohingya have fled since aug. 25 , when attacks on 30 police posts and a military base by muslim militants provoked a fierce army crackdown .
the government has rejected allegations of arson , rape and arbitrary killings leveled against its security forces .
we were scared that the army and the police would shoot us if they found us ... so we ran away from the village , said suyaid islam , 32 , from yae khat chaung gwa son , near the area visited by reuters north of maungdaw .
he was speaking by phone from a refugee camp in bangladesh after leaving his village soon after the attacks .
residents of his village told reuters it had been burned down by security forces in an earlier operation against rohingya insurgents late last year .
those that did not flee have been surviving since in makeshift shacks , eating food distributed by aid agencies .
satellite photos showed that tens of thousands of homes in northern rakhine have been destroyed in 214 villages , new york-based human rights watch ( hrw ) said .
the u.n. detected 20 sq km ( 8 sq miles ) of destroyed structures .
the government said more than 6,800 houses have been set on fire .
it blames the rohingya villagers and the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , which staged the aug. 25 attacks .
the information we obtained on this side is that terrorists did the burnings , said zaw htay , spokesman for national leader aung san suu kyi .
reuters reporters have made two trips to northern rakhine , visiting the townships of maungdaw , buthidaung and rathedaung , and driving from maungdaw through the most affected area along the main road north to the town of kyein chaung .
( for a graphic of the area , click : tmsnrt.rs/2y8fgq8 ) the reporters talked briefly to residents but , because many were scared of being seen speaking to outsiders , most interviews were carried out by phone from outside the army operation area .
little aid has made it to northern rakhine since the u.n. had to suspend operations because of the fighting and after the government suggested its food was sustaining insurgents .
convoys organized by the red cross have twice been stopped and searched by hostile ethnic rakhines in the state capital sittwe .
in u shey kya , where last october rohingya residents accused the myanmar army of raping several women , a teacher who spoke to reuters from the village by phone said only about 100 families out of 800 households have stayed behind .
those who remain are playing a cat-and-mouse game with the soldiers , who come to the village in the morning prompting the residents to hide in the forest and return at night .
we don t even have food to eat for this evening .
what can we do ?
said the teacher .
we are close to the forest where we have leaves we can eat and find some water to survive .
he refused to give his name because he had been warned by the authorities not to talk to reporters .
the man said escaping through bush in monsoon rain with his elderly parents , six children and pregnant wife was not an option .
zaw htay said the government has prioritized humanitarian assistance to the area .
if there are any locations where aid has not reached yet , people should let us know , we will try to reach them as soon as we can , he said .
about 30,000 non-muslim residents of northern rakhine have also been displaced .
before the latest exodus there were around 1.1 million rohingya muslims in myanmar , mostly living in rakhine , where they are denied citizenship and are regarded as interlopers from bangladesh by the buddhist majority .
rohingya who have fled to bangladesh and human rights organizations say ethnic rakhine vigilantes have aided the military in driving out the muslim population .
kamal hussein , 22 , from alel than kyaw , south of maungdaw town said his village was destroyed in early september , after which he fled to bangladesh , where he spoke to reuters .
hussein said rakhine mobs poured petrol on the houses .
then , they came out and the military fired a grenade launcher at a house to set it alight .
government spokesman zaw htay said some empty buildings in the area had been burned by ethnic rakhines .
we told the regional government to take action on that , he said .
the damage caused by the fires , reuters interviews and satellite pictures show , is by far the largest in maungdaw , where the bulk of insurgent attacks took place .
across the mostly coastal area , stretching more than 100 km ( 60 miles ) through thick bush and monsoon-swollen streams , most villages have been burned .
maungdaw town itself , until recently ethnically mixed with rakhine buddhists , muslims and some hindus , is now segregated , with the remaining rohingya shuttered in their homes .
some 450 houses in rohingya parts of the town were burned down in the first week after the attacks , hrw said citing satellite photographs .
those who stored food , sold it and raised money to flee to bangladesh , mohammad salem , 35 , who used to sell cosmetics at the market , told reuters by phone from the town .
in ethnically-mixed rathedaung township , 16 out of 21 rohingya villages have been burned , according to residents and humanitarian workers .
of the remaining five , two villages in the south are now cut off from food and threatened by hostile rakhine neighbors .
in many places people have no access to medicines , residents said .
reuters talked to two rakhine buddhist officials who corroborated the scale of the damage .
tin tun soe , a rakhine administrator in chein khar li , where a security post had come under attack , said the army response was rapid and all the rohingya had been driven out .
nearly 1,600 houses were burned down a day after the attacks , he said , though he blamed the fires on the insurgents .
they have so many people .
if they are here , we re afraid to live , said tin tun soe .
i am very happy that now all of them are gone .