berlin/greifswald , germany ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel , poised to win a fourth term in sunday s election , and her center-left challenger martin schulz urged supporters on saturday to keep fighting for votes with a third of the electorate still undecided .
merkel is widely expected to cruise to re-election with the schulz s social democrats trailing by double digits but the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) could emerge as the third largest party , complicating the outlook for her next coalition .
a new insa poll published by bild newspaper showed sliding support for merkel s conservatives , who dropped two percentage points to 34 percent , and the spd , down one point to 21 percent - both now joined in an unwieldy grand coalition .
the anti-immigrant afd , meanwhile , rose two percentage points to 13 percent , cementing its bid to be the first far-right party to enter parliament since the end of world war two .
merkel urged supporters to drum up votes by focusing on conservatives efforts on behalf of families , a pledge to avoid tax increases and emphasis on increasing security in germany .
the christian democratic leader also lauded the role of the european union in providing stability in a troubled world .
we want to boost your motivation so that we can still reach many , many people today .
many are still undecided , merkel said before heading north to her home constituency .
in greifswald , she led a crowd in practicing cpr as loudspeakers blared the bee gees song stayin alive .
i should be in better shape , with the international media here , but i ll give it a try , a smiling merkel told the crowd .
first elected in 2005 , merkel remains popular in germany but has regularly faced jeers and whistles from left- and right-wing demonstrators during rallies during this campaign .
in munich on friday , merkel defended her 2015 decision to admit about one million asylum seekers on humanitarian grounds , but pledged to prevent a repeat of that crisis .
in the western city of aachen , schulz pledged to fight for every vote until polls close at 6 p.m. on sunday .
he said high voter turnout was vital to offset growing support for the afd , whom he described as a party of haters .
young people , think about brexit .
think about trump , he said .
go vote .
take this right to vote seriously , and use it .
schulz said the spd overcame resistance from conservatives in their coalition to push through a minimum wage , same-sex marriage and other social priorities .
schulz asserted that merkel was a world champion in not deciding , someone who simply parroted others ideas .
he vowed to push for further reforms , including better elderly care facilities , affordable housing , an end to discriminatory practices that harm children of migrants , and free child care .
mounting concern about afd merkel s interior minister , thomas de maiziere , told internet provider t-online.de the government would combat islamist terrorism by strengthening european borders and bolstering security at home .
he criticized the afd as a wolf in sheep s clothing and said germany s bfv domestic intelligence agency was studying whether right-wing extremists are seizing power and exerting influence on the party .
the afd was founded in 2013 with the original goal of opposing large bailouts of financially strapped euro zone countries but from 2015 shifted its focus to immigration .
mainstream parties have ruled out governing with the afd .
it has come under increased scrutiny in recent weeks after its top candidate alexander gauland said the german integration minister should be dumped in her parents homeland of turkey , and that germans should be proud of what their military did in world war one and two .
jewish and muslim groups say the afd s rhetoric has opened the door to more hate speech and anti-semitism .
josef schuster , president of the central council of jews in germany , told reuters he feared the afd s entry into parliament would change the public tone in germany .
i worry that the afd will aggressively deepen divisions in our country , he said .
the afd , which has already won seats in 13 of 16 state legislatures in germany , has promised to reenergize debate in the federal parliament after four years of what it calls boring rule by merkel s grand coalition .
afd executive board member georg pazderski told reuters the party was seeing a huge increase in support .
people are no longer ashamed to come to the afd and to identify with the afd .
electoral arithmetic might yet nudge merkel to renew her coalition with the spd , or she might opt for a three-way alliance with the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) and environmental greens .
fdp chief christian lindner told a rally in duesseldorf his party hoped to be the third biggest force in parliament , but would only govern if its demands and conditions were met .
we won t govern at any price , he said , suggesting the fdp could potentially have more impact as an opposition force .