moscow ( reuters ) - former russian economy minister alexei ulyukayev , accused of extorting a bribe , told a court on monday he thought a bag holding $ 2 million in cash which he took from rosneft ( rosn.mm ) chief executive igor sechin held a gift of expensive alcohol .
ulyukayev faces up to 15 years in prison if found guilty of accepting the $ 2 million cash from sechin , a close ally of president vladimir putin .
prosecutors said the bribe was given last year on nov. 14 in exchange for ulyukayev approving the sale of a state-controlled oil company bashneft ( bane.mm ) to rosneft .
police detained ulyukayev inside rosneft headquarters shortly after sechin handed him the cash inside a lockable brown bag and a little basket with sausage as a gift , prosecutors said .
.
the next day putin fired ulyukayev .
ulyukayev , speaking to the court , said he had believed the package contained a gift but that a trap had been set for him .
all this was an action directed against me , planned in advance , a provocation organized in advance , he said .
ulyukayev s lawyers are trying to explain to the court why he accepted the bag from sechin given that - according to transcripts of their conversations - neither man had discussed what was inside .
ulyukayev said when he had been economy minister , sechin had visited his ministry two or three times and usually had come to the office with a bulky bag , containing presents .
during that period , sechin personally presented ulyukayev with a watch and a model of an oil-derrick , and he sent a food hamper on occasions such as birthdays , ulyukayev said .
ulyukayev had also received alcoholic drinks from sechin as gifts , a prosecutor said .
that was a norm of etiquette , from sechin s point of view , ulyukayev told the court .
the ex-minister said the bag which sechin gave him last year at rosneft headquarters in a law enforcement sting operation weighed about 15 kg ( 33 lbs ) and he thought there had been expensive wine or spirits inside .
ulyukayev said that a month before , sechin promised to present him with a wine he had never tried before in his life to mark the successful closing of the bashneft privatization deal .
for that reason it came as a surprise that the bag contained money , ulyukayev said .
sechin has been issued with four summonses to testify in the trial , but has failed to show up , despite being a key witness .
his lawyer said in a letter to the court that sechin had been away on business trips .