hey barry you forgot to mention that time you parted the seas oh wait , that wasn t you .
why not tell britain the truth ?
tell them how you created the most hostile atmosphere towards law enforcement that this nation has ever seen .
how your real legacy will be that of the worst racial division since the civil rights era .
you also neglected to mention that you destroyed our relationship with israel ( our only true ally in the middle east ) , while making friends with communist regimes and cutting lopsided deals with radical islamic nations who openly advertise their hate for america for all the world to see .
don t kid yourself barry .
your legacy will be that of the worst president to ever occupy the white house .
president barack obama boasted of his legacy during a town hall in britain , asserting that he single- handedly saved the world during his presidency .
saving the world economy from a great depression that was pretty good , obama bragged when asked by a student in london what he wanted his legacy to be.he recalled that when he visited london in 2009 , the world economy was in a freefall because of irresponsible behavior of financial institutions around the world .
for us to be able to mobilize the world s community , to take rapid action , to stabilize the financial markets , and then in the united states to pass wall streets reforms that make it much less likely that a crisis like that can happen again , i m proud of that , he said.here s your real legacy barry ... obama also touted his iran nuclear deal as something i m very proud of asserting that he successfully stopped their nuclear weapons program without going to war.he griped that everybody forgot about his efforts in stopping the ebola crisis , saving hundreds of thousands of lives .
i think that i have been true to myself during this process , obama said , insisting that the things he said while running for office matched up with his presidency .
i ll look at a scorecard in the end , he concluded .
change takes time .
oftentimes what you start has then to be picked up by your successors or the next generation .
he added that the fight for change was like a relay race and that he was prepared to pass the baton to his successor.enter hillary hopefully they re running in the right direction , he joked.via : breitbart news