new york ( reuters ) - in a presidential campaign notable for its negativity , the option of “ neither ” candidate appears to be an appealing alternative , at least to participants in the reuters/ipsos opinion poll .
many voters on both sides have been ambivalent in their support for democratic nominee hillary clinton and republican nominee donald trump , complicating the task of the pollsters trying to track the race .
that sentiment may help explain an apparent skew that recently emerged in the reuters/ipsos poll results .
given the choice , a relatively large group of voters opted for “ neither/other ” candidate compared with other major polls , leading to an underreporting of several percentage points for one or other of the two major contenders at times in the race .
as a result , reuters/ipsos is amending the wording of the choice and eliminating the word “ neither , ” bringing the option in line with other polls .
the amended reuters/ipsos tracking poll will be published later friday , available at polling.reuters.com .
from the beginning of june until the middle of july , the reuters/ipsos survey showed consistently lower support for trump than other polls were capturing .
at times , the reuters/ipsos poll showed clinton with a lead over trump as wide as about 12 percentage points among registered voters - five percentage points higher than clinton ’ s lead in some other comparable polls .
to determine the cause , the pollsters examined what made the reuters/ipsos poll different .
their conclusion : by giving respondents the option of “ neither/other , ” the survey appears to have captured greater numbers of ambivalent voters unwilling to commit to either candidate than other major polls , which only offer the choice of “ other. ” during the period analyzed , the historically high antipathy for both major candidates , paired with the option of selecting “ neither/other , ” meant the reuters/ipsos poll probably underreported trump ’ s support before the republican convention , perhaps by 3 to 5 percentage points .
more recently , the “ neither/other ” option appeared to lead to an underreporting of clinton ’ s support in the run-up to the democratic convention , said cliff young , pollster and president of ipsos public affairs , which partners with reuters on the poll .
the pollsters estimated the clinton shortfall at 2 to 4 percentage points .
tom w. smith , director of the center for the study of politics and society at the university of chicago , said the earlier trump numbers in the reuters/ipsos poll could have indicated a softness of support for trump among a relatively small group of conservative voters who had yet to come to terms with his candidacy .
it is plausible that a similar effect among democratic voters may be hitting clinton now when presented with the option of “ neither , ” he said .
and the skews displayed by the “ neither ” phenomenon may indicate there is a chance for some gains among alternative party candidates , smith said .
tim mclheny , a 47-year-old civil servant from vermont who describes himself as a moderate republican , is a case in point .
when asked in the reuters/ipsos poll who he will vote for in november , he skipped both trump and clinton and opted for “ neither/other. ” “ it is the lesser of two evils , ” mclheny said .
he said he will cast his ballot for the candidate he believes will do the best for civil servants .
ultimately , however , he said he may well grudgingly opt for trump come november .
here ’ s how the pollsters reviewed their methodology and decided to drop “ neither. ” ipsos tested three alternate versions of the presidential preference questions on different groups in a survey and compared those results to the outcome of the established version of the tracking poll .
that test found eliminating the word “ neither ” from the “ neither/other ” response increased trump support by between 3 to 5 percentage points on any given day leading up to the republican convention .
it also increased clinton ’ s support , but by a smaller margin .
spotlight.ipsos-na.com/ ? p=5574 since the convention , however , trump ’ s support seems to have solidified among wary supporters .
now , the “ neither ” issue appears to be affecting clinton in the survey .
on tuesday , for example , the established tracking poll had the candidates tied at 38 percent each .
a 13-point lead for clinton on july 14 had vanished in two weeks .
( polling.reuters.com/ # poll/tm651y15_13/filters/pd1:1/dates/20160701-20160726/type/smallest ) but eliminating “ neither ” from the “ neither/other ” answer produced a different result .
in that case , clinton was ahead , 40 percent to 36 percent , on tuesday .
when asked the question in the new way , 11 percent of voters opted for “ other. ” by comparison , 14 percent opted for “ neither/other ” in the version of the survey that showed the race tied .
the three-point gap suggests the “ neither ” phenomenon was now working against clinton .
in the nearly five years reuters/ipsos has been offering the “ neither/other ” option to respondents in presidential polling , it has never yielded such a skew .
the results highlight how poll designs and methodologies can yield significantly differing results , and how important differences can emerge from the way a question is framed .
the economist/yougov poll , like the reuters/ipsos survey , is conducted online .
it uses a similar battery of questions , but does not offer the “ neither/other ” option , just “ other. ” in economist/yougov ’ s july 17 poll , clinton was ahead by 4 percentage points among registered voters , with trump at 41 percent .
the nbc news/surveymonkey online poll gives three options : clinton , trump , or “ no answer , ” which more firmly prods respondents to make a choice .
in their july 17 poll , clinton led trump by one point , 46 to 45 , among registered voters .
telephone polls tend to ask voter preference as an open-ended question , or just offer respondents the choice of the democratic and republican candidates .
among phone polls , such as the abc news/washington post and nbc/wall street journal surveys , clinton recently led by four to five points .
the cbs/new york times telephone poll of registered voters had the race tied at 40 percent each .
the reuters/ipsos presidential-preference poll result and other results in the survey are updated twice a week .