( reuters ) - the south dakota house of representatives failed on thursday to override a veto by governor dennis daugaard of a bill that would have made the state the first in the united states to dictate what bathrooms transgender students can use in public schools .
by a vote of 36-29 , supporters of the bill did not muster the two-thirds vote required in both chambers to override the veto .
the republican-controlled house had approved the bill beyond that threshold in january .
the proposed law would have required transgender pupils to use restrooms and locker rooms in public schools that correspond to their gender at birth .
supporters , including conservative christian groups such as family heritage alliance action , said the bill would enhance the privacy of all students .
but civil rights groups said the measure would expose schools to legal challenges over access to restrooms and that it violated title ix , a federal rule regarding discrimination in public schools .
“ fairness and equality have prevailed over this unconscionable legislative assault on transgender children , ” said chad griffin , president of the washington-based human rights campaign , a gay , lesbian , bisexual and transgender civil rights organization , reacting to the vote on thursday .
the bill would have required schools to provide “ reasonable ” accommodations for transgender students .
those accommodations include a single-occupancy restroom , a unisex restroom or the supervised use of a restroom , locker room or shower room designated for use by faculty .
in vetoing the bill on tuesday , daugaard , a republican , said it would invite conflict and litigation , diverting resources from education .
in december , a suburban chicago school district reached an accord with the u.s. government over locker room access for a transgender student after the u.s. department of education ’ s office of civil rights found the district discriminated against the student in violation of title ix .
daugaard ’ s veto came about a month after a u.s. appeals court heard arguments over whether a high school in virginia should be ordered to allow a transgender male student to use the boys ’ bathroom .
last week , local lawmakers in charlotte , north carolina , voted to allow transgender people to use public bathrooms matching their gender identity .
republican state house of representatives speaker tim moore said he would consider legislation to block the measure .