canberra ( reuters ) - australia is trying to move asylum seekers held in one of its two remote pacific detention centers to the second camp , a notice seen by reuters shows , as canberra seeks a way to close one down .
men held on papua new guinea s manus island can move to the center on the tiny island nation of nauru if they have been awarded refugee status and are being considered for u.s. resettlement , the letter posted in the camp and seen by reuters shows .
refugees in the united states process can now apply for transfer to nauru , the letter read .
the manus camp only holds men .
the letter marks australia s latest attempt to empty the manus center , which is scheduled to close on oct. 31 .
under canberra s hardline immigration policy , asylum seekers intercepted at sea trying to reach australia are sent for processing at the manus and nauru camps .
they are told they will never be settled in australia .
more than 20 men left to be resettled in the united states last month , the first part of a refugee swap between the washington and canberra which u.s. president donald trump has branded a dumb deal .
but nearly 800 remain in the manus camp and nearly all are refusing to move to a nearby transit center , citing fears for their safety .
the refugees have not left the detention center despite the government s efforts to push them out in the past few months , said behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist held on manus .
many have been awarded refugee status and are eligible for u.s resettlement under the deal australia secured with former u.s. president barack obama late last year .
the united states will resettle up to 1,250 asylum seekers held on png and nauru .
in exchange , australia agreed to take several dozen central american refugees .
australia will begin resettling several dozen central american refugees within weeks .
any transfer will further strain conditions on nauru , where more than 1,200 men , women and children have been for four years in a camp widely criticized by the united nations and human rights groups for abuses , including sexual abuse , and self-harming .