san francisco ( reuters ) - christmas came early for u.s. gun shop owners - who saw a rush of firearms purchases ahead of the presidential election - but they may now be hard-pressed to match last year ’ s record holiday sales .
gun merchants had a record october , federal background check data shows , as gun enthusiasts snapped up pistols and rifles on fears that democrat hillary clinton would win the white house and seek to restrict ownership .
traffic has fallen off substantially since republican donald trump , a gun rights supporter , won the presidency on nov. 8 .
shares of smith & wesson holding corp swhc.o are down 15 percent since then , despite a rebound this week , while sturm ruger & company ’ s ( rgr.n ) stock is 17 percent lower .
like most other retailers , gun sellers thrive during the holidays .
last year ’ s black friday featured record activity for a single day , according background check data .
december 2015 was the second busiest month ever , topped only by december 2012 , when president barack obama threatened to rein in gun rights after a deranged man killed 26 people , including 20 children , in a shooting rampage at sandy hook elementary school in newtown , connecticut .
obama , a democrat , never enacted any sweeping new gun restrictions because he faced opposition in a republican-controlled congress .
now , with this year ’ s black friday just days away , gun dealers say traffic is regaining momentum after the post-election drop .
“ i ’ m not expecting it to be any slower than our normal black friday , ” said kellie weeks , owner of georgia gun store in gainesville , georgia .
“ but if hillary had won , we would have sold out already. ” after obama was elected in 2008 , november background checks jumped 48 percent compared to the prior november , according to background check data from the national shooting sports foundation .
by comparison , checks rose a more modest 5 percent in november 2004 after republican george w. bush was re-elected .
such checks are the best proxy for data on gun sales , which gun manufacturers do not publicly release .
the foundation strips the data of applications for conceal-carry permits - typically made by people who already own guns - to give a better reflection of actual purchases .
through october 2016 , background checks are up 15 percent compared to the same amount of time last year , suggesting another a strong year of overall sales .
wall street expects smith & wesson ’ s revenue to increase 28 percent in 2016 and 11 percent next year , according to thomson reuters data .
the springfield , massachusetts , company reports its october-quarter results on december 1 .
even after the recent selloff , smith & wesson ’ s stock is up 10 percent in 2016 , better than the s & p 500 ’ s 7-percent rise .
gilbert ’ s gun shop in frankfort , kentucky , expects to sell fewer high-capacity magazines over the holidays because customers no longer fear they will be banned .
but the shop and other gun stores consulted by reuters remain hopeful that demand for newly launched compact and target pistols will help spur a busy holiday season .
“ some categories might be light , ” he said .
“ but in general , sales through black friday and christmas , i still think will be very strong . ”