beirut ( reuters ) - the european union and the united states on wednesday reaffirmed support for lebanon after the resignation of its prime minister , striking a sharp contrast to saudi arabia , which accuses beirut of declaring war because of the shi ite group hezbollah .
statements of support from eu ambassadors to lebanon and the united states have set a different tone to their sunni gulf ally saudi arabia , which has lumped lebanon together with the iran-backed lebanese group hezbollah as parties hostile to it .
lebanon has been pitched into deep crisis since the saudi-allied saad al-hariri resigned on saturday in a speech delivered from saudi arabia in which he accused hezbollah and iran of sowing strife in the arab world and cited fear of assassination .
the circumstances surrounding hariri s sudden resignation have given rise to wide speculation that he had been caught up in a high-level anti-corruption purge in saudi arabia , where his family made their fortune , and coerced into resigning .
saudi arabia has denied this along with reports that it has put hariri under house arrest .
it says he quit because hezbollah was calling the shots in the government .
the move has pulled lebanon back to the forefront of a regional struggle between the sunni monarchy of saudi arabia and the shi ite islamist government of iran , a rivalry which has also swept through syria , iraq , bahrain and yemen .
it has plunged lebanon into political crisis and hit market confidence in the heavily indebted lebanese state .
a sell off of lebanese bonds continued for a third day on wednesday , with some of them hitting their lowest ever levels .
the u.s. ambassador to lebanon said on wednesday the united states remained committed to a stable , secure , democratic , and prosperous lebanon during a meeting with lebanese army commander general joseph aoun , a u.s. embassy statement said .
the meeting was to announce a u.s. government reimbursement of $ 42.9 million for border operations conducted by the lebanese army , a major recipient of u.s. military aid .
the united states classifies hezbollah as a terrorist group even as it supports the weak lebanese state , drawing a line between the two in a long-standing policy .
on tuesday , the u.s. state department said lebanon was a strong u.s. partner .
the united states strongly supports the legitimate institutions in the lebanese state , spokeswoman heather nauert said .
we expect all members of the international community to respect fully those institutions and the sovereignty and political independence of lebanon , she said .
in a statement , eu ambassadors to lebanon said they reaffirmed their strong support for the continued unity , stability , sovereignty , and security of lebanon and its people .
lebanon has also received significant western aid to help it cope with the strain of hosting 1.5 million syrian refugees , equivalent to around a quarter of the population .
hezbollah , set up by the iranian revolutionary guards in 1982 , is the most powerful group in lebanon , with major sway in government and a guerrilla army that outguns the national military .
the group s role has grown beyond lebanon in recent years , and its fighters have provided critical support to president bashar al-assad in the syrian civil war .
neither hezbollah nor the lebanese government have responded to accusations made by saudi gulf affairs minister thamer al-sabhan that both lebanon and hezbollah had declared war on the kingdom .
president michel aoun , a hezbollah ally who took office last year , has refused to accept hariri s resignation , saying he first wants him to return to lebanon so he can meet him in person to understand the reasons .
aoun said lebanon s security and economy were stable and the presidency still viewed hariri as prime minister , lebanese media reported .
parliament speaker nabih berri has said the coalition government led by hariri still stands .
lebanese policymakers and bankers say there is no concern for the lebanese pound - which has been pegged against the u.s. dollar at the same rate for two decades - thanks to record levels of foreign currency reserves .
banking sources say there was more demand than usual for converting lebanese pound savings into dollars when banks opened on monday .
but they said this was not unexpected and is at minimal levels .
lebanon s june 2020 bond , and its april 2020 issue both fell to their lowest ever levels on wednesday .
yields could come down , if a new prime minister is found quickly and the government can get back to business , but this doesn t appear to be likely in the short term , said carmen altenkirch , emerging market sovereign analyst at axa investment managers .
byblos bank s chief economist nassib ghobril said : we ve had worse cases when we saw pressure on the actual peg of lebanese pound to u.s. dollar but it takes a severe shock of the magnitude of the ( former prime minister rafik al-hariri ) assassination in 2005 or the 2006 israeli war to put real pressure on the currency peg .