washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump will announce on wednesday that the united states recognizes jerusalem as the capital of israel and will move its embassy there , breaking with longtime u.s. policy and potentially stirring unrest .
despite warnings from western and arab allies , trump in a 1 p.m. ( 1800 gmt ) white house speech will direct the state department to begin looking for a site for an embassy in jerusalem as part of what is expected to be a years-long process of relocating diplomatic operations from tel aviv .
trump is to sign a national security waiver delaying a move of the embassy , since the united states does not have an embassy structure in jerusalem to move into .
a senior administration official said it could take three to four years to build an embassy .
still , trump s decision , a core promise of his campaign last year , will upend decades of american policy that has seen the status of jerusalem as part of a two-state solution for israelis and palestinians , who want east jerusalem as their capital .
washington s middle east allies all warned against the dangerous repercussions of his decision when trump spoke to them on tuesday .
the president believes this is a recognition of reality , said one official , who briefed reporters on tuesday about the announcement .
we re going forward on the basis of a truth that is undeniable .
it s just a fact .
senior trump administration officials said trump s decision was not intended to tip the scale in israel s favor and that agreeing on the final status of jerusalem would remain a central part of any peace deal between israel and the palestinians .
in defending the decision , the officials said trump was basically reflecting a fundamental truth : that jerusalem is the seat of the israeli government and should be recognized as such .
the palestinians have said the move would mean the kiss of death to the two-state solution .
the political benefits for trump are unclear .
the decision will thrill republican conservatives and evangelical christians who make up a large share of his political base .
but it will complicate trump s desire for a more stable middle east and israel-palestinian peace and arouse tensions .
past presidents have put off such a move .
the mere hint of his decision to move the embassy in the future set off alarm bells around the middle east , raising the prospect of violence .
our palestinian people everywhere will not allow this conspiracy to pass , and their options are open in defending their land and their sacred places , said hamas chief ismail haniyeh .
islamist militant groups such as al qaeda , hamas and hezbollah have in the past tried to exploit muslim sensitivities over jerusalem to stoke anti-israel and anti-u.s. sentiment .
the decision comes as trump s senior adviser and son-in-law , jared kushner , leads a relatively quiet effort to restart long-stalled peace efforts in the region , with little in the way of tangible progress thus far .
the president will reiterate how committed he is to peace .
while we understand how some parties might react , we are still working on our plan which is not yet ready .
we have time to get it right and see how people feel after this news is processed over the next period of time , one senior official said .
trump spoke to palestinian president mahmoud abbas , israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , jordan s king abdullah and saudi king salman to inform them of his decision .
the jordanian king affirmed that the decision will have serious implications that will undermine efforts to resume the peace process and will provoke muslims and christians alike , said a statement from his office .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in the 1967 middle east war and later annexed it .
the international community does not recognize israeli sovereignty over the entire city , home to sites holy to the muslim , jewish and christian religions .
we have always regarded jerusalem as a final-status issue that must be resolved through direct negotiations between the two parties based on relevant security council resolutions , united nations spokesman stephane dujarric told reporters .
no other country has its embassy in jerusalem .
trump has weighted u.s. policy toward israel since taking office in january , considering the jewish state a strong ally in a volatile part of the world .
still , deliberations over the status of jerusalem were tense .
vice president mike pence and david friedman , u.s. ambassador to israel , pushed hard for both recognition and embassy relocation , while secretary of state rex tillerson and defense secretary jim mattis opposed the move from tel aviv , according to other u.s. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity .
an impatient trump finally weighed in , telling aides last week he wanted to keep his campaign promise .
abbas warned trump of the dangerous consequences that moving the embassy would have for peace efforts and regional stability , abbas spokesman nabil abu rdainah said .
but trump assured abbas that he remained committed to facilitating an israeli-palestinian peace deal , one u.s. official said .