gaza ( reuters ) - the new chief of palestinian islamist group hamas , ismail haniyeh , arrived in cairo on saturday to hold talks with senior egyptian officials about the blockade of gaza on his first such visit as leader , a hamas spokesman said .
in the past few months hamas has sought to mend relations with egypt , which controls their one international border crossing from the gaza strip .
egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi has been wary of ties between hamas and the muslim brotherhood , ousted from power by sisi after mass protests .
hamas controls the gaza strip , a densely populated coastal territory that shares borders with egypt and israel , with which it has fought three wars since 2008 .
for much of the last decade , egypt has joined israel in enforcing a partial land , sea and air blockade of gaza .
hamas spokesman fawzi barhoum said the talks with egypt will focus on alleviating the blockade and mending a longstanding rift with rival group fatah , headed by western-backed palestinian president mahmoud abbas .
an egyptian source confirmed haniyeh s arrival with a delegation for talks on the border crossing , security and power supplies .
haniyeh was elected hamas leader in may .
the group maintains a sizeable armed wing in gaza since seizing the enclave from fatah in 2007 .
hoping to pressure hamas to relinquish control of gaza , abbas has cut payments to israel for the electricity it supplies to gaza .
this means that electricity has often been provided for less than four hours a day , and never more than six .
abbas has vowed to keep up sanctions against gaza , saying measures are aimed against hamas and not ordinary people .
in turn , hamas is trying to make a crack in the wall of sanctions by improving its relations with egypt and other arab countries .
israel , which signed a 1979 peace treaty with egypt and coordinates closely with it on security , is maintaining a close watch on discussions between egypt and hamas .
like the united states and the european union , it regards hamas as a terrorist group .