wellington/sydney ( reuters ) - new zealand prime minister jacinda ardern said she would offer to take 150 refugees held by australia when she meets counterpart malcolm turnbull on sunday , promising canberra a breather from a stand-off at a papua new guinea detention site .
for more than three days , about 600 men have barricaded themselves inside in a camp on manus island , defying efforts by australia and papua new guinea to shut it , despite having no food or running water .
new zealand on friday became the first country to publicly offer to intercede , when arden said she would offer to take 150 refugees from australia s two remote pacific detention centers at the meeting with turnbull in sydney .
i expect the situation on manus island will be discussed in my meeting with prime minister turnbull on sunday , arden said in an emailed statement .
i intend to reaffirm our offer when we meet .
the offer could present turnbull with a partial solution to the manus island stand-off , which the united nations this week described as an unfolding humanitarian emergency .
australia has previously rejected a similar offer by former new zealand prime minister john key , citing the ability of asylum seekers to freely move to australia after relocation .
new zealand residents are allowed to live in australia without visas .
but australia s center-right government is pushing for tough new rules to ban any asylum seekers who arrived by boat after 2013 from ever being allowed into australia , even as tourists .
mounting criticism has not deterred australia from its plan to close the manus island center , where it detains asylum seekers arriving by boat , as part of its controversial immigration policy , along with another in nauru .
heavy rains across papua new guinea on thursday helped replenish water storage bins on manus , but food shortages worry the detainees , many of them from war-torn nations such as afghanistan , iran , myanmar , pakistan , sri lanka and syria .
they vowed not to leave , even though many are beginning to feel the ill-effects of going several days without food .
we will never move to another prison , said one , behrouz boochani , a kurdish journalist from iran .
we will never settle for anything less than freedom .
only freedom .