rijeka , croatia ( reuters ) - in a croatian port sits a boat built to carry bananas from africa to italy , that laid mines for nazi germany and was sunk by allied planes before it was salvaged as the personal yacht of a globe-trotting communist leader .
josip broz tito and the state he led - yugoslavia - have long passed into history , and the boat , the galeb ( seagull ) , was left to rust in a corner of rijeka s once mighty docks .
now , with rijeka readying to become european capital of culture in 2020 , city authorities have secured european union money to restore the 117-metre ( 384-feet ) boat as a museum , just as debate in croatia rages over the life and deeds of the man who graced the pink mattress in the front port-side cabin .
if the galeb was a symbol of tito s prestige on the world stage a communist leader welcome in ports west as well as east its restoration is part of croatia s own tortured process of reconciliation with its 20th century history .
to conservatives in croatia , tito who was born in what is today croatia to a croat father and slovene mother was a totalitarian dictator : to look fondly on him means to be nostalgic for a shared federal state that denied croats their own until they forged one in a 1991-95 war .
liberals , however , recall his guerrilla fight against the nazis and the relative freedom and prosperity of yugoslavs compared to those who lived in the soviet union or in its shadow .
they see in the disdain of conservatives a thinly veiled fondness for the world war two croatian state that collaborated with the nazis but was snuffed out with tito s partisan victory a sentiment that has gained a foothold in mainstream croatian politics in recent years .
it is a tug-of-war over history and identity that was encapsulated this month in the renaming by zagreb s city council of the capital s marshal tito square to republic of croatia square .
days later , the government ordered the removal of a plaque near the site of a world war two concentration camp that bore a notorious slogan associated with the nazi puppet regime in croatia .
we live in a time when history is being reinvented retroactively , said ivan sarar , who as head of culture at rijeka s city council is in charge of its 2020 makeover .
it s interesting that just by undertaking this ( restoration ) we have already been declared revisionists , he told reuters .
after years of false-starts , work on restoring the galeb is imminent a mammoth , multi-million-euro task to recreate the 1950s chic of tito s floating palace , host to over 100 heads of state and some of hollywood s finest .
some of the furniture remains - in tito s cabin , his turquoise-tiled bathroom and the adjacent salon with doors that open to the deck .
but the ship itself is little more than a rotting hull .
the galeb was the stage for tito s major contribution to history , said sarar , a showcase for the non-aligned movement he helped found in answer to the east-west polarization of the cold war .
but sarar stressed : we won t be soft on anyone .
he noted tito s cozy ties with dictators around the world , the exodus of italian residents of rijeka when he took the city as part of yugoslavia , and his denial of democracy during 35 years of one-man rule until his death in 1980 .
yugoslavia fell apart in war a decade later and some 135,000 people were killed .
it was tito s seizure of rijeka and the istrian peninsula that cemented his status in this part of croatia as a liberator .
dozens of streets in istria still bear his name , as do others in the balkans - most notably in serbia , once the dominant republic in yugoslavia .
conservatives , however , struck a blow with the renaming of zagreb s marshal tito square , part of a deal struck by the mayor to secure his majority in the city assembly .
the man behind the initiative , leading right-wing politician zlatko hasanbegovic , told reuters that while tito was undeniably a significant historical figure , so were napoleon , stalin and lenin .
in all countries , streets and squares bear the names of those who embody the values with which the entire nation identifies itself , he said , describing the restoration of the galeb as part of an attempt to revive the cult of tito .
those insisting on it should ask themselves how the tens of thousands of victims of yugoslav communism look on that kind of quasi-cultural exhibitionism .
in rijeka , sarar denied planning any kind of homage to tito .
we want to create a place for dialogue , away from the current situation of extreme black , white and red truths that lead nowhere , he said .
it s bound to be difficult .