new york ( reuters ) - real estate billionaire donald trump ’ s coarse rhetoric has won him some fans , but there ’ s at least one large group in america that is increasingly unimpressed : women .
half of u.s. women say they have a “ very unfavorable ” view of the front-runner for the republican presidential nomination , according to reuters/ipsos polling , up from the 40 percent who felt that way in october .
the survey was taken from march 1-15 , and included 5,400 respondents .
the rise in anti-trump sentiment among women could pose a problem for the new york billionaire in his quest for the white house .
women form just over half of the u.s. population , and they have turned out at higher rates than men in every election since 1996 , according to the u.s. census bureau .
“ if the presidential election were tomorrow , women would be a big problem for trump , ” republican strategist david carney said .
“ but he has time to fix it. ” a trump campaign official did not immediately respond to a request for comment , but trump has said that he has had good relationships with women in his business career and is well-liked by women voters .
several women who oppose trump , interviewed by reuters this week , said their disapproval was based on a range of factors from his disparaging comments about women he dislikes - such as fox news host megyn kelly - to his hard-line views on immigration and his ribald exchanges with rivals .
“ i think trump is very scary , ” said mariah dobias , a 25-year-old cook who was voting in ohio ’ s primary on tuesday .
“ he says he is going to make america great , but he doesn ’ t say how he is going to do it besides alienating whole groups of people. ” carolyn hostetler , a conservative from tennessee , told reuters she disliked “ the way he has belittled women. ” some of trump ’ s female supporters , meanwhile , said they liked his straight talk , and believe he could strengthen america ’ s position on the world stage .
“ he ’ s a little unpredictable , as we ’ ve seen , ” said kathleen douglas , a 65-year-old college professor from winter park , florida who supports trump .
“ he ’ s going to put other world leaders on edge. ” trump does not have a similar image problem with men .
the reuters/ipsos polling results showed that just 36 percent of men said they have a “ very unfavorable ” opinion of trump , a level that has held steady in recent months .
republican women are also much more likely to approve of trump , according to reuters/ipsos polling .
among women who identify as republican , he has been holding around 60 percent favorability since the start of the year .
trump ’ s relative appeal among men versus women was evident in the most recent round of nominating contests on tuesday , when trump extended a broad lead over rivals .
in florida , exit polls conducted by edison research showed that trump ’ s support among republican women voters was 40 percent , versus 52 percent among males .
in ohio , where trump came in second to the state ’ s governor , john kasich , 33 percent of women voters backed trump , compared with 40 percent of men .
if the gop frontrunner were to run against democratic hopeful hillary clinton in the general election , likely women voters would support clinton over trump by nearly 14 percentage points , according to the march polling data .
among men , clinton would win by about 5 percentage points .
at a precinct in florida ’ s winter park , darlene monzadeh , a 52-year-old stay-at-home mom who had been a supporter of jeb bush , said trump lost her vote during a debate when he exchanged potshots with his rivals .
“ it changed my opinion .
when they catfight all the time and act like little boys , pointing fingers , raising voices , ” she said , adding she now supports kasich .
trump has been accused by critics of misogyny since he launched his campaign .
he complained last year that fox news host megyn kelly had asked him tough questions in a debate and referred to “ blood coming out of her wherever. ” he more recently sent a twitter post suggesting she was a “ bimbo. ” he has called television personality rosie o ’ donnell a “ fat pig ” and made fun of former presidential rival and ex-hp chief executive carly fiorina ’ s face , saying , “ would anyone vote for that ? ” an anti-trump attack ad launched by the our principles super pac this week featured women repeating words that trump has used to describe women , including “ fat pig ” and “ dog. ” several of his female supporters defended trump against the ad on social media .