madrid ( reuters ) - spain s northeastern region of catalonia , hit last week by two islamist militant attacks which killed 15 people , is to deploy more police , install bollards in barcelona and step up security around stations and tourist landmarks .
the aim is to strike a balance between security and not overloading residents with restrictions .
we re looking at introducing ( street ) obstacles that could be mobile , joaquin forn , who is in charge of home affairs in catalonia , told a news conference on wednesday .
a van plowed into crowds of holidaymakers and local residents on barcelona s crowded las ramblas boulevard last thursday , killing 13 people .
two others were killed during the driver s getaway and in a separate attack in cambrils .
the barcelona rampage reignited a row over how cities can better prevent such attacks .
militants have used trucks and cars as weapons to kill nearly 130 people in france , germany , britain , sweden and spain over the past 13 months .
catalan authorities may also erect some permanent barriers and turn some streets into pedestrian-only thoroughfares , forn said .
the regional capital , which receives around 30 million visitors a year , is home to several landmarks designed by architect antoni gaudi , including the towering sagrada familia .
forn added that some 10 percent more police would be deployed .
islamic state , which claimed responsibility for the attacks in catalonia , issued a video via one of its official channels on wednesday showing two of its fighters making threats in spanish against spain , interspersed with images of the aftermath of the barcelona attack .
one fighter pledged to avenge muslim blood spilled by the spanish inquisition , established in 1478 , and what he said was the killing spain was currently engaged in against islamic state .
this was an apparent reference to iraq , where spain has several hundred soldiers training local forces in the fight against islamic state .
investigators are still looking into whether the suspects behind last week s attacks had links to france or belgium and are examining their movements over recent weeks as they look for connections to possible cells elsewhere in europe .
the car used in the attack in cambrils , south of barcelona , was caught on camera speeding in the paris region days earlier .
we are still trying to establish why they were in the paris area , french interior minister gerard collomb told reporters at a joint news conference in paris with his spanish counterpart on wednesday .
spanish interior minister juan ignacio zoido said france and spain would continue to reinforce border checks and step up information exchanges , including of passenger information in real time .
one of the suspects has said the leader of the militant group was an imam , abdelbaki es satty , who died a day before the barcelona attack when a house the group was using to build bombs blew up .
court officials in spain s valencia region said on wednesday that spain had issued an expulsion order against es satty after he served a four-year jail term for drug-trafficking but that this was annulled by a court in 2015 after es satty appealed .
the judge at the time overturned the expulsion order partly because es satty had employment roots in spain which he said shows his efforts to integrate in spanish society .
a dozen islamist militants suspected of involvement in the plot were either killed or arrested .
a judge on tuesday ordered two suspects jailed , one remained in police custody pending further investigation and a fourth was freed with conditions .