mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican finance minister jose antonio meade will step down on monday , two people familiar with the matter said on sunday , as the ruling institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) gears up to pick its candidate for the 2018 presidential election .
one of the people , who spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the matter , said meade would announce his intention to seek the presidency for the pri when resigning .
the office of mexican president enrique pena nieto late on sunday said it would hold an event at 10.00 a.m. local time on monday , without specifying what it entailed .
several mexican media said meade would announce his resignation at 10.00 a.m. a spokesman for meade s office said he was unaware of any plans for the minister to resign on monday .
pena nieto is barred by law from seeking a second term , and his party faces a major challenge from twice presidential runner-up former mexico city mayor andres manuel lopez obrador , a leftist who has led early polls for the july 2018 election .
meade would be replaced as finance minister by jose antonio gonzalez anaya , currently head of state oil firm pemex , one of the two people familiar with the situation said .
meade has for months been one of the favorites to be the pri candidate , both due to his reputation for competence as a minister across two rival administrations , and because he has avoided the taint of corruption that has battered the party .
the 48-year-old has also been a top pick to succeed the departing agustin carstens at the helm of the mexican central bank .
the second person said if meade was not stepping down to run for the pri , he would be going into that job .
meade is not a member of the centrist pri , which changed its statutes in august to make it easier for outsiders to run for the presidency .
officials say his reputation for honesty and cross-party appeal will be vital if he hopes to defeat lopez obrador .
on thursday , the pri announced it would begin registering presidential hopefuls on dec. 3 , and that a national convention would formally elect the candidate on feb. 18 .
education minister aurelio nuno , 39 , pena nieto s former chief of staff and one of his closest allies , as well as health minister jose narro , are the most likely alternatives to meade if he does not seek the candidacy , senior officials say .