holland , ohio ( reuters ) - “ joe the plumber , ” the ohio workingman who came to symbolize u.s. taxpayer frustration in the 2008 presidential election , is still angry .
and like many angry voters , he likes insurgent republican presidential candidate donald trump — in part because the new york billionaire dated attractive women .
“ he ’ s a winner .
he ’ s made billions .
he ’ s dated beautiful women .
his wife is a model .
that ’ s not to sniff at .
and a lot of people believe he can bring that kind of success to the white house , ” said samuel joseph wurzelbacher , 42 , who shot to prominence during the 2008 campaign after then-republican nominee john mccain seized on a confrontation wurzelbacher had with then-democratic candidate barack obama .
sitting in his ohio house , a ruger handgun on a table next to him , wurzelbacher told reuters he has yet to decide who to support but says he understands why so many people are drawn to the caustic trump , a real-estate developer and former reality tv show host , and is unhappy with the republican party establishment lining up against him .
he said trump ’ s position as an insurgent candidate who is willing to defy party leaders was a more important reason to vote for him than his wealth and the model-looks of his wife melania .
but he said he believed other voters were drawn to his larger-than-life image and glamorous lifestyle .
he also likes ted cruz , the conservative u.s. senator from texas .
he is scathing about marco rubio , the senator from florida and the favorite of the republican establishment to challenge trump .
and he dislikes john kasich , the ohio governor who narrowly trails trump in his home state with less than two weeks until ohio ’ s primary on march 15 .
trump , 69 , is the front-runner in the race for the republican nomination for the nov. 8 election , but party leaders worry policies that include building a wall on the u.s.-mexican border and temporarily banning muslims from entering the united states will turn off voters and upset u.s. allies .
as a conservative , wurzelbacher says he is willing to overlook trump ’ s previous heresies on issues such as gun control , abortion , gay marriage and even his past donations to hillary clinton , the democratic presidential front-runner .
the obama administration , he says , is a miserable failure .
in the 2008 campaign , wurzelbacher made headlines when he asked obama about his small business tax policy .
during a videotaped exchange , obama answered in part by saying , “ when you spread the wealth around , it ’ s good for everybody. ” wurzelbacher had told obama he was interested in buying a plumbing business .
two days later mccain , obama ’ s opponent , cited “ joe the plumber ” as the quintessential american everyman who had exposed obama as having what mccain called a socialist , wealth-distributing economic world view .
it mattered little that “ joe ” wasn ’ t his first name .
he never ultimately got a plumbing license in ohio .
but he says he was honorably discharged from the u.s. air force as a journeyman plumber .
soon after , wurzelbacher appeared at rallies with mccain and his running mate , former alaska governor sarah palin .
he seemed enraged at obama ’ s economic policies .
today , he is highly critical of senator mccain , deriding his opposition to trump as corrupt .
“ they are not opposing trump for the american people .
they are doing it for their party , and i don ’ t like that .
it ’ s control , power , greed .
trump scares them. ” wurzelbacher , who had assailed unions along with obama ’ s decision to use taxpayer money to rescue the car manufacturers chrysler and general motors from bankruptcy in 2009 , drew much criticism when it emerged that he took a job at a chrysler plant in toledo , ohio , in 2014 - and joined a local union to get it .
“ that was an experiment , ” wurzelbacher said .
he said he never intended to work at chrysler full-time .
he wanted to see inside a union factory so he could write about it , he said .
he worked on the paint line for three months , and then left .
he ran for the u.s. house of representatives in 2012 , winning the republican primary for ohio ’ s 9th congressional district but lost to democratic marcy kaptur by a landslide .
wurzelbacher says his life has settled down since the madness of 2008 .
he got married five years ago .
he has a three-year-old daughter and one-year-old son , and a 20-year-old son living in kentucky .
he now spends his time running two websites , joeforamerica.com , and one his wife inspired , livingloving.com .
but he is disgusted by much of the debate in america .
“ political correctness is a huge issue .
people are afraid to speak their minds .
they are afraid of being labeled a racist or a homophobe. ” on guns , wurzelbacher says the more people who have guns , the safer they will be .
asked how many guns he has , wurzelbacher replied , “ not enough. ” ( editing by jason szep and howard goller ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .