geneva ( reuters ) - the people of west papua are facing a slow motion genocide and demand independence from indonesia , separatist leaders told reuters after a march in geneva , adding they would press their case with a petition to the united nations in new york .
benny wenda , international spokesman for the united liberation movement for west papua ( ulmwp ) , said the human rights situation had worsened under indonesian president joko widodo , with estimates of up to 8,000 people arrested last year .
they look at west papua differently , as subhuman , and as a colony .
we are not equal .
that s why if we live with indonesia , in 30 years time my people will disappear , he told reuters .
indonesian presidential spokesman johan budi declined to comment on the separatists comments .
west papua and papua provinces - often collectively referred to as west papua - make up the western half of an island north of australia , with independent papua new guinea to the east .
the provinces have been gripped by a long-running and often violent separatist conflict since they were incorporated into indonesia after a widely criticized u.n.-backed referendum in 1969 .
dutch colonial rule ended in 1963 .
widodo has made easing the tension in the two provinces on the island a key goal , through stepping up investment , freeing political prisoners , and addressing human rights concerns .
however , oridek ap , coordinator for free west papua campaign in the netherlands , said his father was killed in 1984 for singing freedom songs , and it was still dangerous to speak out .
sometimes they find a body and we have confirmation of death .
but as long as somebody is disappeared we don t have confirmation , he said .
when we talk about slow motion genocide , how can you prove it .
on the other side of the border we are talking about 7-8 million papuans .
why not on our side ?
this killing is still going on .
the separatists say there are 2.5 million west papuans , roughly the same as 50 years ago .
what happened in 1969 was a fraud , wenda said .
this is why west papuans believe that our right to self-determination under international law still exists .
geneva is the house of human rights and freedom .
that s why we start here , and then we go to new york , he said .
wenda , who has political asylum in britain , added : we need to solve this problem in the united nations .
last month indonesia struck a deal with u.s. mining firm freeport mcmoran inc to take a 51 percent stake in grasberg , the world s second-biggest copper mine , which is in papua .