baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi faced calls on tuesday to take measures ranging from an economic blockade to military action after kurds voted in a referendum in support of independence .
but he will need to proceed cautiously .
abadi has been trying to unite iraq since he took office , focusing mainly on sectarian hostilities between shi ites and sunnis , which had triggered a civil war , and islamic state militants who seized a third of his country before their defeat .
the shi ite-led baghdad government and the kurdish region in the north have struggled for years to resolve differences over oil and other sensitive issues .
but monday s vote , which is likely to lead to a breakaway state that has been the dream of generations of kurds , has ratcheted up tensions , posing one of the biggest challenges to abadi as he tries to keep iraq together .
the iraqi government ruled out talks on possible secession for kurdish-held parts of northern iraq on tuesday after projections by the kurdish rudaw tv channel showed support for a split could be over 90 percent .
neighboring iran and turkey also fiercely oppose independence in the north .
they say it will cause regional chaos , and they also fear secession will encourage their own restive kurdish populations to press for self-determination .
now abadi s shi ite constituency , as well as sunni arabs opposed to kurdish independence , will be pressing him to take firm action .
disputed areas such as the multi-ethnic oil city of kirkuk could be a flashpoint for widespread instability .
kurds have gone too far and government must show them a tougher face .
government forces must go to maintain peace in kirkuk and all other areas kurds try to control by force , said mohammed tamim , an arab sunni lawmaker from kirkuk parliament has authorized abadi to safeguard iraqi unity and such a mandate allows him to send troops .
mobilizing government troops may not be so easy .
the army has spent years fighting islamic state and the recent battle to drive the group out of mosul has left many of iraq s formations exhausted .
those troops that can fight are engaged in operations against islamic state militants west of kirkuk and near the syrian border .
another option would be to turn to iranian-backed paramilitary groups .
some , like asaib ahl al-haq , have already threatened to march on kirkuk .
tehran supports shi ite muslim groups that have been prominent in iraq since the u.s.-led invasion that toppled saddam hussein in 2003 .
abadi , as the commander of armed forces , must switch the needle of the fighting compass toward kirkuk , said hashim al-mouasawi , a spokesman for the shi ite nujaba group , which has about 10,000 fighters and is loyal to iran .
we are fully prepared to answer abadi s orders to liberate kirkuk and the oilfields from the separatist militias control before it s too late .
we will fight to safeguard the prestige of the state .
while the use of these paramilitary groups against the kurds would spare the army from having to fight against fellow iraqis , there are risks for abadi .
tensions are already high between kurdish peshmerga fighters and shi ite paramilitary forces , even though they cooperated in the fight against islamic state .
now that islamic state has largely been removed from strategic areas , the ethnic and sectarian battle for land and influence that has dogged iraq could complicate efforts to create harmony among its many sects and communities .
if the shi ite paramilitaries and kurds clash , it will mean all-out war between two of the best fighting forces in iraq , a u.s. ally and opec oil producer with an economy shattered by conflict .
vahal ali , a spokesman for masoud barzani , president of the kurdistan regional government , said the kurds would not take further steps toward independence without pursuing peaceful negotiations with the baghdad government .
but , he added , kurds did not have endless patience .
if we are attacked we will defend ourselves , he said .
we are not breaking any laws .
the kurdish people were given a chance to vote and they did .
for its part , the iraqi government gave the krg three days to hand over control of its airports in order to avoid an international air embargo , abadi said , according to state tv .
baghdad asked foreign countries to stop flights to the international airports of erbil and sulaimaniya , in krg territory , but only iran complied .
lawmakers called on abadi to apply economic pressure on the kurds , who suffered under saddam for decades and then began building a semi-autonomous zone in the north after his fall .
one possibility is a blockade of kurdish areas , something that vahal ali said would also harm the baghdad government .
the government must take tough measures to prevent the kurdish leaders from going too far , said shi ite lawmaker ammar tuma .
he called for shutting down exits and entrances , controlling the border crossings , chasing the funds kurdish leaders generated from illegal oil sales , and finally deploying iraqi forces in areas they try to control by force .
kurdish oil sales without the consent of the government have angered iraqi leaders .
but placing an economic stranglehold on the kurds may have only limited success for baghdad if turkey continues to trade with the north .
turkey has long been northern iraq s main link to the outside world and the krg exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil per day to world markets via turkey .
turkish president tayyip erdogan said iraqi kurds would go hungry if his country halts the flow of goods and oil across the border with northern iraq .
and while it sees the referendum as a grave matter for its own national security , turkey has built good relations with barzani s kurdish administration .
iraq , including the kurdish region , was turkey s third-largest export market in 2016 .
erdogan has repeatedly threatened economic sanctions against the kurds in response to the referendum , but he has so far given few specifics .