when you sit down to watch the super bowl contest between the denver broncos and carolina panthers , you may want to know that the man leading denver to the field is a hardcore right-wing republican.peyton manning , the broncos quarterback and former superstar for the indianapolis colts , doesn t just occasionally donate to the republican party .
in fact , manning is a maxed out contributor to jeb bush s 2016 presidential campaign.in october of 2015 it was revealed that manning donated $ 2,700 to bush s campaign , the most an individual can contribute .
while manning may want his money back based on how the bush campaign has underperformed so far , it s part of a pattern for the veteran player , who has often contributed to the republican cause.over the last ten years , manning has donated $ 22,400 to political campaigns , all of that to conservative republicans .
he gave $ 10,200 to senator bob corker , from tennessee .
manning was a superstar player for the tennessee volunteers .
manning also gave money to dick lugar , who served as a senator for indiana , around the same time manning played for the colts.at the presidential level , manning gave money to george w. bush in 2004 , and was a maxed-out $ 5,000 donor to mitt romney s failed 2012 presidential campaign.manning s wife ashley joined her husband in supporting republicans .
according to federal election commission ( fec ) records , she donated to senator corker as well , and also gave to jeb bush .
between the two mannings , she was the only one to ever donate to a democrat , former senator mary landrieu , who hailed from manning s birth state of louisiana.his brother , eli , the new york giants quarterback , is also a maxed-out jeb bush donor.according to the center for responsive politics , the broncos have donated $ 112,475 to conservative candidates and political committees .
by comparison the carolina panthers have given $ 21,000 to support the right .
while both teams have also contributed to liberal candidates , the numbers are much smaller $ 3,500 for the broncos , $ 4,000 for the panthers.unlike manning , panthers quarterback cam newton has not been a political donor.overall the nfl leans heavily in favor of republican donors , most of that money coming from the billionaire owners who own the teams.featured image via flickr