najaf , iraq ( reuters ) - in early september , ayatollah mahmoud hashemi shahroudi , a senior iranian official and cleric , flew to the holy city of najaf in southern iraq .
his entourage included a sizable security detail and the former head of the revolutionary guards , the most powerful military force in the islamic republic .
shahroudi , 69 , spent several days on a charm offensive meeting officials , clerics and seminary students at his office near the golden dome shrine of imam ali , one of the world s holiest shi ite sites .
his aim was to raise his profile as a replacement for the top shi ite cleric and most powerful man in iraq : the 87-year old ayatollah ali sistani , according to current and former iraqi officials .
while attention has focused on iraq s battle against islamic state , the country s future could equally hinge on what is happening in najaf .
with sistani s advanced age and persistent rumors about his health , the question of his replacement has become more pointed .
iraqi shi ite factions are jockeying to influence who replaces sistani .
iran , whose population is mostly shi ite , backs shahroudi .
shahroudi could prove a controversial replacement for sistani .
senior clergy in najaf are wary of iran trying to expand its influence and shahroudi is viewed with some suspicion , although he could still build support among students .
since sistani has distanced himself from iranian politics some of his followers may not want a replacement who is close to tehran .
sources in najaf were unwilling to go on the record on a matter as sensitive as sistani s successor , but a former senior iraqi official told reuters : the iranians will try their best .
it s not just religious , politics have become part of it .
it will decide the fate of iraq , the official said .
iran has already expanded its influence in iraq by helping the shi ite-led government in baghdad retake disputed areas from the kurds .
the head of the branch of the revolutionary guards responsible for operations outside iran , qassem soleimani , personally convinced some kurdish leaders to abandon their claim to contested towns , like the oil-rich kirkuk .
attempts to reach shahroudi and the revolutionary guards media office were unsuccessful , as were attempts to reach sistani s office for comment .
if iran can influence who becomes the next top shi ite cleric in iraq , it could tighten its grip on power within the country for years .
a senior cleric in najaf who is sympathetic to the interests of iran would also eliminate a rival to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , who claims to be the leader of shi ite muslims worldwide .
for years , sistani , who has endorsed a religious and political viewpoint independent of iran , has been khamenei s top challenger for the leadership of the global shi ite community .
sistani is rarely seen in public but his decrees are sacrosanct to his millions of shi ite followers .
sistani s fatwa to rise up against the sunni militants of islamic state thwarted the group s push toward baghdad in 2014 .
the cleric has also used his decrees to reduce sectarian violence in the country .
sistani opposed the secession of the kurdish region after the referendum on independence in september but then urged baghdad to protect kurds after reports of abuses surfaced last month .
without sistani s restraining influence , clashes are likely to break out between sects as well as among rival shi ite groups , iraqi officials and observers say .
sistani is not just a poor guy sitting in a house .
he can control millions of people , the iraqi former senior official said .
it will be a very bloody struggle after sistani passes away .
sources in najaf expect sistani to remain in his post until his death .
there is no clear succession process , but shahroudi would need to obtain the support of a large number of ordinary shi ites , seminary students and other clerics .
shahroudi is no stranger to najaf : he was born in the city to iranian parents .
in the 1970s he was jailed and tortured by saddam hussein s security forces because of his political activities .
he moved to iran after the islamic revolution and has been promoted to top posts since khamenei became supreme leader in 1989 .
shahroudi was head of the iranian judiciary for a decade and is currently the head of the expediency council , a body intended to resolve disputes between parliament and a hardline watchdog body , the guardian council .
in public , shahroudi is often seen sitting next to khamenei .
shahroudi s visit is only one sign of how tehran is trying to rally support for its candidate to replace sistani .
a company linked to the revolutionary guards is involved in a $ 300 million project to expand the imam ali shrine , making it the second largest muslim holy site after mecca in saudi arabia .
these projects create a state of dependency between recipients of aid and tehran since they integrate the iraqi infrastructure into the iranian infrastructure network , said ali alfoneh , an expert on the guards at the atlantic council .
furthermore , such activities provide a cover for the islamic republic s intelligence networks operating in iraq .
in 2011 , shahroudi opened an office in najaf and began paying clerical students stipends , which observers say was an attempt by iran to increase its influence .
it was a provocative move , said an iraqi analyst familiar with the shi ite clergy who asked not to be identified .
shahroudi subsequently opened offices in baghdad and karbala .
he pays stipends to thousands of seminary students , according to iraqi officials and clerical sources in najaf .
clerics often pay stipends to students to gather support , raise their profile and perhaps become accepted as a marja , or top cleric , observers say .
iran is trying to influence the process of who comes after sistani through the students , said a western diplomat in iraq who did not have permission to speak on the record .
sistani is now the main sponsor of shi ite clerical students , paying millions of dollars in iraq and elsewhere .
his son mohammed ridha oversees the financial and administrative work of his office .
follow the dollars to see what will happen next , said an iraqi senior official familiar with the clerical politics of najaf .
mohammed ridha sistani controls all the cash .
mohammed ridha s work could position him to replace his father , observers say , though passing the religious mantle within a family would be unprecedented in shi ite custom .
top contenders to replace sistani in najaf include three other marjas but they are old and there is no clear front-runner , according to clerical sources and iraqi officials .
nothing is fixed to make a decision for this procedure , said sheikh ali najafi , son of one of the top najaf marjas .
while in iraq , shahroudi visited prime minister haidar al abadi in baghdad .
iraqi officials said sistani refused to see him in najaf , but they do not expect the iranians to give up .