kirkuk , iraq ( reuters ) - turkmen and arab shoppers stroll through an open-air food market in an ethnically mixed area of kirkuk , haggling over the price of tomatoes and gossiping about their neighbors .
ostensibly , it s a normal day in the city of 1 million in northern iraq .
but nearby stand iraqi army soldiers , sent by the central government in baghdad this week to wrest control of the city from kurds after their vote for independence on sept. 25 .
the army s recapture of oil-producing kirkuk province and other territory across northern iraq has dismayed the city s kurds but brought comfort to residents from other ethnic groups .
of course things are better now that the iraqis have taken back the city , said mohammad , a turkmen butcher grinning over a large pile of ground meat .
we re all brothers , but at the end of the day , kirkuk is not for the kurds .
it s for iraq .
an arab couple who have seen kirkuk change hands several times before said they now feel safer and more comfortable .
this is our city after all , said the elderly hajji ahmed .
across the street in a kurdish-owned restaurant , the mood is different .
none of my kurdish regulars want to come to eat here anymore , they don t feel safe , said the owner , who asked not to be named for fear of retaliation .
we re all afraid because our fate in the city is unknown .
thousands of people fled kirkuk after rumors of looting and violence against kurds spread on social media , though residents said many later returned .
no one reuters spoke to had witnessed or suffered any aggression .
the scenes now are a far cry from the kurds jubilation on the day of the independence referendum , when they danced and sang in the streets .
though the referendum was opposed by international allies , kurdistan regional government ( krg ) president massoud barzani was confident its outcome would give his government leverage to negotiate secession .
kirkuk is seen by many kurds as the future capital of an independent kurdish state .
including it in the referendum was widely seen as a unilateral move to consolidate kurdish control .
peshmerga fighters seized kirkuk in 2014 after iraqi security forces fled , leaving the region s oilfields vulnerable to islamic state militants who had swept across northern iraq .
but any notion of consolidated kurdish power was quashed on monday when kurdish forces quietly withdrew , allowing the iraqis to retake the city and other disputed territories claimed by both the central government in baghdad and the kurds .
kurdish flags used to hang from street lamps and buildings across the whole city but are now seen only in kurdish areas .
roadside vendors now sell the flags of the iraqi army and shi ite paramilitary forces .
kirkuk has been lost forever , said a kurdish resident of the shorja district .
kurds in kirkuk feel betrayed by their political leaders and humiliated by baghdad , which forcibly displaced them from the city under late dictator saddam hussein .
some civilians are now deployed along the highway to the regional capital , erbil , with kurdish peshmerga fighters .
we brought our guns to defend against the iraqi invaders , said one , a retired peshmerga fighter .
we were betrayed , even by our own political leaders .
so we had to come with our weapons to fight .
the men have built berms and road blocks to slow traffic into the small town of altun kupri , or perde in kurdish .
now we only have orders to defend .
but if they try and come to erbil , we will attack them ferociously .
we have to protect our people , bakr razgai , a local commander , said before clashes in the area on friday morning .
such bravado was hard to find in kirkuk .
in the kurdish neighborhood of shorja , a poster hanging in front of the main market and showing late kurdish leader jalal talabani s face next to a kurdish flag has been scribbled over .
i ve been up every night since monday , afraid for my life , said abdullah , a kurdish clothes salesman .
a friend said this was because of propaganda on social media and asked him if he had seen anything bad happen .
abdullah had not .
but i m still afraid , he said .