pella , iowa /ankeny , iowa ( reuters ) - u.s. republican front-runner donald trump expressed confidence on saturday that he could push back attempts by his rivals to knock him off his top perch , saying he could stand on new york ’ s fifth avenue “ and shoot somebody , ” and still not lose voters .
nine days from the first nominating contest in iowa , however , it was republican rival marco rubio who won the endorsement saturday from the des moines register , the state ’ s biggest and most influential newspaper .
on the democratic side , the register picked hillary clinton .
the endorsements were big developments for both rubio and clinton .
rubio , a florida senator , has been running third behind trump and texas senator ted cruz in iowa , while clinton has struggled to fend off a challenge to the democratic nomination from bernie sanders .
trump and cruz , trump ’ s chief obstacle to a victory in iowa , held competing rallies across the state while in new hampshire , other candidates battled for votes in that state ’ s feb. 9 first-in-the-nation primary for the nov. 8 election .
trump , the new york billionaire and former reality tv star who has been virtually impervious to attacks from his opponents , pushed the limits of his political rhetoric again in sioux center , iowa .
“ i could stand in the middle of fifth avenue and shoot somebody and i wouldn ’ t lose any voters , ” he said .
trump has been a difficult target for criticism from his rivals because not all of his supporters are conservatives and many are most interested in his projection of strength , not where he stands on a particular issue .
the latest reuters-ipsos tracking poll had trump pulling in 40.6 percent support of republican voters nationally .
a cnn/orc poll has trump up in iowa with 37 percent to 26 percent for cruz , who has led in some other iowa polls .
trump did not repeat the “ shoot somebody ” line at a later rally in pella , while stressing to the crowd there that he would tone down his rhetoric as president .
cruz responded to trump at an event in ankeny , where he picked up the endorsement of conservative firebrand glenn beck , a counterweight of sorts to trump ’ s endorsement by 2008 vice presidential nominee sarah palin .
“ listen , i will let donald speak for himself .
i can say i have no intention of shooting anybody in this campaign , ” cruz said .
beck was more direct .
“ there is one thing to have a healthy ego , there is another to give a man who believes those kind of things , who has a habit of anyone who stands in his way of destruction , ” beck said .
“ to give that man the full power and scope of the office of the presidency is something we will grow to regret. ” iowa republican senator chuck grassley was an introductory speaker at trump ’ s pella event .
grassley did not endorse trump but repeated trump ’ s signature phrase , saying republicans have a chance to “ make america great again. ” during his speech , trump called fox news anchor megyn kelly biased and said she should not be a moderator at a fox-hosted republican debate in des moines on thursday .
kelly ’ s questioning at an aug. 6 debate in cleveland had prompted trump to unleash a series of insults at her .
there was no indication that fox planned to remove her as a moderator .
“ megyn kelly has no conflict of interest .
donald trump is just trying to build up the audience for thursday ’ s debate , for which we thank him , ” said a fox news spokesperson .
the potential for more chaos in what has been a turbulent race on both the republican and democratic sides emerged on saturday with the news that former new york mayor michael bloomberg might launch an independent run for president .
a source said part of bloomberg ’ s concern was the problem that clinton is having in defeating sanders .
“ i hope he runs , ” trump told reporters in pella .
at a first in the nation forum for candidates in nashua , new hampshire , former florida governor jeb bush was notably withering in his criticism of trump .
he reminded voters of trump ’ s dismissal of senator john mccain as not a hero because he got captured during the vietnam war .
mccain spent 5-1/2 years as a prisoner of war .
he was a two-time winner of the new hampshire primary and the 2012 republican presidential nominee .
“ it is not strong to insult women .
it is not a sign of strength when you insult hispanics .
it is not a sign of strength when you say that a pow was a loser because they got caught .
john mccain is a hero , ” bush said .
( additional reporting by dustin volz in washington and alana wise in new hampshire ; editing by sandra maler and mary milliken ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .