21st century wire says trump claims that after suspicions that us intelligence services were leaking information from classified meetings he was having with them , that he conducted his own sting operation to prove this was happening .
i think it s pretty sad when intelligence reports get leaked out to the press .
first of all , it s illegal .
these are classified and certified meetings and reports , trump said during a press conference held at trump tower .
only , strategic leaks and clandestine subterfuge are par for the course in the swamp geoff earle daily mailpresident-elect donald trump , after growing suspicious that intelligence officials were leaking news about their classified briefings with him , says he conducted a sting operation to try to prove top spies were behind the leaks.trump revealed the extraordinary scheme to try to entrap the senior spies in a furious press conference where he suggested the intelligence community had been behind salacious and totally unproven allegations against him .
i think it s pretty sad when intelligence reports get leaked out to the press .
first of all , it s illegal .
these are classified and certified meetings and reports , trump said during a press conference at trump tower his first since getting elected.then he revealed the details of the stealthy sting he says he conducted on the nation s senior spooks .
i ll tell you what does happen .
i have many meetings with intelligence .
and every time i meet , people are reading about it , trump complained , possibly referencing reports on his classified briefings , which he has chosen not to receive daily .
somebody s leaking them out , trump said , after inveighing against leaks generally .
so i said , maybe it s my office .
maybe my office .
because i ve got a lot of people maybe it s them ?
what i did , is i said i won t tell anyone .
i m going to have a meeting , and i won t tell anybody about my meeting with intelligence , trump continued.he even shielded one of his closest aides from word of the meeting .
nobody knew not even rhona , my executive assistant for years .
she didn t know i didn t tell her .
nobody knew , trump continued drawing laughter from collected family members and staff.having set the trap , trump says the word leaked anyway .
the meeting was held .
they left , and immediately the word got out that i had a meeting .
so , i don t want that .
it s very unfair to the country continue this report at the daily mailread more elections news at : 21st century wire 2016 filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv