how did any eu official think their country could survive an invasion of millions of mostly military age un-checked muslim men ?
did they really believe these men would assimilate in their countries and respect the faith of germany s christian citizens ?
a german official named hansjoerg mueller , of the alternative for germany party , said that because of merkel s open door policy allowing the floods of muslim immigrants the country is sliding towards anarchy and risks becoming a banana republic without any government .
he also said that it will push the nation to civil war .
the official said : germany now is somewhere at the edge of anarchy and sliding towards civil war , or to become a banana republic without any government.eight thousands people in germany took to the streets holding christian crosses to express their rage at islamic evil.i honestly can not think of a more beautiful image than that of the holy cross .
in the holy cross all worry is destroyed , all that one can see is justice , for on the cross justice himself was persecuted , and he prevailed over all , for he is all , and in him , all can can find resurrection.christianity has been so corrupted into a weak country club , that it is my obligation to teach the true strength of the faith.but the problem in the west is not islam , nor is it muslims .
these are merely a symptom to a greater disease , and that is the toleration of evil ideas and beliefs and the decimation of christian supremacy .
look to the forgotten wilderness , and what do you see ?
old churches and monasteries from bygone days , from a time behind our own eyes .
you can touch such an era with the finger of the mind , and you will see the hand of god in history .
old crosses still stand in the cold meadows and on the highest mountain peaks , because the faith assails the summits , and its icons can be gazed upon adjacent to the raze of the horizon , with fiery hues that burn our souls and ignite the flames of hope within us .
for christ is hope , glimmering in the abyss of hopelessness ; he is like an aura on the night sky , only if you try to grasp him , you will see light greater than the luminaries of the darkest hour .
old monasteries are found on the edge of the loftiest cliffs , bringing hope to a humanity on the edge of the cliff of order , about to fall into the ocean of disorder and confusion.the beauties of the faith are so great that they will take one s mind to ecstasy , just by contemplating on all of the wonders of the flower of christendom .
the flower of christ s empire sails passed the autumn winds , and lands on the seas ; the waters ripple and rage , the waves split open and the anger roars , buts the pedals of this illustrious bloom emanate an aroma that makes the waters sweet .
bitterness dies , and the sweet smell and the pleasant sight of this flower gracefully floating above the most malicious waves , is the image of order ; it brings illumination to those who hate chaos , and it provokes viciousness from those who love death and destruction .
this is the state of christendom when she has faith in christ .
when the flower of christendom cleaves unto the holy cross , this is when she receives the sweetness of peace , not as the world gives do i give to you .
( john 14:27 ) for when moses cleaved unto god and cried for his help , the lord of heaven showed him a holy tree , and from this sacred wood , the waters were made sweet ( exodus 15:25 ) .
and so when christendom accepts the holy cross , she too will have its sweetness.peter stood upon the waters , for in that moment he had faith .
when the waters roared and raged , and its waves arose aloft , this flower of the faith was afraid , and he sunk .
the beautiful pedals that so embellished the waters was now overpowered .
but as soon as he cried , lord , save me , the holy one embraced him , and the flower of christendom now hovered above the waters .
the state of christendom is that it is now under the waters , drowning , and it is about to die .
the abysmal spirits crawl all over her , possessing people and pushing them to grab ahold of the flower and keep under the water.for entire story : shoebat