niamey ( reuters ) - french and nigerien troops were conducting operations on thursday in a region of niger where three u.s. army special forces members were killed the day before , becoming the first american soldiers to die in west africa in decades .
three nigerien soldiers were also killed and two u.s. soldiers wounded in the attack , which took place in a southwestern niger region where insurgents are active , u.s. africa command spokeswoman robyn mack said .
france s regional barkhane force was asked to support a counterattack after the niger and u.s. troops were ambushed , french army spokesman colonel patrick steiger told a news conference in paris .
it s not clear if the attackers knew the americans were present , said a western security source .
initial information suggests there was a trap that appeared designed to get them out of their vehicles and then they opened fire .
insurgents in the area include militants from al qaeda in islamic maghreb and a local branch of islamic state , mack said .
the western security source said al qaeda and a relatively new group called islamic state in the greater sahara were the main suspects , although no one had yet claimed responsibility .
two other niger security sources said four military helicopters had been sent to the region and that reinforcements arrived on thursday morning in the tillaberi area , where the attack took place .
the pentagon declined to discuss details , citing ongoing operations , but said the u.s. forces were part of a growing mission to bolster niger s armed forces ability to battle militants .
we extend our deepest condolences and sympathies to the families of the fallen , and those injured in this attack , pentagon spokeswoman dana white told a news briefing .
nigerien army colonel abou tagu said the joint nigerian-american patrol on the mali-niger border was ambushed by militants riding in a dozen vehicles and about 20 motorcycles near the village of tongo tongo .
he cited intense fighting , saying the joint nigerian-american force showed courage .
he said four nigerien soldiers were killed and eight were wounded .
a statement by u.s. africa command on thursday said one unspecified partner nation member had died but did not name the nation .
in a speech on thursday , niger president mahamadou issoufou condemned the attack .
our country has just been the victim of a terrorist attack that claimed a large number of victims , he said .
islamist militants form part of a regional insurgency in the poor , sparsely populated deserts of west africa s sahel .
jihadists have stepped up attacks on u.n. peacekeepers , malian soldiers and civilian targets since being driven back in northern mali by a french-led military intervention in 2013 .
malian militant groups have expanded their reach into neighboring countries , including niger , where a series of attacks by armed groups led the government in march to declare a state of emergency in the southwest .
the european union has pledged tens of millions of euros to a new regional force of five sahelian countries - niger , mali , chad , burkina faso and mauritania - in a bid to contain islamist militant groups .
the united states also views the region as a growing priority .
rinaldo depagne , west africa project director at international crisis group , said the borderlands between mali , niger and burkina faso were becoming a new permanent hotbed of violence , threatened by increasingly organized militant groups .
this shows the level of organization of these groups and also their confidence , depagne said .
andrew lebovich , a visiting fellow at the european council on foreign relations , said wednesday s attack revealed how u.s. training of nigerien forces has accelerated and also verged into ongoing military operations .
the united states has about 800 service members in niger , where it operates surveillance drones out of a $ 100 million base in the central city of agadez to support the country s efforts to combat jihadists and protect its porous borders .
it has also sent troops to supply intelligence and other assistance to a multinational force battling the nigerian boko haram militants near niger s border with nigeria .