donald trump went on another uncontrollable rant against the media on tuesday morning.days after three cnn employees resigned over a minor story about the russia investigation that turned out to be incorrect , trump took to twitter to gloat about it and claimed that because this story was wrong all the other news about russia is fake , too.wow , cnn had to retract big story on russia , with 3 employees forced to resign .
what about all the other phony stories they do ?
fake news !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 27 , 2017cnn responsibly retracted a story that alleged a connection to russia by trump adviser anthony scaramucci .
scaramucci even called the move classy and called for moving on .
well , trump didn t move on .
he seized the situation as an opportunity to attack the media , with the exception being fox news , as usual , arguing that because cnn got a story wrong that it must mean every other story in the media about russia is wrong as well .
seriously.fake news cnn is looking at big management changes now that they got caught falsely pushing their phony russian stories .
ratings way down !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 27 , 2017so they caught fake news cnn cold , but what about nbc , cbs & abc ?
what about the failing @ nytimes & @ washingtonpost ?
they are all fake news !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) june 27 , 2017trump even retweeted fox hosts who parroted his claim that the democrats are the ones who committed collusion.mark levin : the collusion is among the democrats https : //t.co/qrca7r01bi fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) june 27 , 2017hannity : russia allegations boomeranging back on democrats https : //t.co/lvdrpxpcp9 fox & friends ( @ foxandfriends ) june 27 , 2017keep in mind that these cnn staffers actually resigned over an insignificant error .
meanwhile , sean hannity has been lying for weeks about the death of seth rich and he still has a job.trump is apparently so desperate to stop the russia investigation that he will do or say anything.trump is also a hypocrite because most of what he has said since taking office is false , yet he refuses to resign.twitter users even pointed out this hypocrisy and proceeded to mock him.hmm , pot , kettle president trump s lies , the definitive list https : //t.co/6vqamjlttf pic.twitter.com/ogwy1wuxnl michael vine ( @ mpvine ) june 27 , 2017wouldn t a true fake news network not retract the story and keep the fake story going ?
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) june 27 , 2017something like taping comey or obama s birth certificate or crowd size at the 2017 inauguration ?
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) june 27 , 2017the @ nytimes isn t failing , donald .
digital subscriptions up by millions .
stock near a 52 week high .
not failing at all , donald .
soaring .
pic.twitter.com/tpgxonotk3 matthewdicks ( @ matthewdicks ) june 27 , 2017you re spewing the fake news .
the 1st amendment is there , in part , so the media can explain that.attacking all media is what dictators do david pepper ( @ davidpepper ) june 27 , 2017donald trump must be truly insane if he really thinks one retracted story means he is vindicated.featured image : win mcnamee/getty images