geneva ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump s criticism of journalists amounts to an attack on the freedom of the press and could provoke violence against reporters , the united nations human rights chief said on wednesday .
zeid ra ad al-hussein said trump had also made worrying remarks about women , mexicans and muslims and went on to question the president s approach to immigration and decision to pardon former arizona lawman joe arpaio .
there was no immediate response from the white house on the wide-ranging rebuke of trump s repeated references to the fake media and some of his other statements and decisions .
it s really quite amazing when you think that freedom of the press , not only sort of a cornerstone of the u.s. constitution but very much something that the united states defended over the years is now itself under attack from the president , the u.n. high commissioner for human rights said .
it s sort of a stunning turnaround .
and ultimately the sequence is a dangerous one , he told a news conference in geneva .
referring to the new york times , washington post and cnn , he added : to call these news organizations fake does tremendous damage and to refer to individual journalists in this way , i have to ask the question is this not an incitement for others to attack journalists ?
zeid voiced concern that a journalist from the guardian had been assaulted in the united states most recently but gave no details .
trump rounded on journalists last week , calling them truly dishonest people and criticizing their coverage of a white supremacist-organized rally in virginia and the political fallout from his comments that violence there was caused by many sides .
nazi salutes , swastikas , anti-semitic slurs and racist references to african-americans had no place in the united states or beyond , zeid said , in his first comments on the events in charlottesville .
trump has also made worrying remarks about women , mexicans and muslims , mocked a person with disabilities publicly and issued a directive on a transgender ban in the military , he said .
the president prides himself as a taboo breaker , indeed his supporters see him as such .
but at the time i expressed my feeling that this was grossly irresponsible , because it has consequences , it emboldens those who may think similarly to sharpen their assaults on these communities , he said .
zeid voiced deep concern at trump s pardon of arpaio , who was convicted of criminal contempt in a racial profiling case that highlighted tensions over immigration policy .
does the president support racial profiling , of latinos in particular , does he support abuse of prisoners ?
arpaio referred at one stage to the open-air prison that he set up as a concentration camp , he later recanted said it was a joke , zeid said .
does the president support this ?
these actions have consequences .
zeid , comparing the leadership role of a u.s. president to a bus driver , said : i almost feel that the president is driving the bus of humanity and we re careening down a mountain path .
and in taking these measures , at least from a human rights perspective , it seems to be reckless driving .