berlin ( reuters ) - german foreign minister sigmar gabriel offered his qatari counterpart a small piece of the berlin wall on tuesday , saying germany s post-war history was proof it was possible to overcome deep divisions such as those now plaguing the gulf region .
gabriel said germany had a keen interest in maintaining good relations with all the gulf countries and working for peace in the region , even if those countries were sometimes in conflict .
especially in politically troubled times in which dialogue has sometimes slipped into the background , it is all the more important to build bridges , to emphasize the things that unite us and to help remove walls , gabriel said at the opening of a new qatar-funded arabic cultural center in berlin .
qatari foreign minister sheikh mohammed bin abdulrahman al thani said he hoped the new center , erected in a neo-classical villa in the southern part of berlin , could showcase arab culture and help battle stereotypes of arabs in europe .
sheikh mohammed last week blamed what he called reckless leadership in the gulf for a rift with qatar and the current crisis in lebanon , taking apparent aim at saudi arabia .
saudi arabia , bahrain , the united arab emirates and egypt this summer cut diplomatic , transport and trade ties with qatar , accusing it of financing terrorism .
doha denies the charges .
gabriel did not refer to the gulf dispute directly , but lauded germany s world war two enemies for building bridges and welcoming germany back into the world community despite the devastation and horrors of the nazi regime .
after 70 years , we saw that it s possible , even after a world war , to be partners in a first step and friends in a second , he said .
tearing down walls is exhausting but worth it .
gabriel said a full segment of the wall that once divided east and west germany would be delivered to a museum in doha , fulfilling a promise he had made to the sister of qatar s ruler .
because as a politician , particularly in these days in germany , we ought to fulfill our promises , he said .
that is a hot topic in my country at the moment .
gabriel , a former leader of the social democrats ( spd ) , declined to comment further on chancellor angela merkel s failure to forge a new coalition government with the pro-business free democrats and environmental greens .
merkel is pressing the spd to reconsider its refusal to join another grand coalition with the conservatives - a move that would stave off new elections that now loom .