sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - a plan to raise california ’ s minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by 2022 passed both houses of the state legislature on thursday , putting the state on track to become the first in the nation to commit to such a large pay hike for the working poor .
the measure , incorporating a deal governor jerry brown reached with labor leaders and progressive democrats in the legislature , was approved in the state senate thursday afternoon after winning approval earlier in the day in the assembly , and now goes to brown for his signature .
“ if you work full time , your family shouldn ’ t live in poverty , ” assembly speaker anthony rendon , a southern california democrat , said in support of the bill to raise the state ’ s minimum wage from its current level of $ 10 per hour .
lawmakers from the state ’ s poorer regions said the measure could harm small businesses that are barely hanging on amid double-digit unemployment , ultimately leading to job losses .
if enacted , the bill would put california , home to one of the world ’ s biggest economies , among a growing number of u.s. states and cities that have moved in recent years to surpass the federal minimum wage , which has remained at $ 7.25 an hour since 2009 .
a proposal to raise the minimum wage in parts of new york state to $ 15 was announced thursday by governor andrew cuomo and legislative leaders .
the california measure would gradually raise the state ’ s hourly minimum wage to $ 15 by 2022 for large businesses and by 2023 for smaller firms .
the measure would also head off two competing ballot initiatives lacking a provision to allow the governor to suspend increases in hard economic times , a deal breaker for brown .
the proposal sped through the legislative process after the governor ’ s office reached a deal last week with labor unions pushing a similar minimum wage hike in the form of two ballot initiatives .
with polls showing strong support for those measures at the ballot box , brown emphasized that a version passed through the legislature would allow lawmakers to amend it if needed over time instead of going back to voters to request amendments in expensive and uncertain campaigns .
moreover , the deal allows the state to opt out of minimum wage increases if the economy is doing poorly , a provision not in either of the union-backed ballot initiatives .
even so , several moderate democrats and most republicans complained that it was being rushed through , and would disproportionately harm businesses in poorer parts of the state , where the cost of living is not high enough to warrant such a dramatic wage hike .
the deal reached in new york would raise wages in costly new york city to $ 15 in three years , but would stagger increases in other parts of the state , some to just $ 12.50 per hour unless further approval is granted .
it still must pass the legislature , where negotiations on the details are ongoing .