munich ( reuters ) - munich prosecutors have arrested a former board member of volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) unit porsche in connection with an emissions scandal at carmaker audi , a person familiar with the matter said on thursday .
wolfgang hatz , former research and development chief at porsche and head of powertrain development at audi and parent volkswagen in previous roles , was taken into custody , the person said , marking the first arrest of a former board member of one of volkswagen s units in germany .
a lawyer representing hatz declined to confirm the arrest and also declined any further comment .
hatz left porsche last year , having been suspended since volkswagen s emissions test-cheating scandal broke in september 2015 .
investigations found no evidence against him , porsche said in may 2016 .
munich prosecutors earlier said they had arrested a second suspect and widened the number of suspects in their investigation .
they did not disclose the suspect s identity .
prosecutors have also searched personal premises , a spokeswoman for the munich prosecutors said , adding that corporate locations were not part of the raid .
audi has no knowledge of the arrest and continues to cooperate with authorities , a spokesman said .
german business daily handelsblatt first reported the arrest and sueddeutsche zeitung disclosed hatz s identity .
audi admitted in november 2015 , two months after parent volkswagen s diesel emissions scandal broke , that its 3.0 liter v6 diesel engines were fitted with an auxiliary control device deemed illegal in the united states .
in march , munich prosecutors searched offices at the carmaker s ingolstadt base , where about 44,000 workers are employed , and the premises of jones day , a u.s. law firm hired by volkswagen to lead an investigation into the emissions scandal .
four months later the u.s. justice department said it had charged a former audi manager with directing employees at the company to design software to cheat u.s. emissions tests in thousands of audi diesel cars .
the former audi manager , italian citizen giovanni pamio , was subsequently arrested by munich prosecutors on suspicion of fraud and false advertising in connection with the carmaker s emissions scandal .
pamio remains in custody pending ongoing german investigations and an extradition request by u.s. authorities .
pamio s lawyers said he is cooperating fully with prosecutors and has denied the allegations .