monrovia ( reuters ) - liberians went to the polls on tuesday for a presidential election they hope will mark their first democratic transfer of power in more than seven decades , despite allegations of fraud .
former world footballer of the year george weah is squaring up against vice president joseph boakai , both of them promising to tackle poverty and corruption in a country where most citizens have no reliable electricity or clean drinking water .
they are bidding to succeed ellen johnson sirleaf in a run-off vote delayed for more than a month after boakai and another candidate alleged widespread fraud in october s first-round vote , a challenge that the supreme court rejected this month .
there were no reports of violence as voting proceeded under sunny skies in the capital monrovia .
election agents told reuters first indications pointed to a lower turnout than in the first round .
it is great day for liberia - a test day for democracy , said boakai after casting his vote in paynesville .
we will accept the results provided they meet all the standards .
officials said results were expected in the next few days , declining to give a specific date .
johnson sirleaf s 12-year rule cemented peace in the west african country after civil war ended in 2003 , and brought in much needed aid .
but critics , including much of the country s youth , say her administration was marred by corruption and that she did little to raise most liberians out of dire poverty .
liberia was also racked by the ebola crisis , which killed thousands between 2014 and 2016 , while a drop in iron ore prices since 2014 has dented export revenues .
weah , world footballer of the year in 1995 , won with 38 percent in the first round versus boakai s 29 percent .
i voted george weah because i believe that he will do better for me and my country .
i want change , said miama kamara , a 32-year-old businesswoman , after casting her ballot in the capital .
observers from the u.s.-based national democratic institute said polling stations were better organised than in the first round .
the national elections commission said there were isolated incidents of voting irregularities , including one woman caught trying to vote twice , but no sign of widespread graft .
so far the election process has been smooth and there are marked improvements on the oct. 10 poll , nec said .
boakai has found it harder to convince voters that he will bring change , given that he worked alongside johnson sirleaf for 12 years .
weah , by contrast , has won the hearts of mostly young liberians through his star performances for europe s biggest football teams in the 1990s .
his arrival at a polling station in paynesville was met with cheers by a crowd of supporters .
my focus now is to win , he told reporters .
from there , i am going to get on the drawing board with my team and then we ll put a plan together to move our country forward .
some however are wary of weah s lack of political experience , education and concrete policy .
boakai understands diplomacy , said mcarthur nuah kermah , a school registrar in paynesville .
weah is not experienced and doesn t know the workings of government .
turnout appeared low on the day after the christmas holiday , in contrast to the high turnout for the first round , although official figures are yet to be released .
nec did its best to rally young voters and conjure a sense of occasion in a morning twitter post .
first-time voters must vote on december 26 run-off elections , its tweet said .
this is the first big process you are a part of ... you must complete it in order to be a part of tomorrow s glorious and democratic liberia !