the epa s response to spilling toxic water into the colorado river was to do nothing for 24 hours .
can you imagine if a private company had done something like this ?
does the epa fine itself now ?
the only thing i m sure of is the epa administrator who s responsible for this should be fired but won t be the epa is known for its hard line on environmental offenders , but its own accountability is being challenged after its agents unleashed a disastrous toxic spill threatening water supplies in four western states and two indian reservations.the agency revised sunday its estimate on the spill from 1 million gallons to 3 million as regional officials came under fire for waiting 24 hours before alerting authorities that a crew at the gold king mine had accidentally uncorked the orange , acidic brew now spreading from colorado to new mexico , arizona and utah .
there is widespread frustration with the epa s initial response and the lack of information coming out of the agency the poor communication is unacceptable , said rep. scott r. tipton , colorado republican .
if a mining operator or other private business caused the spill to occur , the epa would be all over them .
the epa admits fault , and as such must be accountable and held to the same standard , mr. tipton said.navajo nation president russell begaye said sunday that he will sue the epa for millions of dollars .
the reservation sits in the path of the contaminated water via the san juan river , which merges with the animas in new mexico .
we are going to make epa pay for this , mr. begaye told the navajo times.epa region 8 administrator shaun mcgrath took responsibility for the spill saturday , but the agency is receiving little sympathy from western lawmakers and others who have found themselves too often pleading for mercy from the epa for less-egregious violations .
imagine what would happen if a private company caused this waste spill , new mexico gov .
susana martinez said in a statement .
this was caused by the epa and the epa should demand the same of itself as it would of a private business responsible for such a spill , particularly when it comes to making information available to the public and state and local officials , she said.read more : wt