manila ( reuters ) - philippine president rodrigo duterte on tuesday threatened to shut down any mine that supports maoist rebels waging a protracted guerrilla war to overthrow the government .
the philippines has been in on-again , off-again peace talks with the national democratic front ( ndf ) , the political arm of the communist movement , since 1986 to end a rebellion that has killed more than 40,000 people and stunted growth in resource-rich rural areas .
in a speech honoring soldiers who fought pro-islamic state militants for five months in the southern city of marawi , duterte said that attacks from the maoist rebels had been on the rise , forcing him to end negotiations , and that he would declare the guerrilla group a terrorist organization .
if i go against the communists , then everybody has to reconfigure their relationship with the new people s army , he said , referring to the communists armed wing .
if you support them financially , i will close you down .
duterte said some mines were paying revolutionary taxes to the rebels in exchange for allowing their operations in remote areas to continue .
he did not name any companies .
mines in the philippines , many with foreign partners , are digging for gold , nickel , copper , chromite and coal .
the mines and geosciences bureau said the country had estimated $ 840 billion worth of untapped mineral wealth as of 2012 .
the rebels are also engaged in small-scale mining , like gold panning in the south .
mining companies shared the president s position , ronald recidoro , executive director at the chamber of mines of the philippines , said .
we do not condone any member supporting the new people s army through the payment of revolutionary taxes , recidoro told reuters .
this is clearly against the law and they really should be prosecuted if they are found to be supporting these organizations .
and if closure is warranted , that is within the prerogative of the president .
the chamber of mines groups 20 of the country s 43 operating mines .
recidoro said some mining firm members had experienced some of their equipment being burned by the npa because of their refusal to pay the taxes .
i am fighting a rebellion ...
i have to build a strong army , duterte said , adding the military would next year acquire 23 attack helicopters to boost counter-insurgency capability .
military spokesman major-general restituto padilla said the philippines already had approval for the purchase of attack helicopters but had not decided what type or where to source them .
( $ 1 = 50.6 pesos )