riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabian women were given the right to drive last week after nearly three decades of campaigning , but some activists say that breakthrough has come with a price : their silence .
while the royal decree ending the ban on women driving has been hailed as proof of a new progressive trend in the deeply conservative muslim kingdom , some women say they have been cowed into not speaking about it - a charge the government denies .
four women who previously participated in protests against the ban told reuters they had received phone calls instructing them not to comment on the decree .
two women said around 25 activists had received such calls .
as saudi arabia pushes through reforms over the objections of conservatives , the leadership is trying to modernize without losing the support of its traditional base .
some islamist clerics seen by the government as dabbling in politics have been detained after an apparent crackdown on potential opponents of the kingdom s rulers last month which now appears to have paved the way for lifting the driving ban .
activists and analysts say the government is also keen to avoid rewarding activism , which is forbidden in the absolute monarchy , and seems determined not to antagonize religious sensitivities .
but seemingly inviolable saudi norms are being turned on their head , with some religious clerics who supported policies such as bans on women driving and gender mixing now apparently changing their minds .
the changes suggest a possible shift in the power balance toward the al saud ruling family away from the wahhabi clerical establishment .
in the first protest against the driving ban , in 1990 , 47 women drove around central riyadh for nearly an hour until they were detained by the religious police , then fired from their jobs and barred from traveling .
one participant , a university professor now in her 60s , recalls that act of defiance which sparked a new era in the saudi women s rights movement .
on the first loop , we were not caught .
but the second time , we were caught .
i think somebody called .
i remember one man , he was in front of us in his car .
he went like this , she said , wagging her finger .
that meant he didn t want us to drive .
more protests followed , but the government has not acknowledged the activists efforts since ending the ban .
activists who said they had received phone calls ordering them to remain silent spoke on the condition of anonymity , fearing reprisals .
he was very straightforward .
he said you are ordered not to comment on the women driving issue or procedures will be taken against you .
you are held accountable for anything posted after this call , one of the callers said .
another woman , tamador al-yami , apologized on twitter for being unable to comment for reasons beyond my control .
everybody knows .. everybody who follows .. we don t need to say it out loud : ) she wrote .
& it doesn t matter , what matters is the win , and we won .
the government says the allegations are false and cites women who have spoken out , with op-eds in the new york times and cnn .
no one has been censored or warned about expressing their views , an information ministry statement said .
saudi arabia welcomes both the enormous interest and contributions to the debate , especially those from our own citizens .
ending the driving ban is part of the kingdom s vision 2030 reform program aimed at diversifying the economy away from oil and opening up saudis cloistered lifestyles .
crown prince mohammed bin salman , 32 , is the face of that change .
many young saudis regard his recent ascent to power as proof their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked women s progress .
yet the crown prince has been noticeably absent from the rollout of the new driving policy , which was presented to the media in washington rather than riyadh .
that may reflect the riskiness of the move , which was welcomed by many but met with confusion and outrage by others .
saudi media has tagged news about the ban : the king wins with women driving .
police however issued two arrest warrants over the weekend for men who posted threats against women drivers .
activist hala al-dosari , who lives in boston , said lifting the ban had also been intended to silence women activists .
the monarchy wants to be central for the saudi state inside and outside as the owners of any reform .
they are not willing to have their position contested , she said .
how can they convince the world they are the patrons of modernization when the women of saudi arabia are challenging those notions ?
eman al-nafjan , who participated in a driving protest in 2011 , said she was relieved the ban had been lifted but frustrated that the role of women activists had been overlooked .
were our efforts the reason the ban was lifted ?
or was it a decision that had been made regardless of our struggles ?
she wrote the day after the royal decree .
the professor who took part in the 1990 protest said her family had not expressed strong opinions about her activism all those years ago , but one relative now thinks she is a celebrity .
my niece thinks i m someone special , she said .
she says , oh , auntie !
what you did !