budapest ( reuters ) - a walking tour to learn about budapest s muslim community and its mosques has become popular with hungarians as a way of overcoming fears and reservations amid a strident anti-immigrant campaign by the government .
budapest-based tour operator setamuhely ( budapest walkshop ) runs 30 different walks taking visitors around the city s architectural and cultural sites and the jewish and muslim communities .
i can say that this walk , muslims who live among us , is the most popular tour , said anna lenard who runs the business .
when the muslim tour was set up three years ago very few people were interested .
most people have never met a muslim in their life and this ... together with what they hear every day in the media causes a lot of tension and stress in daily life .
i think this is the main reason why people are coming now .
most of the people on the four-hour walk have a college degree , and two-thirds are women , she said .
hungary s muslim community , estimated to number about 40,000 , grew with the migration crisis of 2015 , though most of them arrived earlier to study at hungarian universities .
though hundreds of thousands of migrants crossed into hungary from the balkans at the peak of the crisis the majority went on to richer parts of western europe .
data from think tank tarki shows the proportion of people deemed to be xenophobic and resentful of foreign immigrants shot up to 60 percent this year , rising 19 points from two years ago .
about 80 people go on the muslim tour per month , the organizers said .
a typical group of around 30 people first goes to a small mosque hidden in an old apartment where muslims come to pray at the time of the visit .
i am very interested in everything multi-cultural and in cultures and religions that live among us , said nauszika , a psychologist who did not want to give her full name .
it is the best way to lose your fears if you start to ask the one who you ( are ) afraid of , added tour leader marianna karman , an africa expert who converted to islam herself .
these people choose to come on these walks because they would like to talk about this problem .
they want to fight against their fears .
other points on the tour can include muslim food shops and budapest s largest mosque , located in a former office building .