dubai ( reuters ) - iran confirmed on sunday that an appeals court had upheld 10-year jail terms against a u.s. citizen , two iranian-americans and a u.s. resident from lebanon who had been convicted on spying charges .
in july , u.s. president donald trump warned that iran would face new and serious consequences unless all unjustly detained american citizens were released and returned .
tehran prosecutor abbas jafari dolatabadi identified the four as princeton university student xiyue wang , iranian-american businessman siamak namazi and his elderly father baquer and nizar zakka , a lebanese citizen with permanent u.s. residency , the judiciary s official news website reported .
in washington , jared genser , a lawyer for the namazis , said in a statement carried by u.s. media last week that their family was informed that a tehran court had upheld the convictions days earlier .
earlier in august , princeton university and the wife of wang , a history doctoral student and u.s. citizen , said they had been informed that iranian authorities had denied the appeal .
wang was conducting dissertation research in iran in 2016 when he was detained and charged with spying under the cover of research , an accusation his family and university denied .
iran sentenced zakka , a lebanese citizen with permanent u.s. residency , to 10 years in prison and a $ 4.2 million fine in 2016 after he was found guilty of collaborating against the state , according to his u.s.-based lawyer .
zakka , an information technology expert , had been invited to iran by a government official a year earlier , but then disappeared after attending a conference in tehran .
iran s 2015 nuclear deal with world powers lifted most international sanctions and promised iran s reintegration into the global community in exchange for curbs on its nuclear programme .
the potential detente with the west has alarmed iranian hardliners , who have seen a flood of european trade and investment delegations arrive in tehran to discuss possible deals , according to iran experts .
security officials have arrested dozens of artists , journalists and businessmen , including iranians holding joint american , european or canadian citizenship , as part of a crackdown on western infiltration .
the arrests have undermined president hassan rouhani s goals of reviving business and political ties with the west , as well as pushing for more political and social reforms at home , iran experts and observers said .
a number of iranian dual nationals from the united states , britain , austria , canada and france have been detained in the past year and are being kept behind bars on charges including espionage and collaborating with hostile governments .
according to former prisoners , families of current ones , and diplomats , in some cases the detainees are kept to be used for a prisoner exchange with western countries .
in january 2016 , the united states and iran reached a historic prisoner swap deal that saw iranians held or charged in the united states , mostly for sanctions violations , released in return for americans imprisoned in iran .