washington ( reuters ) - the secret service is investigating an incident at presidential candidate donald trump ’ s rally in radford , virginia in which an agent shoved a time magazine photographer to the ground , an agency spokesman said on tuesday .
“ we are investigating the matter fully to find out what our employee did and what the other person did , ” kevin dye told reuters .
video footage of the altercation on monday , which was posted on the internet , shows time magazine photographer christopher morris getting close to the agent , who threw him to the ground and morris kicking the agent from the floor .
the magazine said morris was knocked to the ground after stepping out of the press hold to take a picture of protesters .
a trump campaign spokeswoman acknowledged the incident , but said the campaign was not aware of the details .
in a statement published in time , morris said he had covered the white house for nine years without altercations with the secret service .
“ the rules at trump events are significantly stricter than other campaigns and make it very difficult to work as a photographer , as many others have pointed out before me , ” morris said .
“ i regret my role in the confrontation , but the agent ’ s response was disproportionate and unnecessarily violent. ” free speech advocates have decried trump ’ s treatment of protesters and reporters at his rallies , including ushering out dissenters and shouting at the press .
the secret service said it would never intervene to quiet protesters or restrict journalists unless there was a public safety matter .
“ the secret service ’ s role is to protect the candidate and the public , ” dye said .
“ ( agents are ) not in any way responsible for removing protesters .
we have a strong commitment to upholding the first amendment. ” trump and ben carson are the only two republican presidential contenders to receive secret service protection , along with democratic contenders hillary clinton and bernie sanders .
candidates must request the coverage .
white house spokesman josh earnest on tuesday acknowledged that the secret service has indicated it would “ look at this particular situation . ”