new delhi ( reuters ) - indian police have arrested two hindu farmers in connection with the killing of a muslim man suspected of smuggling cows to a slaughter house , the investigating officer said on wednesday .
hardline hindu groups have gained prominence since prime minister narendra modi s nationalist bharatiya janata party came to power in 2014 , and the protection of cows , considered holy by many in the hindu-majority country , is a priority for them .
police found the body of ummar khan , 35 on friday on railway tracks in alwar district , in the northwestern state of rajasthan .
the two suspects were detained on monday and arrested the next day , said rahul prakash , the top police officer in alwar .
it is a clear case of murder over the issue of cow protection and we have also found that the victim was running a cow-smuggling racket , prakash said .
khan and two accomplices were using a stolen vehicle to transport five cows when they were attacked by six members of a self-styled cow protection force , he said .
both sides were carrying guns and were shooting at each other .
khan was shot dead and his body was thrown onto the railway track , prakash said .
cow slaughter is illegal in most of india .
gau rakshaks , or cow vigilantes , run a loosely organized movement that they say is meant to prevent cattle smuggling , with tactics that include highway ambushes .
modi has called for more to be done to prevent such attacks on people accused of eating beef or slaughtering cows .
this year , a muslim farmer died from injuries sustained during an assault by a mob in alwar , about 180 km ( 100 miles ) southwest of new delhi , when he was taking cows to his home .
khan s wife , khurdisan , denied that her husband and been leading any cows to slaughter .
she accused members of a right-wing hindu group affiliated to modi s party of the murder .
he was bringing the cows home for their milk , not for their meat .
i want the government to protect me and my children , she was quoted as saying by hindi-language rajasthan patrika newspaper .