here is the gateway pundit s real news account of sean spicer s brilliant press conference today : jim acosta smugly asked , can you give me an example of fakenews , sean ?
that is when spicer , never to be henpecked by the msm , fired back : absolutely jim .
i ll give you an example .
friday the president was having a great discussion at the g7 and someone from the bbc and then the new york times retweeted that the president was being rude by disrespecting the italian prime minister , when infact you all in every one of the meetings that you sit in watch the president with the one earpiece that has been used by other presidents .
[ ] and that s the kind of thing that the bbc and then ultimately a reporter whose joining the new york times push out and perpetuate with no apology !
you re shaking your head peter peter baker , the white house correspondent for carlos slim s blog , the new york times , apparently disagreed with the facts.peter baker , the white house correspondent for carlos slim s blog , the new york times , apparently disagreed with the facts.sean : it s true .
you did it .
that is when things got more heated , and more hilarious , exposing the true hypocrisy of the msm when peter asked spicer , well don t reporters make mistakes ?
in that simple question , peter baker admitting that the bbc and nyt had lied to push an agenda , never apologized , and then tried to back track only after they were called out.spicer was quick to confront that , that s just fake !
jim tried budding back in , exposing probably the most msm hypocrisy of the entire briefing : you re making something out of one tweet !
he objected.oh , you mean like every single briefing where 80 % of it is spent discussing trump s tweets ? ?
? after msm reporters kept asking for a more examples so they could try and backtrack further , spicer said , i did not come with a list of things , [ click here for list of fake news stories ] before going over the administration s recent accomplishments and storming out before the reporters could further attempt to bicker with him .