washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate marco rubio has picked devon energy corp co-founder larry nichols to help oversee his campaign ’ s stance on energy issues , rubio spokesman jahan wilcox said on monday .
rubio , a u.s. senator from florida , made the choice as his campaign efforts move toward the next round of primary voting states , including nevada on tuesday and then oklahoma and texas on march 1 , “ super tuesday. ” nichols , who stepped down as devon ’ s ceo in 2012 after more than 30 years but stayed on executive chairman , is set to fully retire this year from the oklahoma-based oil producer .
like other powerful voices in the oil and gas industry , nichols last year echoed calls to lift a 40-year-old federal ban on crude oil exports .
nichols is set to host a feb. 26 fundraiser for rubio in oklahoma , a key u.s. energy state and home to significant horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing , or fracking , and in december donated $ 50,000 to the super pac supporting rubio , according to bloomberg news .
nichols , 73 , is active in several industry groups , including america ’ s natural gas alliance , the national association of manufacturers , the business industry political action committee , and the american petroleum institute , according to devon ’ s website .
he also previously led the american exploration & production council .
before his work in the energy sector , nichols worked as a special assistant in the u.s. department of justice , the company ’ s website said .
rubio is battling to be the republican nominee for the nov. 8 presidential election alongside front-runner and real estate tycoon donald trump and fellow u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , a key oil state .
ohio governor john kasich and retired neurosurgeon ben carson are also seeking the republican nomination .
( reporting by emily stephenson ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .