( reuters ) - former u.s. house speaker dennis hastert , convicted last year of a financial crime in a hush-money case , had agreed to pay $ 3.5 million to buy the silence of an individual who he sexually abused when the victim was a teenager , federal prosecutors said on friday .
it was the first time that prosecutors , in a new court filing , had said that hastert had been extorted to keep quiet allegations he sexually abused a 14-year-old victim decades ago .
in the filing the prosecutors accuse hastert , 74 , of molesting several boys when he was a high school teacher and coach in his hometown of yorkville , illinois in the 1960s and 1970s .
though the statute of limitations has expired on prosecuting hastert for sex abuse , “ with this case the government seeks to hold defendant accountable for the crimes he committed that can still be prosecuted , ” the prosecutors said in the filing .
the former republican speaker of the house of representatives has admitted to paying $ 1.7 million in cash to someone he had known for decades to buy that person ’ s silence and compensate for past misconduct toward that individual .
hastert ’ s lawyers have not revealed the misconduct at issue .
there was no immediate response to an email to one of his attorneys , thomas green , seeking comment on the details in the prosecutors ’ filing .
hastert faces a maximum penalty of five years in prison when sentenced later this month for his guilty plea in october to a federal charge of “ structuring ” - evading bank reporting rules by withdrawing large amounts of cash in small increments .
on wednesday , his attorneys urged a federal judge to spare him prison time for health reasons and because he is “ deeply sorry. ” prosecutors have recommended a prison term of no more than six months in exchange for hastert ’ s guilty plea .
the defense asked that he be sentenced to probation only , citing his deteriorating medical condition .
hastert is scheduled to be sentenced on april 27 , according to the chicago tribune .