maybe its trump s announcement that he s softening his stance on h1b visas .
maybe trump supporters are concerned that he s talking about suing newspapers , which many see as a disregard of our first amendment .
or maybe it was the huge applause trump got when he told a large crowd at a mi rally that he d gladly waterboard and more suspected terrorists , only to say later in the day said he had changed his mind and would follow international law stating , i will use every legal power that i have to stop these terrorist enemies .
i do , however , understand that the united states is bound by laws and treaties and i will not order our military or other officials to violate those laws and will seek their advice on such matters .
whatever the reason might be , ted cruz is on a super saturday roll and appears to be leaving donald trump in the dust .
we ll keep you up-to-date with the rest of the results as they come in.cruz wins kansas : cnn projects @ tedcruz will win the kansas republican caucuses https : //t.co/dkpyle0wrv pic.twitter.com/ozytqxk6lb cnn politics ( @ cnnpolitics ) march 5 , 2016cruz wins cpac straw poll : # icymi # breaking : @ tedcruz wins 2016 # cpac straw poll !
pic.twitter.com/oavlaijw9l cpac 2018 ( @ cpac ) march 5 , 2016cruz is projected to win maine : anecdotal reports have cruz crushing in the rural counties and even winning portland narrowly .
maine looks like his state .
phil kerpen ( @ kerpen ) march 5 , 20165:47 : cruz says the scream and howl you hear from washington is utter terror at what we the people are doing together .
he says the last two weeks have been extraordinary .
cruz said there were 17 candidates in the race a year ago and now republicans , libertarians and men and women who love freedom and the constitution are standing as one behind his campaign .
he says everyone understands the countries at risk and our constitutional rights are under assault each and every day .
he says voters know america has receded from the world and the world is a much dangerous place because of it .
cruz says he is here with a word of hope because people are waking up all america .
cruz says jobs , freedom , and security will be the three top issues in the election.via : breitbart news