the video below is more important than ever !
after the berlin attack , dr. james mitchell spoke about what has come to be in europe and warned america about how this could happen to us too ! dr .
james mitchell is the man who interrogated the 9/11 mastermind and is an expert on terrorism .
he warns against immigration and political correctness as two things that will lead us to doom .
if you doubt dr. mitchell , please see the video below this one for more on the truth of what mass migration is really about .
slow down our immigration from these countries dr. james mitchellwe ve reported on the truth of what immigration is doing it s a plan it s a caliphate ! last september , a shocking video was released showing a muslim imam speaking before a group .
he told the group to breed with europeans .
yes , the plan is to breed with europeans until all of europe is muslim .
the video is below : so now we have a second video from denmark where an imam is telling how muslims are conquering europe and that muslims won t integrate into european society .
we ve translated the video in the text below.these two videos follow with what we know .
the invasion of europe has a purpose and it s a very dark purpose .
conquering europe is the end game is america next ? on hidden camera an imam explains how muslims are conquering europe and that muslims should not integrate into society.danish tv2 right now has a program called mosques behind the veil which is focusing on whether a number of mosques discourage or contribute to integration .
right now we are in a time when we are opening these countries , says mohammad fouad al-barazi , the head imam of the mosque of the islamic union in denmark , in secret recordings from the third episode of mosques behind the veil .the imam speaks to tv2 s mole fatima , who is seeking guidance about how she as a newly immigrated muslim should act in denmark , and mohammad fouad al-barazi explains that muslims are now consuming denmark and europe.the link to the video is here but it is not translated : nyheder videoaccording to experts tv2 has spoken with , the word open in an islamist meaning is understood as conquering .
actually , opening sounds beautiful , but this is the classic term for conquering a country , explains professor tina magaard , who has studied the quran and made fieldwork in muslim communities in denmark.according to tina magaard , some islamic movements have the will to conquer europe and the belief that one can.it is backed by a professor at the university of copenhagen , thomas hoffmann , who has studied islam and islamic movements .
what al-barazi says here , means conquest , but need not necessarily be understood as war-like conquest , he said.on hidden camera , mohammad fouad al-barazi , elaborates what he thinks about muslims entry into denmark and europe .
now there are muslim communities throughout europe .
this means that there are a large number of muslims .
a really large number.the imam tells fatma that since he came to denmark , many more muslims have come to denmark , and it is important that muslims are not merged with the rest of society .
when i came to this country 23 years ago , we were only 55,000 muslims .
now we are 300,000 .
the number of muslims is 300,000 now .
hence the conclusion of this talk is that it is possible to live in this country without melting in .
you must understand the conditions , without melting into society , says mohammad fouad al-barazi in the recordings.via : nyheder