paris ( reuters ) - four adolescents were killed when a train smashed into a school bus on a level crossing outside the town of perpignan in southwestern france on thursday .
images from the scene showed the bus split in two , with a long line of emergency vehicles on an approach to the crossing .
another 20 people were injured in the crash , 11 of them seriously , according to french prime minister edouard philippe , who traveled immediately to the scene .
most of the injured were schoolchildren aboard the bus , aged 13-17 .
philippe told reporters the authorities were focused on getting accurate information to families , a process made difficult by the question of identification of those who have died and some of the injured .
a crisis coordination center has been set up at millas town hall on perpignan s western outskirts , about 850 kilometers ( 530 miles ) from paris .
according to local media reports , the bus was transporting pupils from the town s christian bourquin college .
all my thoughts ( are with ) the victims and their families , french president emmanuel macron said on twitter .
the causes of the crash are unknown , pending a full investigation , officials said .
the bus and train drivers both survived and will be interviewed by police .
the train was carrying 25 passengers and traveling at 80 kmh , the regulatory speed for the section of track where the collision occurred , a spokeswoman for the national sncf railway told reuters .
three train passengers sustained relatively minor injuries , according to the interior ministry .
witnesses had reported that the barriers of the crossing were down at the moment of impact , the sncf spokeswoman said , adding that all such preliminary information was subject to confirmation by investigators .
france has suffered several serious rail accidents in recent decades .
one of the deadliest was in 1988 , when a commuter train heading into paris gare de lyon crashed into a stationary train , killing 56 people , after its brakes failed .