update : white house official says , `` sebastian gorka did not resign , but i can confirm he no longer works at the white house . ''
https : //t.co/nhpcg5xhow jennifer jacobs ( @ jenniferjjacobs ) august 26 , 2017according to the telegraph , now that mr bannon is on the outside , he will target a ring of presidential advisers sometimes known as the globalists .
it includes jared kushner and ivanka trump , chief economic adviser gary cohn , treasury secretary steve mnuchin , and national security adviser h.r .
mcmaster , with whom mr bannon appeared to have lost a battle over putting more troops in afghanistan .
now , only one week after bannon leaves the white house , the federalist is reporting that sebastian gorka has resigned from his post as deputy assistant to president trump , according to multiple sources familiar with the situation.in a blunt resignation letter , the national security and counterterrorism expert expressed dissatisfaction with the current state of the trump administration .
[ g ] iven recent events , it is clear to me that forces that do not support the maga promise are for now ascendant within the white house , gorka wrote .
as a result , the best and most effective way i can support you , mr. president , is from outside the people s house .
gorka s letter expressed unhappiness with the direction the trump administration s foreign policy has taken , as signaled by the president s recent speech on afghanistan : regrettably , outside of yourself , the individuals who most embodied and represented the policies that will make america great again , have been internally countered , systematically removed , or undermined in recent months .
this was made patently obvious as i read the text of your speech on afghanistan this week the fact that those who drafted and approved the speech removed any mention of radical islam or radical islamic terrorism proves that a crucial element of your presidential campaign has been lost just as worrying , when discussing our future actions in the region , the speech listed operational objectives without ever defining the strategic victory conditions we are fighting for .
this omission should seriously disturb any national security professional , and any american who is unsatisfied with the last 16 years of disastrous policy decisions which have led to thousands of americans killed and trillions of taxpayer dollars spent in ways that have not brought security or victory .
during his time in the trump administration , gorka focused on issues such as countering the muslim brotherhood , the crisis in qatar , supporting efforts to draft a new long-term national security strategy , and combatting china s economic warfare .
before coming to the white house , gorka was the major general matthew c. horner chair at marine corps university and also contributed to breitbart news.gorka s tenure at the white house was marked by unusually vociferous attacks against him and his family by left-leaning media organizations and the democratic party .
this includes personal attacks against his wife , mother , and son.a source close to the white house said of his decision , this was more or less going to be a done deal when bannon submitted his resignation .
not because he didn t have a protector , but because there is no point in having your life ruined every day if you re not going to get much accomplished .
the same source said that what did change after bannon left was that anti-bannon factions began erecting bureaucratic road blocks to undermine gorka internally .