wismar , germany ( reuters ) - german chancellor angela merkel is on track to win a fourth term in sunday s national election despite a dip in support for her conservatives , a poll showed on tuesday , and she shrugged off calls to quit from far-right hecklers .
merkel has been repeatedly booed during the election campaign , particularly in germany s formerly communist east , where support is strongest for the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) , set to enter parliament for the first time .
an opinion poll published on tuesday by the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung daily put the afd on 10 percent , up two points since the end of august , while merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) and their bavarian csu allies slipped two points to 36.5 percent .
however , the cdu/csu remain far ahead of the center-left social democrats , which were also down two points on 22 percent , according to the poll conducted by allensbach for the faz , while the business-friendly free democrats edged up to 11 percent .
people who whistle and heckle contribute little , merkel told a cdu rally in the northeastern port town of wismar , not far from where she grew up .
merkel was unperturbed when a man shouted traitor to the fatherland during her speech , while several dozen supporters of the far-right national democratic party gathered outside , carrying posters reading merkel must go !
hundreds of afd party members and anti-islam activists rallied together in the eastern city of dresden on monday , counting down the days to a vote set to make the afd the first far-right group in germany s parliament in more than 50 years .
the afd has capitalized on discontent over the influx of one million migrants into germany in 2015 and 2016 , but the other parties all refuse to work with the afd and no one wants to sit next to them in parliament .
merkel contrasted tuesday s hecklers with the contribution of 30 million germans who are involved in voluntary associations , including those who help support refugees .
but she added that the recent wave of migrants should not and will not be repeated .
another poll , conducted by forsa for rtl television and stern magazine , showed support for merkel s cdu/csu bloc fell one percentage point in the last week to 36 percent , its lowest since april , while the spd was unchanged on 23 percent .
spd leader martin schulz has been campaigning against inequality , but his message has failed to gain traction at a time when unemployment is at its lowest in decades .
the allensbach poll showed that 21 percent think the cdu has done the best job to address the issues that interest voters , compared to 15 percent for the spd and 14 percent for the afd .
in fresh positive news from the economy , the mannheim-based zew research institute said the mood among german investors improved more than expected in september as worries about the stronger euro faded .
the zew survey suggested markets expect europe s biggest economy to continue its solid performance in the coming months , buoyed by record-high employment , rising real wages and ultra-low borrowing costs that are supporting a consumer-led upswing .
with merkel s conservatives commanding a solid poll lead , the main question in germany now is who she will govern with after the election , rather than whether she will stay in power .
the latest polls put support for the far-left party die linke at 9-10 percent , and the environmentalist greens on 8 percent .
this means that only another grand coalition of merkel s conservatives with the spd or a three-way alliance of the conservatives , fdp and greens would have a stable majority .
the allensbach poll showed 23 percent of voters would prefer a coalition of conservatives with the fdp , while 14 percent want a continuation of the current grand coalition and 10 percent favor an alliance of spd , linke and greens .