trump senior adviser stephen miller told abc s this week host george stephanopoulos on sunday that white house press secretary sean spicer is always 100 percent correct .
that s kind of weird since he literally fabricated a terrorist attack several times in order to defend trump s muslim ban .
there is nothing spicer won t lie about to defend the alleged president.stephanopoulos said that spicer mentioned from the podium that the decision by nordstrom to pull those products of ivanka trump was a direct attack on the president s policies after the retailer pulled her clothing line due to poor sales.the abc host noted that sears and k-mart decided this week to pull trump s home furnishing lines from their websites .
is that a direct attack on the president s policies , as well ?
stephanopoulos asked .
i m not going make a comment on that .
i don t have any information on it , miller said .
i do want to say that sean spicer , as always , is 100 percent correct and that what he said is true and important .
and i agree with it .
he just said he has no knowledge of what happened but that sean spicer was correct .
welcome to the alternative-facts of the trump administration .
you had a case where somebody was treated unfairly .
the president stuck up for a member of his family , miller continued .
and the white house counselor made a light-hearted , flippant comment that nobody would interpret as being what has been cast as right now by you and the media and others .
the flippant comment miller is referring to belongs to kellyanne conway in which she hawked ivanka trump s clothing line on the air while sitting in the briefing room.watch : he also made a baseless claim about voter fraud which has been thoroughly debunked.miller is trending on twitter and he s being mocked over this crazy-time comments.i didn t realize stephen miller was a 12 year old boy .
seanscheidt ( @ seanscheidt ) february 12 , 2017 i do want to say that sean spicer , as always , is 100 % correct .
if you listen real close , you can hear stephen miller s credibility die .
ron asher ( @ rmasher2 ) february 12 , 2017how kind of stephen miller to take time off from managing bates motel to lie on all the morning shows .
laurie crosswell ?
( @ lauriecrosswell ) february 12 , 2017like most of the alt-right , stephen miller is what happens when literally every woman rejects you .
molly knight ( @ molly_knight ) february 12 , 2017senior trump aide stephen miller refuses to express confidence in gen. flynn .
and he lied too .
https : //t.co/r1qhx0oqy1 pic.twitter.com/kah9kyngxp john aravosis ( @ aravosis ) february 12 , 2017honestly , i feel like i need to be sprinkled with holy water after listening to stephen miller .
# meetthepress laurie crosswell ?
( @ lauriecrosswell ) february 12 , 2017meet america s new biggest liar , stephen miller .
pic.twitter.com/gwewpvaztt demstalk ( @ demstalk ) february 12 , 2017wol ( weeping out loud ) not @ theonion on @ thisweekabc stephen miller says sean spicer is 100 % right- & that voter fraud is serious issue katrina vandenheuvel ( @ katrinanation ) february 12 , 2017we ve learned this morning that stephen miller also lies for a living .
eric boehlert ( @ ericboehlert ) february 12 , 2017trump liked miller s fact-free interview , because of course.congratulations stephen miller- on representing me this morning on the various sunday morning shows .
great job !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 12 , 2017is there one member of the trump administration that doesn t have his or her head up their ass ? image via screen capture with added tweet .