singapore ( reuters ) - there are no muslim malays in the top echelons of singapore s army , and few among the senior ranks of its judiciary , but a member of its poorest ethnic minority is set to become the first woman president of the southeast asian city state this week .
halimah yacob , a former speaker of parliament , will be formally named to the mostly ceremonial post on wednesday , media reported , after other candidates fell short of the criteria set for contesting the election .
aiming to strengthen a sense of inclusivity in the multicultural country , singapore had decreed the presidency would be reserved for candidates from the malay community this time .
halimah s experience as house speaker automatically qualified her under the nomination rules .
of the four other applicants , two were not malays and two were not given certificates of eligibility , the elections department said .
the last malay to hold the presidency was yusof ishak , whose image adorns the country s banknotes .
yusof was president between 1965 and 1970 , the first years of singapore s independence following a short-lived union with neighboring malaysia , but executive power lay with lee kuan yew , the country s first prime minister .
the separation of singapore from malaysia gave ethnic malays a clear majority in malaysia , while ethnic chinese formed the majority in independent singapore .
leaders of both countries , however , recognized that peace and prosperity depended on preserving harmony between the two groups .
but living in a muslim-dominated neighborhood , with malaysia and indonesia next door , singapore s leaders have long worried about the risk of conflicted loyalties among malays .
you put in a malay officer who s very religious and who has family ties in malaysia in charge of a machine-gun unit , that s a very tricky business , the late lee kuan yew was widely quoted as saying in 1999 .
for lee , whose son , lee hsien loong , is now prime minister , the answer to social cohesion lay in creating a culture of meritocracy , rather than adopting policies of positive discrimination to boost the chances of advancement for singapore s malay and indian minorities .
still , a government report published in 2013 found malays felt they were sometimes discriminated against and had limited prospects in some institutions , such as the armed forces .
singapore s economic success and education policies have helped swell the ranks of middle-class malays , but the last census in 2010 showed they lagged other ethnic groups on socio-economic measures such as household incomes and home ownership .
malays , who form just over 13 percent of singapore s 3.9 million citizens and permanent residents , also underperform on measures such as university and secondary school education .
despite being the establishment candidate , halimah wears a hijab , which is banned in state schools and public sector jobs that require uniforms .
but she has seldom spoken publicly on the issue and there is little sign of change in official attitudes .
farid khan , one of the unsuccessful candidates and the chairman of marine services firm bourbon offshore asia , told reuters more malays now hold political office , and some are making their way in the corporate world , but there is still room for improvement .
the prospect of a malay president is by itself unlikely to resolve concerns over under-representation , but analysts and advocates say it could help foster trust among communities .
yet the reserved election has also injured some pride .
it cheapens the credibility of a malay person that it requires a token election for us to be president , said malay comedian and television personality hirzi zulkiflie .
some people intending to run are very capable .