it looks like veteran san francisco 49ers quarterback colin kaepernick might be done with his national anthem protests now that he s looking for a new nfl contract.the controversial player will stand for the star-spangled banner next season , according to sources who spoke to espn thursday .
kaepernick first made headlines in august 2016 for refusing to stand during his team s preseason game against the green bay packers , citing the oppression of black people in the united states.kaepernick explained his refusal to stand for the star-spangled banner , expressing solidarity with the neo-marxist racial narratives of black lives matter : i am not going to stand up to show pride in a flag for a country that oppresses black people and people of color .
to me , this is bigger than football and it would be selfish on my part to look the other way .
there are bodies in the street and people getting paid leave and getting away with murder .
describing himself as a black man in a society that oppresses black people , kaepernick signed a 6-year contract with the 49ers in 2015 for $ 114 million .
he has also been paid millions of additional dollars through endorsement deals.in the days after kaepernick s first protest , fans began burning their 49ers-themed gear .
one lifelong san francisco fan set his kaepernick jersey up in flames , slamming the athlete for claiming to be oppressed when he s making $ 126 million .
and in september , nfl commissioner roger goodell said that , while the league supports players who want to see change in society , the organization believes very strongly in patriotism .
i personally believe very strongly in that , he said , according to usa today .
i think it s important to have respect for our country , for our flag , for the people who make our country better ; for law enforcement , and for our military , who are out fighting for our freedoms and our ideals .
while kaepernick received kudos from those on the left , many fans and even nfl insiders weren t too fond of the protest , so it s no surprise he s changing his ways now that he s looking for a new job.according to the espn report , kaepernick no longer wants his method of protest to detract from the positive change he believes has been created a change that comes one day after the nfl network s ian rapport revealed that the veteran quarterback has decided to opt out of his 49ers contract and is now a free agent .
the blaze