sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - california ’ s elections watchdog on thursday voted to force groups that hire lobbyists to reveal more about the hundreds of millions of dollars spent annually to sway state lawmakers on climate change , education and other issues .
in 2015 , spending on lobbyists in the most populous u.s. state topped $ 243 million - nearly as much as the payroll for all of california ’ s state lawmakers combined .
“ we want more disclosure of these payments to shine light on the interaction between public officials and the special interests attempting to influence them , ” said jodi remke , chair of the california fair political practices commission , which adopted the rules in a unanimous 5-0 vote .
california joins a handful of states considering tighter campaign finance and ethics laws in the run-up to the nov. 8 elections , including missouri , new york , new mexico and south carolina .
the california rules would not apply to federal lawmakers , such as the state ’ s u.s. representatives .
when the california rules go into effect july 1 , organizations that hire lobbyists will have to specify whether payments over $ 2,500 are used for advertising , research , event planning or public affairs , among other categories .
but critics say the proposal does not go far enough .
the new rules do not , for example , require those who hire lobbyists to identify the legislation that an individual payment was intended to influence .
and critics say the public affairs category , which encompasses grassroots organizing and coalition building , could easily become a murky catch-all much as the “ other ” category is used currently .
“ if the idea is to improve disclosure , why create a new category that is just as vague ? ” asked denise roth barber , managing director of the national institute on money in state politics .
lobbyists have been mostly quiet on the proposal .
as of wednesday afternoon , only one firm had responded to the commission ’ s request for comment , saying the regulations would create too much paperwork and asking that the effective date be postponed until 2017 .
none of 2014 ’ s top spenders on lobbying - among them the western states petroleum association and california state council of service employees - would comment for this story .
remke conceded the measures are incremental , blaming an outdated software system for limiting the number of new categories that can be added to california ’ s searchable campaign spending database .
but carmen balber , the executive director of santa monica-based consumer watchdog , said the commission could still demand more details , uploading the disclosure forms as stand-alone images or offering copies to the public upon request .