brussels ( reuters ) - european union leaders sought to minimize spain s crisis with catalonia on thursday and avoid encouraging separatists across the bloc , describing barcelona s secession bid as a domestic issue and declining a mediation role .
leaders did not hold a discussion of catalonia s bid to break away from spain and judged they had nothing to gain by angering madrid , diplomats said .
it is not on our agenda , european council president donald tusk told reporters during the eu summit .
all of us have our own emotions , opinions , assessments but formally speaking there is no space for an eu intervention .
the approach contrasted with eu strategies on almost every other major issue over the past decade , including greece s financial crash and mass migration flows from syria .
on countless occasions , eu leaders have used late-night summits to press for a common decision or joint policy statement .
it s an internal spanish matter , dutch prime minister mark rutte told reporters , a position echoed by french president emmanuel macron , who held a private meeting with spanish prime minister mariano rajoy on the sidelines of the summit .
he ( macron ) has complete confidence in rajoy to resolve the situation , a french diplomat told reuters .
spain s government is set to suspend catalonia s autonomy and impose direct rule after the region s leader threatened to go ahead with a formal declaration of independence if madrid refused to hold talks .
rajoy kept a low profile at the summit while his fellow leaders held news conferences on thursday .
german chancellor angela merkel said she hoped there were solutions on the grounds of the spanish constitution .
despite some disquiet over the way rajoy handled a catalan independence referendum on oct. 1 , which madrid said was illegal and sent in police to disrupt voting , countries fear making any remarks that could embolden separatists at home .
from scotland to flanders and lombardy , the 2007-09 financial crisis , unemployment and migration have allowed separatists , anti-eu and populist parties to feed off discontent with political elites and reopen regional divisions .
as britain negotiates its exit from the eu , few leaders want to wade into another highly complex negotiation bringing new economic uncertainty and legal disruption .
smaller eu countries such as slovenia that emerged as sovereign states after the end of the cold war are equally uncomfortable about inspiring secessionists across the bloc .
they rely on spain , a large euro zone economy , for investment .
even in western balkan countries aspiring to join the european union , there is a reluctance to fuel calls for regional autonomy at home .
spain is one of five eu countries that has yet to recognize kosovo s independence .
there is not much to gain from backing barcelona and a lot to lose from angering madrid , said a senior eu diplomat at the eu summit .