washington ( reuters ) - the secret service , tasked with simultaneously protecting president barack obama and some of the republican and democratic candidates now running to replace him next year , is facing a manpower shortfall at a time of peak demand , the agency told congress on tuesday .
secret service director joseph clancy told a house appropriations panel the agency is focused on “ human capital needs across the organization ” and accruing enough agents to ease overtime demands on the existing force .
the secret service hopes to have 7,600 agents in its ranks by fiscal year 2019 , up from the current figure of approximately 6,200 , committee chairman john carter of texas said during tuesday ’ s hearing .
while clancy said the secret service was making progress in hiring more agents , “ we have yet to see the desired impact on our overall staffing levels due to increased attrition. ” clancy testified at a hearing to review the agency ’ s funding needs for the fiscal year starting on oct. 1 .
demands of the mission are peaking , he added , with republican and democratic presidential nominating conventions slated for this summer , the general elections in november and presidential inaugural events in january .
carter cited the loss of 19 agents in the last four months and the large amounts of overtime hours agents have had to put in on the president ’ s detail , on the campaign trail and in the uniformed division .
carter , a republican , questioned whether the service ’ s hiring goals were “ obtainable ” with the agency “ losing more agents than they have brought on board. ” clancy responded that the agency is exploring initiatives to lure more applicants and retain current agents .
the secret service was rocked in 2012 when it surfaced that some agents working a presidential trip to colombia were involved with prostitutes .
in 2014 , agents failed to stop a man who jumped the white house fence , ran across the lawn and made it into the mansion before he was apprehended .
more recently , during a rally for presidential candidate donald trump in radford , virginia , a time magazine photographer was grabbed by the neck and shoved to the ground by a secret service agent .
an agency spokeswoman said the service is investigating the incident .
besides protecting the president and presidential candidates , secret service agents investigate financial crimes such as counterfeiting of u.s. currency and credit card and fraud .