sacramento , calif. ( reuters ) - fashion models who want to work in california would need a doctor to attest that they are of healthy weight and not suffering from an eating disorder under a proposal announced by a state lawmaker on monday .
the bill proposed by california state assembly member marc levine follows efforts in several countries to fight anorexia nervosa and other eating disorders among models , who are relentlessly pressured to lose weight or lose work .
“ the evidence of eating disorders in the modeling industry is alarming , ” levine , a democrat who represents the marin county suburbs of san francisco , said in a statement on monday .
under his bill , which was introduced feb. 19 , modeling agencies would have to be licensed by the california labor commissioner , and could be fined if they hire models who do not have a physician certifying that they are healthy .
the bill , if passed , directs the state ’ s department of public health and the occupational safety and health standards board to adopt rules for the health of fashion models that would include periodic health checkups , nutrition consultations and medical testing .
levine said the measure , which must pass numerous committees , both houses of the legislature and be signed by democratic governor jerry brown before it could take effect , would also help girls and women , who see impossibly thin models in magazines and aim to be like them .
“ as a former fashion model and an eating disorder survivor , i know that this legislation is critically needed , ” nikki dubose , a former model turned advocate , said in a statement .
last spring , france banned excessive thinness in models , partly in response to the death in 2010 of isabelle caro , a 28-year-old former french fashion model who died from anorexia after posing for a photographic campaign to raise awareness about the illness .
israel enacted a similar measure in 2013 , while other countries , like italy and spain , rely on voluntary codes of conduct to protect models .
as many as 40 percent of fashion models may suffer from eating disorders , levine said .
these include anorexia nervosa , which leads sufferers to starve themselves ; bulimia nervosa , which involves binge-eating followed by purges such as forced vomiting , consumption of laxatives or excessive exercise ; and binge-eating disorder .