moscow/paris ( reuters ) - the kremlin said on wednesday it will spare no effort to defend the rights of suleiman kerimov , a russian businessman and lawmaker who was arrested in the french riviera resort of nice in connection with a french tax evasion case .
shares in polyus , russia s biggest gold producer which is controlled by kerimov s family , were down on the news of his detention .
the 51-year-old billionaire would be presented to a judge with a view to formally placing him under judicial investigation , a french public prosecutor said in nice on wednesday .
under france s legal system , being formally placed under investigation often , but not always , leads to a person being sent to trial .
we will do everything in our power to protect his lawful interests , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told a conference call with reporters .
intensive work is now being undertaken by the foreign ministry .
a representative for kerimov in the upper house of parliament , where he sits as a lawmaker , declined to comment on the case on wednesday when contacted by reuters .
polyus declined to comment .
russia s state-run rossiya 24 tv station , citing an unnamed source , reported that kerimov had denied any guilt .
in the lower house of parliament , lawmaker rizvan kurbanov asked the russian foreign ministry to make representations on kerimov s behalf with the french authorities .
we have still not received from the french authorities any explanation of the reasons for the detention of our colleague , kurbanov told parliament .
all this testifies to an unprecedented demarche by the french , he said , adding that he hoped the russian foreign ministry would issue a formal protest .
shares in polyus were down by more than 3 percent in early trade in moscow but since then recovered some ground to trade at minus 2.3 percent by 1342 gmt .
originally from the mainly muslim russian region of dagestan , kerimov built his multi-billion natural resources business through a combination of debt , an appetite for risk , and political connections .
he owned top flight soccer club anzhi makhachkala until he sold it in 2016 .
kerimov s fortune peaked at $ 17.5 billion in 2008 before slumping to just $ 3 billion in 2009 , according to forbes magazine , due to so-called margin-calls on his assets triggered by the 2008 global financial crisis .
in march this year , russian president vladimir putin signed a decree giving kerimov the state award for services to the fatherland , second class for his contribution to russian parliamentary life .
french police arrested kerimov at nice airport on monday evening .
a french judicial source said the investigation centered on the purchase of several luxury residences on the french riviera via shell companies , something that would have enabled kerimov to reduce taxes owed to the french state .