lisbon ( reuters ) - as thousands of portuguese protested on saturday over the government s handling of massive wildfires that have killed 108 people since june , government ministers pledged to spend over 400 million euros ( $ 470 million ) in aid .
the decision , announced during a special cabinet meeting which continued into the night , came on the same day as a new interior minister took over after his predecessor resigned , and ahead of tuesday s parliamentary vote on a motion of no-confidence launched by the opposition .
earlier thousands of protesters gathered on lisbon s main comercio square , in porto and other cities to mourn the victims of the portugal s worst tragedy in living memory and demand better fire prevention policies in the country , which despite its relatively small size has suffered the largest forest fires in europe this year .
enough !
too many deaths , too much destruction !
read many slogans .
a few called for the government s resignation .
the cabinet considered a detailed report by independent experts on the first wave of forest fires in june when 64 people died in central portugal , and the first official accounts of the more widespread fires on oct. 15-16 , which killed 44 .
the main report pointed to failures on practically every level from fire prevention and monitoring during an unusually hot and dry summer to civil protection response , emergency communications and the alerting of the population .
the government decided on saturday to hire hundreds of forest sappers to maintain forests and to prevent fires , ordered a major clean-up of safety strips along motorways and railroads and promised to support the collection of forest waste for biorefineries .
the state will also take a sizeable stake in the emergency communications network siresp , whose equipment failed on many occasions during the fires .
another likely measure would put the air force in charge of firefighting aircraft which are currently hired and managed by the civil protection service , local media said .
the promised state aid for affected areas includes paying compensation to the families who lost relatives and homes , funding for reconstruction works and support to save local jobs .
the minority socialist government has been weakened by the public clamor , but the impact on its strong approval ratings achieved due to an improving economy has been limited so far .
also , the support of its left-wing allies in parliament means the no-confidence motion is not expected to be passed .
an opinion poll by aximage pollsters for correio da manha daily , which surveyed 603 people on oct. 14-17 , showed support for the socialists had dropped by 1.1 percentage points to 41.9 percent , still far ahead of the closest rival , at 23.8 percent .