gut-wrenching behavior from a party who hasn t been challenged for the betrayal of their party in decades .
you don t even have to be a fan of trump s to find this story disturbing on so many levels there are so many intriguing twists in this nyt story about behind-the-scenes efforts to stop trump that you ll save time by skipping this post and reading it yourself .
this is the showstopper , though : while still hopeful that mr. rubio might prevail , mr. mcconnell has begun preparing senators for the prospect of a trump nomination , assuring them that , if it threatened to harm them in the general election , they could run negative ads about mr. trump to create space between him and republican senators seeking re-election .
mr. mcconnell has raised the possibility of treating mr. trump s loss as a given and describing a republican senate to voters as a necessary check on a president hillary clinton , according to senators at the lunches.he has reminded colleagues of his own 1996 re-election campaign , when he won comfortably amid president bill clinton s easy re-election .
of mr. trump , mr. mcconnell has said , we ll drop him like a hot rock , according to his colleagues .
i don t know where to begin .
for starters , the fact that mcconnell thinks trump losing to hillary is a given explains a lot about why republicans got caught so flat-footed by trump in the primary .
it s not a given .
he may lose but he won t get blown out .
if we ve learned nothing else over the eight years , we ve learned that there s no such thing as an easy race for hillary clinton .
trump will start the campaign as an underdog with poisonous favorables but he s superb at staying on offense , as we ve seen over the past 36 hours and he ll have endless attacks to pursue against hillary to fuel the offensive .
his alpha-male shtick may get a long look from centrist democrats too , especially men who are worried about having a woman commander-in-chief for whatever reason.beyond that , let me blow your minds by gently countering some bedrock conservative conventional wisdom : the media will not cut off trump s insta-access to their airwaves the day after he clinches the nomination in the name of helping hillary .
the idea that they will is treated as the most elementary fact among righties i know , but there s nothing the media loves more than a circus and trump is just one big orange-y circus .
their coverage will turn more skeptical , surely , and he might not get quite the same amount of anytime-day-or-night call-in opportunities that he has now , but you re kidding yourself if you think joe scarborough will turn down a request from the republican nominee to spend an hour of airtime gladhanding him .
trump is the ultimate shiny object .
he delivers ratings .
hillary will need to figure out a way to counter that.so no , it s not a given that he ll lose .
but even if it were , how would an incumbent gop senator whose seat is up benefit from alienating trump fans by running attack ads against the party s own nominee ?
that s insane .
via : hot air