paris ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron told israel s prime minister benjamin netanyahu on sunday that he needed to make gestures to the palestinians to enable to break the impasse between the two sides .
netanyayu was in paris ahead of a meeting with eu foreign ministers on monday when they will try present a unified front after u.s. president donald trump s decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
while condemning all acts of terrorism against israel , macron said that he told netanyahu that he was against trump s decision , which was a dangerous threat to peace .
i asked prime minister netanyuhu to make some courageous gestures toward the palestinians to get out of the current impasse , he said , suggesting that a freeze of settlement construction could be s first step .
he reaffirmed that france believed that a two-state solution was the only viable option to end the palestinian-israeli conflict .
european countries , like most nations , have criticized the trump administration s decision last week which reversed decades of u.s. policy .
israel considers all of jerusalem to be its capital , while the palestinians want the eastern part of the city as capital of a future independent state .
most countries have maintained the position that decisions about jerusalem s status should be left to future negotiations .
the trump administration argues that any future peace deal is likely to place israel s capital in jerusalem , and old policies need to be abandoned to revive the moribund peace process .
netanyahu responded to macron by saying that once the palestinians recognized the reality that jerusalem was the capital of israel , it would enable peace efforts sooner .
the most important thing about peace is first of all to recognize that the other side has a right to exist , he said .
one of the manifestations of this refusal is the mere refusal to sit down with israel .
here is the gesture i offer .. to mr abbas to sit down and negotiate peace .
that s a gesture for peace .
nothing could be simpler , he said , referring to palestinian authority president mahmoud abbas .
macron said that he did not expect any breakthrough in the short-term , but it was important to see what a proposed u.s. peace initiative expected early next year would look like before writing washington off as a mediator in the conflict .
i don t think we need more initiatives , macron said , ruling out a new french mediation effort after holding a peace conference in paris last january .
when asked about discontent across the region over trump s decision , including harsh criticism from turkish president tayyip erdogan , netanyahu said he would not be given morality lectures by the turkish leader .
he said that many arab nations were increasingly aligned with israel to tackle iran s regional threat .
many arab countries recognize that israel is not their enemy but their indispensable ally , he said .
countries in the region who do not have formal relations with us yet .
those can grow , but it doesn t mean there will be a formal peace without some progress with the palestinians .
netanyahu said he sought to use closer ties with arab countries to isolate extremists and counter iran .
what iran is trying to do is to entrench itself militarily with land , air and naval forces in syria with the express purpose of fighting and destroying israel .
we will not tolerate that and we back up our words with actions , he said .