seattle ( reuters ) - donald trump on monday widened his attack on defense contractors , slamming lockheed martin corp ’ s ( lmt.n ) f-35 fighter jet program as too expensive as aides to the president-elect said he intends to keep pushing to cut the costs of military hardware .
trump ’ s latest twitter broadside sent defense shares tumbling and fanned concerns that the incoming administration will reduce defense contractors ’ profit margins and cut broader federal spending , threatening u.s. factory jobs even as trump promises to boost manufacturing employment .
“ the f-35 program and cost is out of control , ” trump said on twitter , echoing campaign promises to cut waste in federal spending .
“ billions of dollars can and will be saved on military ( and other ) purchases after january 20th. ” last week , trump targeted boeing co ( ba.n ) with tweets for “ out of control ” costs on new air force one planes , urging the federal government to “ cancel order ! ” the new administration ’ s focus is likely to be “ wide-reaching and impact all of government as we look to come up with better deals , ” trump transition spokesman jason miller said .
“ we ’ re going to look for opportunities to go back through and make sure that we ’ re not getting taken advantage of. ” trump ’ s f-35 tweet drew support from u.s. senate armed services committee chairman john mccain , who has voiced support for the fighter jet in the past .
while a president can not cancel a program after funds have been allocated , it can purchase less .
“ he can reduce the buy over time , next year , as we look at it again , ” mccain told reuters .
but trump ’ s off-the-cuff remarks bristled others in congress .
senator richard blumenthal , a democrat from connecticut , home to f-35 engine maker pratt & whitney , said the program supports 2,000 pratt jobs and thousands more at suppliers .
“ the suggestion that costs are out of control is just plain wrong , ” he said .
trump should “ learn more about the facts ” before discussing “ arbitrary cuts in the program , ” he added .
“ he ’ s the president-elect .
what he says matters. ” lockheed shares fell 2.5 percent after being down 5.4 percent earlier .
shares of general dynamics ( gd.n ) , northrop grumman , bae and raytheon also fell , while united technologies and boeing shares were slightly higher .
the f-35 has been dogged by problems , with the pentagon ’ s chief arms buyer once describing as “ acquisition malpractice ” the decision to produce jets before completing development .
that led to retrofits and helped escalate costs to an estimated $ 400 billion , prompting the f-35 to be described as the most expensive weapon system in history .
the pentagon ’ s chief weapons tester has continued to criticize it , but the jets are now in use by the u.s. marine corps and air force , and by six countries : australia , britain , norway , italy , the netherlands and israel .
japan took delivery of its first jet last week , according to a program spokesman .
australian and japanese defense officials both said they have no plans to alter their commitments to the f-35 .
“ we are very confident that the joint strike fighter is the right jet for australia , and for the united states and the rest of the world , ” said christopher pyne , minister for australia ’ s defense industry .
australia has ordered 72 f-35s , while japan has agreed to purchase 42 fighters to replace its aging f-4 fleet .
“ we will have to watch trump ’ s policies closely when he becomes president , but at this moment , we have no intention of changing direction , ” japan ’ s minister of defense tomomi inada said .
lockheed ’ s f-35 program leader , jeff babione , said monday the company had invested millions to reduce the jet ’ s price by 60 percent from original estimates .
“ we project it to be about $ 85 million in the 2019 or 2020 timeframe , ” he told reporters in israel .
the pentagon is now paying about $ 102 million each for the conventional takeoff a-model , according to sources familiar with the program .
the savings reflect larger quantities and the ironing out of technical issues .
as a practical matter , it was unlikely the u.s. would unwind such a large program involving contractors in nearly every u.s. state and eight partner nations , baird equity research analyst peter arment wrote in a note monday .
“ but what is likely ... is the message to the industry of potentially more risk-sharing on costs , ” he said .
“ this is potentially a new paradigm for the industry . ”