ankara/london ( reuters ) - iran s elite islamic revolutionary guard corps , a military force with political clout and an industrial empire , stands to benefit from heightened tension between washington and tehran , officials and analysts said .
president donald trump broke ranks with other major powers earlier this month by disavowing iran s compliance with a 2015 multinational nuclear deal , complicating life for foreign investors nervous of possible new u.s. sanctions .
the irgc , which reports directly to iran s supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , began rapidly expanding its commercial interests a decade ago , before u.s. and eu sanctions were imposed on iran s oil and finance sectors in 2012 over the country s nuclear program .
it controls businesses ranging from ports management to telecommunications and has made the most of both cooling and warming ties with the west .
when western oil companies vacated energy projects in iran after 2012 , the guards took them on ; after the penalties were lifted in 2016 , the irgc , through front companies , served as a conduit for foreign business flowing into iran .
if investors are put off again , the irgc is ready to step in , said an official from khamenei s camp .
we want foreign investors to stay , but if they leave because of ( u.s. ) pressure , the guards can easily replace them .
there is no better alternative , the official said , declining to be named because he was not authorized to speak to media .
under sanctions , iran s clerical rulers rewarded the guards by showering them with contracts for skirting the restrictions as well as for suppressing dissent at home and helping tehran s regional allies from iraq to lebanon .
the irgc s lack of technical expertise and concern over the viability of its economic ventures under sanctions meant it later welcomed pragmatist president hassan rouhani s deal that eased sanctions in return for curbs on the nuclear program .
khamenei , a hardliner who holds ultimate authority on matters of state in iran , guardedly endorsed the nuclear accord but has said rouhani s economic follow-through has fallen short .
to bypass existing unilateral u.s. sanctions , which bar any business with the guards and its affiliated firms , many of the irgc s front companies are not even formally owned by the guards , but by individuals and firms linked to it .
rouhani has tried to encourage reluctant major european firms and banks to return to iran by seeking to curb the guards involvement in the economy , which led to the irgc transferring ownership of some companies to the state .
in recent months , the irgc , which sees itself as a bulwark against western influence , has responded by criticizing rouhani for viewing foreign countries as the key to economic growth .
the irgc will be the main beneficiary of the tension with washington ...
in order to protect its economic dominance , the irgc prefers only limited opening to the west , said a western diplomat who follows iran closely .
while backing the nuclear deal , europeans share washington s concern over iran s ballistic missile program and destabilizing regional behavior .
the irgc has vowed to accelerate the disputed missile program and iran s shi ite militia proxies have made big military gains in recent months in syria and iraq , part of a decades-old tussle for influence in the middle east with sunni powers .
tehran emphasizes its role in battling islamic state .
many foreign firms remain hesitant to invest in iran for reasons including lingering unilateral u.s. sanctions imposed over human rights violations and alleged iranian links to terrorism , and the dominant role of the irgc in the middle east s second largest economy .
among european firms that have announced big deals in iran since last year are planemaker airbus air.pa , french energy group total totf.pa , and germany s siemens siegn.de .
planemaker boeing is the only u.s. company that has been granted direct access to the iranian market with a deal to sell 110 plans to two iranian carriers .
but trump s hawkish new approach towards tehran , coupled with banking worries and domestic political turbulence in both countries , are causing growing uncertainty over iran s plane deals .
iranian officials have acknowledged publicly that major international companies are still wary of providing finance for iran-related business , fearing potential fines resulting from existing u.s. sanctions , which include a ban on dollar related trade with the country .
iran needs the equivalent of billions of dollars in investment to revitalize industries including oil and gas and develop sectors held back by a lack of western financing and the wide economic influence of the irgc .
these factors have all added to the difficulties faced by foreign investors looking to tap iran s market .
the commercial issue is the turbulence that trump creates , andreas schweitzer , managing director with london-based m & a and investment advisory firm arjan capital ltd , which has been investing in iran since 2009 .
he said transactions were nevertheless still taking place , including in the automotive , energy and industrial sectors , in the one hundred million to two hundred million euros sphere .
merger and acquisition deals were among them , he said .
we keep the same mindset as of 2009 we assume the worst case , including that the revolutionary guards could be sanctioned , although we don t deal with them and if sanctioned parties are involved somewhere we won t touch the transaction or the company .
we are and remain very cautious and so far we never have had a problem .
following trump s speech , u.s. treasury secretary steven mnuchin said he planned to impose new sanctions on the guards and would work with international counterparts on the issue .
charles blackmore , chief executive of london-based due diligence specialists audere international , which is active in iran , said the policy shift by washington would have an adverse effect upon the more risk adverse investor .
for those who are already invested and know the country well , this will not make a blind bit of difference , he said .
there are enough issues at the moment making people aware of how much of the economy is controlled by shadow shareholdings and opaque structures of the irgc .
the survival of the nuclear deal is up to the u.s. congress , which has 60 days to decide whether to reimpose broad sanctions on iran .
the u.s. administration has said washington will not stand in the way of european trade and business transactions with iran .
matthew oresman , counsel with law firm pillsbury winthrop shaw pittman , who advises companies on iran compliance issues , said washington had considerable power and leverage to disrupt trade with iran if that served its national security interests .
but the european governments have ways to dampen this and protect their businesses if they so desire , he said .
( this story has been refiled to correct typo in acronym irgc )