new york/manchester , n.h. ( reuters ) - bill clinton may not be the “ secret weapon ” that hillary clinton needs in the u.s. presidential race .
and the former democratic president may not become the albatross that republican candidate donald trump expects , either .
bill clinton simply is not wielding that kind of influence – good or bad – over voters so far this year , according to a reuters/ipsos poll .
a majority of americans , including 73 percent of democrats and 52 percent of republicans , said bill clinton does not factor into their opinion of hillary for president .
( tmsnrt.rs/1ouiycw ) the poll , conducted jan. 7 to 13 , found that 12 percent of americans are more likely to vote for hillary , the former secretary of state , because of her marriage to bill .
among democrats , fewer than half said bill clinton should be more prominent in his wife ’ s campaign , and less than half felt that his presence in the race would boost her chances of winning .
bill clinton , who was widely credited for helping barack obama win a second term in 2012 , has become much more active on the campaign trail this month , especially in new hampshire , where hillary clinton trails bernie sanders in several recent statewide polls .
hillary called bill her “ not-so-secret weapon ” when announcing the move , though his increased involvement created an opening for republicans , especially trump , to bring up allegations of sexual misconduct that dogged the clintons in the 1990s .
despite two terms of strong economic growth and a trade surplus , bill clinton ’ s legacy as president has been marked by several high-profile missteps .
several women came forward during his tenure in the white house with allegations of consensual sexual encounters .
he also spent much of his tenure fighting accusations of unwanted advances toward women , including paula jones , an arkansas state employee , who later filed a lawsuit .
in 1998 , he was impeached by the house of representatives after attempting to cover-up an affair with another woman , monica lewinsky .
after hillary said that trump , the republican front-runner , had shown a “ penchant for sexism , ” the real estate mogul took to twitter to warn the democratic front-runner against using her husband as a surrogate on the campaign trail .
“ if hillary thinks she can unleash her husband , with his terrible record of women abuse , while playing the women ’ s card on me , she ’ s wrong ! ” trump wrote in late december .
voters , however , do not seem to care .
a majority of americans in the reuters/ipsos poll , including 68 percent of democrats and 50 percent of republicans , said that bill ’ s past sexual misconduct “ made no difference ” in the current presidential race .
among women , 56 percent said it did not matter , while another 21 percent said it would hurt hillary clinton ’ s chances of winning the election .
a tiny proportion of women – 4 percent – said they thought the experience would actually help her chances of winning .
democrats who turned out to listen to the former president this week in new hampshire dismissed the allegations of sexual misconduct as no longer relevant .
“ i just think it ’ s none of our business , ” said randall ferrara , a retired pastor who came to listen to bill stump in keene , new hampshire .
“ it ’ s old news and a weapon they use when they don ’ t have anything else. ” ferrara said he is still deciding between clinton and her chief rival , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of nearby vermont .
shirley ferrara , his wife , said that she would be supporting hillary .
she agreed with the roughly half of democrats that told reuters/ipsos that the former president “ should take a prominent role ” campaigning for his wife and that it would help her .
“ i think he would be an asset to her , ” ferrara said .
rachel reekie , a sanders supporter and keen state university student who was in elementary school during clinton ’ s presidency , said she was “ fully aware ” of the allegations .
“ it ’ s not a big deal ; it ’ s over , ” reekie said .
“ i don ’ t think his presence will have an effect. ” the online panel of 1,947 adults has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of about 4 percentage points .
( editing by caren bohan and lisa shumaker ) sap is the sponsor of this coverage which is independently produced by the staff of reuters news agency .