when asked by the other hosts on the show , where would you go ?
whoopie pauses , then realizes there really is no better country on the earth , as she sheepishly replies , i don t know , i ve always been in america .
there s usually a good reason that people don t give up their citizenship whoopie .
there s probably a reason so many people are willing to break the law and illegally enter our country .
despite the drivel you and your cohorts push on the view , every american doesn t believe they re somehow a victim , and most americans agree with trump that we shouldn t be willing to give up all that makes america great just because the left wants to shore up their voting block .
if you wan na know what is really getting under whoopie s skin , it s the idea that no one in the media can control trump .
that s what s really got the girls on the view freaking out wednesday on abc s the view , co-host whoopi goldberg said republican presidential candidate donald trump needs to stop blaming others for the problems in america and threatened to move out of the country.https : //youtu.be/nwe2zvcpkusgoldberg said , people don t like being the butt of the jokes and now that people say , listen , you can t make me the butt of your jokes , i don t like it .
you can t use me as some sort of stereotype .
i don t like it .
that s the pc people are talking about .
and the bottom line is this find a different way to say what you re going to say .
people are not going to take it anymore .
so if that s what s pisses you off , you re going to stay angry .
co-host joy behar said , a lot of it has to do with their pocketbook .
they re not making as much money as they used to make , that particular group of people .
maybe jobs are overseas , maybe technology has taken over , they don t have the background for it .
they re ticked off .
goldberg interjected , but then you can t blame immigrants for that .
behar continued , that s scapegoating .
it s as old as the hills .
what do you think world war ii is all about ?
you know that .
it s all about blaming the jews .
now it s the mexicans and the muslims .
blame everybody but yourself .
later in the segment , goldberg continued her rant .
listen , he can be whatever party he wants to be , she said .
what he can t be is he can t be the guy that says it s your fault stuff isn t working .
that s not the president i want .
find a way to make stuff work .
stop blaming everybody because all of this , as american citizens , this is our we did all of this .
we ve allowed all this stuff , so we have to fix it .
but you can t say , oh , you re lebanese or you re black or you re mexican or you re a woman .
stop blaming everybody .
let s fix the crap .
let s just fix it .
if you can fix it , i will listen to what you have to say .
the minute you start pointing and saying that person is a rapist and a murderer , it pisses me off because i ve been part of that when they just use a blanket statement to talk about black people or when they use a blanket statement to talk about white people or women or any other group .
i don t think that s america .
i don t want it to be america .
maybe it s time for me to move , you know .
i can afford to go , she added .
i ve always been an american , and this has always been my country and we ve always been able to have discussions .
and suddenly now it s turning into , you know , not them , not them .
and you know , we have a lot of friends whose parents saw this already .
they don t want to relive this so i need all the candidates to get it together .
get back to american values .
behar said , i must be naive maybe but i do believe that at the end of the day the american people will not vote for that type of xenophobia .
the fact that they voted twice for president obama , twice for president clinton , people like that .
i really do believe they will come to their senses .
you know what , he can t win without 40 percent of the hispanic vote and he has alienated the hispanics .
via : breitbart news