london ( reuters ) - abdul daoud spilt most of the cappuccino into the saucer the first time he served princess diana , his nerves getting the better of him .
almost 20 years on since she was killed when her car crashed in a paris tunnel , he still works surrounded by pictures of the woman he calls the princess of the people in his cafe , named diana , his very personal attempt to keep her memory alive .
my promise to her is to put this place as a tribute for her , he said of his cafe , set up in 1989 , near london s kensington gardens , home to the palace where diana used to live .
for him , celebrating her life is business as usual at the cafe where visitors can eat diana salads or diana burgers and where he said she used to stop by regularly .
she is the princess of the people , always , he said , adding that he does not believe she will ever be forgotten .
but many younger britons said that while they can understand the fascination with the princess , whose struggles to fit in to the royal household played out in the full glare of the media , they don t feel it themselves .
i think she maybe meant more to my mother , said stephen butler in the west london area diana used to live .
when she died i remember my mother shaking me awake and being quite devastated about it .
student shermine grigorius was three-years-old when diana died but after being told stories about the princess of wales by her mother , sees her as a symbol of kindness .
while the royals have always been dutifully charitable , diana was known for going beyond her in-laws , or even any celebrity at the time , in her philanthropy .
whether in charity work or in royal life , she earned a reputation for being a rebel who defied convention : from campaigning for a worldwide ban on landmines despite opposition from the british government to flouting royal protocol to speak candidly about her experiences with bulimia and infidelity .
she bought a different side to the whole monarchy , said anika wijuria , a 30-year-old project manager .
they were quite stiff and she was quite liberal .
at the da mario restaurant , marco molino remembers another side of diana , describing a down to earth woman who liked to eat italian dishes with her sons , princes william and harry , or friends .
her personality was very normal , very down to earth , very friendly , he said near an oil painting of diana on the wall .
i think that s what she really wanted - a bit of normality ...
here was one of the places where she could achieve that .
ronald van bronkhorst , who has lived above da mario since the 70s , also said she never made flashy entrances .
her legacy will never leave ... you think about her all the time , especially in the area we live in .