helsinki ( reuters ) - any move by finland to join nato would need public approval via a referendum , president sauli niinisto told a panel debate on monday ahead of elections in january .
the nordic country is a member of the european union but has stayed outside the nato military alliance in line with its tradition of avoiding confrontation with russia , with which it shares an 833 mile ( 1,340 km ) border and a difficult history .
it has forged closer ties with nato in recent years , however , sharing information and taking part in military exercises , reflecting concerns in finland about the ukraine crisis and increased east-west tensions in the baltic sea .
niinisto , who is expected to easily win a second six-year term in the jan. 28 election , did not indicate whether he favoured joining nato but said a decision to apply for full membership would require a referendum .
i am convinced that ( membership ) decision would require legitimacy , a wide acceptability ...
i would warn against making decisions where a significant part of citizens would get deep wounds , niinisto said in a panel discussion in helsinki .
only 21 percent of finns support joining nato , while 51 percent are opposed , a poll by yle showed in february .
niinisto , 69 , who will stand as an independent candidate after previously representing the conservative national coalition party , is known for cultivating good relations with russian counterpart vladimir putin .
finland s president is in charge of foreign and defence policy together with the government .
nils torvalds , the only one of seven presidential candidates who advocates joining nato , said politicians needed to show leadership on the issue .
the thesis of a referendum blocks the discussion on membership .
everybody s waiting for a referendum and are not taking a stance on the real question ... we do have a parliament to decide on issues .
to apply for a membership when a crisis is knocking on the door , forget that .
the membership must be applied for when the weather is still rather beautiful .
torvalds , a politician for swedish people s party of finland , had 1 percent support in a recent opinion poll while niinisto had 76 percent .
finland s centre-right government has said it will monitor the security situation in the region and retain the option of joining nato .
russia , which has opposed nato s eastward expansion has said any move by helsinki to join would be of special concern .