manchester , n.h. ( reuters ) - u.s. democratic presidential candidate hillary clinton can not be in two places at once in the weeks before the first party-nominating contests in iowa and new hampshire , but she came close on tuesday with daughter chelsea clinton ’ s campaign trail debut .
hillary clinton was in iowa discussing how she would tax the wealthiest at a higher rate .
chelsea clinton was in new hampshire promoting her mother ’ s positions on health care and student debt .
it was a day when multiple polls showed that clinton ’ s lead over her chief challenger , u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont , has eroded in iowa and new hampshire , which hold their nominating contests on feb. 1 and feb. 9 .
a quinnipiac university poll showed that sanders has climbed to 49 percent in iowa , with a 5 percentage point lead over clinton .
a monmouth university poll showed sanders had widened his lead in new hampshire by 14 points .
the polls had an error margin of 4.4 and 4.8 points , respectively .
chelsea clinton , 35 , highlighted how her mother differs from sanders , acting as a surrogate to woo younger voters with whom he is particularly popular .
at a stop in manchester , sarah odell , a teacher at a girls ’ boarding school in connecticut , asked why young people should support the former secretary of state .
chelsea clinton said sanders wants to dismantle the 2010 affordable care act and pursue a single-payer system at a time when the republican-controlled u.s. congress is intent on undermining president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law .
“ i worry that if we give republicans democratic permission to do that , ” clinton told odell , “ that will strip millions , millions and millions of people of their health insurance. ” at a women ’ s event in portsmouth , clinton said that another important difference are plans to deal with educational debt .
sanders has said he wants to make higher education free ; clinton has focused on making it more affordable for the poor and middle class .
“ she has actually articulated how she is going to pay for all of this , which is a big distinction between her and her main opponent , ” clinton said .
clinton took questions on the resettlement of the west bank , cost-of-living adjustments for fixed-income retirees , wall street reform and autism , sprinkling anecdotes about baby daughter charlotte , whom hillary clinton often mentions .
at times her diction was nearly identical to her mother ’ s .
“ it is important to stand your ground , but it is important to find common ground , ” clinton said , echoing a popular campaign-trail riff about bipartisanship .
for more on the 2016 u.s. presidential race and to learn about the undecided voters who determine elections , visit the reuters website .
( here ) .