london ( reuters ) - british foreign secretary boris johnson on friday accused russia of trying to hide the use of sarin gas by syrian president bashar al-assad s government , and said moscow s behavior was undermining the consensus against chemical weapons .
a united nations report released on thursday found assad s government to blame for a chemical attack in khan sheikhoun , syria which killed dozens of people in april and prompted a retaliatory u.s. missile strike .
commenting on the release of that report , johnson called on the international community to hold assad s government to account .
he also launched a fierce attack on russia , which helped broker a deal in 2013 under which assad agreed to destroy syria s chemical weapon stockpile .
russia has repeatedly attempted to disrupt efforts to get to the truth of the khan sheikhoun attack , he said in a statement .
russia has consistently chosen to cover up for assad .
this behavior can only undermine the global consensus against the use of chemical weapons .
i call on russia to stop covering up for its abhorrent ally and keep its own commitment to ensure that chemical weapons are never used again .
russia has defended the syrian leader against u.s. allegations that his forces carried out the attack , saying there was no evidence .
russia said the chemicals that killed civilians belonged to rebels , not assad s government .
the syrian government has repeatedly denied using chemical weapons during the country s more than six-year civil war .
moscow backs syrian government forces against rebels in the war .
the chemical weapons investigation mechanism was unanimously created by the 15-member u.n. security council , which includes russia , in 2015 and renewed in 2016 for another year .
its mandate is due to expire in mid-november , and russia on tuesday vetoed a proposal to further extend its mandate .
russian ambassador to the u.n. vassily nebenzia said russia would consider revisiting the mandate extension after thursday s report was discussed .
johnson s comments come only weeks after his foreign ministry announced he would travel to moscow later this year to discuss international security issues .
johnson has previously described diplomatic relations with russia as difficult but said the british government had a policy of engaging with moscow to further mutual interests where they exist .
in april , following the sarin gas attack , he canceled what would have been the first visit to russia in five years by a british foreign secretary .