who knew that the department of transportation keeps records on how many people are bumped involuntarily from a flight .
can you guess the numbers ? airlines have always bumped passengers from overbooked flights but with the recent a * * kicking of a passenger on a united airlines flight ( see below ) , you probably never thought of it .
here s what we know : if you ve flown much then you know that airlines overbook flights .
when that happens , they usually offer free tickets to anyone willing to give up their seat.in this case , everyone wanted to stay on the plane including one man who eventually had to be physically tossed off by uniformed men he claimed to be a doctor and needed to get home to see patients in the morning .
we re sure you ll hear more about this man but we can t verify that he s a doctor .
we just find it odd that he would endure this treatment by the security at the airport .
it was a disturbing situation for sure ! in the fine print when you buy your ticket , the airline reserves the right to toss you if they re over booked this isn t the way to do it !
does anyone else out there really miss the good old days of flying ?
i do ! flying these days can be a nightmare check this one out : a united passenger was forcibly removed from a flight from chicago to louisville after he refused to voluntarily give up his seat.fellow passengers on the flight posted jarring videos late sunday night of uniformed men dragging the man off of the flight after what united called an overbook situation .
flight 3411 from chicago to louisville was overbooked , a united spokesperson told yahoo news when asked about the incident .
after our team looked for volunteers , one customer refused to leave the aircraft voluntarily and law enforcement was asked to come to the gate .
audra d. bridges and tyler bridges posted video of the incident : @ united @ foxnews @ cnn not a good way to treat a doctor trying to get to work because they overbooked pic.twitter.com/sj9ohk94ik tyler bridges ( @ tyler_bridges ) april 9 , 2017another angle : @ united overbook # flight3411 and decided to force random passengers off the plane .
here s how they did it : pic.twitter.com/qfefm8x2cw jayse d. anspach ( @ jaysedavid ) april 10 , 2017bridges and anspach gave similar accounts of the incident to the louisville courier-journal and on twitter : united had overbooked the flight and was looking for four volunteers to leave the plane in order to send four united crew members to louisville .
passengers were allowed to board and united offered $ 800 to anyone who gave up their seat , but when there were no volunteers , united said a computer would randomly select four passengers .
the man in the video claimed to be a doctor who had patients to see in the morning and refused to leave , at which point airport security dragged him off the plane.the united contract of carriage lays out specific policies for passengers who are not allowed to board overbooked flights but doesn t cite policy for removing passengers who are already seated on such flights.via : yahoo