united nations ( reuters ) - united nations secretary-general antonio guterres appealed on tuesday for statesmanship to avoid war with north korea and criticized world leaders who stoke resentment over refugees for political gain , two digs at u.s. president donald trump .
in his first address to the annual 193-member u.n. general assembly since taking office in january , guterres said the crisis over north korea s nuclear and ballistic missile program must be solved through a political process .
this is the time for statesmanship , said the former prime minister of portugal .
we must not sleepwalk our way into war .
trump has warned north korea that military action was an option for the united states as pyongyang has carried out a series of tests toward developing the ability to target the united states with a nuclear-tipped missile .
the u.n. security council has unanimously imposed nine rounds of sanctions on north korea since 2006 and guterres appealed for the 15-member body to maintain its unity on north korea .
guterres , a former head of the u.n. refugee agency , also spoke of being pained to see the way refugees and migrants have been stereotyped and scapegoated - and to see political figures stoke resentment in search of electoral gain .
shortly after taking office in january , trump moved to put a 120-day halt on the u.s. refugee program , bar syrian refugees indefinitely and impose a 90-day suspension on people from six predominantly muslim countries .
he says the move is needed to prevent terrorist attacks .
i myself am a migrant , as many of you are .
but no-one expected me to risk my life on a leaky boat or cross a desert in the back of a truck to find employment outside my country of birth , he said .
safe migration can not be limited to the global elite .
guterres also warned of the dangers of climate change and urged world leaders to implement the 2015 paris climate agreement to reduce emissions with ever greater ambition .
trump , who campaigned in the 2016 presidential election on an america first platform , has said the united states would withdraw from the accord .
trump said it would harm u.s. industries , cost u.s. jobs , weaken american national sovereignty and put the country at a permanent disadvantage to other nations .
it is high time to get off the path of suicidal emissions .
we know enough today to act .
the science is unassailable , guterres said .
on counterterrorism , guterres said he plans to convene next year the first gathering of heads of counterterrorism agencies of u.n. member states to forge a new international counterterrorism partnership .