washington - president barack obama took aim on tuesday at republican presidential front-runner donald trump and accused critics of playing into the hands of islamic state in a speech meant to cement his legacy and set a positive tone for his final year in office .
obama , delivering his last annual state of the union speech to congress as president , called for leaders to “ fix ” u.s. politics and criticized candidates such as trump for using anti-muslim rhetoric that betrayed american values .
“ when politicians insult muslims ... that doesn ’ t make us safer , ” he said , drawing applause from the crowd in the house of representatives chamber .
“ it ’ s just wrong .
it diminishes us in the eyes of the world .
it makes it harder to achieve our goals. ” trump , whom obama did not mention by name in his speech , is leading the republican field ahead of the nov. 8 election to pick the next president .
the billionaire businessman , citing national security concerns , has called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and a wall on the u.s. border with mexico to stop the flow of illegal immigrants , ideas the white house strongly opposes .
obama sought to contrast his more optimistic view of america ’ s future with those of the republican candidates trying to replace him .
he said it was “ fiction ” to describe the country as being in economic decline .
while acknowledging that al qaeda and islamic state posed a direct threat to americans , he said comparing the effort to defeat the militants who control swaths of iraq and syria to world war three gave the group just what it wanted .
“ masses of fighters on the back of pickup trucks , twisted souls plotting in apartments or garages : they pose an enormous danger to civilians ; they have to be stopped .
but they do not threaten our national existence , ” obama said .
republicans say the president ’ s strategy to defeat islamic state is flawed and insufficient .
“ his policies aren ’ t working .
he didn ’ t have an answer for how to defeat isis , ” republican house of representatives speaker paul ryan said in a statement after the speech , using an acronym for islamic state .
obama ’ s address to lawmakers , cabinet members and supreme court justices was one of his last remaining chances to capture the attention of millions of americans before the november election .
the next president will take office in january 2017 .
trump , in a posting on twitter , called the speech “ boring ” and lacking in substance .
“ new leadership fast ! ” but south carolina governor nikki haley , who delivered the republican response to obama ’ s address , took her own jab at trump and other less moderate candidates in her party .
“ during anxious times , it can be tempting to follow the siren call of the angriest voices .
we must resist that temptation , ” said haley , the daughter of indian immigrants .
“ no one who is willing to work hard , abide by our laws , and love our traditions should ever feel unwelcome in this country , ” she said .
obama ’ s address came as 10 sailors aboard two u.s. navy boats were taken into iranian custody .
iran told the united states the crew members would be “ promptly ” returned , u.s. officials said .
the event gave republicans further fodder to criticize obama ’ s nuclear deal with tehran .
obama did not address the issue in his speech .
the white house expects the situation to be resolved quickly .
obama , who is constitutionally barred from a third term , stuck to themes he hopes will define his legacy , including last year ’ s nuclear pact with tehran .
he noted areas where compromise was possible with republicans in congress including criminal justice reform , trade and poverty reduction .
he called for lawmakers to ratify a pacific trade pact , advance tighter gun laws and lift an embargo on cuba .
the president also said he regretted not having been able to elevate u.s. political discourse during his time in office .
“ it ’ s one of the few regrets of my presidency - that the rancor and suspicion between the parties has gotten worse instead of better , ” he said .
to help “ fix ” u.s. politics , obama pressed for an end to “ gerrymandering , ” the practice of drawing voting districts in ways that gives advantage to a particular party ; reducing the influence of “ dark money ” or political spending in which funding sources do not have to be disclosed ; and making voting easier .
obama also said he had tasked vice president joe biden , whose son died last year of cancer , to lead an effort to find a cure for the disease .
the president noted some outstanding promises from his own 2008 campaign .
he pledged to continue to work to close the u.s. prison at guantanamo bay , cuba , and called on congress to lift the embargo on the communist-ruled island nation .
obama , whose 2008 victory was driven partially by his opposition to the iraq war , said the united states could not serve as policeman of the world .
“ we also can ’ t try to take over and rebuild every country that falls into crisis , even if it ’ s done with the best of intentions , ” he said .
“ it ’ s the lesson of vietnam ; it ’ s the lesson of iraq ; and we should have learned it by now. ” obama is eager for a democrat to win the white house to preserve his legacy , but anger over his policies and fears about security threats have helped push non-traditional candidates to the fore in the republican and , to a lesser extent , the democratic races to succeed him .
trump and senator ted cruz of texas are at the top of the republican field , while self-described “ socialist ” bernie sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , is giving former secretary of state hillary clinton tough competition in early voting states for the democratic primary contest .