presidential elections are won by well-prepared , well organized multimillion dollar efforts that are executed at the state level .
some of the best models of this have been president bush s campaign in 2004 and president obama s campaigns in 2008 and 2012 .
what needs to be done and how it should be done are known by seasoned campaign operatives and candidates who put the people in place to make it happen.donald trump s presidential campaign , and the republican party s planning to help his campaign in multiple states that are key to winning , are a complete disaster with only four months to go until the election , according to a new report from the associated press.with early voting beginning in less than three months in some states , the review reveals that the national gop has delivered only a fraction of the ground forces detailed in discussions with state leaders earlier in the year .
and that is leaving anxious local officials waiting for reinforcements to keep pace with democrat hillary clinton in the states that matter most in 2016.the republican party s massive failure gets even worse when you zoom in to swing states , as the associated press has : some examples of republican shortfalls : ohio republicans thought they were going to see 220 paid staffers by may ; in reality there are about 50 .
plans for pennsylvania called for 190 paid staffers ; there are about 60 .
iowa s planned ground force of 66 by may actually numbers between 25 and 30 .
in colorado , recent staff departures have left about two dozen employees , far short of the 80 that were to have been in place.ap even found that trump s headquarters in florida , one of the most important states in the fight for the electoral college , was closed and its voice mailbox full .
florida has 29 electoral votes and in 2012 was decided by a margin of 0.87 percent on the ground organizing is key to winning it.these failures at the state organizing level don t even take into account the massive disparity in campaign advertising between clinton and trump .
while she has been pumping out ads in important states like ohio , pennsylvania , florida , colorado , and new mexico along with super pacs that support her , trump hasn t been advertising at all .
in 2012 , mitt romney s campaign was outspent by president obama , but he was actually spending money trump isn t spending on much , besides many of his own entities who showed up as campaign vendors.republicans , especially in 2012 , derided president obama s background as a community organizer , but they could do with one right now to organize for their candidate in the communities he needs in order to have a chance at winning .
that doesn t seem to be happening.featured image via flickr