( reuters ) - major eastern u.s. railroads csx corp and norfolk southern corp are rerouting rail cars and locomotives , holding traffic in yards out of harm s way , relocating workers , and putting repair equipment into place as hurricane irma barrels toward florida .
here are some key rail facilities in the u.s. southeast that could be impacted by irma , projected to strike southern florida on sunday : the no .
3 u.s. railroad , based in jacksonville , florida , has major rail yards in jacksonville , orlando , and tampa , on the state s western gulf coast .
apart from the major rail yards , jacksonville and tampa also have intermodal terminals , transfer terminals for bulk goods , and auto distribution terminals .
orlando has the major rail yard and auto distribution terminal .
it has bulk good transfer terminals in fort lauderdale .
csx serves 12 ports , including fort myers , fort pierce , jacksonville , miami , palm beach , and panama city .
for georgia , csx has major rail yards in atlanta , coastal savannah , and waycross as part of its 2,700 miles ( 4,345 km ) of track .
in atlanta and savannah , they also have intermodal and bulk transfer operations in addition to the major rail yards .
augusta , about 150 miles from the atlantic ocean , is a terminal serving bulk commodities .
in alabama , csx has major rail yards in mobile , birmingham , and montgomery .
it has bulk freight transfer terminals in birmingham and montgomery and an intermodal terminal in mobile .
in south carolina , it has major rail yards in charleston , which also has intermodal and bulk commodity terminal operations , and florence , and has bulk terminals in spartanburg and greenville .
the no .
4 u.s. railroad , based in norfolk , virginia , has a major rail yard , intermodal and auto distribution facilities and a rail-to-truck transfer facility in jacksonville , in florida s northeast .
in atlanta , georgia , the railroad has a rail yard , rail-to-truck transfer and auto distribution facilities , and two intermodal facilities .
it also has yards in macon , augusta , valdosta , albany , rome , columbus , and savannah , with rail-to-truck transfer facilities in augusta , and dalton .
in georgia it also has auto distribution facilities in commerce , savannah , and brunswick , and port access points in savannah and brunswick , in the state s southwest .
in south carolina , the railroad has port operations , a rail yard , an intermodal terminal and an auto distribution facility in charleston , as well as a yard and rail-to-truck transfer facility in columbia .
in the broader area of greenville , in the state s northwest , it has two rail yards , a rail-to-truck transfer facility and an intermodal terminal .
in alabama , the company has key intermodal , auto distribution and rail yard facilities in birmingham , with yards in selma , mobile further south , and sheffield , and decatur in the north .
mobile also has a rail-to-truck transfer facility and port operations .