paris ( reuters ) - lebanese prime minister saad al-hariri said on monday that the political and militant group hezbollah must stop interfering in regional conflicts and accept a neutral policy to bring an end to lebanon s political crisis .
the iranian-backed hezbollah , which forms part of the lebanese government , is fighting alongside syrian president bashar al-assad in syria and in iraq against islamic state militants .
gulf monarchies have accused the shi ite group of also supporting the houthi group in yemen and of backing militants in bahrain .
hezbollah denies any activity in yemen or bahrain .
hariri s main patron is saudi arabia , iran s main regional rival , which has also intervened in regional conflicts .
i don t want a political party in my government that interferes in arab countries against other arab countries , hariri said in an interview recorded on monday with french broadcaster cnews .
i am waiting for the neutrality which we agreed on in the government , he said .
one can t say one thing and do something else .
hariri shocked lebanon on nov 4 by resigning from his post in a statement from saudi arabia .
his resignation , however , has not yet been accepted .
president michel aoun held talks on monday with other lebanese political leaders over the future of hariri s government but gave no sign whether they discussed hariri s demand that the country steer clear of regional turmoil .
lebanon can not resolve a question like hezbollah which is in syria , iraq , everywhere because of iran .
it is a regional political solution that needs to be done , hariri said .
the interference of iran affects us all .
if we want a policy that is good for the region we shouldn t be interfering .
he said he was ready to stay on as prime minister if hezbollah accepted to stick by the state policy of staying out of regional conflicts .
however , he said he would resign if hezbollah did not keep to that , although consultations so far had been positive .
i think in the interest of lebanon , hezbollah is carrying out a positive dialogue .
they know we have to remain neutral in the region .
he said that if this week s consultations ended positively he would possibly modify the make-up of the government and added that he was open to elections before next year .