riyadh/doha ( reuters ) - u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson said on sunday it was time for iranian-backed militias and their iranian advisers who helped iraq defeat islamic state to go home , after a rare joint meeting with the leaders of iraq and saudi arabia .
the united states is concerned that iran , a shi ite regional power , will take advantage of gains against is in iraq and syria to expand the influence it gained after the u.s. invasion in 2003 , something sunni arab rivals such as riyadh also oppose .
iranian militias that are in iraq , now that the fight against daesh and isis is coming to a close , those militias need to go home .
the foreign fighters in iraq need to go home and allow the iraqi people to regain control , tillerson said at a joint news conference with saudi foreign minister adel jubeir .
tens of thousands of iraqis heeded a call to arms in 2014 after is seized a third of the country s territory , forming the popular mobilization forces ( pmf ) , which receive funding and training from tehran and have been declared part of the iraqi security apparatus .
a senior u.s. official said tillerson had been referring to the pmf and the quds force , the foreign paramilitary and espionage arm of the powerful islamic revolutionary guard corps ( irgc ) .
iranian foreign minister mohammad javad zarif berated tillerson s remarks as influenced by iran s oil-rich regional rival saudi arabia .
exactly what country is it that iraqis who rose up to defend their homes against isis return to ? , zarif said in a tweet .
shameful us fp ( foreign policy ) , dictated by petrodollars .
iraq s military , armed by the united states but supported by the pmf , ejected the ultra-hardline sunni muslim militant group from mosul and other cities in northern iraq this year .
several thousand u.s. troops are still in the country , mostly for training but also to carry out raids against is .
the campaign to uproot the militants left whole cities in ruins and has hit iraq s economy .
a new joint ministerial-level body between iraq and saudi arabia convened its inaugural meeting earlier on sunday to coordinate their fight against is and on rebuilding iraqi territory wrested from the group .
jubeir emphasized historic ties between the two neighbors , which share a border , vast oil resources and many of the same tribes .
the natural tendency of the two countries and people is to be very close to each other as they have been for centuries .
it was interrupted for a number of decades .
we re trying now to make up for lost ground , he said .
the rare senior meeting , signaling a thaw between states that have been at loggerheads for decades , was also attended by saudi king salman and iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi .
tillerson said the council would contribute to reforms to build iraq s private sector and encourage foreign investment .
this will be critical to winning the peace that has been earned through the hard-fought military gains , he said .
state media said the council had expressed satisfaction with global oil markets recovery as a result of a deal with other countries to boost prices by limiting production .
the council also agreed to reopen a saudi basic industries corp office in iraq and grant saudi agriculture company salic an investment license .
a second meeting will be held in baghdad but no date was mentioned .
saudi commerce and investment minister majid al-qusaibi told reuters his country seeks to boost exports and is eyeing investment opportunities in iraq s agricultural and petrochemical sectors , among others .
he said backing from the highest levels of both governments would produce quick results on the ground .
let s not cry over spilt milk .
whatever happened in the past has happened .
the good news is we are all here toward building a prosperous and beneficial future for both countries , he said in a telephone interview .
tillerson and jubeir also discussed washington s hawkish new policy towards iran , including a possible withdrawal from the 2015 nuclear deal and new sanctions on the irgc .
both our countries believe those who conduct business with the iranian revolutionary guard , any of their entities , european companies or other companies around the world really do so at great risk , tillerson said .
relations between riyadh and baghdad were cut for 25 years , before recent rapprochement , after former iraqi president saddam hussein invaded kuwait in 1990 .
saudi arabia , along with the united arab emirates , is wooing baghdad now in an effort to halt the growing regional influence of iran .
arriving in doha later on sunday for the next leg of a multi-country trip , tillerson told a news conference that there was little chance of a swift breakthrough to resolve a blockade imposed on qatar by saudi arabia and its arab allies .
the kingdom , the united arab emirates , egypt and bahrain imposed trade and travel curbs on doha in june for alleged support of terrorism and friendship with iran - charges qatar denies .
there is not a strong indication that the parties are ready to talk yet , tillerson said .
the secretary of state s six-day trip will also take him to pakistan , india and switzerland .