riyadh ( reuters ) - saudi arabian women awoke to news of a royal decree permitting them to drive starting next year - and some were already behind the wheel on wednesday , even though licenses will not be issued for nine months .
saudi arabia will never be the same again .
the rain begins with a single drop , manal al-sharif , who was arrested in 2011 after a driving protest , said in an online statement .
online videos showed a handful of women driving cars overnight , after king salman s decree was announced late on tuesday .
i wish i could translate my feelings right now .
i feel like no one can understand it fully but us , said abeer alarjani , 32 , who plans to start driving lessons this weekend .
now i ll finally dare to dream for more .
the move represents a big crack in the laws and social mores governing women in the conservative muslim kingdom .
the male guardianship system requires women to have a male relative s approval for decisions on education , employment , marriage , travel plans and even medical treatment .
saudi arabia , the birthplace of islam , has been widely criticized for being the only remaining country to forbid women to drive .
king salman s decree ends a conservative tradition seen by rights activists as an emblem of the country s suppression of women .
[ nl8n1m761p ] it is expected to boost the fortunes of 32-year-old crown prince mohammed bin salman , who has ascended to the heights of power in the kingdom in three short years with an ambitious domestic reform program and assertive foreign policy .
a muted response from saudi s powerful clergy , which has long backed the ban , suggested power shared between the al saud dynasty and the wahhabi religious establishment could be shifting decisively in favor of the royals .
many younger saudis regard crown prince mohammed s ascent as evidence that their generation is taking a central place in running a country whose patriarchal traditions have for decades made power the province of the old and blocked women s progress .
sharif , the activist , described the driving ban s removal as just the start to end long-standing unjust laws ( that ) have always considered saudi women minors who are not trusted to drive their own destiny .
the saudi ambassador to washington said on tuesday women would not need their guardians permission to get a license , nor to have a guardian in the car when driving .
in a country where gender segregation has been strictly enforced for decades in keeping with the austere wahhabi form of sunni islam , the decree means women will have regular contact with unrelated men , such as fellow drivers and traffic police .
other rules have loosened recently , with the government sponsoring concerts deemed un-islamic by the clergy , allowing women into a large sports stadium for the first time and permitting them to dance beside men in a central riyadh street over the weekend .
[ nl5n1m509t ] amnesty international welcomed the decree as long overdue but said there was still a range of discriminatory laws and practices that needed to be overturned .
that risks inflaming tensions with influential wahhabi clerics with whom the ruling al saud has enjoyed a close strategic alliance since the kingdom s founding .
the state-backed council of religious scholars expressed support for the driving decree .
grand mufti sheikh abdulaziz al al-sheikh , who has repeatedly opposed women working and driving and said letting them into politics may mean opening the door to evil , has yet to comment .
some islamist clerics are currently in detention in saudi arabia following an apparent crackdown on potential opponents of the kingdom s rulers this month .
[ nl5n1lw47g ] bernard haykel , professor of near east studies at princeton university , said the driving announcement may help explain those arrests .
they might have raised a storm against the government by mobilizing opposition in the name of religion .
they have been stymied , he said .
still , some men expressed outrage at the about-face by prominent clerics , who in the past have sometimes justified the driving ban by saying women s brains are too small or that driving endangered their ovaries .
whoever says this is permitted is a sinner .
women driving means great evils and this makes them especially sinful , one riyadh-based twitter user wrote .
where is the ( grand ) mufti ?
said another .
evil has come to arabs .