please note that this unhinged woman is a middle school teacher ! after an eight-month investigation , yvette felarca , a middle school teacher in berkeley , was arrested and charged this week with assault and rioting at a rally in sacramento last summer .
as it turns out , when she s not filling the minds of impressionable early teens , felarca is punching nazis .
https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=uuwoqfzgw7mfelarca , 47 , is the leader of the fascist antifa group by any means necessary and they were on hand in june 2016 to counter protest a permitted rally by the traditionalist worker party at the california state capitol building .
as fists flew , smart phones recorded and caught felarca punching a man repeatedly in his stomach and yelling at him to get the f * * * off our streets .
what she started , her fascist friends finished , jumping the guy and beating him on the ground before police stepped in.now , the sacramento county district attorney s office charged her with inciting and participating in a riot and assault likely to cause great bodily injury .
luckily , she was one of the counter-protesters who didn t cover her face , making her easy to identify .
over 300 fascists showed up that day to intimidate 30 members of the worker party who had a permit to be there.fox news reports : in addition to the june clash , felarca has been prominent at several other events involving the occupy movement , and more recently between supporters and opponents of president trump and other conservative leaders.she was also among the people who protested milo yiannopoulos appearance at uc berkeley earlier this year .
during an appearance on fox news after the protests , she said she was obligated to shut down his racist , misogynistic and homophobic messages.here s her appearance shortly after the berkeley riot being indignant and unapologetic with tucker carlson : there were others charged in the riot which included multiple assaults and stabbings .
however , it was nowhere near the number the california highway patrol tallied in a 2000-page report on the incident .
in total , there were 514 misdemeanors and 68 felonies involving 101 people , according to milo.com.read more : truth feed