beirut ( reuters ) - iran s moderate president gave a full-throated defense of his one-time rivals in the revolutionary guards on wednesday , as the country s pragmatist and hardline factions rallied together in the face of threats from donald trump .
the u.s. president is expected to decertify iran s nuclear deal with global powers this week and add its revolutionary guards military force to washington s black list of terrorist groups under a strategy to increase pressure on tehran .
the threat of u.s. action has united the two main factions of iran s leadership , with the pragmatists led by president hassan rouhani who seek greater openness to the west demonstrating their support for the hardline guards .
during a cabinet meeting shown on state television on wednesday , rouhani said u.s. action against the guards would be a mistake beyond mistakes .
they think that the guards are a military entity .
the revolutionary guards are not a military entity .
they re in the heart of the people .
the revolutionary guards , in all the days of danger , have defended our national interests , he said .
we re one society .
we re iran .
there are no differences between different factions in confronting the plots of our enemies , he added .
rouhani , the architect of iran s 2015 deal with global powers to curb its nuclear program in return for the lifting of international sanctions , won re-election in a landslide five months ago on a platform promising greater openness to the world and reform at home .
during an unprecedentedly bitter campaign , he repeatedly spoke out in public against the political influence of the guards , accusing them of backing his hardline opponent to defend their economic interests .
in recent days , however , the threat of new action from washington has prompted a public display of unity from the rival factions among iran s rulers .
today , the president of america has created conditions where iran is more united than ever .
today , those who oppose the nuclear deal and those who support it are side by side .
we all have one voice , rouhani said .
newspapers on tuesday ran pictures of the urbane , u.s.-educated foreign minister javad zarif laughing and hugging the commander of the guards , major-general mohammad ali jafari .
zarif brief lawmakers on wednesday about the expected u.s. action and about iran s plans for a response , according to members of parliament quoted in state media .
in the closed session zarif emphasized that if the americans take any steps against the nuclear deal that the islamic republic of iran will give them a more crushing response , shahbaz hassanpour , a lawmaker representing the city of sirjan , told the islamic republic news agency ( irna ) .
lawmakers did not disclose the specific actions that zarif had discussed as plans for iranian retaliation .
trump s expected move to decertify the nuclear deal would not by itself withdraw the united states from the agreement , but would pass that decision on to congress , requiring lawmakers to decide within 60 days whether to re-impose sanctions .
the nuclear deal is supported by washington s european allies britain , france and germany , as well as by russia and china , all of which say iran has complied so far .
adding the guards to the terrorism blacklist could have economic consequences , since the elite military force also has a vast business empire in iran .
international banks are required to make sure their clients are not blacklisted .
washington has already blacklisted other entities and individuals for supporting guards activities , but has not yet blacklisted the guards themselves .
during the meeting with zarif , parliament members expressed their support for the guards , hassanpour said .
zarif also noted during the session that european countries will continue backing the nuclear deal regardless of what actions the u.s may take , hassanpour told irna .