( reuters ) - media buyers expect record political ad spending driven by the u.s. presidential race will create a tight market for advertisers and drive up rates .
super pacs , which rose to prominence after a landmark u.s. supreme court campaign finance decision in 2010 , are preparing to buy national ads and to spend more once the nominees for each party are chosen at the political conventions in july , media buyers who work with these groups told reuters .
“ the campaigns are more sophisticated and are raising more money than ever before , ” said kyle roberts , president and chief executive of smart media group , an alexandria , va-based media buyer that works with republican candidates .
“ it is much easier today for outside groups to raise money to influence national elections. ” the bulk of political ad spending typically is in local markets .
but networks are already seeing more national ad buys by the super pacs , a shift that could benefit television networks .
the election also has brought a ratings boon to television , which had been losing audience to internet streaming .
fox news channel said wednesday it was no .
1 among basic cable networks last quarter for the first time .. cnn had the best quarter in seven years .
“ we have seen a little bit of the super pac money come in , ” said katrina cukaj executive vice president of portfolio sales and client partnerships at turner ad sales , part of time warner inc ( twx.n ) , which owns cnn .
“ we haven ’ t seen the full force of it yet .
that will come when we know who the candidates are. ” the frenzy in political ad spending is expected to reshape advertiser behavior .
media buyers predict the presidential election will result in an increase in spending at this year ’ s so-called upfronts , where the networks present their fall line-ups and woo big advertisers with swanky parties and celebrity appearances .
upfronts run through may .
“ the super pacs are not afraid to spend hundreds of millions of dollars in just a few local stations , so it wouldn ’ t surprise me if the national election is going to have a real impact on the upfronts , ” said barry lowenthal , president of the media kitchen , a new york-based media buyer .
lowenthal expects pricing for advertising to go up as a result of the super pac spending .
more advertisers are expected to lock in ad spots for the fourth quarter , rather than face price increases later or risk getting shut out of the market .
media buyers say they expect up to a 5 percent increase in spending for this year ’ s upfronts – the first increase in two years .
that could mean a jump in spending of up to $ 8.9 billion for prime time spots alone , based on data from media dynamics .
presidential ad spending for cable and broadcast television and radio in 2016 has already surpassed the $ 300 million mark , up more than 200 percent from the same period in the 2012 election cycle , according to data from smart media group .
“ this is going to be a very good year for us , ” said cbs chair and ceo les moonves at an investment conference in february .
“ it ’ s a terrible thing to say , but bring it on donald .
keep going , ” moonves said , referring to the republican gop frontrunner , donald trump .