donald trump really needs to keep his mouth shut because that s apparently the only way he ll be able to act presidential instead of petty.prior to a performance of hamilton on broadway friday night , the crowd booed as mike pence walked into theater .
at the end , the cast read a message to pence telling him that they hope he learned something from seeing the play.but rather than let it go at that , donald trump lashed out when he heard about the booing and the message.trump whined that the theater is supposed to be a safe space and demanded that hamilton apologize to mike pence for being rude .
our wonderful future v.p .
mike pence was harassed last night at the theater by the cast of hamilton , cameras blazing.this should not happen !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) november 19 , 2016the theater must always be a safe and special place.the cast of hamilton was very rude last night to a very good man , mike pence .
apologize !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) november 19 , 2016trump s temper tantrum was so pathetic that brandon victor dixon , who plays aaron burr in the play , responded .
@ realdonaldtrump conversation is not harassment sir .
and i appreciate @ mike_pence for stopping to listen .
brandon victor dixon ( @ brandonvdixon ) november 19 , 2016and other twitter users piled on .
@ realdonaldtrump oh no !
someone got their feelings hurt !
want me to hold your hand next time ?
jonathan redding ( @ jonathanredding ) november 19 , 2016 @ jonathanredding if he s offended by that , it s going to be a long four years for him .
sergio tovar ( @ sergiotovar ) november 19 , 2016 @ spannerjaxs @ heyjudeletitbe1 @ realdonaldtrump @ mike_pence i ve literally never seen or read of a grown man who whines more than trump .
bridget fitzgerald ( @ bridgetthebrave ) november 19 , 2016 @ phillyd i know i really shouldn t be surprised with this man anymore but wow .
if he can t handle that how can he handle when shit gets real ashley ( @ opticmidnite ) november 19 , 2016 .
@ realdonaldtrump actually what was rude was driving a motorcade thru the lincoln tunnel during rush hour .
to get to your golf course .
jim roberts ( @ nycjim ) november 19 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump wait , i think i m on to something : you think politely and calmly expressing your desired to be treated equally is rude .
1/2 terrence o brien ( @ terrenceobrien ) november 19 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump but screeching hate from a stage isn t. you have some sort of mental disease where you see the opposite of reality !
2/2 terrence o brien ( @ terrenceobrien ) november 19 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump they read a respectful prepared statement .
grow up .
erik anderson ( @ erianderson ) november 19 , 2016there s a lot more where those came from , but the bottom line is that trump spent a year and a half using divisive , hateful , bigoted , and disrespectful rhetoric and now he is whining about pence being booed .
seriously , donald trump is going to be a petty tyrant in the white house and he continues to demonstrate that he doesn t have the temperament and is too thin-skinned to be president.featured image : ethan miller/getty images