fort bragg , n.c. ( reuters ) - u.s. army sergeant bowe bergdahl pleaded guilty on monday to deserting his duties in afghanistan in june 2009 and endangering the lives of fellow troops , a step toward resolving the politically charged case that could send him to prison for life .
the 31-year-old idaho native told a judge in fort bragg , north carolina , that he walked off his combat outpost in paktika province and headed to a nearby base to report critical problems in his chain of command .
but he got lost after 20 minutes , was captured by the taliban several hours later and spent the next five years suffering torture , abuse and neglect in captivity .
the dangerous search for him that ensued - and the taliban prisoner swap that won his release in 2014 - drew wide derision from soldiers and republicans .
during last year s presidential campaign , republican donald trump called bergdahl a no-good traitor .
in court on monday , bergdahl admitted wrongdoing but said he never intended to put anyone at risk .
i didn t think there d be any reason to pull off a crucial mission to look for one guy , he said , adding that his actions were very inexcusable .
bergdahl pleaded guilty to desertion and misbehavior before the enemy , with the latter offense carrying a possible life sentence .
his decision to enter a naked plea - meaning he had not reached an agreement about the sentencing terms with prosecutors - came as a surprise to some military law experts .
the sentencing proceedings will begin on oct. 23 .
experts said the defense was betting on getting a better deal from army judge colonel jeffery nance than it would have from a jury panel of officers .
two law professors said they expect bergdahl will receive a dishonorable discharge at a minimum .
i think colonel nance will realize that the men who put their lives on the line looking for him are entitled to see a level of punishment that is appropriate for his misconduct , said geoffrey corn , a professor at south texas college of law houston and retired army lieutenant colonel .
army prosecutors will present evidence at sentencing of soldiers who were injured in the search for bergdahl .
the judge can consider bergdahl s time in captivity , but jeffrey addicott , a retired lieutenant colonel in the army , doubts it will help the soldier much .
he knew what the taliban was , and he inflicted that on himself , said addicott , now a law professor at st. mary s university in san antonio , texas .
bergdahl , who remains on active duty in a clerical job at a base in san antonio , on monday said he had tried to escape his captors up to 15 times .
the first attempt came on the day he was caught , bergdahl said .
blindfolded , with a blanket over his head and his hands chained behind his back , he decided to run from the village where he had been taken .
but he quickly was tackled , he said , and taken to another location .