london/tokyo ( reuters ) - british prime minister theresa may will look to ease corporate japan s worries about brexit during a three-day visit to the country from wednesday focused on progress on a bilateral trade deal for when britain leaves the european union .
may s first trip to japan as prime minister comes at a difficult moment , with japanese attention focused on north korea s tuesday missile test and britain s brexit negotiators recently on the receiving end of sharp criticism from eu officials .
may will lead a 15-strong business delegation , including standard life investment ( sla.l ) chief executive keith skeoch , and carmaker aston martin s ceo andy palmer , pitching britain and japan as the perfect partners for the future .
she will meet japanese prime minister shinzo abe in kyoto before traveling to tokyo for an investment conference and banquet .
may and abe are due to speak publicly on thursday following one-to-one talks .
my discussions with prime minister abe will focus on how we can prepare the ground for an ambitious free trade agreement after brexit , based on the eu-japan agreement which i very much hope is nearing conclusion , may said in a statement ahead of her departure .
may will also discuss defense cooperation , describing japan as our closest security partner in asia .
she will become the first european leader to attend a meeting of japan s national security council and will also visit its flagship helicopter carrier izumo for a briefing with military officials .
north korea fired a ballistic missile over japan s northern hokkaido island into the sea early on tuesday , prompting warnings to residents to take cover and drawing a sharp reaction from abe .
may also strongly condemned the launch .
japan s foreign ministry said the two leaders are expected to agree on the importance of china s role in ramping up pressure on north korea .
japan has been unusually outspoken about its concerns that britain s departure from the eu , which was decided by a public vote in 2016 , could affect current and future japanese investments in britain .
britain is the second most important destination for japanese investment after the united states , with firms like nissan ( 7201.t ) , toyota ( 7203.t ) and hitachi ( 6501.t ) investing billions in carmaking , energy and transport .
during a visit to london by abe in april , britain said that japanese companies had already invested over 40 billion pounds ( $ 52 billion ) in the british economy .
but japan is also an important destination for british investment .
aston martin said on tuesday it will open an advanced product planning office next year in japan to better understand the needs of asian buyers and tap into new technologies .
the firm is hoping to boost demand from japan and the united states partly as a way to mitigate against any risks from brexit which could add costs and delays to the 15 percent of cars it currently sells into the european union .
speaking ahead of may s visit , japanese deputy chief cabinet secretary yasutoshi nishimura said tokyo had to react to a sense of crisis among businesses over brexit , and gather information about the british negotiating strategy .
britain has published a series of papers setting out how it wants to settle its divorce with the eu , and is pushing for talks to move on to discuss the future relationship between the two - something of critical importance to investors .
but european commission president jean-claude juncker insisted on tuesday that the new relationship could not be discussed until initial differences had been resolved , and the eu s chief negotiator michel barnier said on monday he was concerned at the slow progress made so far .
japan s foreign ministry said abe is expected to ask may to maintain transparency and predictability regarding brexit so that any impact on corporate activity will be minimized - echoing concerns abe expressed in april about a brexit cliff-edge .
may s spokeswoman said the prime minister would reiterate britain s position that it is seeking to agree a time-limited brexit transition period after march 2019 to avoid a sudden change in trading and regulatory conditions for businesses .
what they will discuss in private i can t pre-empt , but that is our position and she ll be setting that out if he ( abe ) asks , the spokeswoman said .
( $ 1 = 0.7724 pounds )