dakar/libore , niger ( reuters ) - mabingue ngom , the head of the u.n. population fund in west africa , knows that if he wants to cut birth rates he can t ignore religion .
population experts like ngom are worried that if west africa s population continues to grow at its current pace - the region has the highest birth rate in the world - it will drive fiercer competition for scarce water and farmland , and fuel malnutrition , conflict and ever more economic refugees .
graphic-family planning in west africa : tmsnrt.rs/2zwftuy west african governments , u.n. agencies and charities also want to cut maternal mortality rates , which are higher in west africa than anywhere else in the world , according to u.n. population fund ( unfpa ) figures .
but imams who follow the puritanical wahhabist form of islam and some traditional religious leaders across the region regularly preach against the use of contraception , saying western nations are pushing birth control because they fear being outnumbered by africans .
some imams cite a passage in the koran imploring muslims to go forth and multiply , and family planning is seen by many in the region as a western plot to curb the spread of islam .
the west s policy is about reducing our numbers , said hassane seck , an imam in dakar influenced by the wahhabist tradition .
because of their perverse promotion of contraception , women in europe are no longer fertile , but ours are .
there are going to be many more of us , and they re afraid .
.
to counter that message , population experts are trying to co-opt moderate clerics .
which is why , at a meeting in september with half a dozen senior senegalese clerics , ngom avoided the issue of overpopulation and focused on values espoused in the koran : the need for better maternal health and the need to ensure parents have resources to feed and educate their children .
you can come with your powerpoint and make nice speeches and achieve nothing .
people will be even more hostile , he told reuters .
if you want to change things , you have to engage them .
after listening to ngom speak , bou mouhamed kounta , deputy head of senegal s islamic supreme council , warned that family planning in senegal was taboo .
but , he added : we are ready to work with you , because i can see that unfpa respects religion .
for planners worried about growth rates , the starkest case remains niger , a poor country stretching into the sahara desert .
according to u.n. projections , its population will triple by 2050 to 72 million , yet because of frequent droughts it already struggles to feed its people .
the fertility rate in niger has been the highest in the world for the past decade and has been above 7 children per mother for a quarter of a century , according to u.n. figures .
more than one in five women are married by the time they are 19 and for every 100,000 births in niger , 553 mothers die .
in neighboring chad , the maternal mortality level is 856 per 100,000 births .
it is only 12 in the developed world .
attempts by niger to lower its birth rate have been fiercely resisted by traditional leaders - known as marabouts - and some imams .
measuring the extent of wahhabist influence in west africa is hard , but they control many of the region s most strategic mosques , such as the main university houses of worship in senegal and niger .
on niger s religious tv stations , preachers promise hellfire for anyone practicing family planning .
at a large mosque in the southern city of maradi , an imam denounces contraception as a plot by the whites to reduce us , two reproductive health workers based there , who declined to be named , said .
when unfpa and niger s president mahamadou issoufou tried to introduce sex education in schools in 2015 , angry mobs burned the text books outside u.n. offices .
three years earlier a bill banning girls being taken out of school for marriage provoked such a backlash it had to be axed .
back then , ngom wondered whether decades of telling africans they were having too many babies was counterproductive .
he decided the family planning message needed to be nuanced and has held dozens of meetings with moderate imams , always wearing a bubu , the traditional muslim robe of his native senegal .
in a world of suspicion , of mistrust , how you put things is more important than the issues themselves , he told reuters in dakar .
you need to know your audience .
atamo hassane , head of niger s family planning unit , agrees .
to limit or reduce population , those are two words you just can t use , hassane told reuters in niger s capital niamey .
if you do , every marabout ... is going to be against you .
he said using family planning to space out births won t be enough to tackle population growth but hopes that once people start to use contraception they will see the benefits , use it more , and birth rates will then start to fall .
other moderate clerics include sheikh ali ben salah , niger s former minister of religious affairs .
islam is clear : you can t just have children without considering how you re going to feed , clothe and educate them , salah told reuters at a conference on child marriage in dakar .
so family planning is part of islam .
the problem only comes if you want to stop at a certain number .
unfpa had a breakthrough in july when chad s highest islamic authority hosted a symposium with the u.n. agency and 1,200 regional religious leaders - unprecedented for the subject of family planning .
i told them family planning will reduce maternal mortality by a third .
who doesn t want to do that ?
ngom said .
cheikh abdeldahim abdoulaye , secretary general of chad s supreme council of islamic affairs , told reuters he had backed the u.n. program because the koran permitted the spacing out births , primarily for the sake of better maternal health .
aminatou bakah , a nigerien aid worker for charity marie stopes international , which provides contraception and family planning advice in 37 countries , said they had long struggled to shake off the idea they were a tool of western interference .
they called us marie stop , because we want to stop people having children , she said .
we had to explain that , no , we want to help you plan , not just get pregnant by pure chance .
at a pop-up clinic run by the charity in libore , 20 km ( 13 miles ) outside niamey , mothers with young children wait for advice on contraceptive methods .
in the village of jagged acacia trees , clay houses and a mosque , all nine of the mothers interviewed by reuters said they didn t want to have fewer children and were using contraception only as a temporary reprieve from child birth .
i would have 15 children if that s what god wants , said rahinatou kadri , 24 , a mother of four .
her husband , who is an imam , has two other wives , the oldest of whom has 16 children , she said .
keen not to be outdone , when her husband said he wanted another child , kadri dutifully came back to have her contraceptive implant removed .
our religion doesn t permit us to stop having children , said mariane hamadoun , 34 , a mother of five .
thanks partly to such views , the birth rate in some african countries has defied predictions that it would fall as the continent gets more prosperous , as has happened in europe , asia and the americas .
but attitudes may be changing .
lamodi soulye , 39 , a devout muslim and worker in a chinese restaurant in niamey , was one of 28 siblings from one father and three different mothers .
he remembers occasionally going hungry , and dropping out of school with only basic primary education .
my father lacked the resources to keep us , he said .
i decided not to do the same thing to my children .
he plans to stop at three .