this is not a war we can expect our children to fight on their own .
we are in a war with a leftist academia who has lost sight of why we are paying for our children to attend their schools .
we are not paying for our children to sit in a classroom and talk about the evils of capitalism , the plight of the trans-sexual , the injustices of the minority student who is apparently no better off today than the slaves of the 18th century in america .
we are not paying for teachers to convince our children that success should be punished or that choosing a heterosexual , monogamous relationship is selfish and short-sighted .
we are paying them to give our children a quality education period .
and that is what our children deserve how radical , weird and out of touch have liberals on college campuses gotten since obama came into office ?
it s worse than you ever thought and although there is an almost unlimited number of problematic incidents to choose from , these 15 are particularly effective at getting across how bad things have become.1 ) college students say remembering 9/11 is offensive to muslims .
the everything-is-offensive brand of campus activism has struck a new low : students at the university of minnesota killed a proposed moment of silence for 9/11 victims due to concerns insulting , childish concerns that muslim students would be offended .
2 ) portland state university offers course teaching how to make whiteness strange according to portland state university professor rachel sanders white privilege course , whiteness must be dismantled if racial justice will ever be achieved .
the course description states that whiteness is the lynchpin of structures of racial meaning and racial inequality in the united states and claims that to preserve whiteness is to preserve racial injustice .
students taking the course will endeavor to make whiteness strange .
in order to make whiteness strange , the description says students must interrogate whiteness as an unstable legal , political , social , and cultural construction .
3 ) a university in the san francisco area actually told students to call 911 if they were offended .administrators at a catholic university in the san francisco bay area have rescinded an official school policy instructing students to clog up the regional 9-1-1 emergency reporting system to report bias incidents .
the school is santa clara university , reports campus reform until this month , however , santa clara administrators have been instructing students to report bias incidents using the emergency service reserved for dispatching police , firefighters and ambulances .
if the bias incident is in progress or just occurred : always call 911 immediately , the santa clara website instructed students in fierce , all-capital letters .
mizzou police sent a campus wide email to students during protests : call police if someone says something hurtful to you4 ) educators in the volunteer state are very concerned that students might be offended by the usage of traditional pronouns like she , he , him and hers , according to a document from the university of tennessee knoxville s office of diversity and inclusion .
for all you folks who went to school back when there were only him and her here s a primer : some of the new gender neutral pronouns are ze , hir , zir , xe , xem and xyr .
5 ) a professor at polk state college has allegedly failed a humanities student after she refused to concede that jesus is a myth or that christianity oppresses women during a series of mandatory assignments at the florida college .
according to a press release from the liberty counsel , a non-profit public interest law firm , humanities professor lance lj russum gave a student a zero on four separate papers because the 16-year-old did not conform to his personal worldviews of marxism , atheism , feminism , and homosexuality .
the law firm has called for a full , private investigation of the professor and the course curriculum .
6 ) college codes make color blindness a microaggression wait , what ?
.
ucla says color blindness , the idea we shouldn t obsess over people s race , is a microaggression .
if you refuse to treat an individual as a racial/cultural being , then you re being aggressive .
7 ) the phrase politically correct is now a microaggression according to the university of wisconsin-milwaukee .
the university s just words campaign is the work of uwm s inclusive excellence center and aims to raise awareness of microaggressions and their impact microaggressions like politically correct or pc .
8 ) ) american , illegal alien , foreigners , mothering , and fathering are just a handful of words deemed problematic by the university of new hampshire s bias-free language guide .saying american to reference americans is also problematic .
the guide encourages the use of the more inclusive substitutes u.s. citizen or resident of the u.s .
the guide also tries to get students to stop saying caucasian , illegal immigrant , mother , father and even the word healthy is said to shame those who aren t healthy .
9 ) late yesterday afternoon , aclj filed a lawsuit on behalf of brandon jenkins against officials of the community college of baltimore county ( ccbc ) in maryland for denying brandon admission to its radiation therapy program in part due to his expression of religious beliefs .
as one faculty member explained to brandon , on behalf of ccbc , the field [ of radiation therapy ] is not the place for religion .
10 ) a california school co-founded by a firebrand who once called for an intifada in the u.s. has become the nation s first accredited muslim college .
11 ) according to coastal carolina university , sex is only consensual if both parties are completely sober and if consent is not only present , but also enthusiastic .
this is a troubling standard that converts many ordinary , lawful sexual encounters into sexual assault , and it should frighten any student at ccu .
12 ) clemson university apologizes for serving mexican food students took to twitter to call the event culturally insensitive and to question the school s efforts to promote diversity .clemson dining issued an apology to offended students after hosting a maximum mexican food day .
13 ) all-women s college cancels vagina monologues because it excludes women without vaginas .
14 ) the black lives matter leader who landed a teaching gig at yale university delivered a lecture this week on the historical merits of looting as a form of protest , backing up his lesson with required reading that puts modern-day marauders on par with the patriots behind the boston tea party .
15 ) assistant dean ( at cornell ) tells a project veritas investigative journalist that the university would allow an isis terrorist to hold a training camp on campus , saying : it would be like bringing in a coach to do a training on a sports team . '
watch here : via : townhall