sochi , russia ( reuters ) - israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu told russian president vladimir putin on wednesday that israel was prepared to act unilaterally to prevent an expanded iranian military presence in syria .
russia intervened in the civil war on behalf of syrian president bashar al-assad in 2015 , joining a de facto alliance with iranian forces , lebanese hezbollah and other shi ite muslim militias helping damascus beat back islamic state and other sunni muslim insurgent groups .
israel fears an eventual assad victory could leave iran with a permanent garrison in syria , extending a threat posed from neighboring lebanon by the iranian-backed hezbollah .
meeting putin in the black sea resort of sochi , netanyahu said iran was fighting to cement an arc of influence from the gulf to the mediterranean .
iran is already well on its way to controlling iraq , yemen and to a large extent is already in practice in control of lebanon , netanyahu told putin .
we can not forget for a single minute that iran threatens every day to annihilate israel , netanyahu said .
israel opposes iran s continued entrenchment in syria .
we will be sure to defend ourselves with all means against this and any threat .
putin , in the part of the meeting to which reporters had access , did not address netanyahu s remarks about iran s role in syria nor his threat to take unilateral military action .
but at the united nations , russian u.n .
ambassador vassily nebenzia told reporters the de-escalation zones established in syria , of which iran is guarantor alongside turkey and russia , are real progress on the way to end that tragic war .
we know the position of israel towards iran but we think that iran in syria is playing a very constructive role , said nebenzia .
netanyahu advisers have privately said their focus is on keeping iranian forces away from the israeli-controlled golan heights , the syrian side of which falls under a partial truce brokered by russia and the united states in recent weeks .
in parallel to lobbying moscow , israel has been trying to persuade washington that iran and its guerrilla partners , not islamic state , pose the greater common threat in the region .
bringing shi ites into the sunni sphere will surely have many serious implications both in regard to refugees and to new terrorist acts , netanyahu told israeli reporters after the three-hour meeting - his sixth with putin since september 2015 .
we want to prevent a war and that s why it s better to raise the alarm early in order to stop deterioration .
after the meeting , netanyahu was due to fly back to israel for talks with u.s. peace envoys jared kushner , jason greenblatt and dina powell , who are on a middle east tour .
russia has so far shown forbearance toward israel , setting up a military hotline to prevent their warplanes or anti-aircraft units clashing accidentally over syria .
israel s air force said last week it had struck suspected hezbollah arms shipments around 100 times in syria during the civil war , rarely drawing retaliation and apparently without russian interference .
russian diplomats have argued that moscow s stake in syria deters iran or hezbollah from opening a new front with israel .
we take the israeli interests in syria into account , alexander petrovich shein , russia s ambassador to israel , told its channel one television on tuesday .
were it up to russia , the foreign forces would not stay .
zeev elkin , an israeli cabinet minister who joined netanyahu in sochi , said in a radio interview after the talks with putin that he had no doubt that it ( the meeting ) will lead to practical steps .
elkin did not elaborate .