sounds like a great deal , right ?
after all , planned parenthood insists that only 3 % of its business involves abortions , and they get $ 500 million from the federal government .
that way , they could focus that much more on all their work in pre-natal care !
and yet the white house , concerned about the possible political repercussions of the republican effort to defund planned parenthood , has proposed preserving federal payments to the group if it discontinues providing abortions.the proposal , which was never made formally , has been rejected as an impossibility by officials at planned parenthood , which receives about $ 500 million annually in federal funding .
that money helps pay for women s health services the organization provides , not for abortion services .
let s be clear : federal funds already do not pay for abortions , dawn laguens , the executive vice president of the planned parenthood federation of america , said on monday .
offering money to planned parenthood to abandon our patients and our values is not a deal that we will ever accept .
providing critical health care services for millions of american women is nonnegotiable .
this deal seems pretty straightforward , even if the white house never quite made it official .
planned parenthood wants to keep receiving title ix funds intended for low-income women who need actual health care that could be provided by other clinics , especially those which offer actual pre-natal health care .
if that was the case , they could get rid of the supposed three percent of their business that deals with abortions and use those resources to expand other offerings , including services they already claim to do but don t actually provide at all .
their refusal to even consider the idea speaks volumes about their values , as do their abortion sales quotas.their annual report shows overall revenue at $ 1.146 billion , which includes $ 553.7 million from government funds , and only $ 309.2 million from non-government health services revenue fees .
if abortions only amount to 3 % of their revenue , that would be $ 34.38 million for 332,000 abortions , or $ 103 per abortion ( gross , not net after costs ) if no other revenue was being used to cover it .
these numbers don t add up with the 3 % claim.trump s deal makes this much clear , at least : planned parenthood values its abortion mill much more than it values $ 500 million in government funding each year .
that really tells us all we need to know about their 3 % claim , their values , and the use of taxpayer dollars to subsidize the operations of the world s leading abortion mill .
townhallby now , femi-nazi s are probably starting to get the idea that they re not dealing with your average spineless politician .
time to pull out the pussy hats and take to the streets ladies .
as a conservative woman , i can assure you that the recent women s march ( anti-trump , pro-abortion publicity stunt ) was an epic fail .
pro-life female supporters of president trump are pretty much in agreement that it was the best imaginable way to convince more people to join our team .
the vile and disgusting way these women conducted themselves in their fight to keep federal funding alive for the legalized murder of babies , was enough to make undecided women run as far away from them as possible