belfast ( reuters ) - northern ireland s political parties are rapidly running out of time to restore a devolved power-sharing government , britain s minister for the region said on monday , as he sought to avoid a return of direct rule from london .
irish nationalists sinn fein and the democratic unionist party ( dup ) have failed to reach agreement on reforming the devolved administration since its collapse in january , limiting northern ireland s influence in brexit negotiations that could hurt it more than an other part of the united kingdom .
formal talks broke down in july and each has blamed the other for missing repeated deadlines .
britain s james brokenshire said he and irish foreign minister simon coveney , who have been facilitating the talks , would continue to meet with the parties this week to establish whether there are grounds to resume formal multi-party negotiations .
continued failure would force britain to bypass the regional assembly and revert to direct rule from london for the first time in a decade , a move that could destabilize the political balance in the province .
the window of opportunity to restore devolution and to form an executive is closing rapidly as we move further into the autumn and with pressures in public services already evident , the need for intervention is becoming increasingly clear , brokenshire told a news conference .
i m not going to pretend that this is easy as clear differences remain , but it does remain achievable .
both the dup and sinn fein admitted there may only be a matter of weeks before britain s government would have to step in , something neither wants .
brokenshire also has the option of calling an election , the second this year , as a means to try and break the deadlock .
dup leader arlene foster said her party would be able to come to a determination pretty quickly as to whether sinn fein wants to go back into government .
sinn fein s northern ireland leader michelle o neill reiterated that it needed a full implementation of earlier agreements between the parties improved rights for irish language speakers and the legalization of same-sex marriage before considering returning to the local executive .
an added complication is that britain s minority conservative government is being propped up by a support agreement with the dup .
no one predicts a return to the sectarian violence in which 3,600 died over three decades before a 1998 peace deal that mandated the compulsory coalition between pro-british protestants and nationalists who want northern ireland to join a united ireland .