former cia agent phil mudd is a jackwagon !
he threatened congressman trey gowdy after hearing video of questioning from gowdy to ex-cia director john brennan .
mudd made the threat that gowdy should have his a * * kicked .
who says something like that on national tv ? https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? time_continue=3 & v=qlw5q_d1pxunotice how the anchors on cnn say nothing back to mudd to knock it off .
they probably loved the threat.in case you missed it : trey gowdy asked a pointed question of former cia director brennan : did you have evidence of a connection between the trump campaign and russian state actors ?
brennan replied : as i said , mr. gowdy , i don t do evidence .
boom !
another epic fail for the deep state as trey gowdy makes a complete fool of john brennan : another epic fail for the resistance as trey gowdy makes a complete fool of john brennanagain , zero evidence trump colluded w/ russia pic.twitter.com/icznaemt9c stock monster ( @ stockmonsterusa ) may 23 , 2017 brennan was asked by adam schiff and replied that trump never pressured to have the flynn investigation dropped : ex-cia chief john brennan testified today before the house today and dropped a bomb of truth that president trump didn t pressure the intelligence community to drop the flynn investigation : adam schiff : with respect to the allegations made recently that the president or his aides may have sought to enlist the member of the ic or director comey himself to drop the flynn investigation , uh have any members of the ic shared with you their concerns that the president was attempting to enlist the help of the people in the intelligence community to drop the flynn investigation ?
brennan : no , sir .
adam schiff : are you aware of any efforts the president has made who enlist the support of the intelligence community personnel to push back on a narrative involving the collusion issue that mr. rooney was asking about ?
brennan : i am unaware of it .
not a good day for political hack john brennan !