moscow ( reuters ) - the kremlin said on tuesday a call by opposition leader alexei navalny to boycott next year s presidential election must be checked to see if it complies with the law , paving the way for possible police action against him and his supporters .
navalny called on monday for a boycott of the march 18 election after russia s central election commission ruled he was not eligible to run for president due to a suspended prison sentence hanging over him .
the calls for a boycott will require scrupulous study , to see whether or not they comply with the law , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov told reporters on a conference call .
declining to comment on the election commission s decision , peskov shrugged off allegations that the presidential poll would be a farce without navalny .
the fact that one of the would-be candidates is not taking part has no bearing on the election s legitimacy , said peskov .
navalny , a 41-year-old lawyer , has repeatedly said the suspended sentence handed to him in an embezzlement case was politically motivated .
on monday navalny said millions of voters would be disenfranchised without his participation in the election , which opinion polls show incumbent vladimir putin winning comfortably .
the european union also questioned the russian election commission s decision to bar navalny .
( it ) casts a serious doubt on political pluralism in russia and the prospect of democratic elections next year , the eu s external action service said in a statement on tuesday .
politically motivated charges should not be used against political participation , it said , urging moscow to ensure a level playing field for all russian elections .
putin , 65 , has dominated russia s political landscape for the last 17 years and if , as expected , he wins next year s election would be eligible to serve another six years until 2024 , when he turns 72 .
allies laud putin as a father-of-the-nation figure who has restored national pride and expanded moscow s global clout with interventions in syria and ukraine .
navalny says putin s support is exaggerated and artificially maintained by a biased state media and an unfair system which excludes genuine opponents .
he says he could defeat him in a fair election , an assertion putin s supporters have laughed off .
navalny has been jailed three times this year and charged with breaking the law for organizing public meetings and rallies designed to bolster his presidential campaign .