washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump s top national security advisers stressed efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the north korea crisis to congress on wednesday , staying far from trump s tough talk of potential fire and fury military responses to pyongyang s missile program .
secretary of state rex tillerson , secretary of defense jim mattis , director of national intelligence dan coats and joint chiefs of staff chairman joseph dunford held classified briefings on north korea and afghanistan for the entire house of representatives and senate .
lawmakers said the officials discussed efforts including consultations with allies , sanctions , pushing for action at the united nations and military options .
but they said the briefings tone was sharply different from some of trump s recent public statements .
after recent missile launches and nuclear tests by north korea , the president has vowed to stop the weapons program and said he would unleash fire and fury if pyongyang threatened u.s. territory .
mattis also warned of a massive military response if the united states or its allies were threatened .
each of them was very professional , very measured in what they were saying , and understand the stakes that are in play here .
so there s nothing over-the-top , no over-the-top rhetoric , just a layout of where they are in trying to deal with this issue , senator bob corker , republican chairman of the senate foreign relations committee , told reporters .
representative eliot engel , the top democrat on the house foreign affairs committee said after the briefing it was clear that the administration would like to negotiate an agreement with north korea .
there was really no bluster whatsoever , engel said .
members of congress from both parties called for stricter sanctions against north korea , and said the united states should seek to work closely with allies like south korea , push china to do more and see action at the united nations .
the best strategy would be deploying sanctions ... sustained financial pressure in which we do not let up on those financial institutions that are assisting north korea , said republican representative ed royce , chairman of the house committee , who just returned from a trip to south korea .
republican representative mac thornberry , chairman of the house armed services committee , said there had been more members of the house at the briefing than he could remember at similar sessions .
there was a tremendous amount of interest , he said .