donald trump , in his ongoing effort to spur on a civil war , is holding a campaign rally in phoenix , arizona and his white supremacist supporters are waiting for him .
while violence hasn t yet broken out , one trump supporter was heard threatening the life of arizona senator john mccain.this trump supporter is shouting at protestors : `` mccain needs to die now ! ''
pic.twitter.com/pwjoghfygh david catanese ( @ davecatanese ) august 22 , 2017 despite the fact that mccain gave us sarah palin 10 years ago , to trump supporters , mccain has failed the loyalty test , especially when he voted against repealing the affordable care act .
while trump didn t mention mccain s name , he , like a seemingly endless number of people , is becoming an enemy of the white house.3 republicans and 48 democrats let the american people down .
as i said from the beginning , let obamacare implode , then deal .
watch !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 28 , 2017 normal people responded in exactly the way they should : pic.twitter.com/x6tlftyzt5 farnorth49 ( @ fnorth49 ) august 22 , 2017 yet every trump cultist lectures us with fake conspiracies demanding we believe .
right # crocodiletears lifelibertyguy ( @ lifelibertyguy ) august 23 , 2017 people will say and do hateful , hurtful things if given permission and trump has given them both permission and encouragement leonard banco ( @ bancoleonard ) august 22 , 2017 and yet again , more proof hillary had it right !
# deplorables gary mansfield ( @ sambam39 ) august 22 , 2017 thats just wrong .
i dont care what your views are on politics but thats not right .
he is a sick man .
what a deplorable person .
mary mclane ( @ marymac169 ) august 22 , 2017 mccain has cancer a particularly gruesome form of brain cancer .
while he is undergoing treatment , at 80 years old , his life is fragile .
that makes threatening his life especially disgusting , but trump supporters don t care .
during the campaign , and now , after his response to the riot in charlottesville where he equated white supremacists who murdered a woman with protesters , trump gave them explicit permission to use violence to defend themselves against the changing culture.in the meantime , secret service ? featured image via chip somodevilla/getty images .