( reuters ) - a republican senator said on tuesday he had written to the u.s. department of health and human services ( hhs ) raising questions about reports of “ troubling conduct ” by psychiatric hospital operator universal health services inc .
the inquiry , by iowa senator chuck grassley , raises concerns about reports by buzzfeed news of low nurse staffing , medication errors and sexual misconduct at uhs ’ shadow mountain facility in tulsa , oklahoma .
grassley said in his letter the reports showed a pattern of conduct by the hospital operator that “ casts a dark cloud over uhs ’ ability to properly care for its patients and whether it is properly billing federal programs. ” founded in 1979 , pennsylvania-based uhs operates more than 240 acute care hospitals , behavioral health facilities and ambulatory centers .
grassley has also sought a response from the joint commission , an accrediting organization , that reportedly designated the shadow mountain facility as a “ top performer in key quality measures ” for the 2011-2015 period .
grassley ’ s letter is his second inquiry into uhs following a similar query to the hhs in december after buzzfeed published its first report on the psychiatric hospital operator .
the dec. 7 report alleged that uhs pressured patients into unnecessary admittance and prolonged hospitalizations , potentially defrauding the government as a result .
( bzfd.it/2ojn8jw ) uhs ’ stock fell 12 percent on the day of the report .
last week , massachusetts attorney general maura healey accused uhs of employing unlicensed and unsupervised personnel at mental health centers , leading the company to submit false claims for reimbursement to the state 's medicaid program .
( reut.rs/2pyi4tj ) healy ’ s office filed a complaint in federal court in boston after intervening in a whistleblower lawsuit against the hospital operator by the parents of a woman who died at one of its facilities .
uhs ’ shares were down 2.1 percent at $ 119.42 in afternoon trading on the new york stock exchange on tuesday .