a post on the black power political organization facebook page shows the group taking credit for snipers who killed dallas law enforcement officers yesterday .
since this posting the facebook page has been shut down .
we managed to capture [ screen shot ] their comments below : here are a few posts we found on their facebook page .
we thought we d share them in the off chance facebook shuts them down : from their facebook page : black power political organization bppo # blackpower !
# blackknights !
our mission is to free africa and all black based countries from non black control !
and give black people the opportunity they need to develop themselves and reach their full potential !
we are a powerful political group of patriotic , pro black , pan african leaders !
who s job is to rule and control africa , and all black based countries !
so to avoid corruption , bribery , exploitation , non black control and every form of ailments preventing black people and africa from reaching it s full potential !
to accomplish our goal !
we will be working with ( black people protection agency aka black knights ) !
a powerful group of well trained professional sniper assassins , with tens of thousands of assassins located all over the world , in every country !
who s job is to hold government leaders and other powerful people all over the world responsible when they fail to give black people equal rights and justice in their countries .
by relentlessly target and assassinate government leaders and other powerful influential people and their families , when they refuse to do right by us black people !
our organization will be finance through taxation and other means !
( like i always say !
to free yourself from the white man .
you will have to become like the white man .
white people use violence and economic sanctions to control other countries , and exploit them !
when the leaders of those countries refuse to do what they want .
they destroy their economy or use terrorist to assassinate them !
so the only way you can free yourself from them , is to use their own controlling methods against them .
so !
when western governments refuse to stop exploit and oppress your country !
you have for example : an independent sniper assassin group that will relentlessly target them and their families until they give you what you want , out of fear of dying or losing their love ones !
or you can force someone close to them eg : friends , co-workers , family doctor etc .
to assassinate them through poisoning etc . )
( so as long as they are playing dirty !
you have no other choice but to play dirty as well , to free yourself ! )
so become a sniper assassin and help free africa from western and non black people control ! thank you to the amazing nick short for the h/t