yangon ( reuters ) - one person was injured when military trucks hit landmines in myanmar s troubled rakhine state this week , state media said on friday , amid ethnic tension following an army crackdown that sent hundreds of thousands of rohingya muslims fleeing .
more than 600,000 of the refugees have entered neighboring bangladesh since aug. 25 attacks by rohingya militants sparked the army operation .
killings , arson and rape carried out by troops and ethnic rakhine buddhist mobs since then amount to ethnic cleansing of the rohingya , the united nations says .
three landmine blasts caused extensive damage to three military trucks in rakhine s central minbya township on wednesday morning , the state-run global new light of myanmar newspaper said .
the landmines were apparently targeting army convoys , it added .
later that day , another landmine exploded near the village of vethali in central rakhine as seven military trucks passed , injuring one pedestrian but causing no damage to the vehicles , the paper said .
it was not clear who was responsible for the attacks .
several landmine explosions were reported near the area this year .
united nations staff and aid workers have said they fear violence in northern rakhine could spread to new areas as buddhist villagers in more peaceful areas enforce a system of local apartheid that punishes people trading with minority muslims .
many in buddhist-majority myanmar see rohingya muslims as illegal immigrants from bangladesh , although many of the rohingya can trace family for generations .
after the august attacks on police posts by the arakan rohingya salvation army ( arsa ) , which the government has declared a terrorist organization , security forces unleashed a brutal counteroffensive in muslim-majority northern rakhine .
even though myanmar says military operations ceased on sept. 5 , hundreds of refugees have continued to cross the naf river separating rakhine and bangladesh in recent weeks .
separately , myanmar security forces have arrested 19 men suspected of involvement in the august attacks and charged them under the anti-terrorism law , the newspaper said on friday .