beijing ( reuters ) - china and singapore on tuesday sought to put recent difficulties in their relationship over taiwan and the disputed south china sea behind them as singapore s prime minister lee hsien loong began a trip to beijing .
singapore is not a claimant to any disputed part of the south china sea but is home to the biggest port in southeast asia , and has made clear its open economy depends on continued free navigation in the area .
china is also suspicious of singapore s good military relations with the united states and self-ruled taiwan .
meeting in the great hall of the people , chinese premier li keqiang told lee that china and singapore had maintained mutual respect .
singapore , li said , is an important member of the association of southeast asian nations , and next year will be rotating chair of asean .
i trust this will inject new energy into not just china-singapore relations but also china-asean relations , he said .
china is worried it could face fresh criticism over its actions in the south china sea when singapore becomes asean s chair , and is putting pressure on the city-state to make sure that doesn t happen , people familiar with the situation have told reuters .
lee said he was grateful for the attention to the bilateral relationship but also for the opportunity to discuss how to work together in the regional context and with asean .
singapore hopes it will be able to bring china and asean closer together , lee added .
the visit of lee so close to the opening of next month s communist party congress demonstrates the maintenance of high level visits between the two countries , said bai tian , the vice director of the asian department at the chinese foreign ministry .
this is an important political signal , bai said .
overall development of bilateral ties was fairing well , and both leaders agreed to strengthen coordination and cooperation on international and regional matters , according to a readout of the meeting provided by the chinese foreign ministry .
the united states and singapore announced an enhanced defense relationship in late 2015 , which included deployments of long range p-8 surveillance planes out of singapore - aircraft which frequently track chinese submarines .
singapore also has close though unofficial ties with self-ruled taiwan , which beijing regards as a chinese province .
tensions between the two countries burst into the open last november when hong kong port authorities impounded nine singaporean armored military vehicles being shipped home from training grounds in taiwan .
hong kong released the vehicles earlier this year amid rare open debates in both singapore and china about a deteriorating relationship .