new york/london ( reuters ) - donald trump ’ s chances of winning the republican nomination for the white house shot to a record high at online betting sites around the world on wednesday after his latest victory in voting in nevada .
betting venues in britain , ireland and new zealand show the online wagering community coalescing around trump , once considered a rank outsider attracting long-shot odds of 200/1 .
following his double-digit margin win in nevada ’ s republican caucuses on tuesday , his third victory in the first four early nominating contests , odds have tightened all the way to 1/2 in some cases .
“ mr trump has triumphed yet again , despite political analysts almost unanimously writing him off as a serious presidential contender , ” said graham sharpe from william hill , adding one customer stood to collect at least $ 100,000 if trump was elected to the white house on nov. 8 .
william hill and betway make trump 1/2 favorite to get the republican nod , while ladbrokes cut his odds to 4/9 , the same as those shown on ireland ’ s paddypower .
his nearest rival , u.s .
senator marco rubio from florida , featured odds of 6/1 on ladbrokes .
u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , who has been battling with rubio for the no .
2 spot in the early voting states , has sunk to a deep longshot .
paddy power gives cruz odds of 33/1 , its site shows .
bettors also markedly cut the odds on trump becoming president , although he still trails democratic front-runner hillary clinton , who won nevada ’ s democratic caucuses on saturday .
jessica bridge from ladbrokes said trump was on a roll heading into super tuesday on march 1 , when several u.s. states hold nominating contests .
on predictit , a site operated by victoria university in wellington , new zealand , trump ’ s chances of winning the republican nod were the highest since it started tracking the race in october 2015 .
a trump bet there , on a scale of $ 0.00 to $ 1 , stood at 72 cents , up 4 cents , while rubio tumbled 7 cents to 24 cents and cruz sank a penny to 4 cents , matching a record low .
( reporting by michael holden in london and dan burns in new york ; editing by guy faulconbridge and howard goller ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .