beijing ( reuters ) - china and pakistan will look at extending their $ 57 billion china-pakistan economic corridor to afghanistan , chinese foreign minister wang yi said on tuesday , part of china s ambitious belt and road plan linking china with asia , europe and beyond .
china has tried to position itself as a helpful party to promote talks between pakistan and afghanistan , both uneasy neighbors ever since pakistan s independence in 1947 .
their ties have been poisoned in recent years by afghan accusations that pakistan is supporting taliban insurgents fighting the u.s.-backed kabul in order to limit the influence of its old rival , india , in afghanistan .
pakistan denies that and says it wants to see a peaceful , stable afghanistan .
speaking after the first trilateral meeting between the foreign ministers of china , pakistan and afghanistan , wang said china hoped the economic corridor could benefit the whole region and act as an impetus for development .
afghanistan has urgent need to develop and improve people s lives and hopes it can join inter-connectivity initiatives , wang told reporters , as he announced that pakistan and afghanistan had agreed to mend their strained relations .
so china and pakistan are willing to look at with afghanistan , on the basis of win-win , mutually beneficial principles , using an appropriate means to extend the china-pakistan economic corridor to afghanistan , he added .
how that could happen needs the three countries to reach a gradual consensus , tackling easier , smaller projects first , wang said , without giving details .
pakistani foreign minister khawaja asif said his country and china were iron brothers , but did not directly mention the prospect of afghanistan joining the corridor .
the successful implementation of cpec ( china-pakistan economic corridor ) projects will serve as a model for enhancing connectivity and cooperation through similar projects with neighboring countries , including afghanistan , iran and with central and west asia , he said .
india has looked askance at the project as parts of it run through pakistan-administered kashmir that india considers its own territory , though wang said the plan had nothing to do with territorial disputes .
china has sought to bring kabul and islamabad together partly due to chinese fears about the spread of islamist militancy from pakistan and afghanistan to the unrest-prone far western chinese region of xinjiang .
as such , china has pushed for pakistan and afghanistan to improve their own ties so they can better tackle the violence in their respective countries , and has also tried to broker peace talks with afghan taliban militants , to limited effect .
a tentative talks process collapsed in 2015 .
wang said china fully supported peace talks between the afghan government and taliban and would continue to provide necessary facilitation .
the belt and road infrastructure drive aims to build a modern-day silk road connecting china to economies in southeast and central asia by land and the middle east and europe by sea .