donald trump is desperately trying to shift focus away from his russia scandal by accusing president obama of wiretapping him , and joe scarborough just slammed him for it.on saturday , trump threw a twitter tantrum claiming that president obama wiretapped trump tower after reading a conspiracy theory on breitbart .
trump did not offer a single shred of evidence to back up his accusations and still has not done so.terrible !
just found out that obama had my wires tapped in trump tower just before the victory .
nothing found .
this is mccarthyism !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 4 , 2017how low has president obama gone to tapp my phones during the very sacred election process .
this is nixon/watergate .
bad ( or sick ) guy !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) march 4 , 2017again , trump is repeating something he read on breitbart and he offered zero proof.on sunday morning , trump released a statement declaring that he won t comment on the russia scandal any further until congress investigates obama.in short , trump is acting like a petulant child who holds their breath until they get their way.joe scarborough is absolutely shocked that trump would make such accusations against a former president and proceeded to trash him on twitter for disgracing the office and the nation.did trump trash the 44th president and slime american democracy based on a conspiracy theory pushed on talk radio and website ?
that s sick .
pic.twitter.com/41vwtb9qns joe scarborough ( @ joenbc ) march 5 , 2017did steve bannon slip the offending article into trump s hands to set the president swirling into a rage ?
that toxic mix undermines america .
pic.twitter.com/1bhxe30pzc joe scarborough ( @ joenbc ) march 5 , 2017trump is not about the republican party .
trump is about trump .
https : //t.co/1ryvbywmud joe scarborough ( @ joenbc ) march 5 , 2017this is a serious accusation trump is leveling against president obama and with no evidence to back up his claims this amounts to slander .
president obama should file a lawsuit against trump and if republicans start a witch hunt against president obama instead of investigating trump s russia scandal they will have demonstrated that they are incapable of doing their jobs and that they are more interested in protecting themselves and their power than they are about justice and america s reputation.featured image via chip somodevilla/getty images