london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may s blueprint for britain s exit from the european union faces a crucial test starting on tuesday , when lawmakers try to win concessions from a weakened leader on the government s legislation to sever ties .
it is yet another battle for may after scandals and gaffes that have brought questions about her leadership into the open .
as many as 40 of her lawmakers would support a no-confidence motion against her , according to the sunday times newspaper .
but many sources in her governing conservative party say now is not the time to force her out because despite backing britain remaining in the eu , even if reluctantly , they think she is still the best option to deliver brexit .
that makes the debates over eu withdrawal bill all the more important as a test of her ability to steer through legislation she says is crucial to give companies confidence that the rules will not change when britain leaves in march 2019 .
with the power balanced in favor of lawmakers rather than the government after the conservatives lost their majority in a june election , many - even within the party - will use the debate over coming weeks to put the pressure on .
we have no intention of parliament being a bystander , we are a key participant in this process , said hilary benn , a lawmaker from the opposition labour party who is chair of the brexit parliamentary committee .
in the end we are going to have to vote on the final deal , and the outcome of the election and the balance of votes in the house of commons now really does bring that home , he told the institute for government thinktank earlier this month .
the public debate in parliament on tuesday is the first of eight to discuss the bill before it goes on to other legislative stages .
the schedule will be determined by the house of commons over the course of the debates .
lawmakers have proposed 186 pages of amendments to the bill , which largely copy and paste eu rules and regulations into british law but also , critics say , hand the government wide-ranging powers and cut parliament out of some brexit planning .
the bill is separate from negotiations going on in brussels , but the eu will want to see how many and which amendments are passed and will regard the showdown as a test of may s strength at home .
may is under pressure to make progress with the eu at a summit in december after growing european frustration over britain s refusal to say how much it thinks it should pay to leave .
the amendments include one to stop the government from adopting the so-called henry viii powers , named after the 16th century monarch who ruled by proclamation , which allow the government to amend laws being transposed from eu law .
other amendments address criticism that parliament will not get a meaningful vote on the deal eventually agreed with the eu , and press the government to enshrine in law the eu protections britons now enjoy such as workers rights and environmental protections .
may s government has taken some of the fire out of the proposed challenges by signaling it is willing to bend on the henry viii powers , and on monday , her brexit minister david davis said parliament would be offered a new vote on the final brexit deal .
the first debate will cover the part of the bill that repeals the 1972 european communities act on the retention , conversion and interpretation of existing eu laws , and eu rights .
getting parliamentary scrutiny is a winner .
the government will change position because it doesn t want a defeat , said one conservative lawmaker , speaking on condition of anonymity .
but other issues , such as the push for a vote in parliament on the eu deal which could force the government back to the negotiating table , or even possibly overturn brexit , present huge challenges .
the debate comes at a new low point for may since she was made prime minister after britain voted for brexit last june .
she has lost two ministers in a week , and her foreign minister , boris johnson , is under pressure from the opposition to resign over comments about a jailed aid worker in iran , a case further complicated at the weekend by gove , his ally .
on monday , keir starmer , the brexit spokesman for the labour party , launched a new bid to derail the withdrawal legislation , saying may s policy to end the jurisdiction of the eu court - the european court of justice - was incompatible with her own policy for a smooth transition after brexit .
over recent weeks , it has become increasingly clear that you alone do not have the authority to deliver a transitional deal with europe and to take the necessary steps to protect jobs and the economy , he wrote in an open letter to may .