gaza ( reuters ) - hamas freed five prisoners belonging to the rival fatah party on sunday and egypt sent a delegation to the gaza strip to oversee the islamist group s planned handover of administrative control of the palestinian enclave to a unity government .
the west bank-based palestinian prime minister , rami al-hamdallah , and other officials of the government formed in 2014 are due in gaza on monday to run ministries and hold a cabinet meeting the next day .
hamas opted for reconciliation with western-backed palestinian president mahmoud abbas s fatah because it is short of funds and friends a decade after seizing the enclave in a brief civil war .
[ nl8n1ma2ft ] we are determined to ... bury the chapter of division so that the homeland can be reunited , hamdallah said in public remarks in the west bank city of ramallah .
one cabinet member , culture minister ehab bseisso , arrived in gaza on sunday and held a meeting with deputies and employees after taking up his post .
hamas made its dramatic turn towards reconciliation on sept. 17 after egypt , saudi arabia and the united arab emirates imposed an economic boycott on the movement s main donor , qatar , over alleged support of terrorists .
abbas , whose popularity ratings are low , has been facing public pressure to patch up differences with hamas .
hamas s armed wing still remains the dominant power in the territory of 2 million people partially blockaded by israel and egypt , which cite security concerns for border restrictions .
on the eve of the handover , hamas released five fatah security men it jailed two years ago for what an interior ministry spokesman described as actions harmful to internal security .
their sentences ranged from seven to 15 years .
speaking to reporters , one of the freed inmates , taher abu armana , thanked hamas gaza chief yehya al-sinwar and mohammed dahlan , a former fatah security chief in the enclave , for his release .
dahlan , based since 2011 in the united arab emirates , is behind an influx of cash to prop up gaza and detente between hamas and arab states including egypt , which hosted reconciliation talks .
we urge president ( mahmoud abbas ) to order the release of all political prisoners in the west bank , abu armana said , a reference to members of hamas , a group considered by western countries that back abbas to be a terrorist organization .
an official of the palestinian authority , the self-rule body headed by abbas in the israeli-occupied west bank , said an egyptian delegation comprised of two generals and cairo s ambassador to israel , arrived in gaza to oversee reconciliation efforts .
it was the first official egyptian delegation to travel to gaza since 2012 .
egypt suspended its diplomatic mission in gaza in 2007 after the hamas takeover .