the cover-ups and mistruths appear to be numerous .
the question americans need to be asking is why ? the oregon murderer was a black male .
if you don t believe us , look at the picture of his mother below : birth certificate name is : christopher sean mercer 07/26/1989.mother : laurel margaret harper 04/05/1951dad : ian bernard mercer 05/15/1960 divorced in 2006real image ( left ) cnn image ( right ) on the left is the selfie christopher mercer uploaded to his social media .
on the right is how cnn presented the same selfie in broadcast stories about him .
why did cnn need to change the complexion ( color ) of their broadcast ?
why is no-one showing pictures of mom , laurel margaret harper.why change to hyphenated name ?
real name is christopher sean mercer .
media using christopher harper-mercer and chris harper-mercer.several months ago the last refuge shared the story of eric sheppard jr. a radical black lives matter , f * * k the police and islamic radical who used a philosophy of black supremacy similar to the new black panthers .
sheppard gained brief notoriety when he held a u.s .
flag stomping event at valdosta state university.after his public exposure , and after the police filed a warrant for his arrest on firearms violations , and after he mailed a racist manifesto to a local georgia newspaper while on the run , he was finally arrested in tampa florida by u.s. marshals.eric sheppard s story disappeared from the headlines and never resurfaced .
yesterday , while reviewing the social footprint of oregon shooter chris harper-mercer , ( aka chris sean mercer ) an almost identical world-view to eric sheppard jr. was evident in mercer s social media history.chris harper-mercer , a mixed-race angry 26-year-old , was essentially the mirror image on social media as eric sheppard jr.mercer held sympathetic words and thoughts for the virginia shooter vester flanagan , and similarly raged against white people , and expressed sympathy toward the black lives matter movement .
( example below ) : however , today almost all of that social media history is gone - > example here .
it is either removed entirely , and/or edited for content .
how it could be edited is a mystery unless there is some other issue at hand.in addition , as several researchers have noted , anyone who held attachment to mercer appears to be deleting the content of their association .
including umpqua community college itself.as d-man was pointing out mercer was part of a production class going to present a play at umpqua community college named blithe spirit .
the play was scheduled to run later this month : from the cache centerstage theatre at uccplease join me in congratulating the team for our fall show !
this is going to be an awesome comedy to start out the year .
this british comedy comes with witty language and spooky effects .
we are especially delighted to feature our local star who is now based out of nyc , josh carlton !
blithe spirit , by noel coward presented by ucc theatre arts oct 30-nov 8 charles : josh carlton ruth : rebecca miles edith : abby dooley dr. bradman : devin barnett mrs. bradman : alexandra duvall madame arcati : rachel fitzhugh elvira , the blithe spirit : chloe quinn understudy for dr. bradman : benjamin jacobsen directed by stephanie newman assistant director : aaron carter stage manager : anna mae whatley production assistants : alex frier , joel macha , mary chitwood , chris harper-mercer , isaac guerrero , ashley jakubos lighting assistant : devin barnett special effects : jim smith , keith weikum program/ads : fred brenchley marketing : travis newman other volunteers : you !
get involved and have some fun ! however , everything to do with that production has been scrubbed and deleted .
including the facebook page ( since deleted ) but visible on cache here and more here ( see fb page screen shot below ) .being part of an umpqua college production class and performance etc .
would run counter to the seemingly preferred media narrative of chris harper-mercer being a loner , no ? mercer has also apparently given a manifesto ( another similarity to e. sheppard jr ) to a surviving student of the shooting.summary : the immediate on-line web history of chris harper-mercer showed him to be a mixed-race , angry young man in general alignment with various radical racially aligned groups such as black lives matter , fuck the police and fuck yo flag all of which carry a sentiment of favorability and ideological alignment with islam which was similarly evident in the ferguson protest movement .
[ against this backdrop shooting white christians makes sense .
] however , in the course of several hours ( one media cycle ) the media narrative is selling a profile of a loner , mentally disturbed individual without any mention of his previous writings ( deleted/changed ) , behaviors ( hidden ) and social tendencies ( ignored ) .why ? perhaps the answer lies within the response to the shooting from the white house where president obama took quickly to the microphones to decry another school shooting without fully understanding the motive and intent.watch obama s speech following the oregon mass shooting .
his motive and intent in this video are pretty clear .
his lack of concern for the victims takes a back seat to his gun control narrative : for entire story : the last refuge