vatican city ( reuters ) - pope john paul i , who served for just 33 days as pontiff in 1978 before his abrupt death , has moved a step closer to sainthood , the vatican said on thursday .
known as the smiling pope because of his good nature , albino luciani s reign as head of the catholic church was the shortest in modern times and his shock demise fueled press speculation that he might have been murdered .
the vatican has always denied the rumors , saying he died of a heart attack .
as a first step to placing him among the church s swelling ranks of saints , the vatican said pope francis had backed a vote by the congregation for the causes of the saints to recognize the heroic virtues of pope john paul i .
this means john paul i , the last italian to be made pontiff , can now move on toward beatification , the final step before sainthood .
beatification would require a miracle attributed to his intercession .
the catholic church posthumously confers beatification , and later sainthood , on people considered so holy during their lives that they are now believed to be with god and can intercede with him to perform miracles .
miracles are usually the medically unexplained healing of someone .
john paul i s sainthood process started in 2002 after his supporters in italy collected some 300,000 signatures on a petition calling for him to be made a saint .
it could take many more years for his cause to progress further .
luciani , cardinal of venice , was elected pope on aug. 26 , 1978 .
a humble man , he had no time to leave his mark on the church before his death on september 28 , 1978 .
rumors rapidly surfaced that hidden forces within the church had poisoned the newly elected luciani to head off institutional changes he was planning to introduce .
the church s decision not to hold a post mortem on the body , bickering over who was in the vatican on the night of the death and crude attempts to hide the fact a nun found his body was manna to fans of conspiracy theories .
luciani s successor john paul ii ruled for 27 years and died in 2005 .
he was made a saint in 2014 - the fastest elevation to the sainthood in modern times .