what s a million dollars between friends ?
to hell with human rights violations hillary s got a campaign to win ! a major clinton foundation donor regularly arrests dissidents and brutally tortures them to extract confessions , according to a new report from amnesty international.the new york times reports that despite promises of reform , the moroccan government continues to use violent interrogation tactics to crush dissent .
moroccan king mohammed vi recently hosted bill and chelsea clinton at a clinton global initiative conference in marrakech , where guests were chauffeured across the city to an opulent 56-room palace that boasts a private collection of arabian horses , overlooks the snow-capped atlas mountains and serves a fine-dining menu of biolight cuisine , according to the washington post .
during the conference bill cited morocco s longstanding friendship to my family , and thanked the king , who pledged as much as $ 500,000 toward the construction of the clinton library , as well as the ocp corporation , a government-owned phosphate mining company that has donated at least $ 1 million to the clinton foundation .
in interviews with politico , former ocp miners described witnessing verbal and physical abuse doled out by the government against member of a minority advocating for independence in western sahara.amnesty international secretary general salil shetty blasted the moroccan government in a statement , saying : morocco s leaders portray the image of a liberal , human-rights-friendly country .
but as long as the threat of torture hangs over detention and dissent that image will just be a mirage .
according to the report , moroccan dissidents are repeatedly subjected to beatings , stress positions , asphyxiation , simulated drowning , psychological and sexual violence , as a means of securing confessions for alleged crimes against the state .
one tactic , known as the roast chicken , involves suspending detainees from an iron bar by their wrists and knees .
it is not known whether bill clinton met with any moroccan detainees while hobnobbing at the clinton foundation event , which featured a lavish palm-tree-lined golf resort with a cocktail reception featuring moroccan hors d oeuvres and a saxophonist serenading about 50 donors .
via : washington free beacon