january 2017 can t come fast enough for america , and for the rest of the world who is 100 % fed up with this freeloading , fascist loving family .for two days president barack obama has defied calls from republicans to cancel his trip to south america and return home in the wake of the terror attacks in brussels.and now it seems even his guests are sick of having him after dozens of human rights protesters took to the streets of buenos aires to demand he leave argentina.but instead of departing obama chose to carry on regardless this evening as he attended a glitzy banquet alongside wife michelle , argentine president mauricio macri and first lady juliana awada.the foursome were pictured arriving at the centro cultural kirchner , named after argentina s former prime minister and marci s predecessor , in the country s capital this evening.the group paused for a photo opportunity on a red carpet with obama and marci dressed in suits and michelle and awada in glamorous evening dresses.from there they made their way into a leafy candlelit courtyard for champagne , where obama was pictured clinking glasses with marci .
meanwhile a few streets away human rights protesters were busy burning american flags and demanding obama leave the country .
the protesters accuse america of backing dictatorial regimes during the cold war in south america , including in argentina , and hold the u.s. responsible for the thousands who died or were disappeared under their rule.today marks the 40th anniversary of the military coup in argentina that ushered in one of the most oppressive dictatorships in latin american history , which demonstrators argue makes obama s visit particularly offensive.earlier in the day , obama sought to deflect criticism of his foreign travel in the wake of belgium s terror attacks , saying the u.s. must show isis that it does not have power over its citizens .
we are strong , our values are right .
you offer nothing , except death , obama said of isis.gesturing in the direction of argentinian president mauricio macri , who was standing to his left at a joint news conference this afternoon in buenos aires , obama said , it is important for the united states president and the united states government to be able to work with people who are building and who are creating things .
we have to make sure that we lift up and stay focused , as well , on the things that are most important to us , he said .
because we re on the right side of history .
via : daily mailyeah right barry .