geneva ( reuters ) - the saudi-led coalition fighting in yemen has given the united nations permission to resume flights of aid workers to the houthi-controlled capital on saturday , but not to dock ships loaded with wheat and medical supplies , a u.n. spokesman said .
the coalition fighting the armed houthi movement in yemen said on wednesday it would allow aid in through the red sea ports of hodeidah and salif , as well as u.n. flights to sanaa , more than two weeks after blockading the country .
about 7 million people face famine in yemen and their survival is dependent on international assistance .
the coalition has given clearance for u.n. flights in and out of sanaa from amman on saturday , involving the regular rotation of aid workers , said jens laerke , spokesman of the u.n. office for the coordination of humanitarian affairs ( ocha ) .
we re of course encouraged by the clearance of this flight which may be followed soon by clearances of flights from djibouti to sanaa , laerke told a news briefing on friday .
but no green light have been received for u.n. requests to bring humanitarian supply ships to hodeidah and salif ports , he said .
we are particularly talking about one ship which is offshore hodeidah with wheat from wfp ( the u.n. world food programme ) and another boat which is waiting in djibouti with cholera supplies and that is also destined for hodeidah , he said .
we stress the critical importance of resuming also commercial imports , in particular fuel supplies for our humanitarian response - transportation and so on - and for water pumping , laerke said .
the largest fuel importing companies in yemen have indicated they will no longer be able to supply the consumer market at the end of this week , ocha said in a report dated nov. 23 .
unicef is also waiting to send vaccines , aid sources said .
the charity save the children said an estimated 20,000 yemeni children under the age of five were joining the ranks of the severely malnourished every month , an average of 27 children every hour .
the commercial blockade is aggravating the food crisis , leading to a significant increase in child deaths from acute malnutrition and preventable diseases , it said in a statement .
the u.s.-backed coalition closed air , land and sea access on nov. 6 , in a move it said was to stop the flow of arms to the houthis from iran .
the action came after saudi arabia intercepted a missile fired toward riyadh .
iran has denied supplying weapons .
jan egeland , a former u.n. aid chief who heads the norwegian refugee council , speaking to reuters in geneva on thursday , said of the blockade : in my view this is illegal collective punishment .
after more than two weeks of blockade of these ports , there are various kinds of supplies essential for fighting famine , for fighting cholera and other types of humanitarian threats that millions of people are facing in yemen today , laerke said .