it is awfully ironic how the liberals are bashing president trump for placing blame on both sides for the violence in the charlottesville incident and not condemning just the white supremacists , considering they conveniently overlooked hillary and obama s close friendship with former kkk member , robert byrd.following the charlottesville incident involving a car crashing into a crowd of people , president trump seemed to be one of the only figures in the country condemning both sides for their displays of violence and bigotry .
it was not clear who , exactly , was behind the attack , or which group was responsible.trump waited until the dust settled and condemned both sides , as both sides warrant condemnation in this situation : from the white supremacists to the black supremacists , to the communists , to antifa , the situation was hardly one-sided.david duke attempted to link trump to the bigotry and hatred that was present in charlottesville , however , it would be a far cry to say that the president is in any way happy with or affiliated with duke or those he associates with , and to say so is to insult the president and his supporters.however , president trump , back when he was dropping out of the reform party primary in 2000 , condemned david duke.when pressed by matt lauer on why he saw the reform party as self-destructing , trump commented : well , you ve got david duke just joined , a bigot , a racist , a problem , i mean , this is not exactly the people you want in your party .
gateway punditwatch trump s 2000 interview with lauer here : despite mounting criticism for donald trump s failure to disavow former ku klux klan grand wizard david duke s support , democratic front-runner hillary clinton once heaped praise for late klan leader sen. robert byrd.in a video uploaded to the state department s official youtube page on june 28 , 2010 , clinton commemorated late sen. byrd by saying , today our country has lost a true american original , my friend and mentor robert c. byrd .
via : daily callerand when the former kkk member , senator robert byrd died , barack obama gave the eulogy : president obama lauded the late sen. robert c. byrd today for keeping faith with his family , his state of west virginia and his beloved u.s. constitution .
he was a senate icon , he was a party leader , he was an elder statesman , and he was my friend , obama told thousands who gathered for byrd s funeral on the steps of the golden-domed west virginia statehouse .
that s how i ll remember him .