washington ( reuters ) - in april 2014 , the administration of president barack obama announced the most ambitious clemency program in 40 years , inviting thousands of jailed drug offenders and other convicts to seek early release and urging lawyers across the country to take on their cases .
nearly two years later the program is struggling under a deluge of unprocessed cases , sparking concern within the administration and among justice reform advocates over the fate of what was meant to be legacy-defining achievement for obama .
more than 8,000 cases out of more than 44,000 federal inmates who applied have yet to make it to the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) for review , lawyers involved in the program told reuters .
that is in addition to about 9,000 cases that are still pending at the doj , according to the department ’ s own figures .
only 187 inmates have had their sentences commuted , far below the thousands expected by justice reform advocates and a tiny fraction of the 2.2 million people behind bars in the united states , which has the world ’ s highest incarceration rate .
the administration said it wanted to decide on all the applications before obama ’ s term ends next january , when the program will automatically expire .
a senior doj official told reuters it is calling on the lawyers ’ group — clemency project 2014 — to simply hand over the outstanding cases without further vetting , saying it is not working fast enough .
so far , the group estimates it has handed over around 200 cases .
but criminal justice experts say the administration itself should bear much of the blame .
the idea to tap pro-bono attorneys to help vet the cases originated with the doj , and critics say it should have prepared its own staff to handle the large volume of applications .
“ it ’ s unfair to criticize the volunteer group that you asked to help , ” said rachel barkow , a criminal law professor at new york university who has studied clemency in u.s. prisons .
she estimates that about 1,500 prisoners should be eligible for commutation , saying the 187 granted so far does not “ fulfill the promise of the program. ” the doj declined to comment when asked for its response to such criticism .
the delays have left prisoners like linda byrnes , 69 , in limbo .
“ i thought clemency was for people like me , ” byrnes told reuters through an electronic messaging system from a federal prison in alderson , west virginia .
byrnes , who has spent 20 years in prison for distributing marijuana and has two years left on her sentence , was recently diagnosed with mouth cancer and has yet to hear whether she has been assigned a lawyer after submitting her application to clemency project in august 2014 .
obama , who has commuted more sentences than the past five presidents combined , has been a stern critic of harsh u.s. sentencing policies that he says have disproportionately burdened minorities .
federal life sentences have fallen since obama took office , from 280 in fiscal year 2009 to 153 in 2013 , according to the u.s .
sentencing commission .
about three quarters of the sentences were given to minorities and most were for non-violent offences , the report said .
clemency project 2014 said it does not comment publicly on the individuals it represents .
the group vets the applications , writes the petitions and sends them to the justice department ’ s office of the pardon attorney , which oversees all pardons and sentence commutations and makes recommendations for the president ’ s approval .
so far , 25,000 of 34,000 applications received by clemency project have been rejected for failing to meet the basic criteria - no record of violence , no significant ties to a gang or drug cartel , good behavior in prison and completion of at least 10 years of sentence .
about 10,000 inmates did not go through the clemency project and either applied directly to doj or through a paid attorney .
“ it really would be a sad state of affairs if individuals who had asked for a lawyer weren ’ t considered in time because their petitions never reached the pardon attorney ’ s office , ” a doj official told reuters on the condition of anonymity .
( graphic on the clemency bottleneck : tmsnrt.rs/1vthxvt ) a large number of mostly unqualified applications , a shortage of lawyers and the complexity of the cases have slowed progress , said cynthia roseberry , project manager for clemency project 2014 .
“ there are a lot of gray areas , ” said roseberry , who estimates it takes 30 days for one lawyer to review one case on average .
“ we ’ ve got to unpack each of these applicants to see specifically what factors affect them ... and so that takes a little more time. ” this includes finding pre-sentencing reports for each case , determining if the person would have received a shorter sentence under current law and reviewing prison behavior records .
roseberry said the group was unaware of any request from the justice department to hand over the pending applications .
roseberry said the group ’ s initially slow pace has picked up in recent months .
the justice department declined to elaborate on its private communication with the lawyers .
the pardon attorney ’ s office has brought in personnel from other parts of the department to help to speed up reviews of petitions , the doj official said .
roseberry said about 3,000 applicants still need to be assigned to a lawyer , and that it was not certain whether the group will be able to submit all of the applications it has received before obama leaves office .
the group has more than 570 law firms and 30 law schools contributing to the effort .
some rejected prisoners and those who have yet to hear a decision say they believe they would have had a better chance if they had sent their clemency petition directly to the government .
josie ledezma was sentenced to life for conspiracy to transport cocaine and applied for clemency through clemency project 2014 .
she said she did not hear from them for six months and later learned that her assigned lawyer had shut down her legal practice .
in january , nearly one year after applying , she was told clemency project 2014 could not help her and encouraged her to apply directly .
“ i wrote back and asked what was it that made me not qualify , but never got a response , ” ledezma told reuters through an electronic messaging service for federal prisoners .