there are some people you probably shouldn t cross .
donald trump is one , and conservative author and political analyst ann coulter is the other one conservative columnist ann coulter flew into a fit of fury saturday after delta airlines booted her from her reserved comfort+ seat which comes with 3 additional inches of legroom and gave it to another passenger.in a two-hour tweeting tantrum , she quoted her exchange with a flight attendant : why are you taking me out of the extra room seat i specifically booked ?
she asked.their answer , she said , was i don t know .
before coulter posted a picture of the woman delta gave her extra-legroom reserved seat to , she tweeted this : suckiest @ delta moved me from my pre-booked seat & gave it to some woman , not elderly , child , or sick .
i have pictures so don t lie , @ delta !
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017but at least @ delta was nice @ it , summarily snatching my ticket from my hand & ordering me to move w/o explanation , compensation or apology ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017the 6-foot-tall coulter , who is 55 , tweeted a picture of the woman who got her aisle seat on the flight from laguardia to florida , noting , delta didn t give my extra room seat to an air marshal or tall person .
nyp .
@ delta didn t give my extra room seat to an air marshall or tall person .
here s the woman given my pre-booked seat : pic.twitter.com/idnb8xxxod ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 15 , 2017the long-legged coulter , who still appeared to furious about delta s decision to boot her from her reserved seat with extra legroom , tweeted again to delta about the daschund-legged woman who they gave her seat to : so glad i took time investigate the aircraft & pre-book a specific seat on @ delta , so some woman could waltz at the last min & take my seat .
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 15 , 2017hey @ delta , if it was so important for the dachshund-legged woman to take my seat , she should have booked the seat in advance .
like i did .
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017the sharp-tongued conservative firebrand continued to rip into delta airlines in a series of tweets criticizing their customer service : .
@ delta motto : `` how can we make your flight more uncomfortable ? ''
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017 .
@ delta employee questionnaire : what is your ideal job : prison guard ?
animal handler ?
stasi policeman ?
all of the above : hired !
ann coulter ( @ anncoulter ) july 16 , 2017a delta spokesman said it appeared coulter was in the same extra-room row , just in a different seat .
but he promised to look into it .