berlin ( reuters ) - germany will suspend its mission training kurdish peshmerga fighters in northern iraq because of the conflict between the kurds and the iraqi government , the german defense minister said on wednesday .
germany has been a major partner for the iraqi kurds .
it has provided 32,000 assault rifle and machine guns , as well as other weapons valued at around 90 million euros since september 2014 .
about 130 german soldiers are based in erbil where they are providing training to the kurdish fighters .
the kurdish peshmerga are at the forefront of the campaign against islamic state and had significantly expanded their influence to bring the oil region under their control .
but responding to a kurdish vote for independence in a non-binding referendum , iraqi government forces backed by iranian-trained paramilitary groups captured the kurdish-held oil region of kirkuk on monday , transforming the country s balance of power .
the german government , which agreed on wednesday on three-month extension of seven other foreign assignments for its armed forces , suspended the training of the kurdish fighters as it sought to always ensure the unity of iraq .
we had agreed last friday with the foreign office to pause the training so no wrong signal would be sent , defence minister ursula von der leyen told reporters .
the minister said the german mission of equipping and training the kurds for their fight against islamic state was necessary and the right thing to do .
we haven t forgotten how it looked like in 2014 when is tried to commit genocide against the yazidis and was around 10 km from baghdad , she said .
the suspension of the training is temporary and resuming it will depend on daily examination of the situation in iraq , said the government spokesman on wednesday .
germany had warned iraqi kurds against holding what it called a one-sided referendum and had urged iraqi and kurdish officials to avoid any steps that could lead to a further escalation of the situation .
foreign minister sigmar gabriel on tuesday called on all conflict parties in northern iraq to immediately stop military actions and engage in direct talks .
the conflict between the region of kurdistan-iraq and the iraqi government is giving us the greatest cause for concern , he said in a statement .
there is no reason why anyone should believe that there is a military solution to the tensions in iraq that have flared up in recent days , gabriel said .