the inaction by police officers who should have been protecting and defending the first amendment rights of the group who came to hear conservative speaker ben shapiro is shameful .
i wonder how many of those police officers realize this crowd of domestic terrorists leftist thugs , given the opportunity , would be the first people to unjustly accuse them of wrong doing and/or attack them .
free speech is under attack in america like never before .
any views that are in opposition to views on the left are considered out of bounds and will be dealt with the social justice fascists protesting the daily wire s ben shapiro s event at csula didn t just assault a disabled man , they also allegedly assaulted a deaf girl , and the police targeted the girl instead of the thuggish protesters.here is conservative speaker ben shapiro exposing the truth about what happened at this event : ashley-anne hobbins , a team u.s.a. swimmer and founder and leader of three red cross clubs and is deaf , made the two-hour drive from coachella valley to see shapiro speak after being invited by mark kahanding , the president of csula s young americans for freedom chapter , to attend .
hobbins and her father , ben hobbins , arrived on campus to find protesters chanting and blocking the door .
hobbins tried to move around the protesters and get to the door , but the protesters couldn t let anyone violate their precious safe space .
they were like , oh that s her , she s one of them .
stop her ! '
hobbins told the daily wire .
and that s when they were linking arms and they all started pushing me , and i almost fell a couple of times , being pushed .
when i was being pushed by them , i was being groped and touched inappropriately by them .
at that point in time , hobbins and her father were separated from each other due to the chaos that ensued , so her father was not aware at the time that this was going on .
i might have been arrested there .
if i were to have seen that , i might have done something , hobbins told the daily wire.after being pushed around and rag-dolled by the protesters , hobbins was escorted out of the area by a police officer , as can be seen in the video footage on fox business at the 1:36 mark .
hobbins thought the police were providing aid to her , but then she learned that the police were holding her responsible for upsetting the protesters .
she said i was pushing them , said hobbins , who is 5 5 .
but they were pushing me , i wasn t even doing anything .
hobbins told the officer that she was groped and touched inappropriately by the protesters , but the officer refused to believe her and accused her of lying , and then threatened to arrest her if she didn t leave the campus .
i think i called her once or twice , and after 20 rings she picked up and she was crying and saying i had to come get her in the back because they were throwing her off campus , hobbins s father said .
so they said she had to leave campus right away or she would be arrested on the spot .
hobbins lamented that she was really bummed out that she drove all the way to csula and was unable to see shapiro speak .
my rights were violated , hobbins said.via : daily wirehere is conservative , ben shapiro s speech in its entirety , courtesy of young americans foundation :