baghdad ( reuters ) - hundreds of suspected islamic state militants surrendered last week to kurdish authorities after the jihadist group was driven out of its last stronghold in northern iraq , a kurdish security official said on tuesday .
the suspects were part of a group of men who fled toward kurdish-held lines when iraqi government forces captured the islamic state base in hawija , the official told reuters , asking not to be identified .
the report of the sunni muslim militants fleeing , rather than fighting to the finish as in previous battles , suggested their morale may be crumbling , according to hisham al-hashimi , a baghdad-based expert on islamic state affairs .
they no longer seem to believe in the cause , hashimi , who met some of those who surrendered in the dibis camp near kirkuk , told reuters .
he said they had fled to the kurdish-held region to avoid summary executions at the hands of vengeful sunni arab tribesmen and iranian-trained and armed shi ite muslim paramilitaries who assisted the iraqi army s offensive on hawija .
islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi released an audio recording two weeks ago that indicated he was alive , after several reports he had been killed .
he urged his followers to keep up the fight despite setbacks in iraq and syria .
approximately 1,000 men surrendered over the last week .
not all , however , are terrorists , said the security official in erbil , the northern iraqi base of the autonomous kurdistan regional government .
they handed themselves in to kurdish peshmerga forces near the kurdish-held oil city of kirkuk , east of hawija , he said .
it s fair to say hundreds probably are isis ( islamic state ) members , but that will be clear after the debriefs .
the town of hawija and surrounding areas fell on oct. 5 in an offensive by u.s.-backed iraqi government shi ite paramilitary groups known as popular mobilisation , as well as sunni tribal combatants .
islamic state s last territory in iraq is now a stretch skirting the western border with syria , including the border town of al-qaim .
iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on tuesday this last piece of territory would be recaptured before the end of the year , marking the final defeat of the militants in iraq .
the militants also hold areas on the syrian side of the border , but are retreating there in the face of two sets of hostile forces - a u.s.-backed , kurdish-led coalition and syrian government troops with foreign shi ite militias backed by iran and russia .
islamic state s cross-border caliphate effectively collapsed in july when u.s.-backed iraqi forces captured mosul , the group s de facto capital in iraq , in a nine-month battle .