united nations ( reuters ) - amid a u.s. push to cut united nations peacekeeping costs , secretary-general antonio guterres said on wednesday he hoped the u.n. security council would agree to send an extra 900 troops to protect civilians in central african republic .
guterres , who will visit central african republic next week , told reporters that while peacekeepers had helped avert the worst when mass atrocities were being committed in the country five years ago , the situation remained very troubling .
across the country , communal tensions are growing .
violence is spreading .
and the humanitarian situation is deteriorating , guterres said .
there is a need to increase the capacity of our troops in central african republic to protect civilians .
i am convinced there will be a very positive understanding of all the members of the security council , including the united states of america , in relation to this , he said .
thousands have died and a fifth of central africans have fled a conflict that broke out after mainly muslim seleka rebels ousted president francois bozize in 2013 , provoking a backlash from christian anti-balaka militias .
although unrest has since subsided , fighting has spiked this year and the united nations warned that ethnic fighting could descend again into a much larger conflict .
u.n. peacekeepers were deployed in 2014 and the security council is due to renew the mandate for the mission of more than 12,000 troops and police by mid-november .
in a report to the council on tuesday , guterres recommended an extra 900 troops .
u.s .
ambassador nikki haley has led a push to cut peacekeeping costs and is reviewing each operation as annual mandates come up for renewal by the security council .
president donald trump wants to cap the u.s. share of the peacekeeping bill at 25 percent , down from 28.5 percent , a level he says is unfair .
the united states is a veto-wielding member of the council , along with britain , france , russia and china .
there are currently more than a dozen peacekeeping missions with a total annual budget of more than $ 7.3 billion .
guterres has pledged to make u.n. peacekeeping more efficient but has noted that the current budget to fund it is less than one half of 1 percent of global military spending .
u.n. peacekeepers in central african republic have also been dogged by allegations of sexual abuse that the world body has been working to address .
i am pained that some peacekeepers are alleged to have committed egregious acts of sexual exploitation and abuse against the people of the central african republic , guterres said .