it s a shame megyn kelly believed she had launch an attack at then candidate trump during his first debate in order to score points with the feminist crowd .
she was the smart darling of conservatives until she crossed fox news viewers with her embarrassing and relentless attacks on donald trump during his campaign .
there aren t too many conservatives who really care where she ends up , and there aren t likely too many liberals who are going to willingly embrace her either megyn kelly is still under what is being described as a messy contract with fox news.while the cable news network is saying that mrs. kelly is free to do whatever she wants professionally , her official spokesperson is singing another tune.this week , the wall street journal , confirmed that despite the fact that mrs. kelly has signed with nbc in early january 2017 , she is still tied to the right-learning network.after a decade with the fox news channel , the former corporate defense attorney exited after declining a 20 million dollar contract.the journalist and political commentator will be earning between $ 15 to $ 18 million on the peacock network and for her triple role .
according to top executives , kelly will host her daytime program and in-depth sunday night news show .
she will appear on the network s political and major news event coverage.the shows will start in the fall , but kelly has not been taking part in hiring her team.moreover , there are no titles for her programs as yet , and nbc still has not been decided at what time she will go on.kelly s spokeswoman , leslee dart , said she can not take these important decisions because the terms of the termination are still being negotiated .
last week , aol published a fascinating piece where they confirmed that kelly is no friend of today co-anchor matt lauer .
it was revealed that nbc is looking for an executive producer to lead kelly s show.and one thing is sure , megyn doesn t want a lauer loyalist running her show .
she wants a team she can trust , and that will have her back .
celebrity insidermatt lauer doesn t appear to have the star power required to keep viewers interested without a strong female side-kick , as it was announced by the new york post a couple of weeks ago that a , panicked nbc asked savannah guthrie to come back early .
savannah guthrie cut her maternity leave short by four days , and sources say it s because brass at today were stressing over ratings .
the show was in a free fall .
she initially announced that she d be returning on march 3 , but they were in a panic .
.
.
and called her back early , an industry insider told page six.guthrie surprised matt lauer on-air last week , days after lester holt and bryant gumbel filled in as co-hosts .
their bro-show didn t work .
they needed savannah to bail them out , so they rushed her from maternity leave .
nbc claimed it was because of the influx of news , but the reality is that the show was down double-digits and they needed her , the source said .