pro man-made climate change , rino lindsay graham , who never saw a war he didn t want to engage our troops in , joins his war hawk , rino , anti-trumper friend john mccain ( who got crushed by obama in the 2008 presidential election ) , to call for investigations into russian influence in our november elections .
john mccain withdrew his support for trump after the bad words he used in a private conversation with another guy .
lindsey graham got crushed by trump in the primaries and was a loud voice against his nomination .
he eventually changed his mind and offered his support for trump in the general election against hillary .
john mccain did not change his mind.the recount is over , but there s still time to discredit the legitimacy of donald j. trump s landslide election .
who better to help the democrats , than two rino s who are at the top of the heap when it comes to draining useless republicans from the swamp .
south carolina sen. lindsey graham ( r ) said wednesday he would lead a charge to investigate russia s interference in the u.s. election and hacks on the democratic party .
i think [ donald ] trump should take a real tough tone with russia , because if he doesn t , you re going to allow russia to begin to break apart alliances , graham told cnn s manu raju.the republican senator also said he hoped to use his leadership role on two subcommittees to launch a deeper investigation of russia s hacks , cnn reported .
graham chairs the state , foreign operations and related programs subcommittee and the crime and terrorism subcommittee.raju said graham told him that he and sen. john mccain ( r-ariz. ) , chair of the armed services committee , will travel to eastern europe to investigate russian meddling in other countries elections.during the campaign , graham was a strong gop critic of trump , including on his friendlier stance toward russia , and chose to vote instead for independent candidate evan mcmullin .
the hillthe obama administration clearly stated that they saw no evidence of outside election tampering in the general election.on november 26 , 2016 the obama administration said it has seen no evidence of hackers tampering with the 2016 presidential election , even as recount proceedings began in wisconsin .
we stand behind our election results , which accurately reflect the will of the american people , a senior administration official told politico late friday .
the federal government did not observe any increased level of malicious cyber activity aimed at disrupting our electoral process on election day , the official added .
we believe our elections were free and fair from a cybersecurity perspective .
yet yesterday this story appeared in the new york times : washington american intelligence agencies have concluded with high confidence that russia acted covertly in the latter stages of the presidential campaign to harm hillary clinton s chances and promote donald j. trump , according to senior administration officials.they based that conclusion , in part , on another finding which they say was also reached with high confidence that the russians hacked the republican national committee s computer systems in addition to their attacks on democratic organizations , but did not release whatever information they gleaned from the republican networks.in the months before the election , it was largely documents from democratic party systems that were leaked to the public .
intelligence agencies have concluded that the russians gave the democrats documents to wikileaks.republicans have a different explanation for why no documents from their networks were ever released .
over the past several months , officials from the republican committee have consistently said that their networks were not compromised , asserting that only the accounts of individual republicans were attacked .
on friday , a senior committee official said he had no comment.donald trump has said the cia s conclusion that russia interfered in the presidential election is ridiculous and being used by democrats as just another excuse for his defeat of hillary clinton.the president-elect told fox news sunday that he did not necessarily oppose barack obama s order for a review of campaign-season cyber-attacks.but he added that in any such effort , you should not just say russia .
you should say other countries also , and maybe other individuals .
guardian