yaounde ( reuters ) - militants seeking independence for cameroon s english-speaking regions killed four gendarmes on monday , the government said , as disputes with the francophone-dominated government degenerate into open warfare .
several separatists were killed by security forces in ensuing clashes , the government spokesman said .
repression by president paul biya s government against what began as peaceful protests a year ago by anglophone activists over perceived social and economic marginalization has bolstered support for armed militants demanding a full break with yaounde .
the separatists have launched a series of deadly raids on government police and soldiers in recent weeks , leading authorities to escalate a crackdown that has killed dozens of civilians .
issa tchiroma bakary , cameroon s government spokesman , said the separatists had killed four gendarmes earlier on monday in the town of kembong in southwest region s manyu division .
the assailants , ensnared by the measures put in place by our defense and security forces , are now reduced to sporadic attacks carried out by hidden faces and using perfidy , tchiroma said .
a representative for the separatists could not be immediately reached for comment .
manyu , with its dense equatorial forests along the nigerian border , has become the center of the insurgency from which the separatists have launched a series of attacks on security forces in villages .
the violence there has fueled a mounting refugee crisis .
at least 7,500 people have crossed into nigeria since oct. 1 , when the secessionists declared an independent state called ambazonia , and the u.n. refugee agency says it is bracing itself for as many as 40,000 .
cameroon s linguistic divide harks back to the end of world war one , when the german colony of kamerun was carved up between allied french and british victors .
the english-speaking regions joined the french-speaking republic of cameroon the year after its independence in 1960 .
french speakers have dominated the country s politics since .
tensions have long simmered but the recent violence is the most serious to date and has emerged as a serious challenge to biya s 35-year rule .
the 84-year-old is expected to seek a new term in an election next year .