( reuters ) - new zealand not only has its youngest female prime minister with the rise to power of center-left labour leader jacinda ardern , but a renegade new first bloke who is a national celebrity in his own right .
clarke gayford , who hosts his own fishing television show , has already broken the mold of his predecessors , stepping in to defend his partner against scaremongering old dinos including one political rival who made a disparaging reference to ardern and lipstick on a pig .
on twitter , gayford has thrown fishing buddy jokes to winston peters , the leader of the small nationalist party that decided ardern s political fate and teased a nation that waited a month for an election result : heading out of reception for a while ..... things always seem to happen when i do this .
gayford s social media followers are likely to surge following the decision this week of peters new zealand first party to throw its support behind 37-year-old ardern and her labour party to form government .
political analysts say the pair are a unique double act in a small country where the partners of the previous two female leaders , helen clark and jenny shipley , maintained a low profile .
this political power couple will be interesting to watch , said grant duncan , associate professor at massey university in auckland .
they re both clearly very media savvy , both independent and have public profiles that were built up before they became a couple .
the couple met four years ago when gayford , 39 , went to complain to a member of parliament about the then national party government s proposed changes to security legislation .
he bumped into ardern , a rising star of the labour party , they had coffee and were living together not long after .
gayford s television show , fish of the day , sees him traveling around the pacific , fishing and finding recipes for his catches .
the series has been sold into 20 countries and won a gold award at the houston international film festival last year .
gayford , who grew up on a farm without a television in summer , has a long history in broadcasting across television and radio .
he s an occasional guest on weekly talkback radio show the panel .
on election night last month , gayford admitted to being a little on edge as he brought out barbecued sausages and fish bites - made , naturally , from a 42kg sea bass he caught off the east coast - to reporters staking out the couple s home in auckland .
and he told radio new zealand recently that he s still coming to terms with elements of his new life , including a security detail unfamiliar to somebody who spends much of his time out on the open water : it s been a hell of a ride .