varna , bulgaria/warsaw ( reuters ) - french president emmanuel macron said on friday poland was isolating itself within the european union and polish citizens deserve better than a government at odds with the bloc s democratic values and economic reform plans .
macron said warsaw , where a nationalist , eurosceptic government took office in 2015 , was moving in the opposite direction to europe on numerous issues and would not be able to dictate the path of europe s future .
poland rejected the accusations , saying macron was inexperienced and arrogant .
europe is a region created on the basis of values , a relationship with democracy and public freedoms which poland is today in conflict with , macron said in bulgaria on the third leg of a trip to central and eastern europe to generate support for his vision of a europe that better protects its citizens .
he described poland s refusal to change its stance on a revision of the eu s directive on posted workers - cheap labor from eastern countries posted temporarily to more affluent western countries - as a mistake .
macron has said the practice leads to unfair competition .
in no way will the decision by a country that has decided to isolate itself in the workings of europe jeopardize the finding of an ambitious compromise , he said .
in a scathing attack that could drag relations between western eu powers and the european commission in brussels on one side and poland s law and justice party ( pis ) government on the other to a new low , he said the polish people deserved better .
poland is not defining europe s future today and nor will it define the europe of tomorrow , macron said at a joint press conference with bulgarian president rumen radev in the black sea resort city of varna .
in response , poland s prime minister beata szydlo said macron , 39 , a former investment banker elected in may as france s youngest president , lacked political experience and accused him of undermining the eu .
i advise the president that he should be more conciliatory ... perhaps his arrogant comments are a result of a lack of ( political ) experience , szydlo said in a statement emailed to reuters .
i advise the president that he should focus on the affairs of his own country .
perhaps he may be able to achieve the same economic results and the same level of security for ( french ) citizens as those guaranteed by poland .
her comments were an indirect reference to her government s insistence that it will not accept migrants from the middle east , despite pressure from brussels , because it believes they pose a threat to national security .
france has been hit hard by deadly islamist militant attacks in recent years .
the polish foreign ministry said in a statement it had urgently summoned the french charg d affaires to express the polish government s indignation about the arrogant words of macron .
it quoted deputy foreign minister marek magierowski as saying poland expects that france will abandon language that is divisive and which damages the unity of the eu .
relations between szydlo s law and justice ( pis ) party and the french government deteriorated soon after it won election in late 2015 .
in october 2016 , poland abruptly canceled a nearly $ 4 billion military procurement deal with airbus .
macron s election deepened the rift , with the french globalization advocate fanning worries in warsaw that his vision of a multi-speed europe would undermine polish influence within the european union .
french officials have expressed concerns about poland , and hungary , drifting towards authoritarianism and said macron would also make a defense of the rule of law and democratic principles one of the priorities of his mandate on the european stage .
on his three-day tour macron sought backing for his plans to tighten eu rules on the employment abroad of labor from low-pay nations .
poland strongly opposes this initiative .
while posted workers comprise less than 1 percent of the eu work force , it is a political hot potato that has exacerbated the divide between the bloc s poor east and rich west for years .
macron managed to enlist the broad support of czech republic and slovakia , and the lukewarm backing of romania , all countries which fear being sidelined in a multi-speed eu , whereas poland and hungary remain defiant of what they see as an out-of-touch eu elite based in brussels and western capitals .
poland is at loggerheads with the european commission , the brussels-based eu executive , over issues ranging from its refusal to accept eu migrant relocation quotas to the ruling conservatives tightening grip on the judiciary and media .
macron shunned both poland and hungary on his trip through the region .
he said he wanted bulgaria - like poland , hungary , romania , the czech republic and slovakia a former communist state that joined the eu much later than western counterparts - to be at the negotiating table on european integration .
on the posted worker rules , bulgaria s radev said the eu needed to balance the interests of countries in the rich west and the poor east .
it is important that changes are made in a way that unites rather than divides europe , he said .
current eu rules allow workers to be posted from low-salary countries to other eu states on contracts that must guarantee the host country s minimum wage , but under which taxes and social charges are paid in the home nation .
poland and hungary say increased restrictions on such contracts would flout the principles of the european single market and cost hundreds of thousands of jobs .