wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand first party leader winston peters began talks on thursday with the governing national party and opposition labour party aimed at forming a coalition government after last month s inconclusive election .
peters , whose nationalist party holds the balance of power , has said no decision will be made until after a final vote count is released on saturday .
it s like being between the devil and the deep blue sea here , peters told reporters at parliament , according to the new zealand herald .
peters held talks with prime minister bill english and members of his center-right national in the morning and an afternoon meeting with labour leader jacinda ardern , who told local media the conversation was a great start .
it s setting the agenda , the ground rules , the protocols , how we re going to go about it .
let s have an agreement about precisely how we re going to do this , peters said in a video posted on fairfax media .
english s national party won a 10-point lead over center-left labour in the sept. 23 election , but neither won enough seats to govern alone .
this is the third time peters , 72 , has held the balance of power after an election and he has previously formed coalitions with both national and labour .
a complete count is due on oct. 7 when special votes which make up 15 percent of the total and include overseas ballots are released .
the final count is not expected to change the outcome .
peters has said he will make a final decision by oct. 12 .
observers said peters focus in talks will likely be on domestic policies , especially regional development to shore up his voter base , despite his rhetoric about limiting asian investment and slashing immigration .
regional development is surely going to figure highly ... i think there s no doubt new zealand first is shifting to be more of a provincial , country party and that the important points are going to be directly related to that development , said bryce edwards , political analyst at critical politics in wellington .
in one of the only indications of his priorities going into negotiations , peters this week promised to revive the country s forestry sector , which has been a hot topic in his remote home region in the country s far north .
peters plans to create state-owned forests and a quota system to favor local processors over those exporting logs to overseas , largely to china .