islamabad ( reuters ) - pakistani finance minister ishaq dar pleaded not guilty on wednesday to owning assets beyond his means , an official from the ruling pakistan muslim league-nawaz said , amid a corruption investigation into former prime minister nawaz sharif .
the supreme court in july disqualified sharif for not declaring a small source of income and ordered an investigation into sharif , his children and dar , sharif s former accountant .
dar s son is also married to one of sharif s daughters .
dar told the court that he was innocent and he will prove that his assets are legitimate , jan achakzai , a pml-n official , told reuters .
dar did not speak to the media after his appearance in court in islamabad but has dismissed all the allegations against him .
sharif has also denied any wrongdoing and has been critical of the judiciary , calling the corruption proceedings against him a conspiracy .
several senior pml-n figures , including sharif s daughter maryam , have hinted that pakistan s powerful military were behind sharif s ouster .
the army denies playing any role .
dar was credited with steering pakistan s economy to a sounder footing following a 2013 balance of payments crisis but over the past year those economic gains have begun to erode , according to the international monetary fund ( imf ) and analysts .
growth in the $ 300 billion economy hit 5.3 percent last fiscal year ( july-june ) , the fastest pace in a decade , but foreign currency reserves have dwindled and the 2016/17 current account deficit has more than doubled to $ 12.1 billion .
dar s reluctance to let the rupee weaken to ease current account pressures has courted criticism from economists , who say the pml-n is making economic decisions with one eye on the next general election , likely to be held in mid-2018 .
some analysts have warned pakistan may need to go back to the imf for another bailout package if current trends continue .
under new prime minister shahid khaqan abbasi , dar has been removed from the post of chairing the cabinet s powerful economic coordination committee .