washington ( reuters ) - republican presidential hopeful ted cruz is leaning on new sources of cash as he prepares for a long primary fight against front-runner donald trump , with new campaign finance filings showing the expense of competing against a billionaire adept at grabbing headlines .
cruz ’ s more traditional campaign has struggled to compete with trump .
the u.s. senator from texas poured money into advertising , staff and calls to voters , spending $ 5.6 million more in february than he raised as he tried to outmaneuver trump , according to campaign finance records made public on sunday .
but the effort had a limited impact as trump took a commanding lead in the delegate count for the republican nomination while spending a little more than half what cruz did .
the real estate mogul has loaned his campaign more than $ 24 million since he entered the race for the white house .
now , with establishment republican rivals jeb bush and marco rubio out of the race , cruz is trying to win votes and rake in money by arguing the party should unite behind him if it hopes to defeat trump .
it ’ s a tough proposition for a conservative candidate who has long rankled the establishment wing of his party , including by leading a fight over president barack obama ’ s signature healthcare law that led to a 16-day shutdown of the federal government .
cruz now hopes to convince his party that he , not ohio governor john kasich , the other republican remaining in the race , is best poised to defeat trump and go on to the nov. 8 presidential election .
in a sign of cruz ’ s warming ties with establishment republicans , south carolina senator lindsey graham , who has been a vocal critic of cruz , plans on monday to hold a fundraiser for the senator from texas .
charles foster , a houston immigration attorney who backed bush until he left the race in february , said friday he is urging establishment republicans to line up behind cruz .
“ my pitch to them simplistically is that trump is an existential threat .
he ’ d be a total disaster , ” foster said .
“ the only person that has a real chance , ” he added , “ particularly within the republican primary base , which is conservative , far more conservative than kasich , is ted. ” trump has a substantial lead in the republican white house race , though he remains far short of the 1,237 delegates needed to clinch the nomination .
it is unclear whether he will hit that number before the july convention in cleveland , but it would also be difficult for either cruz or kasich to catch him .
cruz could pick up delegates in utah , which holds its caucus on tuesday , and all of the candidates are expected to compete hard in wisconsin on april 5 .
but so far , efforts to stop the trump juggernaut have made little impression on voters .
in february , cruz raised $ 11.9 million and spent $ 17.5 million , leaving his campaign with $ 8 million when he woke up on super tuesday .
and despite the heavy spending , cruz won just one state that voted in february and three on the march 1 super tuesday primaries .
in addition to self-funding his campaign , trump has the advantage of running an operation that leans heavily on free media exposure .
in february , trump , raised $ 9.2 million , including a $ 6.9 million loan he gave his own campaign , and spent $ 9.5 million .
kasich raised $ 3.4 million in february and spent $ 3.6 million .
about half of cruz ’ s spending , or more than $ 8.7 million , was on advertising .
cruz also allotted $ 2.6 million to traditional campaign tactics like printing mailers , postage stamps and phone calls to voters .
cruz did spend a bit less than trump on staff , recording $ 342,525 in payroll costs in february to trump ’ s $ 370,973 .
jeff roe , cruz ’ s campaign manager , said on twitter on sunday the campaign has enough cash to continue competing through june 7 , the last republican primary day when hundreds of delegates are up for grabs .