sydney ( reuters ) - australia , concerned about rising chinese influence , will ban foreign political donations as part of a crackdown aimed at preventing external interference in domestic politics , prime minister malcolm turnbull said on tuesday .
turnbull told reporters in canberra that foreign powers were making unprecedented and increasingly sophisticated attempts to influence the political process in australia and the world .
he cited disturbing reports about chinese influence .
australia and neighbouring new zealand are among roughly a third of countries worldwide that allow foreign donations to political parties .
such donations are prohibited in the united states , britain and several european countries .
australia s new laws , modelled in part on the u.s. foreign agents registration act , would criminalise foreign interference and require the registration of lobbyists working for nation states , turnbull said .
the announcement came as concern grows that beijing may be extending its influence and as relationships between australian politicians and chinese government interests have become increasingly contentious .
fairfax media and the australian broadcasting corporation reported in june on a concerted campaign by china to infiltrate australian politics to promote chinese interests .
china denies the claims .
in beijing , foreign ministry spokesman geng shuang said china had no intention of interfering with australia s internal affairs or using political funding to influence them .
at the same time , we want to again urge australia to remove their biases and take an objective and positive attitude to assess china and its relations with australia , he added .
however , leading opposition senator sam dastyari quit some senior labor party positions last week after a tape surfaced of him appearing to endorse china s contentious expansion in disputed areas of the south china sea , against his party s platform .
the tape , which showed him standing next to property developer huang xiangmo , a major chinese political donor , was leaked to the media .
i take those reports , as do my colleagues , very seriously , turnbull said .
however , the new laws are not about any one country , he said .
foreign interference is a global issue ... for example , we re all familiar with very credible reports that russia sought to actively undermine the united states election ... the threat is real , turnbull said .
the new laws , should they pass parliament , would ban foreign donations to political parties or any political group that has spent more than a $ 100,000 ( $ 76,350 ) campaigning in the past four years - a rule that could also likely affect environmental and other campaign groups .
australia expressed deep concern last month over a crackdown on pro-democracy groups in cambodia .
despite that , finance minister mathias cormann said foreign donations to activist group getup ! , a non-partisan but vocal critic of the centre-right government , would be banned under australia s new laws .
getup !
said in a statement only 0.5 percent of its donations come from overseas .
it criticised the proposed laws as an attempt to avoid scrutiny of government policies and for failing to curtail donations from multinational corporations .
the definitions of treason and espionage would also be broadened under the new laws to include possessing or receiving sensitive information , rather than just transmitting it .
since the controversial sale of the port of darwin to a chinese company in 2015 , the government has been at pains to demonstrate limits to its ties to china , its biggest export partner , blocking sales of australia s biggest cattle station and biggest power grid to chinese interests .
( $ 1 = 1.3098 australian dollars )