seoul ( reuters ) - south korean police have arrested the owner and the manager of a building where 29 people died in a fire last week , accusing the pair of multiple safety lapses , including blocked exits and malfunctioning sprinkler systems .
on thursday , a fire ripped through an eight-story high-rise in the small city of jecheon .
at least 20 of the victims were women who were overcome by toxic fumes in a second-floor sauna .
jecheon police have only identified the owner by his last name of lee , and the manager by his last name of kim .
both men are in custody in jecheon after being arrested on sunday , police announced on tuesday .
lee faces two charges of violating fire safety regulations and committing involuntary homicide by professional negligence , while kim also faces the involuntary homicide charge .
if convicted of involuntary homicide , lee and kim could face up to five years in prison or 20 million won ( $ 16,000 ) in fines .
the sprinkler system on the building s first floor did not work properly when the fire erupted , a police detective , who asked not to be named as he was not authorized to speak on an ongoing investigation , told reuters .
if the sprinkler system worked , the fire probably would not have spread as fast as it did .
police said on tuesday that lee has retained a lawyer but declined to name the lawyer or firm .
police said kim has not yet hired a lawyer .
photos released by the yonhap news agency showed a smoke-stained stairwell and a fire exit filled with shelves and supplies on the second floor , where most of the deaths occurred .
the emergency exit on the building s second floor was blocked by iron shelves and other miscellaneous items , the detective confirmed .
officials are still investigating the cause of the conflagration .
according to police , both kim and lee had denied reports they were trying to remove ice on the ceiling of the first floor , where the fire appeared to have originated , but later changed their statements after police confronted them with evidence .
the korea joongang daily newspaper reported on tuesday that lee had at one point told police he did not alert the women in the sauna because they were undressed , however , the police detective told reuters he could not confirm that as investigations were ongoing .
anger mounted over the weekend at reports of shoddy construction , broken doors , blocked roads and other problems that may have contributed to the deaths .
a number of cars parked along the narrow roads around the building impeded the ability of firefighters to reach the fire , an official with the jecheon fire department told reuters , but noted that none of the parked vehicles appeared to have violated parking rules .
although vehicles can park there legally , it was quite difficult for fire trucks to go through to get to the scene , because the road was too narrow , said the fire official , who declined to be named as he was not authorized to speak publicly .
visiting the scene on friday , president moon jae-in promised a full investigation .
the government as a whole will thoroughly probe this accident s cause and process of response , and although after the fact , the investigation and measures will be such that , at least , there will not be lingering deep sorrow , he said .
on monday , a separate fire at a construction site at an apartment complex south of seoul killed one person and injured 14 others , according to yonhap .