paris ( reuters ) - a man suspected of carrying out a knife attack in the french city of marseille , in which two women were stabbed to death , had been arrested and then released by police the day before the incident , the paris public prosecutor said on monday .
the prosecutor , francois molins , told a news conference that the suspect , who was shot dead by a french soldier , went by seven different identities .
one such identity named him as ahmed h , born in 1987 in tunisia .
he had shown a tunisian passport when last stopped by police in the city of lyon on sept. 29 on suspicion of robbery .
he was subsequently released by police for lack of evidence on sept. 30 , the day before sunday s attack .
the attacker had been pointed out on seven different times since 2005 , under seven different identities .
the last time , on september 29 , related to an arrest in lyon over shoplifting , molins told a news conference .
molins said none of the suspect s seven different identities had thrown up any alert on french anti-terrorist check lists .
the authorities were trying now to establish his real name and the authenticity of the tunisian passport he had shown .
police sources said the suspect had shouted allahu akbar ( god is greatest ) in arabic as he attacked the women at marseille s main railway station on sunday , in what officials described as a probable terrorist act .
the militant islamic state group claimed responsibility for the attack but did not name the assailant .
molins did not confirm or deny any suspected involvement by islamic state .
molins added that the suspect had told police he lived in lyon , was homeless , divorced and had problems with drug abuse .
the assailant was shot dead by a soldier from the military sentinelle patrol , a force deployed across the country under a state of emergency declared after islamist militant attacks began almost two years ago .
multiple attacks by militants killed 130 people in paris in 2015 .
in 2016 a gunman drove a truck into a crowd celebrating bastille day in nice , killing 86 people .
both of these attacks were claimed by islamic state .