i m sorry i lied .
those four magic words would have done a lot to prove to the american people that he is , indeed , capable of taking some small step toward redeeming himself after his administration s third fake terrorist attack .
unfortunately , this is donald trump we re talking about and he will not be deterred from believing whatever crazy bullshit he decides to believe at any given moment not by facts , not by reality , and certainly not by those goddamn swedes.trump recently baffled the world by referencing a terrorist attack in sweden that didn t happen after misremembering a fox news report .
trump didn t say what happened ( though we imagine the perpetrators of the bowling green and atlanta massacres are behind it ) , but if there was a three strikes and you re out rule when it comes to an administration completely making up f * cking massacres trump d be out .
nevertheless , he just kept banging away at sweden on monday morning .
give the public a break the fake news media is trying to say that large scale immigration in sweden is working out just beautifully , he tweeted , adding ( because he s twelve ) not !
give the public a break the fake news media is trying to say that large scale immigration in sweden is working out just beautifully .
not !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) february 20 , 2017so , what s happening in sweden ?
the independent reports that immigration has helped ful the largest economic boon sweden has seen in five years : the swedish government , whose policies saw the country take in more refugees per capita than any other in europe last year , helped lower unemployment rates by increased spending on welfare for asylum seekers from war torn countries like syria , afghanistan and iraq.the move helped the nordic region s largest economy expand 4.5 percent on an annual basis in the fourth quarter of 2015 , the most in almost five years and more than twice the growth of germany , according to bloomberg.increased consumer spending and borrowing and high house prices also contributed to the boom which , although projected to fade , has consolidated sweden as one of europe s success stories.also , a moose fell in love.trump s decision to continue babbling about sweden ( and , of course , the l genpresse fake news ) led to widespread mockery : .
@ realdonaldtrump sweden is even confused by your allegations .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) february 20 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump are you the president of sweden now ?
roland scahill ( @ rolandscahill ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump but you said there was an incident on friday .
there was n't .
that was weird .
evan dashevsky ( @ haldash ) february 20 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump it 's almost like the us has no president we are a rudderless ship heading for a major disaster .
good luck everyone !
pic.twitter.com/kj2ffwqpxd khary penebaker ( @ kharyp ) february 20 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump you are the one making up fake news saying that sweden is falling apart because of immigration .
the swedes know better donald trump exposed ( @ dtrumpexposed ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump actually , they re just saying you lied about a terrorist incident there .
which you did , donald .
dan howdle ( @ danhowdle ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump do n't you dare talk about fake news when you claimed an actual event happened three nights ago impeach donald trump ( @ impeach_d_trump ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump we can not let the viking hordes succeed !
erich mcelroy ( @ erichmcelroy ) february 20 , 2017i dunno , @ realdonaldtrump sweden looks pretty gd to me ( you do have google search on the your android phone , right ? )
pic.twitter.com/h0ablbhsfc bob rudis ( @ hrbrmstr ) february 20 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump @ jpublikyou 've done it again.apologies ( for lying ) usually include the words , `` sorry '' , `` regret '' or `` apologise '' british sceptic ( @ elnuevootromio2 ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump dude , you 're only making it worse .
kristina poe ( @ kpoepoe ) february 20 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump how many more fake terrorist attacks are you going to make up before you open the camps ?
patrick s. tomlinson ( @ stealthygeek ) february 20 , 2017trump s unabashed aversion to facts was troubling when he was leading a movement that thought barack obama was a muslim kenyan or suggesting that vaccines cause autism or even when he was leading lock her up chants as his rabid followers called for hillary clinton s death .
but now he s president .
he has the power to destroy every relationship the united states has built with his ridiculous statements , arrogance , and f * cking moronic tweets.featured image via getty images ( alex wong ) /screengrab