on top of all the problems this country faces under a donald trump administration , anti-vaxxers are hoping he ll make widespread disease great again.anti-vaccination advocates literally believe that vaccines are harmful to children despite an avalanche of scientific research and the fact that we have nearly eradicated many viruses that used to kill thousands of people as proof to the contrary.leading anti-vaxxer andrew wakefield , the moron who made parents panic by claiming to link vaccines to autism , got to meet with trump to spew the same fraudulent claims that cost him his medical license .
for the first time in a long time , i feel very positive about this , because donald trump is not beholden to the pharmaceutical industry , wakefield said .
he didn t rely upon [ drug makers ] to get him elected .
and he s a man who seems to speak his mind and act accordingly .
so we shall see .
now americans have to fear a world where anyone around them could be carrying a disease that could have been easily prevented by a harmless vaccine because trump is listening to a crackpot.thus far , the anti-vaxxer movement has caused outbreaks of whooping cough , rubella , and measles , just to name a few .
measles had been declared eradicated in 2000 , but after many parents had a collective freak-out they stopped vaccinating their damn kids and opened the door for measles and other diseases to return .
measles kicked that door down in 2015 when the disease struck many who were unvaccinated after a visitor from another country carried it and spread it to others at disneyland.at the height of the outbreak , fox medical expert dr. marc siegel blasted anti-vaxxers and defended vaccines as necessary for the public health .
let me be clear on this , i see no debate whatsoever , siegel said .
period .
this is the greatest vaccine that has ever been created in the history of vaccines .
you know we stamped out measles in the united states in 2000 .
it was incredible because measles is the most contagious virus known to man .
if you had measles there would be a 90 percent chance that i would get it by sitting next to you if i weren t vaccinated .
it s so much more contagious than the flu .
we were talking about ebola , this is a million times more contagious than ebola !
your celebrities did not go to medical school !
in california , there s 13,000 parents that are taking a personal belief exemption , allowing their kids to go to school without that second mmr vaccine .
you need one after you re 1 year old , and then you need one again before you re 5 or 6 years old .
i think these parents are putting children at risk in schools .
i think schools should consider not allowing these kids in .
make them be homeschooled if they don t have this vaccine .
why should my child be a risk because your child isn t vaccinated ?
later that year , the first american in over a decade died after contracting measles.and if donald trump aids anti-vaxxers by changing federal policy , he will become a direct threat to the public health as it becomes more likely that diseases once considered eradicated in this country thanks to vaccines return with a deadly vengeance all because we let a bunch of stupid people who reject science influence policy.featured image : mnn