strasbourg/brussels ( reuters ) - eu lawmakers accused their own parliament on wednesday of failing to protect staff from sexual harassment , as allegations of abuse in the wake of the harvey weinstein case have raised questions over standards also in brussels institutions .
debating an emergency motion calling on authorities to beef up rules and enforcement of gender equality laws and sanctions for abuse in workplaces across europe , members of the european parliament also demanded the eu legislature stop turning a blind eye to disgusting practices by some of their own colleagues .
here , today , in the very heart of european democracy , we have women being molested and harassed , polish member jadwiga wisniewska told the chamber .
this is unimaginable .
this month s allegations about hollywood producer weinstein - who denies all accusations of non-consensual sex - has set off a wave of reflection about sexual harassment in europe as in other parts of the world .
several meps held signs bearing the twitter hashtag # metoo .
i have been sexually harassed , just like millions of other women in the european union , german member terry reintke said .
it is about time that we very clearly say that we should not be ashamed .
the perpetrators should be ashamed .
in the eu institutions themselves , with an unusual mix of powerful hierarchies , politics and a culturally diverse workforce drawn from across the continent , women are accusing managers of doing too little for too long to stamp out abuse .
we ve all heard the stories and rumors going on for many years , britain s margot parker said during the debate in strasbourg , the brussels-based parliament s second home .
the very place that claims to legislate against this sort of disgusting behavior is turning a blind eye to its practice .
this week , parliament president antonio tajani spoke of his shock and indignation after a sunday times report on more than a dozen mostly young female parliamentary aides who complained of groping , stalking and other harassment by male lawmakers .
he pledged to step up existing protections to encourage people to come forward , something campaigners say is overdue .
it comes as no surprise to those of us working for years on the fight to end violence against women that sexual harassment is also widespread throughout the eu institutions , said the european women s lobby , a brussels-based , pan-european organization .
there is still inadequate means to ensure that women still feel safe enough to come forward to report incidences .
at the european commission , the executive branch of the eu which employs 32,000 people , 55 percent of them women , measures have been in place since 2006 to prevent any form of harassment and to protect whistleblowers .
over the past five years an average of 13 complaints have been made each year , with disciplinary sanctions being imposed in about four cases each year , commission figures show .
commenting on those figures , european women s lobby secretary-general joanna maycock , told reuters that the number of complaints seemed very low for the size of the workforce .
the commission s gender equality chief , czech commissioner vera jourova , said last week that she had herself been a victim of sexual harassment in the past but saw stigmatization as preventing many women in brussels from speaking up .
the weinstein affair was , she feared , the peak of the iceberg .
jourova was speaking to brussels politico news service , which has set up a confidential website that has garnered more than 30 allegations in a week , from both women and men , of offences including rape , connected to the european parliament .