cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - when his family of six crossed the monsoon-soaked mayu mountains last week , mohammed ishmail tied his four-year-old daughter to his back with a longyi , or myanmar sarong .
his wife carried their two-year-old the same way .
some parts were so steep we had to pull ourselves up by tree roots , said ishmail , a rohingya muslim , in an interview near the kutapalong settlement for refugees in bangladesh , shortly after arriving on tuesday .
at night , we just cut a clearing in the bush and slept there .
we had two umbrellas for shelter .
the trek through the dense bush of the mountains took two days , but the journey from his home in khin tha ma village which he says was on fire the last time he saw it - took 10 .
he says it felt like a month .
the number of refugees who have arrived in bangladesh from myanmar s rakhine state since militant attacks there on aug. 25 stands at nearly 150,000 .
they have come by land , river and sea .
many have died along the way .
others have found themselves detained by human traffickers , demanding payment for their rescue .
their destination is the cox s bazar region of impoverished bangladesh , where hundreds of thousands of rohingya already live in makeshift camps , reliant on overstretched aid agencies .
once through the mountains , ishmail s family came across villages in the northern part of the maungdaw district the epicenter of violence in the state since october - that had been abandoned .
by his count , only about one in 20 houses had survived fires that have swept the area .
some people are still hiding in the forest on the maungdaw side but in some villages there s no one , he said .
there was no one to ask directions .
but then there was .
as they reached a canal and were trying to find a way to cross it , he said , two young myanmar soldiers spotted them and aimed their guns , he said .
i put my hands up and shouted , we re going to bangladesh , he said .
there was a tense silence before the soldiers lowered their weapons .
after that they showed us the best way to cross the canal , he added .
in one village , to escape the rain , mohammed ishmail entered a house still standing to find the bodies of five boys , who appeared to be teenagers , their necks hacked and heads nearly severed .
the death toll in the conflict is more than 400 and rising .
myanmar says most of those killed have been insurgents , but accounts from new arrivals in bangladesh suggest reprisals by myanmar security forces and buddhists against rohingya civilians the government says are in cahoots with extremist bengali terrorists .
myanmar rejects accusations that its security forces are targeting civilians saying they are fighting terrorists .
dozens of bodies , including those of women and children , have washed up on the bangladesh side of a border river , many with bullet or knife wounds , according to bangladesh border guards .
fishermen report seeing bodies floating in the river .
reuters was shown one cadaver what looked to be a teenage boy lying face up on the muddy river bank , a gaping wound on his face washed clean by the river .
in maungdaw , thousands of people are on the move .
a rohingya aid worker , who was in touch with reuters during his flight , recorded video of the journey on his mobile phone .
it s like something i ve never seen before , not even in any film , the refugee said after his arrival in cox s bazar .
the footage appears to show hundreds of people lining up to cross a river in laung don village .
some swim across , as two small ferries run back and forth .
at one river crossing , the aid worker said , fighters from the arakan rohingya solidarity organization ( arsa ) prevented ferries from crossing for half a day , telling civilians to return to their homes .
campaign group fortify rights has documented how arsa has prevented men and boys from leaving the area .
the refugee , who asked not to be identified so he could freely discuss his journey , said the fighters backed down when villagers pleaded with them .
in southern maungdaw , the military s campaign has driven tens of thousands of people to the coast .
bangladeshi boatmen , in their hundreds , are going to pick them up .
mostly by night , the wooden crescent-shaped boats that normally ply the fishing grounds of the bay of bengal , make the journey across the 5.7-km ( 3.6 mile ) mouth of the naf river that separates myanmar and bangladesh .
the 5-metre boats are loaded with as many as 50 people and their belongings .
soon after the conflict blew up , boats began landing at shah porir dwip , a remote island off the southernmost tip of bangladesh .
but after three boats capsized in two days last week , killing 24 women and children , authorities launched a crackdown on boatmen and brokers they call human traffickers .
they bring these stranded people here .
if they are not able to pay , the money , they imprison them , pronay chakma , assistant commissioner for land in teknaf sub-district .
more than 50 people have been sentenced to short jail terms as a warning to others not to take advantage of the crisis .
it s mercenary interest , nothing else , he said .
they tried to profit from stranded women and children .