on thursday , while donald trump was in the midst of enjoying his vacation from his 17-day vacation , he decided that republicans weren t working hard enough to strip healthcare from millions of americans .
mitch , get back to work and put repeal & replace , tax reform & cuts and a great infrastructure bill on my desk for signing , trump tweeted , apparently unaware that he has spent a generous portion of his presidency golfing rather than doing his own job .
you can do it !
mitch , get back to work and put repeal & replace , tax reform & cuts and a great infrastructure bill on my desk for signing .
you can do it !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) august 10 , 2017donald trump has spent much of his vacation golfing as usual and toilet-tweeting attacks on barack obama as well as republicans , and at this point seems perfectly willing to destroy his own party to pass his horrifying agenda.trump loves telling others to get back to work , but as of the end of this month he will have already spent three times as many days on vacation as barack obama did in eight years.you are on vacation !
how are you telling someone else to `` get back to work '' ?
( although please , stay on vacation .
permanently ) jules suzdaltsev ( @ jules_su ) august 10 , 2017you 're on a 17 day vacation telling someone to `` get back to work '' ?
sarah wood ( @ sarahwoodwriter ) august 10 , 2017why don t you get back to work coming up with a coherent strategy to deal with north korea ?
oh , wait .
you can t. david gorski ( @ gorskon ) august 10 , 2017you literally have n't even started working yet .
calvin ( @ calvinstowell ) august 10 , 2017you spent yesterday golfing with the owner of a staffing agency and his buds .
you 're the last person to tell anybody to get back to work .
pic.twitter.com/ijhxcxpca6 p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 10 , 2017the funniest thing about this is that you probably attacked mcconnell for not working hard enough yesterday while you were golfing !
pic.twitter.com/1opctqtndp p resists ( @ 4evernevertrump ) august 10 , 2017stay on vacation , you are not well and are a huge detriment to this country .
cj vanston ( @ cjvanston ) august 10 , 2017how 's golfing going ?
adam lance garcia ( @ adamlancegarcia ) august 10 , 2017counterpoint : you want to bang your daughter . ''
if ivanka were n't my daughter perhaps i 'd be dating her '' https : //t.co/m0rkvqv5o1 the deep state ( @ deepstaterogue ) august 10 , 2017our so-called president is a joke .
when he should be focusing on the mess he created with north korea , he is spending his time golfing and attacking mitch mcconnell for not accomplishing anything a weird way to go about things , as the donald is eroding mcconnell s effectiveness by attacking him publicly.it s time for republicans to actually do their jobs and get trump out of office.featured image via getty images ( ian macnicol ) /screengrab