new delhi ( reuters ) - indian prime minister narendra modi was in the final phase of campaigning on thursday to retain power in his home state and stave off the most serious challenge yet from a combined opposition .
the election for a new legislature in the western state of gujarat this weekend is turning out to be a greater challenge for modi than anticipated , the polls show , as rival parties seize on discontent caused by a slowing economy .
gujarat is where modi earned his spurs as a business-friendly chief minister who cut red tape and graft and turned it into an economic powerhouse .
but an unpopular national tax and a shock move last year to withdraw most currency in a fight against graft has hurt gujarat , like the rest of the country , and its businessmen are making loud complaints .
three big polls carried out in the run-up to the vote on saturday and next week have predicted a victory for modi s ruling bharatiya janata party ( bjp ) but with a greatly reduced majority .
an abp-cds poll this week gave the bjp 91-99 seats in the 182-member state house and the main opposition congress 78-86 , suggesting a close fight .
to win a party needs 92 seats .
the surveys have often gone wrong , though , and modi himself remains far more popular across the country than his rivals including rahul gandhi who is leading the congress charge to weaken modi in his home base .
modi has thrown himself into the campaign , addressing dozens of rallies over the past month , saying he alone could deliver on development .
on thursday , he was due to address party colleagues on their mobile phones to ensure a strong voter turnout .
amit shah , the president of the bjp , said the party had full confidence in modi s ability to deliver an emphatic victory .
he knows that only an absolute majority in gujarat polls will legitimize his reforms and silence critics , shah said .
votes from the election will be counted on dec.18 and the results announced the same day .
gujarati businesses - who form the core of modi s support base - have complained about the new goods and services tax as aggravating tough economic conditions .
jagdip desai , a sanitary ware manufacturer , said the complex tax procedures had come on top of slowing demand and he had to fire 3,000 workers .
modi will have to pay a political price for our financial distress .