beijing ( reuters ) - china s air force has conducted more island encirclement patrols near taiwan , its military said on tuesday , after a senior chinese diplomat threatened that china would invade the self-ruled island if any u.s. warships made port visits there .
china considers taiwan to be a wayward province and has never renounced the use of force to bring it under its control .
numerous chinese fighter jets , bombers and surveillance aircraft conducted routine and planned distant sea patrols on monday to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity , air force spokesman shen jinke said on the military branch s microblog .
h-6k bombers , su-30 and j-11 fighter jets , and surveillance , alert and refueling aircraft flew over the miyako strait in japan s south and the bashi channel between taiwan and the philippines to test real combat capabilities , shen said .
taiwan defence minister feng shih-kuan said in a statement they had dispatched aircraft and ships to monitor the activity of the chinese military and that the drills were not unusual and people should not be alarmed .
china has conducted numerous similar patrols near taiwan this year , saying such practices have been normalized as it presses ahead with a military modernization program that includes building aircraft carriers and stealth fighters to give it the ability to project power far from its shores .
beijing regularly calls taiwan the most sensitive and important issue between it and the united states .
taiwan is well armed , mostly with u.s. weaponry , but has been pressing washington to sell it more high-tech equipment to better deter china .
in september , the u.s. congress passed the national defense authorization act for the 2018 fiscal year , which authorizes mutual visits by navy vessels between taiwan and the united states .
that prompted a senior u.s.-based chinese diplomat to say last week that china would invade taiwan the instant any u.s. navy vessel visited taiwan .
china suspects taiwan president tsai ing-wen , who leads the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , wants to declare the island s formal independence .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security .