brussels ( reuters ) - the european union and britain made progress in the latest round of divorce talks , but not enough to move to the next phase of discussions on a transition period after brexit or a future trade deal , top negotiators said on thursday .
we have had a constructive week , yes , but we are not yet there in terms of achieving sufficient progress .
further work is needed in the coming weeks and months , chief eu negotiator michel barnier told reporters , praising a new dynamic created by concessions made last week by prime minister theresa may .
she had hoped that a speech she made in florence on friday would unblock the three-month-old talks and pave the way for the eu to open discussions on a post-brexit free trade deal , by allowing barnier to tell eu leaders that there is sufficient progress on three key divorce issues - rights for expatriate citizens , the northern irish border and britain s exit bill .
differences over the role of the european court of justice and how much london will owe brussels remain major obstacles .
officials involved said there had been a better atmosphere this week .
one eu official said may had averted the train crash which might have resulted from another week of stubborn deadlock .
that would have increased risks of britain simply crashing out of the union into legal limbo in march 2019 .
british brexit secretary david davis said the talks achieved considerable progress over the four days in brussels .
he repeated his eagerness to move on to discuss what happens after brexit and the two-year transition period which may requested , during which britain would remain in the eu single market .
we must never forget the bigger picture .
britain wants to be the european union s strongest friend and partner , he said , echoing may .
i leave brussels optimistic about this future .
officials said transition issues were not raised this week .
barnier said he would take stock of progress with leaders of the other 27 eu states at a brussels summit in three weeks time , a week after the next negotiating round .
but he gave no indication of how likely he is to recommend opening trade talks .
and sufficient progress has been deliberately left undefined .
eu diplomats doubt barnier will be satisfied by october and many see a december summit as a more likely moment to open the trade negotiations .
however , officials said there could be some blurring of the eu refusal to discuss post-brexit issues if the sides narrow differences and gain confidence in settling terms .
barnier highlighted two key areas of disagreement - on the legal protection for the rights of the 3 million eu citizens in britain and on a pre-brexit settlement from britain for a share of outstanding financial commitments made during its membership .
new figures from eu auditors on thursday showed that the sum at stake may be growing as talks continue , simply due to delays in the bloc s spending of already agreed payments .
may said on friday that britain would ensure the other 27 were not out of pocket in the current eu budget period and that it would honour commitments .
barnier expressed disappointment that negotiators had made clear she meant to end those budget payments in 2020 , even though payments from the current 2014-20 budget will go on for some years beyond that .
and london had given him no detail on what other commitments it would meet .
on citizens rights , he welcomed davis confirmation that the treaty guaranteeing them should now have direct effect in british law .
that tightens a link between what the eu negotiates and what its citizens can count on in future in british courts .
but the union continues to demand that people also have the right to pursue grievances at the eu s own court in luxembourg - a red line for a british government keen to show voters who backed brexit last year that they have taken back control .
welcoming a guarantee that britain would safeguard rights in a way consistent with eu law , barnier said : we failed to agree that the european court of justice must play an indispensable role in ensuring this consistency .