valletta ( reuters ) - thousands of mourners at a funeral on friday for slain maltese anti-corruption blogger daphne caruana galizia heard a plea for the protection of journalistic freedoms and a warning to her unknown killers that they face the justice of god .
the island s president , prime minister and opposition leader , all targeted in caruana galizia s writing , stayed away from the private ceremony , but european parliament president antonio tajani attended as a guest of the family .
the island observed a day of mourning and flags flew at half mast in brussels during the funeral at malta s biggest church , near the capital valletta and two miles from the site where the 53-year-old was killed by a car bomb as she left her home on oct. 16 .
archbishop charles scicluna , who led the funeral mass , addressed the unknown killers , saying , however hard you try to evade the justice of men , you will never escape from the justice of god .
repent before it is too late .
he then told journalists not to be afraid .
i encourage you never to grow weary in your mission to be the eyes , the ears , and the mouth of the people ... we need people in your profession who are unshackled , who are free , intelligent , inquisitive , honest , serene , safe and protected .
reflecting concern in neighboring countries about possible failings in democracy and the rule of law in malta , the european union vowed earlier on friday to make sure its smallest state found the barbarous killers .
tajani was also due to visit the offices of a newspaper for which she worked as a contributor , and caruana galizia s family was invited to a sitting in parliament to commemorate her .
the island s government is offering a one million-euro ( $ 1.16 million ) reward for information about the culprits and has asked the u.s. federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) to help .
but the caruana galizia family refused to endorse the reward , called for the resignation of the prime minister , the police commissioner and the attorney general , and insisted there could be no justice without institutional change .
their calls have been echoed by opposition leader adrian delia , who said the police commissioner and attorney general s failure to act when caruana galizia revealed corruption created the circumstances leading to the assassination .
mourners applauded , made v for victory signs and sung the national anthem as the coffin was carried to a hearse .
some chanted justice .
caruana galizia s husband and three adult sons stood solemnly , occasionally hugged by mourners .
malta s chief justice and former prime ministers lawrence gonzi and eddie fenech adami also attended .
a household name in malta , caruana galizia was well-known for stirring up passions and dividing opinion .
her murder shocked the tiny country and was condemned by all political parties , but controversy continued on the day of her burial .
maltese news websites reported several critical facebook posts including one referring to a demonstration outside police headquarters planned by a group of ngos which is demanding the commissioner s resignation .
you d have to wonder why you never get a truck mowing people down here in malta .
who knows ?
maybe that will happen at sunday s protest .
i d love to see them crushed in the middle of the road , one read .
( $ 1 = 0.8607 euros )