manila ( reuters ) - two weeks ahead of a regional summit , philippine president rodrigo duterte on thursday urged greater cooperation to battle islamist militancy , following military victories in iraq , syria and the southern philippine city of marawi .
philippine foreign minister alan peter cayetano said duterte would discuss the fight against terrorism , a key priority , with asean leaders and regional partners , including u.s. president donald trump , gathering at a summit in manila on nov. 13 .
the defeat suffered by the islamic state in iraq , syria , and the philippines does not mean the fight is over , cayetano said in a statement a day after an islamic state-inspired attack in new york killed eight people and injured 11 .
the terrorist attacks in new york and other places abroad during the past several weeks tell us the threat remains real .
in marawi , soldiers killed two pro-islamic state gunmen and arrested an indonesian militant a week after the army declared victory over the maute group , which occupied large parts of the lakeside city for five months .
it was the biggest security crisis in years for the roman catholic-majority philippines , triggering concerns the island of mindanao could become a magnet for islamic state fighters driven out of iraq and syria .
more than 1,100 people , mostly rebels , were killed in the battle and air strike have leveled the heart of the city of 200,000 .
six army battalions are still in the ruined city hunting the remaining militants , who number about 40 , based on information from the captured indonesian , said colonel romeo brawner , deputy commander of a military task force .
cayetano said the philippines , during the asean summit , want to deepen and strengthen its cooperation with allies , by stepping up efforts to share intelligence , training and build resources , among others .
also on the summit agenda are north korea s ballistic missile tests and nuclear weapons program , overlapping claims in the south china sea and wider regional trade pacts .
the philippines will urge its allies to step up efforts to hunt down islamic state and affiliates worldwide .
there are still two smaller pro-islamic state militant groups in the southern philippines .