the victim of the angry bernie sanders supporter has an amazing attitude .
it s the civility many of us have come to expect from trump supporters who ve been unjustly attacked by uncivil and in many cases , unlawful bernie sanders supporters .
a politically-motivated vandal in washington state admittedly vandalized a trump supporter s car , slashing its tires and dumping rotten yogurt through its sun roof , according to a police report filed last monday.the suspect , named in the report as one riley m. silva of gig harbour , washington , confessed his crime to the police .
showing no sign of remorse , he claimed his victim was an ignorant bigot and that he improved the community by vandalizing the car .
according to the report , the culprit became angry after noticing that the car sported a donald trump sticker.his full confession to the police , which was originally posted on the blog of lawyer and author mike cernovich , reads as follows : i on the 11th day of the 4th month of 2016 did maliciously attack a hate symbol protected by the first amendment .
after disabling the vehicle and dumping rotten food into the interior i feel i have improved the community and supported our nation s values by stopping a promoter of hate speech .
i do not wish to have ignorant bigots in my town and in a just world the person deserved what was received and the situation is made whole.as america is far from just , i expect the bigot will want to be made whole .
with this i declare he is owed nothng .
but as the situation is what it is , i intend to make the individual whole provided he cease to promote ignorance and hate .
i do not expect the law to recognize damage to tools of hate or fascism .
such things need to be destroyed so good people may remain and become free.the victim , nathan elliot , later posted pictures of the damage to his vehicle .
in his statement to the police , he said that the damage to the tire alone would cost $ 500 to repair.bernie sanders supporter did n't like my trump bumper sticker , so he vandalized my personal property .
cool .
pic.twitter.com/qghclfl2ak nate ( @ pulsarvision ) april 10 , 2016the police report describes riley silva as a skinny white male in his 20s , with long blond hair .
the victim saw him while he was in the process of vandalizing his car , at which point he yelled at and ran towards the culprit , who fled in his own vehicle .
in the report , elliot claims that the culprit almost hit two other cars as he drove away from the scene .
in addition to vandalizing the victim s car , silva has been charged with reckless driving .
-breitbart newseven though i have amazing @ usaa insurance , all costs will come out of my own pocket .
that 's a $ 400 tire by the way .
nate ( @ pulsarvision ) april 12 , 2016usaa insurance tweeted an awesome reply to nathan : @ pulsarvision we are here to help .
is this a claim related need ?
please dm us your full name , claim # if applicable and you phone # .
thank u usaa ( @ usaa_help ) april 12 , 2016update on nathan s new tire : @ breitbartnews @ cernovich @ danscavino @ realdonaldtrump @ nero update : new tire came in today ca n't tread on me ! ! !
pic.twitter.com/alvpdlym85 nate ( @ pulsarvision ) april 16 , 2016nathan has the perfect response to the violent bernie sanders supporters : it was only through learning how much others don t like the truth exposed , that i learned for myself how much i crave its very existence .
nate ( @ pulsarvision ) february 14 , 2016