21st century wire says on twitter today , president donald trump announced that he will ban transgender people from serving in the us military in any capacity.the move reverses barack obama s previous decision to allow transgender personnel from serving.trump explained the practical dillemas in being forced to cater to the progressive gender agenda : after consultation with my generals and military experts , please be advised that the united states government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the u.s. military .
our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and can not be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail .
after consultation with my generals and military experts , please be advised that the united states government will not accept or allow donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the u.s. military .
our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .victory and can not be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail .
thank you donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017former us olympic decathalon gold medal winner bruce jenner recently began a sex change and has since renamed himself caitlyn jenner.after trump s announcement , jenner then tweeted : there are 15,000 patriotic transgender americans in the us military fighting for all of us .
what happened to your promise to fight for them ?
there are 15,000 patriotic transgender americans in the us military fighting for all of us .
what happened to your promise to fight for them ?
https : //t.co/wzjypvc8sr caitlyn jenner ( @ caitlyn_jenner ) july 26 , 2017editor s note : no doubt , the russians , the chinese , isis and north korea must be shaking in their boots at the mere thought of jenner s military proposition.star trek actor and lgbt activist , george takei , lashed-out against trump s tweets on wednesday : donald : with your ban on trans people from the military , you are on notice that you just pissed off the wrong community .
you will regret it .
george takei ( @ georgetakei ) july 26 , 2017see other liberal celebrities twitter reactions as well as chelsea manning here.watch this interview on liberal daytime tv talk show , the view , as jenner explains his/her politics and what it s like to be a transgender registered republican : read more politically correct news at : 21st century wire pc filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv