juba ( reuters ) - at least 45 people have died in fighting between ethnic groups in south sudan s northern state of western lakes , a local official said , in a new source of violence in a country already devastated by a four-year civil war .
shadrack bol maachok , the state s information minister , said the clashes in malek county started after a group of young people from the ruop ethnic group attacked rival youth from the pakam tribe on wednesday and thursday .
early on friday , the pakam fighters launched a revenge assault on the ruop , with the fighting still raging late into the day .
it was a very heavy fighting , it has left more than 45 people dead and many injured , he said .
the death toll is likely to climb as the area is remote and officials are still trying to gather information on the incident , he said .
in the clashes , houses were burned down and properties destroyed , maachok said , adding that south sudan s military , spla , had deployed troops from the state capital rumbek to try to stop the violence .
the un mission in south sudan unmiss estimated the death toll at more than 50 and said it had dispatched a military patrol to the area to establish the level of destruction and the impact on civilians .
we hope to engage the leaders of the fighting parties to press the need to refrain from revenge attacks .
we will also intensify patrols to deter further violence , unmiss said .
south sudan was plunged into war in 2013 after a political disagreement between president salva kiir and his former vice president riek machar escalated into a military confrontation .
the fighting has killed tens of thousands , uprooted about a quarter of the country s population of 12 million people and left its small , oil-dependant economy moribund .
violence between rival communities is common in parts of south sudan , often triggered by quarrels over scarce grazing land and cultural and political grievances .
but the death toll is rarely large .
the minister said this week s skirmishes stemmed from disputes dating back to 2013 but it was not clear what exactly sparked the grievances .