lashkar gah , afghanistan/kabul ( reuters ) - as u.s. and afghan forces pound taliban drug factories this week , farmers in the country s largest opium producing-province and narcotics experts say the strategy just repeats previous failed efforts to stamp out the trade .
u.s. army general john nicholson , who heads nato-led forces in afghanistan , announced on monday a new strategy of attacking opium factories , saying he wanted to hit the taliban where it hurts , in their narcotics financing .
critics say the policy risks further civilian casualties and turning large swathes of the population dependent on poppy cultivation against the afghan government .
the taliban will not be affected by this as much as ordinary people , said mohammad nabi , a poppy farmer in nad ali district in the southern province of helmand , the heartland of opium production .
farmers are not growing poppies for fun .
if factories are closed and businesses are gone , then how will they provide food for their families ?
opium production in afghanistan reached record highs this year , up 87 percent , according to the united nations .
the u.n. office on drugs and crime ( unodc ) said last week that output of opium from poppy seeds in afghanistan , the world s main source of heroin , stood at around 9,000 metric tons in 2017 , worth an estimated $ 1.4 billion on leaving the farms .
in helmand , cultivation area increased 79 percent .
publicizing the new strategy , which he said was open-ended , nicholson showed one video of an f-22 fighter jet dropping 250-pound bombs on two buildings , emphasizing that a nearby third building was left unscathed .
u.s. troops have long been accused of causing unnecessary collateral damage and civilian deaths .
the united states says it takes every precaution to avoid civilian casualties .
the four-star general emphasized that farmers were not the targets .
they are largely compelled to grow the poppy and this is kind of a tragic part of the story , said nicholson .
whack-a-mole experts , however , question whether the new strategy will have an impact on taliban financing .
all these things have been tried before and not produced effective results .
if they had , we wouldn t be where we are now , said orzala nemat , director of the kabul-based afghanistan research and evaluation unit , which has been researching the country s drug trade for a decade and a half .
another analyst said it was simply a futile game of whack-a-mole .
those familiar with the drug industry in afghanistan said it would only take three or four days to replace a lab , which generally has a low sunk-cost .
they also say it was not just the taliban involved in afghanistan s drug trade .
drugs are elemental to the political economy of afghanistan , to those who rule and to those who oppose that rule , said one analyst , asking not to be named .
prior to being ousted by u.s.-led forces in 2001 , the taliban virtually eliminated the trade , saying it was forbidden by islam .
the united states and its western allies , the afghan government and united nations have made repeated efforts since to eradicate poppy cultivation , including encouraging farmers to cultivate alternatives such as saffron , spraying poppy fields with herbicide , and destroying labs .
however , they have not made any serious headway in stemming the rise in drug production .
the issue underlines problems faced by the afghan government and its allies , as they seek to cut off a major source of financing for the taliban and stem the flow of drugs to europe .
the taliban said that u.s. forces were mistaken in their targeting and were hitting civilians .
there are no drug producing factories in these areas .
invading americans are carrying out these attacks based on false information and to make propaganda , which most of its victims are civilians , said taliban spokesman qari yousuf ahmadi on wednesday .
although world bank projections show afghanistan s economy picking up modestly , the improvement is more than offset by population growth , leaving many in rural areas saying they have no alternative to growing poppies .
the government must provide jobs so people can feed their families and survive , said poppy farmer haji daoud in sangin , helmand .
it should provide security and infrastructure .