washington ( reuters ) - donors say republican jeb bush ’ s u.s. presidential campaign has not given them a green light to switch to rival establishment candidate marco rubio , whose strong third-place finish in this week ’ s iowa caucuses outshone the sixth-place bush .
a former florida governor , bush , 62 , is hoping for a better result in new hampshire , the state which on tuesday will hold the country ’ s second nominating contest for the nov. 8 election to succeed president barack obama .
u.s .
senator rubio , 44 , also of florida , emerged as the leading moderate , establishment republican candidate in iowa , behind u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas , 45 , and billionaire businessman donald trump , 69 .
senior campaign officials for bush have been seeking to reassure donors that the one-time front-runner has a path forward after his dismal iowa showing , three bush donors told reuters .
they said senior aides to bush held conference calls for donors on tuesday to reassure them , offering an upbeat message about bush ’ s finances and ground game in new hampshire and a determination to press on .
rubio began the year with more than $ 10 million in cash on hand , his campaign reported on sunday .
bush reported cash on hand as of sunday of $ 7.6 million .
bush , campaigning later this week in new hampshire with his mother , former first lady barbara bush , has benefited from the intense loyalty donors have shown his father and brother , former presidents george h.w .
bush and george w. bush .
the donors said there was no indication bush would shy away from contrasting himself with either rubio or cruz .
“ people who are for jeb are for jeb , ” one donor said .
on the campaign trail this week bush has questioned the abilities of freshman u.s. senators - both rubio and cruz are first-term senators - by saying they lacked his proven record .
( reporting by steve holland ; editing by howard goller ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .