louisville , ky. ( reuters ) - protesters at a donald trump rally in kentucky last tuesday have filed complaints with police claiming they were assaulted by trump supporters , according to police and protesters .
henry brousseau , 17 , of louisville , said he went to the super tuesday event at the kentucky international convention center in louisville to protest trump ’ s campaign and was punched in the stomach by a woman who was wearing a t-shirt of the traditionalist worker party .
“ we ’ re going to see how the police can find out who she is and hopefully we ’ ll move on from there , ” he said in a telephone interview .
another protester , molly shah , 36 , also of louisville , said that she , too , had filed a complaint .
alicia smiley , spokeswoman for the louisville metropolitan police department , said three complaints were filed on wednesday and thursday and were under review .
these would mark the latest clashes between trump supporters , security , and protesters .
the day before trump visited louisville , black students were removed from a rally in georgia .
a website for the traditionalist worker party describes it as a grassroots political organization that believes , among other things , that “ european-american identity is under constant attack. ” the southern poverty law center , a non-profit civil rights and public interest advocacy organization that monitors groups it considers extremist , classifies the traditionalist worker party as a white nationalist hate group , said ryan lentz , a writer and researcher for the center .
brousseau , who is white and transgender , said he joined people from black lives matter , parents for social justice , showing up for racial justice and other groups that went to the trump rally to protest .
video footage that has been circulated on social and traditional media shows people in traditionalist worker party t-shirts pushing people , notably a young black woman , and taking their protest signs .
trump campaign spokeswoman hope hicks said in an email that the campaign does not comment on security matters .
the traditionalist worker party did not respond to requests for comment , and its website , tradworker.org , does not say where it is based .
matthew heimbach , the group ’ s chairman , wrote in a blog on the website of the traditionalist youth network that the protesters , including those from black lives matter , were the aggressors .
and he tweeted , “ its ( sic ) funny how blm comes to a trump event to fight , starts the fight and then loses the fight but plays big victims to the media. ” southern poverty law center ’ s lentz said , “ matthew is a figure who is core to the white nationalists and white supremacist culture as it is right now in the u.s. ” for more on the 2016 presidential race , see the reuters blog , “ tales from the trail ” ( here ) .
( editing by fiona ortiz and james dalgleish ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .