what happens when hillary s poll numbers take a nose-dive after she s caught having convulsions in a press-free zone , passes out , and has to lifted into her vehicle by secret service ?
what happens when the public realizes hillary is a sociopathic liar and they decide they can no longer support her , even if her genitalia matches theirs ?
they panic and then they resort to the most despicable act of all impugning the character of donald j. trump by using a frog to paint him as a racist !
pinning him to one person on twitter who used pepe the frog to push a white nationalist message .
according to the liberal rag the daily beast the twitter user is a self-proclaimed 19 yr old white supremacist .
the hillary campaign is desperate , and is looking for any excuse they can think of to take down their formidable opponent , donald j. trump .
how do they do it ?
with a frog from the hillary.com website : over the weekend , donald trump s son and one of his closest advisers posted an odd photo on their social media accounts : this raised some important questions.that s pepe .
he s a symbol associated with white supremacy.that s right.here s the short version : pepe is a cartoon frog who began his internet life as an innocent meme enjoyed by teenagers and pop stars alike.but in recent months , pepe s been almost entirely co-opted by the white supremacists who call themselves the alt-right .
they ve decided to take back pepe by adding swastikas and other symbols of anti-semitism and white supremacy .
we basically mixed pepe in with nazi propaganda , etc .
we built that association , one prominent white supremacist told the daily beast.trump has retweeted his white supremacist supporters with regularity , but the connection between the alt-right and his campaign continues to strengthen .
trump has been slow to disavow support from ku klux klansmen ( hillary is the only candidate who has received over $ 20,000 in donations from the kkk and has been openly endorsed by the hate group ) and white supremacy groups , and he recently hired breitbart.com s steve bannon as his campaign ceo ( and bannon isn t shy about the fact that his news organization is the platform for the alt-right ) .now white supremacists have given pepe the cartoon frog some trump hair and the candidate s own son says he is honored to be grouped with him.let me get this straight : trump s presidential campaign is posting memes associated with white supremacy online ? yes.like all great art , pepe was open to endless interpretation , but at the end of the day , he meant whatever you wanted him to mean .
all in good fun , teens made batman pepe , supermarket checkout girl pepe , borat pepe , keith haring pepe , and carved pepe pumpkins.but he also embodied existential angst .
pepe , the grimiest but most versatile meme of all , was both hero and antihero a symbol fit for all of life s ups and downs and the full spectrum of human emotions , as they played out online.on social media , pepe became inescapable .
katy perry tweeted a crying pepe with the caption australian jet lag got me like , racking up over 10,000 retweets .
nicki minaj posted a twerking pepe on instagram with the caption me on instagram for the next few weeks trying to get my followers back up , which 282,000 users liked .
and then , recently , things took a turn : pepe became socially unacceptable.here is a screen shot of the parody account @ jaredtswift the daily beast and hillary s campaign refer to : yep that s it .
pepe the frog was used by a singe twitter user who clearly identifies his account as parody , so if trump or anyone associated with trump uses pepe the frog ( who has been used by literally hundreds of thousands of social media users ) trump must be a racist !
there is absolutely no mention of jared taylor swift s support for donald j. trump in his bio or in his pepe the frog posts .
but that s how these liberal rags roll , and hillary jumped right on that bandwagon without any evidence whatsoever , in a desperate effort to tie trump to this one anonymous parody twitter user.this youtube video does a great job of mocking hillary and her campaign for attempting to pin a racist label on the cartoon frog in hopes that it would in turn make american voters believe trump is a racist just like the cartoon frog enjoy :