denpasar , indonesia ( reuters ) - indonesia closed the airport on the tourist island of bali on monday and ordered 100,000 residents living near a grumbling volcano spewing columns of ash to evacuate immediately , warning that the first major eruption in 54 years could be imminent .
the airport was closed for 24 hours from monday morning , disrupting 445 flights and some 59,000 passengers , after mount agung , which killed hundreds of people in 1963 , sent volcanic ash high into the sky , and officials said cancellations could be extended .
plumes of smoke are occasionally accompanied by explosive eruptions and the sound of weak blasts that can be heard up to 12 km ( 7 miles ) from the peak , the disaster mitigation agency ( bnpb ) said in a statement after raising the alert from three to its highest level of four .
the potential for a larger eruption is imminent , it said , referring to a visible glow of magma at mount agung s peak overnight , and warning residents to evacuate a danger zone at a radius of 8-10 km ( 5-6 miles ) .
sutopo , a bnpb spokesman , said there had been no casualties so far and 40,000 people had left the area , but tens of thousands still needed to move .
video footage shared by the agency showed volcanic mud flows ( lahar ) on the mountainside .
lahar carrying mud and large boulders can destroy houses , bridges and roads in its path .
bali , famous for its surf , beaches and temples , attracted nearly 5 million visitors last year , and its airport serves as a transport hub for the chain of islands in indonesia s eastern archipelago .
but tourism has slumped in parts of bali since september when agung s volcanic tremors began to increase and the alert level was raised to maximum before being lowered in october when seismic activity calmed .
i m really worried .
maybe i ll go somewhere south that i think will be safe to avoid being trapped by the ashfall , said maria becker , a german tourist staying in amed , around 15 km ( 9 miles ) from the volcano .
agung rises majestically over eastern bali to a height of just over 3,000 metres ( 9,800 feet ) .
northeastern bali is relatively undeveloped compared to the more heavily populated southern tourist hub of kuta-seminyak-nusa dua .
indonesia s vulcanology and geological disaster mitigation centre ( pvmbg ) , which is using drones , satellite imagery and other equipment , said predictions were difficult in the absence of instrumental recordings from the last eruption 54 years ago .
in 1963 , an eruption of agung killed more than 1,000 people and razed several villages by hurling out pyroclastic material , hot ash , lava and lahar .
recordings now show the northeast area of agung s peak has swollen in recent weeks indicating there is fairly strong pressure toward the surface , pvmbg said .
it warned that if a similar eruption occurred , it could send rocks bigger than fist-size up to 8 km ( 5 miles ) from the summit and volcanic gas to a distance of 10 km ( 6 miles ) within three minutes .
some analysis , however , suggests the threat should not be as great this time because energy at mount agung s magma chamber is not as big and the ash column only around a quarter as high so far as the 20 km ( 12 miles ) reached in 1963 , sutopo said .
check-ins closed bali airport , about 60 km ( 37 miles ) from the volcano , will be closed for 24 hours , its operator said .
ten alternative airports have been prepared for airlines to divert inbound flights , including in neighboring provinces .
virgin australia holdings ltd said it was cancelling flights on tuesday , while jetstar was offering to exchange bali bound tickets for other destinations .
television footage showed hundreds of holidaymakers camped inside the airport terminal , some sleeping on their bags , others using mobile telephones .
we have been here ( in bali ) for three days we are about to leave today , but just found out our flights have been canceled .
we have got no information because the gates , the check-ins , have been closed indefinitely , said carlo oben from los angeles .
cover-more , australia s biggest travel insurer , said on its website customers would only be covered if they had bought policies before the volcano alert was first issued on sept. 18 .
indonesia s hotel and restaurant association said stranded tourists at member hotels would get one night s free stay .
the main airport on lombok , next to bali , was closed after being open for much of the day , a spokesman said .
airlines avoid flying when volcanic ash is present because it can damage engines and can clog fuel and cooling systems and hamper visibility .
( for interactive package on agung eruptions , click tmsnrt.rs/2aayrvh ) ( for graphic on pacific ring of fire , click tmsnrt.rs/2azr9jv )