geneva ( reuters ) - the united nations said on thursday that it was extending a round of syria talks in geneva until dec. 15 aimed at shaping a political solution to end the war , but that the presidency had not yet been discussed .
u.n. mediator staffan de mistura said that the talks would focus in particular on a new constitution and u.n.-supervised parliamentary and presidential elections , as well as on 12 core principles that he declined to enumerate .
we have not discussed the issue of the presidency .
we have been discussing the 12 principles .
you will see they are of a broad nature but they have an impact on everything in the future constitution , he told a news conference .
these are essential because they do refer to what could be a shared vision of the kind of syria that the syrians want to live in , he said .
syria s opposition has always said that president bashar al-assad must step down , but his negotiators have refused to discuss the issue , and his recent successes on the battlefield have strengthened his hand .
i want to believe that that issue should come up from the syrians through u.n.-supervised elections , de mistura said .
with more than two weeks ahead , the round was effectively just beginning , he said , noting that the government negotiators had arrived late and might take a few days out to consult and refresh in damascus before returning to geneva around tuesday .
on thursday he began shuttling between the two sides , installed in separate rooms off the same corridor , but he said having contact in person was less important than meeting on the substance , and the atmosphere was professional and serious on both sides .
he said the talks had solid diplomatic backing , with recent support from russian president vladimir putin , u.s. president donald trump , and assad , as well as a telephone call from u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson at the start of the round .
the defeat of islamic state in its main strongholds in syria had also produced a moment of truth .
all this takes place against quite a backdrop .
it s just not a normal round of talks , de mistura said .
have you seen how people are talking to each other , how those who were involved in the conflict for the first time are taking positions that are in the direction of a political dialogue ?
and for the first time in eight rounds of syria talks presided over by de mistura , the opposition is represented by a unified negotiating team , raising the possibility of direct talks between the two sides .