geneva ( reuters ) - iraq is not capable of trying atrocities committed by islamic state during the battle for mosul so it must find other routes to justice such as the international criminal court ( icc ) , a u.n. human rights report said on thursday .
at least 2,521 civilians were killed during the nine-month battle including 741 people who were executed , the report said .
most died as a result of islamic state ( isil ) attacks .
it cited testimonies of mass abductions by islamic state , as well as killings , the use of human shields , and deliberate targeting of civilians and their homes .
isil planted a huge number of improvised explosive devices and used drones to drop explosives in mosul , a city of 1.5 million , as well as setting fire to sulphur fields and oil wells , it said .
its forces desecrated religious sites and last june blew up the al-nuri mosque from which its leader abu bakr al-baghdadi had declared the caliphate spanning parts of iraq and syria in 2014 , it said .
iraqi courts and tribunals do not have jurisdiction over international crimes ( such as genocide , crimes against humanity and war crimes ) - and prosecutors , police investigators and judges lack capacity to ... ( investigate ) , charge and try persons in relation to such crimes , the report said , calling for it to amend domestic law .
iraqi law did not do enough to guarantee due process or fair trials , it said .
accepting the jurisdiction of the hague-based icc and finding other ways to ensure crimes were tried by a competent court would reassure the international community that iraq is serious about getting justice , which was key to rebuilding trust and reconciliation , it said .
atleast 74 massgraveshave been discovered since june 2014 in areas previouslyheld by isilin iraq , the u.n. report said .
these included in sinjar , the northwestern city where the u.n. has said islamic state committed genocide against the kurdish-speaking yazidi religious minority whom the sunni militants view as infidels .
iraq and the international community have a duty to ensure those crimes are prosecuted , syracuse university professor and former war crimes prosecutor david crane said on wednesday in a separate report into the genocide , issued by his law school s syrian accountability project .
bringing isis to justice for genocide against the yazidi community , at the domestic or the international level , will depend on the strategic preservation of forensic evidence , crane s report said .
the u.n. report also called on iraqi authorities to investigate crimes allegedly committed by iraqi-backed forces during the operation , including mass abductions and unlawful killings .
it called for a separate investigation into air strikes by the international coalition .
it said the u.n. had recorded 461 civilian deaths from air strikes during the most intensive phase of the battle for western mosul , from feb. 19 .