( reuters ) - china s ruling communist party on wednesday unveiled its core decision-making body , the politburo standing committee , headed by president xi jinping .
here is the list of the new committee , all men , by order of seniority : - xi jinping , 64 , is widely seen as china s most powerful leader since chairman mao zedong .
he was once viewed as a drab princeling child of the elite .
but since soaring to power in 2012 , xi has centralized authority under his own leadership with a signature anti-graft battle .
his political theory - xi jinping thought on socialism with chinese characteristics for a new era - was written into the party constitution on tuesday .
- li keqiang , 62 , as premier has overseen china s economy for the last five years .
li s policies have sought to spur entrepreneurship and innovation , but he has been increasingly overshadowed by xi , who has thrown his weight behind reforms to make state sector firms stronger , better and bigger and to manage financial stability .
- li zhanshu , 67 , heads the party s general office .
he worked his way up from hebei province , which surrounds beijing , and graduated from hebei normal university .
a former governor of the northeastern province of heilongjiang and one-time party boss of the southwestern province of guizhou , li zhanshu is considered one of xi s closest advisors and often accompanies him on overseas trips .
their friendship dates back to their days working together in hebei in the 1980s .
- wang yang , 62 , is a vice premier with an economic portfolio and a former party chief of guangdong province , an export powerhouse , where he served from 2007-2012 .
born into a poor rural family in eastern anhui province , wang went to work in a factory at age 17 to support his family after his father died .
concerned about the impact of three decades of rapid development , he lobbied for social and political reform .
however , he backed down after drawing criticism from party conservatives .
- wang huning , 62 this month , was a top policy researcher for the party under former presidents jiang zemin and hu jintao , a position he has kept under xi as head of the central policy research office .
wang coined the three represents and scientific outlook of development - respectively jiang and hu s contributions to party thought , as well as the chinese dream , xi s own vision .
wang was formerly an academic at shanghai s fudan university , specializing first in international relations and then law .
he is also considered one of xi s closest advisors .
- zhao leji , 60 , was also named the chinese communist party s new anti-corruption chief on wednesday .
he was named vice governor of the northwestern province of qinghai in 1994 at age 37 .
zhao spent 29 years in qinghai before being picked by xi to serve as party boss of shaanxi province , in the northwest , in 2007 .
both zhao and xi are natives of shaanxi .
zhao heads the powerful organization department , which oversees personnel decisions , and is a politburo member .
he has a degree in philosophy from peking university .
- han zheng , 63 , is party chief of shanghai , china s financial hub , where he has spent his entire career .
han was briefly promoted from shanghai mayor after the then-party boss was sacked amid a corruption scandal in 2006 .
he resumed his mayoral role as xi jinping and then yu zhengsheng - currently the party s fourth-ranked leader - became party chief .
han became shanghai party boss in 2012 .
( this version of the story has been refiled to fix spelling of politburo in headline )