a group of lawmakers is planning to request a congressional investigation of a $ 418 million u.s. weapons sale to kenya approved by the obama administration on its last day in office .
the sale , approved by the state department and privately notified to congress on january 19 , would allow kenya to buy 14 weaponized crop-duster-like planes including two trainer planes and services , for missions against terrorist group al-shabaab.the deal was publicly announced the monday after trump s inauguration.a handful of lawmakers , led by rep. ted budd ( r-nc ) , are questioning why the contract to produce the planes was awarded to major defense firm l3 technologies which has never produced such a plane while a smaller , disabled veteran-owned company in north carolina that already make those planes at a lower cost was not considered.the l3 contract would primarily benefit its platform integration division in waco , texas .
an l3 spokesman did not respond to a phone call asking for comment.budd said the current deal is not a good one for the kenyans either .
he met with the kenyan deputy chief of mission last monday , who was allegedly flabbergasted they were potentially paying almost $ 200 million more than necessary .
we ve had several kenyans reach out and thank us , he said.several kenyan analysts also questioned the sale on twitter , with the accompanying hashtag # kdfweaponsscam .
kdf is short for kenyan defense force.we could have bought 5 of these bell boeing v-22 ospreys at the $ 418 million expenditure # kdfweaponsscam pic.twitter.com/2xxds9g7vt the muthoka ( @ muthokatito ) february 17 , 2017a us congressman has moved to halt kenya 's pending arms purchase saying that kenya is getting a raw deal out of it .
# kdfweaponsscam patriot ( @ paulkiarie_ ) february 17 , 2017this twitter user questions the thuggery of the government that according to this user is currently over $ 3 trillion in debt.the kind of thuggery being witnessed by jubilee govt is the worst the public debt stands at over 3 trillion up from 1.6 # kdfweaponsscam mafioso ( @ elchapo_jnr ) february 17 , 2017the mooresville , n.c. company , iomax usa inc. , costed out 14 planes at $ 237 million dollars , according to a budd aide .
it looks like politics , budd said in a phone interview with breitbart news on monday .
why are they sending it to someone that s produced zero , for twice the price ?
this is inappropriate .
later this week , budd and several other gop congressmen are planning to request the non-partisan investigation.it is not just republicans puzzled by the matter .
georgia democrat sanford bishop will join republicans in signing a letter being sent to the kenyan ambassador to the u.s. on tuesday.for entire story : breitbart news