doha ( reuters ) - qatar s ruler said he is ready for u.s.-hosted direct talks aimed at solving the worst diplomatic crisis in the gulf in years but has yet to hear a response to u.s. president donald trump s invitation to the four arab states boycotting doha .
speaking to u.s. broadcaster cbs news , qatari emir sheikh tamim bin hamad al-thani said he wanted an end to the dispute , which erupted on june 5 and pits saudi arabia , bahrain , the united arab emirates and egypt against qatar .
nothing is going to be above our dignity , our sovereignty .
but we want it to end .
i always say that , he told the 60 minutes program in an interview aired on sunday .
if they ( are ) going to walk one meter toward me , i m willing to walk 10,000 miles towards them , he said .
the four countries have cut diplomatic , transport and trade ties with qatar , the world s top seller of liquefied natural gas , accusing it of financing terrorism .
doha denies the charges .
the dispute has hit travel and food imports and ratcheted up tensions in a wealthy region which plays a leading role in global energy markets as well as events across the wider middle east .
on sunday , bahrain s foreign minister called for freezing qatar s membership out of the gulf cooperation council ( gcc ) to preserve its unity , adding that bahrain will not attend the upcoming gcc summit if qatar does not change its stand .
qatar hosts al udeid air base , the largest u.s. military facility in the middle east .
sheikh tamim said trump had told him i will not accept my friends fighting amongst themselves , and that in talks on the sidelines of a united nations meeting in september he had made an offer to host talks in the united states .
i told him straightaway , mr president , we are very ready .
i ve been asking for dialogue from day one , sheikh tamim said , adding that the meeting was supposed to happen very soon and that he had not heard a response from the other countries .
trump , who has said he would be willing to mediate in the dispute , said in september he had a very strong feeling it would be solved pretty quickly .
earlier in september , saudi arabia suspended any dialogue with qatar , accusing it of distorting facts , just after a report of a phone call between the leaders of the two countries suggested a possible breakthrough in the dispute .
saudi arabia s crown prince mohammed bin salman spoke by phone with qatar s emir on sept. 8 in the first publicly reported contact between the two leaders since the crisis began .
there has been no further contact reported since then .
in the cbs interview , sheikh tamim reiterated that qatar would not close down the doha-based al jazeera television network , as demanded by the four countries who accuse the broadcaster of bias and interfering in their affairs .
al jazeera says it is an independent news service giving a voice to everyone in the region .
sheikh tamim also said he feared for the region if any military actions were taken as part of the crisis .
i m fearful that if anything happens , if any military act happens , this region will be in chaos , he said .