yes , that s justice ginsberg presiding over a gay marriage .
how objective did america think she would be with her decision ?
last week was a glaring example of why it might be time to have term limits on the supreme court .
anyone who thinks the decisions weren t political is nuts .
we now have a supreme court that ignores the rule of law and the constitution fundamental transformation ? andrew mccarthy gives a fantastic assessment of what went down with the scotus last week : but this court is not a legislature .
chief justice john roberts actually published that sentence in his same-sex marriage dissent on friday .
.
.
a mere 24 hours after his maestro s performance in the supreme court s legislative rewrite of the affordable care act formerly known as obamacare , but now etched in memory as scotuscare , thanks to justice antonin scalia s withering dissent.roberts s denial that the court legislates is astonishing in its cynicism : in saving scotuscare , the chief justice not only usurped congress s law-writing role with gusto ; he claimed the powers , first , to divine legislative purpose from its contradictory expression in legislative language , and , then , to manufacture legislative ambiguity as the pretext for twisting the language to serve the contrived purpose .
it takes a clintonian quantum of cheek to pull that off one day and , on the next , to inveigh against the very thought of it.already , an ocean of ink has been spilled analyzing , lauding , and bemoaning the supreme court s work this week : a second life line tossed to scotuscare in just three years ; the location of a heretofore unknown constitutional right to same-sex marriage almost a century-and-a-half after the adoption of the fourteenth amendment ; and the refashioning of congress s fair housing act to embrace legal academe s loopy disparate impact theory of inducing discrimination.yet , for all the non-stop commentary , one detail goes nearly unmentioned the omission that best explains this week s fundamental transformation trifecta.did you notice that there was not an iota of speculation about how the four progressive justices would vote ?
there was never a shadow of a doubt .
in the plethora of opinions generated by these three cases , there is not a single one authored by ruth bader ginsburg , stephen breyer , elena kagan , or sonia sotomayor .
there was no need .
they are the left s voting bloc .
there was a better chance that the sun would not rise this morning than that any of them would wander off the reservation.how can that be ?
jurisprudence is complex .
supple minds , however likeminded , will often diverge , sometimes dramatically , on principles of constitutional adjudication , canons of statutory construction , murky separation-of-powers boundaries , the etymology of language , and much else .
witness , for example , the spirited debate between the court s two originalists , scalia and clarence thomas , over a statute that , in defiance of obama policy , treats jerusalem as sovereign israeli territory.but not the court s lefties , not on the major cases.and it is not so much that they move in lockstep .
it is that no one expects them to do anything but move in lockstep not their fellow justices , not the political branches , and certainly not the commentariat , right or left.it is simply accepted that these justices are not there to judge .
they are there to vote .
they get to the desired outcome the same way disparate-impact voodoo always manages to get to discrimination : start at the end and work backwards .
guiding precedents are for the quaint business of administering justice .
in the social justice business , the road never before traveled will do if one less traveled is unavailable.but there s a problem .
once it has become a given that a critical mass of the supreme court is no longer expected , much less obliged , to do law , then the court is no longer a legal institution .
it is a political institution.that is where we are .
we should thus drop the pretense that the court is a tribunal worthy of the protections our system designed for a non-political entity life-tenure , insulation from elections , and the veil of secrecy that shrouds judicial deliberations.if the justices are going to do politics , they should be in electoral politics .
if john roberts is going to write laws on the days when he isn t posing as powerless to write laws , if anthony kennedy truly believes the country craves his eccentric notion of liberty ( one that condemns government restraints on marriage 24 hours after it tightens government s noose around one-sixth of the u.s. economy ) , then their seats should not be in an insulated third branch of government .
they should be in an accountable third chamber of congress.if , for old times sake , we want to maintain some harmless vestige of the charade , then let them keep wearing their robes to work for at least as long as they can persuade voters to keep them in these jobs .
let s dispense , though , with the fiction that their judgments are the product of legal acumen rather than sheer will.read more at : national review