( reuters ) - u.s. prosecutors said monday that a “ third party ” had presented a possible method for opening an encrypted iphone used by one of the san bernardino shooters , a development that could bring an abrupt end to the high-stakes legal showdown between the government and apple inc ( aapl.o ) .
a federal judge in riverside , california , late monday agreed to the government ’ s request to postpone a hearing scheduled for tuesday so that the fbi could try the newly discovered technique .
the justice department said it would update the court on april 5 .
the government had insisted until monday that it had no way to access the phone used by rizwan farook , one of the two killers in the december massacre in san bernardino , california , except to force apple to write new software that would disable the password protection .
the justice department last month obtained a court order directing apple to create that software , but apple has fought back , arguing that the order is an overreach by the government and would undermine computer security for everyone .
the announcement on monday that an unnamed third party had presented a way of breaking into the phone on sunday - just two days before the hearing and after weeks of heated back-and-forth in court filings - drew skepticism from many in the tech community who have insisted that there were other ways to get into the phone .
“ from a purely technical perspective , one of the most fragile parts of the government ’ s case is the claim that apple ’ s help is required to unlock the phone , ” said matt blaze , a professor and computer security expert at the university of pennsylvania .
“ many in the technical community have been skeptical that this is true , especially given the government ’ s considerable resources. ” former prosecutors and lawyers supporting apple said the move suggested that the justice department feared it would lose the legal battle , or at minimum would be forced to admit that it had not tried every other way to get into the phone .
in a statement , the justice department said its only interest has always been gaining access to the information on the phone and that it had continued to explore alternatives even as litigation began .
it offered no details on the new technique except that it came from a non-governmental third party , but said it was “ cautiously optimistic ” it would work .
“ that is why we asked the court to give us some time to explore this option , ” a spokeswoman for the justice department , melanie r. newman , said .
“ if this solution works , it will allow us to search the phone and continue our investigation into the terrorist attack that killed 14 people and wounded 22 people. ” it would also likely end the case without a legal showdown that many had expected to reach the u.s. supreme court .
an apple executive told reporters on a press call that the company knew nothing about the justice department ’ s possible method for getting into the phone , and that the government never gave any indication that it was continuing to search for such solutions .
the executive characterized the justice department ’ s admission monday that it never stopped pursuing ways to open the phone as a sharp contrast with its insistence in court filings that only apple possessed the means to do so .
nate cardozo , staff attorney at the electronic frontier foundation , a civil liberties group backing apple , said the san bernardino case was the “ hand-chosen test case ” for the government to establish its authority to access electronic information by whatever means necessary .
in that context , he said , the last-minute discovery of a possible solution and the cancellation of the hearing is “ suspicious , ” and suggests the government might be worried about losing and setting a bad precedent .
but george washington university law professor orin kerr , a former justice department computer crime prosecutor , said the government was likely only postponing the fight .
“ the problem is not going away , it ’ s just been delayed for a year or two , ” he said .
apple said that if the government was successful in getting into the phone , which might involve taking advantage of previously undiscovered vulnerabilities , it hoped officials would share information on how they did so .
but if the government drops the case it would be under no obligation to provide information to apple .
in opposing the court order , apple ’ s chief executive , tim cook , and his allies have argued that it would be unprecedented to force a company to develop a new product to assist a government investigation , and that other law enforcement agencies around the world would rapidly demand similar services .
law enforcement officials , led by federal bureau of investigation director james comey , have countered that access to phones and other devices is crucial for intelligence work and criminal investigations .
the government and the tech industry have clashed for years over similar issues , and congress has been unable to pass legislation to address the impasse .