pray for these police officers , the innocent citizens , residents and business owners in baltimore here is a recruitment flyer that was posted by the black panthers leading up to the start of the riots in baltimore on saturday : wfla news channel 8looting a cvs pharmacy , because nothing says justice for freddie grey like looting a drug store : this video is from last night .
it gives america a view of what an unarmed society looks like when they are threatened by criminal behavior.https : //youtu.be/fr1gcfh7j1ithis recently released video shows an attack by three men who knock a man on his back and then descend on him , kicking him and hurling objects at him as he appears to be knocked unconscious.https : //youtu.be/hqj5izczrbgbefore protests over freddie gray s death turned chaotic , an unlikely alliance was born in baltimore on saturday : rivals from the bloods and the crips agreed to march side by side against police brutality.the alleged gang members are pictured on social media crowding together with nation of islam activists , who told the daily beast they brokered the truce in honor of gray , who died last week after sustaining spinal injuries while in police custody.in one photo , a gang activist in a red sweatshirt crouches to fit into a group photo with rivals decked out in blue bandanas .
i can say with honesty those brothers demonstrated they can be united for a common good , said carlos muhammad , a minister at nation of islam s mosque no .
6 .
at the rally , they made the call that they must be united on that day .
it should be commended .
the detente was only a small part of the demonstration drawing 1,200 people to baltimore s city hall , but it raised eyebrows among activists .
are things so bad that even baltimore s gang adversaries are joining forces to combat law enforcement ?
we can unite and stop killing one another , muhammad told the daily beast , and the bloods and the crips can help rebuild their community .
deray mckesson , an organizer known for his work in ferguson , also confirmed the street-crime ceasefire .
he live-tweeted saturday s mostly peaceful demonstration , which later descended into clashes with police and smashed storefronts and cop cars , and alerted followers of a possible respite in gangland .
the fight against police brutality has united people in many ways that we have not seen regularly , and that s really powerful , mckesson told the daily beast .
the reality is , police have been terrorizing black people as far back as we can remember .
it will take all of us coming together to change a corrupt system .
still , it s not the first time gangsters called a truce to focus on another foe .
in august , the madamenoire web publication reported on two former bloods and crips rivals in st. louis now protesting against police in ferguson , missouri who held a sign in red and blue letters : no more crips .
no more bloods .
one people .
no gang zone .
young black men are dying from the police and they are dying from the gangs too , one activist said .
but this is a bigger problem , so we took it upon ourselves to focus our energy on making a better solution for the community we live in .
on sunday , baltimore police announced that 35 people were arrested and six police officers were injured in demonstrations.the unrest prompted a mayoral press conference on saturday evening , when gray s twin sister fredericka made her first public statements .
my family wants to say , can you all please , please stop the violence ?
she pleaded .
freddie gray would not want this .
but before fredericka spoke , baltimore mayor stephanie rawlings-blake thanked those who were discouraging violence and even singled out nation of islam s peacekeeping efforts .
i want to also thank the nation of islam , who have been very present in our efforts to keep calm and peace in our city , she said.seriously ?
thanking the nation of islam for promoting peace and calm ?
what planet has she been living on ?
via : the daily beast