wow !
this is big and has to do with telling the truth about the eb-5 visa program : a department of homeland security watchdog report issued tuesday blasted the agency s no .
2 official for repeatedly intervening on behalf of well-connected participants in an investor-visa program , including gov .
terry mcauliffe ( d-va. ) and tony rodham , a brother of former secretary of state hillary clinton.the inspector general report faults deputy secretary of homeland security alejandro mayorkas for creating an appearance of favoritism and special access as a result of highly unusual steps he took while serving as director of u.s .
citizenship and immigration services , which oversaw the investment-based program known as eb-5.whistleblower harassed and abused : they took her right to carry a weapon away and harassed her .
this woman is very brave to testify !
hopefully , they will keep on digging into this and find out everything they need to .
great job taylor !
taylor johnson , a senior special agent in the homeland security investigations division of immigration and customs enforcement , testified at a senate hearing alongside whistleblowers from several other agencies who claim to have faced similar harassment.johnson told lawmakers she ran into resistance after investigating the so-called eb-5 program , which offers visas to investors .
she said she looked into the program over concerns about security risks , questioning whether visas were being approved with little scrutiny.but johnson said her managers began to hear complaints about her queries .
soon , she was removed from the investigation , and the case was closed.from there , it got worse.johnson told the senate homeland security committee her weapon and credentials were taken , her government vehicle was confiscated , and her access to the building where she worked and government databases was revoked.further , she said , i was told i couldn t even carry or own a personal weapon , which is a constitutional rights violation .
read more : fox news