aden ( reuters ) - the governor of president abd-rabbu mansour hadi s interim capital aden has resigned , citing what he said was government corruption that had undermined his efforts to restore basic services to the city .
abdulaziz al-muflehi s resignation just six months after his appointment deals a blow to hadi s government as it pushes its fight against the iran-aligned houthis who have seized much of northern yemen since late 2014 , forcing hadi into exile .
officials from prime minister ahmed obeid bin daghr s office did not respond to repeated requests for comment .
the government denies charges of corruption and says it operates according to high standards of transparency .
in a lengthy letter sent to hadi , muflehi said he had intended to focus on infrastructure building and activating state bodies such as the judiciary and police when he assumed office in may .
unfortunately , i found myself caught in a bitter war against a huge camp of corruption whose brigades are well trained and fortifications are protected by guards led by prime minister dr. ahmed obeid bin daghr , muflehi wrote in his resignation letter , a copy of which was sent to reuters .
the letter was also published by local media , including online newspapers aden news and aden al-ghad .
as an example , he said bin daghr had transferred more than 5.787 billion riyals ( $ 13.4 million ) from the province s account to the communications ministry , saying he wanted to give yemen an internet service that rivals advanced countries .
muflehi said the country first needed to restore electricity services to areas like aden , and said the move hides avidities and corruption .
muflehi had spent much of his time outside aden since he was appointed by hadi in may to replace aydaroos al-zubaydi , a local militia commander who had thrown his weight behind secessionists demanding the restoration of the former south yemen that merged with the tribal north in 1990 .
southerners have regularly complained of the domination of the more populous north in the union , including allegations of seizure of real estate and forced retirement of civil servants and military personnel under former president ali abdullah saleh , who was forced to step down after mass protests in 2011 .
hadi s government had pledged to restore sacked civil servants and military personnel and pay back salaries they had complained had been denied to them , but the outbreak of civil war in 2015 has derailed the plans .