manila ( reuters ) - the philippine environment minister said on wednesday that a ban on new open pit mining in the country would remain in place , with president rodrigo duterte rejecting government panel recommendations to reverse it .
the ban , implemented by former environment minister regina lopez from april covers new projects including the $ 5.9-billion copper-gold tampakan project in southern mindanao island , the biggest stalled mining venture in the southeast asian nation .
the president sets the policy .
the department of environment and natural resources will implement what the president deems as best for the country s interest , environment and natural resources secretary roy cimatu told reuters in a text message .
open pit mining is allowed under the laws of the southeast asian country , the world s top nickel ore exporter , where many mines use it to extract minerals .
but lopez said the process ruins the economic potential of places where it is carried out .
duterte said late on tuesday that he had rejected a recommendation by the mining industry coordinating council ( micc ) to lift the ban because such mining is destroying the soil and environment and no corrective measure is immediately ( being ) implemented .
he added that while mining brings good profit , he can let it go .
the comments by the firebrand leader followed an announcement on monday by his spokesman that duterte had not reversed the ban .
the micc , an inter-agency panel that makes recommendations on mining policy , is chaired by cimatu and finance secretary carlos dominguez .
cimatu said last month that he supported the removal of the open pit ban and that his agency would strengthen regulations to prevent any excesses by miners .
the ban would further halt development of the tampakan project in the southern south cotabato province .
the project was first stopped after south cotabato banned open-pit mining in 2010 , and operator glencore plc quit the project five years later .
lopez , who stepped down in may after failing to win congressional confirmation after 10 months in office , has said the project would cover an area the size of 700 soccer fields in what otherwise would be agricultural land .
also covered by the ban is the $ 1.2 billion silangan copper and gold mine in mindanao by philippine miner philex mining corp .