cox s bazar , bangladesh ( reuters ) - rohingya muslims fleeing a myanmar military offensive arrived in bangladesh on monday with fresh accounts of violence and arson as a rights group called for sanctions and an arms embargo to stop what the united nations has branded ethnic cleansing .
the latest wave of violence in western myanmar s rakhine state began on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked police posts and an army camp , killing about 12 people .
the myanmar military response has sent more than 410,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh , escaping what they and rights monitors say is a campaign aimed at driving out the muslim population .
buddhist-majority myanmar rejects that , saying its forces are carrying out clearance operations against the insurgents of the arakan rohingya salvation army , which claimed responsibility for the august attacks and smaller raids in october .
hundreds of refugees traveled by small boats to an island on the southernmost point of bangladesh late on sunday and on monday , telling of persecution and destruction .
the army came and they burned our homes , they killed our people .
there was a mob of rakhine people too , said usman goni , 55 , after he stepped off a boat with his seven children and wife , clutching two sticks tied in rope and a sack .
many of the refugees have spoken of ethnic rakhine buddhist civilians joining the myanmar army in its attacks .
myanmar denies that and has blamed muslim insurgents for the violence .
myanmar has largely sealed the area off to aid workers and reporters .
rights groups say satellite images show about 80 smouldering muslim villages .
they have seen evidence of arson attacks on buddhist villagers , but on a much smaller scale .
most of the new arrivals said their villages had been torched on friday , when huge clouds of smoke were clearly seen over myanmar .
there s nothing left , said a nurhaba , 23 , who said she was from a village close to maungdaw town .
about a million rohingya lived in rakhine state until the recent violence .
most face draconian travel restrictions and are denied citizenship in a country where many buddhists regard them as illegal immigrants from bangladesh .
myanmar government leader and nobel laureate aung san suu kyi has faced a barrage of criticism from abroad for not stopping the violence .
the military remains in charge of security and there is little sympathy for the rohingya in a country where the end of army rule has unleashed old animosities .
the military campaign in rakhine state has wide support .
suu kyi is due to speak to the nation on tuesday about a crisis the united states has called a defining moment for her country .
u.s. deputy assistant secretary of state patrick murphy is due in myanmar this week .
he will travel to sittwe , the capital of rakhine state , to meet government officials and representatives of different communities , including rohingya , but he is not seeking to travel to the conflict zone in northern rakhine state .
human rights watch said myanmar security forces were disregarding world condemnation and the time had come to impose tougher measures that the generals could not ignore .
it called for governments to impose travel bans and asset freezes on security officials implicated in serious abuses ; expand existing arms embargoes to include all military sales , assistance , and cooperation ; and place a ban on financial transactions with key ... military-owned enterprises .
for years , the united states and western allies imposed sanctions on myanmar in support of suu kyi s campaign for democracy .
its response was to forge closer ties with china .
u.s.-myanmar ties have been improving since the military began withdrawing from government in 2011 , and paved the way for a 2015 election won by suu kyi s party .
a trump administration official said the violence made it harder to build warmer ties , and there would likely be some easing in the short term , but he did not expect a return to sanctions .
people are too invested in the last five years of thawing , which is understood by everyone to be strategically sound , said the official , who declined to be identified .
long-term , the trajectory is probably tighter relations .
in a rare expression of support for the rohingya from within myanmar , a group from the karen ethnic minority , called for the military to halt its operations and for economic sanctions to be considered .
for decades of army battled autonomy-seeking karen insurgents that sent more than 100,000 villagers fleeing to thailand .
the insurgents have now made peace .
bangladesh is struggling to cope with the refugees and aid workers fear people could die due to a lack of food , shelter and water , given the numbers .
bangladesh has said all refugees must go home .
myanmar has said it will take back those who can verify their citizenship .
several thousand protesters tried to march on the myanmar embassy in the bangladeshi capital , dhaka , but police kept them well back .
for an interactive on the rohingya exodus , click : here