madrid ( reuters ) - the catalan parliament s speaker was released from prison on friday but the terms she agreed to seem likely to prevent her campaigning on a pro-independence ticket in a regional election next month .
carme forcadell appeared in the supreme court in madrid on thursday to answer charges of rebellion , sedition and misuse of public funds , after she enabled a declaration of independence by the catalan parliament in late october that prompted the spanish government to take control of the region .
she was released on bail of 150,000 euros after agreeing to renounce any political activity that went against the spanish constitution , according to the court s ruling .
those terms threaten to further undermine an independence movement in which cracks are starting to appear .
court sources had quoted forcadell and other summoned catalan lawmakers as telling the judge that the independence declaration had not been legally binding - comments that the spanish government welcomed on friday .
we see ... in the statements from the separatist leaders how the return to a constitutional order is starting to become a reality , spanish government spokesman inigo mendez de vigo told reporters .
judge pablo llarena said the court could reconsider its ruling if it found evidence of forcadell offending again , in effect banning her from campaigning for independence in the dec. 21 election .
following the independence declaration , spanish prime minister mariano rajoy used his power to fire the administration of catalan president carles puigdemont , dissolve catalonia s parliament and call a new election .
puigdemont at the time called the declaration a major step toward establishing an independent catalan state , and forcadell described rajoy s response as a coup and an attack against democracy .
on tuesday , the pdecat party of puigdemont who flew to brussels after being deposed failed to agree on a united ticket to contest the election with another secessionist party , denting the pro-independence camp s hopes of pressing ahead with its bid to split from spain after the election .
in a last-ditch attempt at a united front , puigdemont said on friday he was still willing to lead an independent civic group , but none of the parties immediately offered it any backing .
forcadell left the alcala meco prison outside madrid after the supreme court said in a statement it had received her bail payment .
forcadell tweeted : we re returning home .
with the calm knowledge of having acted correctly : guaranteeing freedom of expression in the parliament , the center of national sovereignty .
authorities are continuing to investigate her role in catalonia s banned independence drive , and the court confiscated her passport and ordered her to report to authorities once a week .
the court had summoned her along with five catalan lawmakers , four of whom were released on thursday on 25,000-euro bail after surrendering their passports .
the fifth was released without bail or conditions .
eight former members of the catalan government and the leaders of the two main pro-independence grassroots groups remain in prison pending a separate investigation by the high court .
puigdemont , who also faces charges of rebellion and sedition , is appealing in belgium against an international arrest warrant served by spain .
a grassroots catalan pro-independence group , the catalan national assembly ( anc ) , said it had paid forcadell s bail and called a protest for saturday to demand the release of the others .