big brother is alive and well 3 months only 3 months in obamaland surveillance on muslim terror suspects is considered islamaphobia , surveillance on black lives matter riots is considered racism , but surveillance on law-abiding gun owners is an important crime-fighting tool .
it turns out that federal agents have been spying on customers at guns shows and tracking their movements .
why ?
because the current administration is hostile to legal gun ownership and completely inept.the wall street journal originally broke this story but they have a stupid business model and put the article behind a pay wall .
thankfully there is this thing called the internet where all information is available for free and fox news has the scoop : the first problem you may notice in this illegal surveillance is how insanely pointless the operation is .
there was no way this would ever yield any results if you understand california gun law .
the golden state does not have the gun show loophole that liberals love to blame for all crimes involving a gun .
even at a gun show , a person purchasing a firearm must undergo a background check and wait 10 before taking possession of the weapon.all gun transfers in california go through a federally licensed firearms dealer with no exceptions .
handgun purchases are limited to one every 30 days and require additional licensing .
the state maintains a firearms registry .
this is the last place in america where a person would try to make a straw purchase .
even less so for someone trying to buy guns , smuggle them into mexico , and arm the drug cartels.on top of all that , california also bans many popular handguns and all assault rifles .
do the feds really think there is a vibrant black market in mexico for california-compliant weapons ?
apparently so.and despite the feds claim , this was completely illegal it is most certainly not .
the government can t just start spying on americans without probable cause that a crime is being committed .
the feds went fishing here and they forgot to bring bait , rods , and reels .
they also didn t pick a spot with any fish.if the feds want to know how guns are getting from the us to mexico they should go ask former attorney general eric holder who green-lit operation fast and furious .
in that , the batf let guns go walking from us gun stores right into the hands of the mexican drug cartels .
one of those guns was used to kill a us border patrol agent .
via : downtrend