juba ( reuters ) - south sudan denied on friday that a businessman sanctioned by the united states was an adviser to president salva kiir , and said the decision to blacklist him was based on misleading information .
benjamin bol mel was among several individuals from different countries whom the united states placed under sanctions on thursday .
it said mel had served as kiir s principal financial adviser as well as his private secretary , and that abmc thai-south sudan construction company limited , of which mel is president , was suspected of getting preferential treatment in government contracts .
ateny wek ateny , kiir s spokesman , said the assertion that mel had business ties with the president is not true , and also denied that there were any official relations between the two men .
he is not an adviser to the president and he should be treated as an individual .
ateny said most of the information the united states used to blacklist south sudan officials was misleading .
south sudan has been battered by a four-year civil war triggered by a disagreement between kiir and his then-deputy , riek machar .
the fighting has left tens of thousands dead , displaced about a quarter of the population and left the oil-dependent economy moribund .
rights activists have accused mostly government troops of killings , mass rapes , and looting and destroying property .
several serving or former south sudanese officials are already under u.s. sanctions for alleged roles in the conflict , including malek reuben riak rengu , the army s deputy chief of the defense staff for logistics ; former army chief paul malong ; and information minister michael makuei lueth .
the u.s. embassy in south sudan said on friday that mel was being punished for his role , and that of his business network , in facilitating corruption .
it said mel was exploiting his connections with kiir to regularly engage in large scale government contracts worth millions of dollars for construction work that was not completed .