cape town ( reuters ) - south africa s top prosecutor said police were still examining a trove of leaked documents detailing relations between the wealthy gupta family and president jacob zuma , but it was too early to say if a prosecution should be launched .
wednesday s comments to lawmakers by shaun abrahams were the first time the head of the national prosecuting authority ( npa ) has spoken publicly about the gupta case .
the leaked emails need to be investigated , abrahams told a parliamentary committee in response to a question on whether his department had taken a position on the matter .
how can you make a determination on its admissibility if that ( police ) investigation is still ongoing ?
, he said .
the elite hawks police unit , which probes organized and commercial crime and major corruption , is investigating the gupta allegations , npa officials told a parliamentary briefing .
under the south african system , police investigate a case and then send a report to the npa , which decides whether to take the case further .
senior anc members and the opposition accuse the brothers of using their relationship with zuma to wield influence and win government contracts , allegations that in part stem from a trove of 100,000 documents and emails leaked to reporters .
the gupta family of indian-born businessmen were not immediately available for comment on abraham s remarks .
the brothers , who own a computer business and uranium mine , have previously denied any wrongdoing .
atul gupta , one of three gupta brothers , said last month that the emails were fake .
zuma has also denied any wrongdoing but his relationship with the guptas has deepened a divide within his ruling african national congress ahead of a conference in december where zuma s successor as party leader - and therefore president - will be chosen .
zuma survived a no-confidence motion in august .
he can remain president until a 2019 election but some opposition politicians have demanded he resign over material in the leaked emails .