washington ( reuters ) - the head of the u.s. senate committee that handles supreme court nominees said on friday he no longer expected an imminent court vacancy , bolstering assumptions that justice anthony kennedy would not retire this year .
republican senator chuck grassley , chairman of the judiciary committee , said expectations earlier this year of a vacancy on the nine-member bench had evaporated .
“ evidently that ’ s not going to happen , ” grassley said in a telephone interview from his home state of iowa during the senate ’ s summer break .
“ i don ’ t have any expectation we will have a vacancy as i thought there would be ” earlier this year .
there had been speculation in the spring that kennedy , a conservative justice who turned 81 last month and has served on the court since 1988 , was considering retirement .
kennedy is the regular swing vote on the high court , sometimes siding with the four liberal justices in major rulings .
a court vacancy would give republican president donald trump a chance to appoint a second conservative justice to the high court since taking office in january .
but court watchers expect trump to nominate a jurist who is more likely to consistently decide cases with the conservative wing of the court , unlike kennedy .
in the interview on friday , grassley noted that every year there is speculation that a justice might retire during the summer at the end of the court ’ s session .
he declined to give details on the “ rumors ” he had heard earlier this year about an impending vacancy .
grassley added that such talk is often stoked when there are justices in their 70s and 80s serving on the court .
besides kennedy , 81 , ruth bader ginsburg is 84 and stephen breyer will turn 79 next week .
rumors that kennedy was set to retire reached a fever pitch several months ago after some of his former judicial clerks said he was considering it .
but kennedy did not announce his retirement at a weekend reunion in june with many of the former clerks .
he also did not make an announcement after the court ’ s rulings marking the end of its term on june 26 .
his silence on the matter tamped down the rumors and led to a broad assumption that he would remain on the court , at least for the coming term , which begins in october .
kennedy , like all the other justices , was also assigned responsibility on june 27 to handle applications from a specific regional appeals court , further reducing speculation over his retirement .
earlier this year , trump won senate confirmation of conservative justice neil gorsuch .
gorsuch arrived on the high court more than a year after the death of justice antonin scalia , who had been a leading conservative voice .
the republican-led senate in 2016 refused to consider then-president barack obama ’ s nomination of federal judge merrick garland to fill the vacancy created by scalia ’ s death .
garland would have tipped the court in a more liberal direction .