the la times reported yesterday that hillary clinton s campaign manager was sure she didn t faint but just stumbled as she was getting into the van to leave the 9/11 ceremony .
does any of the video that s been plastered everywhere look like she just stumbled ?
it s more than that for sure ! flash forward to clinton s campaign manager s interview with kate snow and you see a pattern here of covering up and lying about why clinton has been ill for so long .
check out the back and forth with kate snow and robbie mook : after clinton was seen falling into a van after attending a 9/11 memorial sunday morning , the campaign said she was diagnosed with pneumonia on friday .
the campaign did not mention the illness until her collapse yesterday.snow also grilled mook on the timeline between clinton s fall into the van and her reappearance outside daughter chelsea s apartment in manhattan .
mook said clinton wanted to cool off and see her grandchildren .
robbie mook lying through his teeth : kate snow , msnbc : did you know on friday , robby , that she was ill ?
did you know that she had the diagnosis of pneumonia and if so , what did you advise her to do ? robby mook , clinton campaign manager : well , she obviously saw the doctor on friday and in consultation with her doctors , she decided to power through this .
she didn t want it to affect anything .
and obviously on sunday when she got overheated it was clear she needed some downtime .
so in consultation with her doctor she s taking some downtime.kate snow : i asked because you are the campaign manager .
you are the one in charge of this schedule and what she s doing and i wonder if you didn t know , would you have advised her to take a couple days down and not plan this trip to california today ? robby mook : well , i am certainly let s just say i am happy that she s getting some much needed downtime now .
but she s looking forward to getting back out on the trail very soon kate snow : robby , i m reading between the lines and i want to make sure i am not misreading .
i m reading between the lines of what you re saying the staff did not know that she had pneumonia.robby mook : yeah , but , i want to be fair here .
if we re going to be talking about transparency and disclosure , donald trump has not released a single piece of serious information about his health.kate snow : and i will be pressing his representative in the next interview that we do with them.robby : mook : but i hope you , i hope you kate snow : did the staff not know that she had pneumonia on friday ?
am i right on that from what you re saying ? robby mook : i m just saying all i m saying is that i hope that you drill in with the same detail with his team as you re drilling in with ours .
we released the information as soon as we could when this happened this sunday .
i wish that it happened quicker than 90 minutes .
again , we were busy attending to her health .
so that s on us .
but we are looking forward to donald trump releasing his medical information .
just making sure everybody is meeting at the same bar here.via : rcp