recall that in 2016 a muslim professor was caught on video [ see below ] explaining why cutting off hands as punishment for theft is a good punishment .
bassam alhalabi believes in sharia law and was explaining why it s such a great idea and that it would cut down on crime .
here s the video below : just to be clear this man believes it s ok to chop off hands !
where there is no sharia , islamic sharia , they die in dozens and hundreds every day because of organized crime .
people kill people , other people or steal pizza for $ 10 and so so when islamic shariah is saying about capital punishment so even though it sounds like it is severe but if that is the solution to prevent any crimes , then it still has a lot of rules and regulations .
i will just mention one and stop here , which is let s say cutting off the hands of a person if they steal .
it sounds very severe .
it sounds very barbaric , i know .
but if takes one or two people to have their hands cut off , and then there s no more stealing and there s no more stealing in the whole nation that s a much better resolution than having hundreds of people die every day .
run away , run away !
the professor hightailed it out of there when he saw united west there to record him again ! on august 17 , 2017 florida atlantic university ( fau ) professor and president of the islamic society of boca raton , fl , bassem alhalabi , agreed to publicly defend the shariah islamiyya ( islamic law ) but ran away in shame from the venue minutes before the programs starting time.the title of the meeting was , interfaith cafe : sharia law and u.s. law nothing to fear .
dr. alhalabi was to defend islamic law , making the case that we non-muslims have nothing to fear from shariah.deep down dr. alhalabi knows the facts are not on his side .
i suspect what dr. alhalabi fears most are americans who are educated on islamic law and use islamic sources with consensus/ijma to distinguish his lies from truth.when those knowledgeable people from the united west showed up to film , dr. alhalabi ran out of the venue faster than you can say chop chop adios .
dr. alhalabi left his audience and event organizers dumbfounded .
we suspect the fear that he d be caught on video again might be the reason why.via : dr. rich swier