mumbai ( reuters ) - on a sunny morning last week in mumbai after two days of incessant monsoon rain , mohammad altaf had come out of his home for a cigarette when he heard a terrifying crash , followed by a huge swirl of dust .
the six-storey husainee building where he had lived for the last month had collapsed , trapping nearly 50 people .
thirty-four of them were killed , including a newborn baby .
it was shocking .
i had come down for a smoke , and within two minutes the building was no more , said altaf , who says he was unaware the apartment block was declared unsafe by housing authorities in india s financial hub six years ago .
across the teeming city of 20 million people , thousands of families live in crumbling buildings that have been officially declared uninhabitable - and most of them know it .
housing officials say they can not be forced out because of lax laws .
this year , the city s municipal corporation classified 791 buildings as beyond repair and too dangerous to live in , but close to 500 of these continue to be occupied , a municipal authority official said .
although regulations vary from country to country and also from state to state , authorities in most places have more powers to order evacuations .
altaf , in his mid-thirties , is a bachelor and was living with two co-workers in the apartment in the bhendi bazar locality , one of the oldest in the metropolis .
his two flatmates survived , with minor knee and shoulder injuries , after jumping out of their apartment on the third floor .
police say they have yet to determine the cause of the collapse , which came after days of intense rain .
the 117-year-old apartment block in bhendi bazar , a packed neighborhood of narrow streets , shops and tenements , was declared unsafe in 2011 by the regulator , the maharashtra housing and area development authority ( mhada ) .
yet it continued to house altaf and his flatmates , along with five other families , a sweet shop warehouse and even a nursery on the first floor .
the owner of the building , hakimmudin bootwala , said seven families moved out by 2014 , but other tenants refused despite his urging .
one of them had sub-let the apartment to altaf and his colleagues .
the people were my friends and neighbors first , and tenants later , said the 73-year-old .
i sincerely advised them to move out .
the building had lots of problems , leakages .
the roof was fine , but the walls had become really weak and porous .
an official at mhada said there was a law to force residents to evacuate dangerous buildings but enforcing it was impossible because of loopholes and legal challenges .
for instance , evicting children and senior citizens could cause trouble , said the housing official , who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak to the press .
we cut water and electricity supply of buildings that are identified as dangerous for living , but people manage to get water and electricity from nearby buildings , said the official .
mhada , which does a routine check of buildings that are older than 30 years , has identified more than 14,000 buildings in the city that need repair , according to its latest list .
nine thousand of these , home to nearly 250,000 families , need to be redeveloped , the housing official said , adding that the other 5,000 were relatively safe due to regular maintenance work done by landowners in consultation with the housing body .
once regulators decide a building needs to redeveloped , they have to appoint a developer to renovate or rebuild the structure in the case of public housing , or order private owners to hire one .
the developer , in turn , must offer residents alternative accommodation until the work is completed , according to state law in mumbai .
but residents often complain the housing they are offered is too small , shabby or too far away .
seventy percent of tenants of both privately- and publicly-owned buildings must agree to redevelop their building according to state rules , or no redevelopment work can commence .
building owners say residents are often unrealistic , refusing to leave even if the alternative housing is adequate .
some worry they could lose their tenancy if they move .
the mhada official said the agency does everything it can to get residents and developers to clinch an agreement , but that the process often gets mired in legal challenges .
the problems of the husainee building were typical .
a neighborhood body , the saifee burhani upliftment trust , had been selected by its owner in 2009 to redevelop the building along with other buildings in the neighborhood , even before the husainee had been declared unsafe by mhada .
a trust official told reuters it offered alternative housing to the residents in a place around 2.5 km ( 1.5 miles ) from the building .
the official said the trust repeated the offer in 2011 after mhada declared the building unsafe .
a reuters team visited the complex where the husainee families who had agreed to move had been relocated , a gated high-rise complex with guards and a playground for kids .
residents said they were happy with their new apartments , although they complained about the distance to work .
but other husainee families refused to move .
mhada officials said the trust was in charge of ensuring relocation and redevelopment and mhada could not force the husainee families to leave .
the trust has said it has repeatedly tried to evict families from husainee but some residents refused to move .
this incident should be a wake-up call for the city , and a policy needs to be actioned to evict non-cooperating tenants who continue to live in dilapidated buildings , the trust said in a written reply to reuters queries .
building owner bootwala says the residents who refused to leave argued they did not want to upend their lives by moving to a new neighborhood .
also , they did not know how long it would take to renovate the building .
reuters was unable to talk to other residents from husainee , but neighbors in bhendi bazar told similar stories .
despite knowing their buildings were unsafe , many of them did not want to leave .
a man in his 50s in the neighborhood , who refused to give his name , said he was living in a more than 100-year old building that had been deemed unsafe .
the developer offered him temporary housing 13 km ( 8 miles ) away , but he said that was too far .
i spent my entire life here .
i know every lane in this area , the man said .
my children s college , my workplace , everything is closer from here .