cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi on wednesday ordered his military command to use all force necessary to secure the sinai peninsula within the next three months following a militant attack on a mosque that killed more than 300 people .
no group has claimed responsibility for friday s attack in which authorities say gunmen carrying an islamic state flag opened fire after setting off an explosive .
it was the worst militant attack in egypt s modern history .
egyptian forces have battled an islamic state affiliate for several years in north sinai , where militants have killed hundreds of police and soldiers .
it is your responsibility to secure and stabilize sinai within the next three months , sisi said addressing his new chief of staff in a speech that gave no details on any operations .
you can use all brute force necessary .
islamic state s wilayat sinai branch has claimed some of the most deadly attacks in egypt .
the group was made up in 2014 of former fighters of a local jihadist group and has staged raids on the security forces for more than three years .
sinai has become one of islamic state s last holdouts after military defeats in iraq and syria .
clearing militants from north sinai , a desert area stretching from the suez canal eastwards to the gaza strip and israel , has been a difficult task for egypt s army , which is more used to conventional warfare than counter-insurgency .
the military has carried out air strikes and bulldozed homes to clear an area near the gaza border to destroy tunnels .
some tribal leaders say the campaign alienates local communities and has in the past fueled sympathy for militants .
the arab league plans to hold an emergency meeting on dec. 5 to discuss the attack , mena state news agency said on wednesday .
tribal leaders in the sinai , some of whom cooperate with the military to provide intelligence , say militants are as few as 800 .
most are local egyptians but there are also some palestinians , they say .
egypt hopes a recent agreement it helped broker between palestine rivals factions hamas and fatah to allow a unity government to control the gaza border will help stem arms smuggling by tightening control on the crossing and tunnels into egyptian territory .
friday s attack was a shift for sinai militants who have mostly focused on targeting police and soldiers on the peninsula .
but since december 2016 they have begun hitting coptic christian churches and pilgrims on the mainland .