rome ( reuters ) - the leader of italy s far-right northern league said on thursday he was suspending contacts with his main political ally , former prime minister silvio berlusconi , because of a disagreement over how tough courts should be on murderers and rapists .
the public fight over law and order delighted the rightists opponents just as campaigning picked up ahead of a national election that look certain to be held in early march .
i always said the ( right ) as a coalition didn t exist , said luigi di maio , the prime ministerial candidate of the anti-establishment 5-star movement .
we are getting ever closer to government .
the right bloc , which includes berlusconi s forza italia !
( go italy ) , is ahead in the polls , with 5-star in second place .
pollsters predict no-one will win an outright majority , raising the specter of political instability in the euro zone s third-largest economy .
northern league leader matteo salvini has regularly sparred with berlusconi , but his anger bubbled over this week after forza italia lawmakers voted against efforts to prevent courts from offering sentence reductions for murder and rape .
we are receiving hundreds of calls and emails from men and women angry and disappointed by forza italia s astonishing decision to protect rapists and murderers , salvini was quoted as saying by agi news agency .
as far as we are concerned ... we are suspending all our contacts and discussions with forza italia and berlusconi until there is an official clarification , he added .
berlusconi promised to talk to salvini shortly , saying he was unsure why his parliamentarians had spurned the reform .
support for the right bloc has risen steadily in recent months with berlusconi returning to frontline politics after years of sex and finance scandals .
however he has failed to paper over divisions between himself and salvini who has pushed the northern league to the far-right of european politics , aligning himself with marine le pen s national front in france .
whereas the right is committed to running together in the forthcoming election , the ruling centre-left democratic party ( pd ) has split from its traditional leftist allies , who have refused to form any electoral alliance .
( the right ) will argue before , during and , above all , after the election , but on the day itself they will pretend to be united to scrape together a few more seats , pd leader matteo renzi wrote on facebook on thursday .
this is pure hypocrisy because everyone knows the truth but pretends not to see .