this is the dumbest and biggest crime in the history of american politics .
there 's not even a close second .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017it turns out little jared was wrong .
the donald trump jr.-russian collusion story is not only another nothing burger , it lends more credibility to the theory that the media is on an all-out witch hunt for president donald trump .
apparently , the hunt has now been extended to include members of the trump family.yates sexton started his rant on twitter by whining to his followers about chasing the story for a year , and how he got trumped by don jr. when , much like his father , jr. went around the media and took to twitter to post the emails journalists were desperate to get their hands on.i chased this story for a year and he just tweeted it out .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017whining journalist part 2 : like .
i spent hours and days and weeks and months .
and his son just , hit tweet .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017more whining : i tracked down sources .
followed so many dead leads .
labored over this .
and then , he just , you know , tweeted out the proof .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017still more whining : like , so many people out there were trying to track this down .
and it just got delivered on a tweet .
what the hell .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017and you guessed it more whining ! it 's just so bizarre .
as an independent journalist you work crazy hard hoping something will fall into your lap and he tweeted it ?
2/ jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017and then , the fake relief over the release of the nothing burger emails by none other than donald trump jr. himself : for the record , i 'm beside myself in relief that this stuff is out there it 's just my god .
i can not believe this .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017yates sexton then turned his ire on trump supporters who apparently are ( gasp ! )
laughing at the rabid leftist media who won t let the fake trump-russian collusion narrative go : the son of the president just released the smoking gun and the people are laughing about it on the news .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017poor jared he s , well , he appears to be baffled by the trump s and how they don t follow the rules that have been put forth by the media : this is the most baffling day in a long , long stretch of baffling days .
jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017and finally , in an appeal to his leftist fans who are surely as heartbroken as him , yates sexton suggests that if his followers like his style of dead-end reporting , perhaps they would enjoy paying $ 22.69 for his book .
and now for the final test will love trump hate ?
will liberals feel help poor little jared feel better about wasting over a year of his life , while he chased his tail , pinning all of his hopes on being the one who finally found the trump-russia connection.if you do want to read my reporting , however , here 's my book that 's out in september.https : //t.co/02qe5k9pfv jared yates sexton ( @ jysexton ) july 11 , 2017