we shared our game changer story with you earlier this week , after a new video emerged allowing a more clear picture of the student physically attacking the school cop assigned to removing her from class.now in a surprising turn of events ( which will certainly be a huge disappointment to the leftist media and george soros funded black lives matter terrorist organization ) , the students are fighting back against a manufactured media event created to promote more cop hate and racial division in america.well , this is interesting.mt spring valley walkout for fields today # bringbackfields # bringfieldsback pic.twitter.com/uamwku6axn oink trotters ( @ oinktrottters ) october 30 , 2015students wore t-shirts that said # bringbackfields or free fields .
# bringbackfields pic.twitter.com/6jbmenusrn mina rena .
( @ _cappex ) october 30 , 2015 he was a great guy , student london harrell told local wistv .
he protected us and everything .
he was our school resource officer .
we always could depend on him and everything .
every time i saw him , he was always joking around with people .
it was never like oh , i m about to body slam you .
principal jeff temoney said none of the students would be suspended if they returned to class .
we ve heard your voices , okay , temoney said according to wistv .
we appreciate you taking time to do this , but again , as you know , we always focus on teaching and learning , so let s head on back to class .
pic.twitter.com/ljigyaxdus john cassibry ( @ jcass_12 ) october 30 , 2015principal temoney released a statement several hours later about the walkout , which said students and staff were safe during the protest.fields , who is white , was recorded on cell phone video using force on an african-american student during a school discipline incident .
when shared on social media , the footage caused national outrage on the use of force in schools and by school resource officers .
fields was fired on wednesday .
via : rthere is how the original story was presented to the public : school officer uses force against black female student , slams her on floor ( video ) https : //t.co/0blck097sw pic.twitter.com/6oft3flufh rt america ( @ rt_america ) october 27 , 2015here is how we responded when a student reluctantly shared their video with others which allowed the other side of the story to be told .
click here for the other side of the story .