jakarta ( reuters ) - the indonesian unit of freeport-mcmoran inc has temporarily shut the main supply route to its papua mine after a shooting incident , a spokesman said , amid escalating tensions between security forces and an armed rebel group in the area .
no one had been reported hurt after shots were fired at a vehicle , but the main supply route to the world s second-biggest copper mine had been temporarily closed while the security situation was assessed , freeport indonesia spokesman riza pratama said in text message .
authorities in indonesia s eastern province of papua are delivering food and aid to villages near the mine where security forces say the rebel group has blocked residents movement , as security personnel surround the area , a police official said .
police say a group linked to the free papua movement ( opm ) is preventing about 1,000 people from leaving five villages near the grasberg mine operated by the u.s. company .
we continue to try a persuasive approach and dialogue , said viktor mackbon , police chief of the mimika area , where the villages are located .
talks with the group would be conducted through public and religious figures in the region , he added .
officials on saturday said about 200 police and military personnel had been deployed in preparation to secure the area by force , if necessary .
police sad they will distribute on monday a notice in the area for the armed criminal group to give themselves up and surrender weapons .
reuters could not immediately reach members of the rebel group , the west papua national liberation army ( tpn-opm ) , to seek comment .
on friday , the group denied occupying villages near the mine , but said it was at war with the police , military , and freeport .
a resident from one of the villages , banti , said security forces had blocked access to the village .
residents he had spoken were not being held hostage by separatists but are only worried about what might happen if the police and military come into their area , he said .
a state of emergency has been declared in the area and security stepped up after a string of shootings since aug. 17 that killed one police officer and wounded six .
papua has had a long-running , and sometimes violent , separatist movement since it was incorporated into indonesia after a widely criticised u.n.-backed referendum in 1969 .
the incident is the first escalation of violence under president joko widodo , who has sought to ease tension in the region by stepping up investment , freeing political prisoners and tackling human rights concerns .
the grasberg mine has been dogged by security concerns for decades .
from 2009-2015 shootings within the mine project area killed 20 people and wounded 59 .