manchester , england ( reuters ) - british finance minister philip hammond defended capitalism as the only route to prosperity on monday , in an attempt to counter the opposition labour party s increasingly popular vision for a more centrally-controlled economy .
in a speech to the ruling conservative party that contained only two new policy announcements , hammond also said that the government s immediate task was to deal with the uncertainty for citizens and businesses resulting from brexit .
prime minister theresa may is grappling with deep divisions within her party over how to handle the brexit talks and serious doubts about her leadership after her botched bet on a june snap election lost the conservatives their majority in parliament and boosted labour s hopes of eventually regaining power .
hammond , who was sidelined by may during the election campaign , said last week s labour party conference showed it wanted to impose on britain , the world s fifth largest economy , the socialist fantasy seen in cuba , venezuela or zimbabwe .
we saw labour in the raw , exposed for what it has sadly become : a party taken hostage by a clique of hard-left extremist infiltrators , people who despise britain s values and talk down our country , hammond told conservative party activists .
seeking to put the economy center-stage in the conservatives pitch to voters , hammond said britain could only hope to experience rising living standards by harnessing the power of the market economy .
last week labour leader jeremy corbyn set out plans for a much more active role for the state in the economy , including renationalization of key infrastructure , higher government spending , and more taxation and control of the banking sector .
with opinion polls showing labour gaining support , hammond aims to convince voters that corbyn would make them poorer .
labour s leaders , he said , openly proclaim their ambition to demolish our successful modern market economy and replace it with a back-to-the-future socialist fantasy with hundreds of billions of extra debt for the next generation to pay .
his words echo those of may , who last week issued her own defense of capitalism - a sign of growing concern about the threat labour poses to the pro-business orthodoxy that has underpinned british economic policy since margaret thatcher s reforms in the 1980s .
our economy is not broken : it is fundamentally strong , hammond said , while also accepting that a lack of progress in talks on britain s divorce settlement with the european union and uncertainty over future ties were weighing on businesses .
the process of negotiating our exit from the eu has created uncertainty so investment has slowed as businesses wait for clarity , hammond said .
business groups welcomed hammond s defense of free markets , but said the government needed to do much more .
the speech shows a government strong on diagnosis , but weak on action .
businesses looking for clear vision and urgent delivery have been left with slim pickings , said carolyn fairbairn , head of the confederation of british industry .
hammond pledged 400 million pounds ( $ 535 million ) of additional road and rail spending and 10 billion pounds of funding to help young britons get on the property ladder .
the government has also announced plans to tackle high levels of student debt and limits on pay for public sector workers .
we must never deny or dismiss the underlying concerns that the election articulated : we must listen to them and we must respond , hammond said , adding that the government should offer pragmatic solutions to improve ordinary people s lives .
but with brexit on the horizon , a slowing economy and the bank of england hinting that interest rates could rise , may and hammond have limited room for fiscal maneuver .
the british chambers of commerce has warned that public rifts within the cabinet are undermining business confidence .
divisions over europe helped sink the conservative premierships of thatcher , john major and david cameron .
public disagreements between cabinet ministers in recent weeks have only served to undermine business confidence , not just on brexit negotiations , but also on the many issues where firms need to see clear action from government closer to home , said the chambers director general , adam marshall .
last month rating agency moody s downgraded britain s credit rating , saying government plans to reduce its debt load had been knocked off course and that brexit would harm the economy .
labour said hammond s speech on monday was disappointing .
after 40 wasted minutes speaking and seven wasted years of tory economic failure , the country expected to see the chancellor change course , labour s finance policy chief john mcdonnell said .
but instead , after a year in the job , he is continuing down the path of his predecessor and clinging to an old economic model that fails the many .
( $ 1 = 0.7477 pounds )