an electrical contractor wrote to the 54-year-old host of dirty jobs to say that he finds it offensive when the media constantly refers to majority of the republican nominee s supporters as uneducated white men .
if the media is referring to trump supporters who happen to be male caucasians suffering from a lack of knowledge brought about by an absence of formal or practical instruction , than i guess uneducated white men is a fair description , rowe responded in a lengthy facebook post .
however , if the trump supporters in question are being dubbed uneducated , simply because they didn t earn a four-year degree , i d say the media s slip is showing .
let s assume that donald trump is indeed popular among white men who didn t graduate from college .
the first question is , so what ?
is this information newsworthy ?
obviously , thousands of journalists think it is .
to your point , the words uneducated white men now appear in hundreds of articles about trump .
but if this is truly important information , where were these reporters four years ago ?
in the last election , an even greater majority of african-american males who voted for president obama had no college on their resume .
maybe i missed it , but i don t recall any headlines or articles that delved into obama s popularity among uneducated black men .
if the media didn t care about the lack of college among black men supporting obama , why do they care so much about the lack of college among white men supporting trump ?
moreover , when exactly did a lack of college become synonymous with a lack of education ?
there are many ways to become educated that don t involve the purchase of a diploma .
why would the media ignore thousands of apprenticeship programs , on-the-job-training opportunities , and all the other alternative educational options that have led so many people into so many successful careers ?
the answer is obvious many in the press are looking for ways to impact the election .
if a biased reporter can get away with labeling trump supporters who didn t graduate from college as uneducated , he can simultaneously imply that any ballot cast for trump is the hallmark of an uneducated voter .
it s impossible for me to have this conversation and not think of my grandfather .
pop never made it to college .
in fact , he never made it out of the 7th grade .
but he never stopped learning or studying .
he started as an electrician s helper , became an apprentice , a journeyman , a master electrician , a contractor , and then a small business owner .
later , as an electrical inspector for the state , he was responsible for guaranteeing the safety of hundreds of buildings in maryland , as well as all the rides on the carnival midway at the state fair .
he was a modest man of real intelligence , admired and respected by everyone who knew him .
but today , he d be right there with you , albert swelling out the ranks of uneducated white men .
closing the skills gap and making college more affordable is beyond my pay grade , but it seems like we could start by reminding the media that a college degree is not the only path to success .
it s well and good to promote higher education , but it s crazy to suggest the most expensive road to enlightenment is the best path for the most people .
and it s equally nuts to pressure our kids to keep borrowing vast sums of money to become educated in careers that no longer exist .
the media has minimized your work , insulted your intelligence , and ignored your contribution to civilized life .
try not to take it personally .
just keep doing what you do .
run your business .
vote your conscience .
keep the lights on for the rest of us .
read more : daily caller