bangkok ( reuters ) - the systematic persecution of minority muslims is on the rise across myanmar and not confined to the northwestern state of rakhine , where recent violence has sent nearly 90,000 muslim rohingya fleeing , a myanmar rights group said on tuesday .
the independent burma human rights network said that persecution was backed by the government , elements among the country s buddhist monks , and ultra-nationalist civilian groups .
the transition to democracy has allowed popular prejudices to influence how the new government rules , and has amplified a dangerous narrative that casts muslims as an alien presence in buddhist-majority burma , the group said in a report .
the report draws on more than 350 interviews in more than 46 towns and villages over an eight-month period since march 2016 .
myanmar s government made no immediate response to the report .
authorities deny discrimination and say security forces in rakhine are fighting a legitimate campaign against terrorists .
besides rohingya muslims , the report also examines the wider picture of muslims of different ethnicities across myanmar following waves of communal violence in 2012 and 2013 .
the report says many muslims of all ethnicities have been refused national identification cards , while access to islamic places of worship has been blocked in some places .
at least 21 villages around myanmar have declared themselves no-go zones for muslims , backed by the authorities , it said .
in rakhine state , the report highlighted growing segregation between buddhists and muslim communities and severe travel restriction for the muslim rohingyas , which limited their access to health care and education .
tens of thousands of rohingya have fled into neighboring bangladesh since aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked dozens of police posts and an army base .
the ensuing clashes and a military counter-offensive have killed at least 400 people .
the treatment of myanmar s roughly 1.1 million rohingya is the biggest challenge facing myanmar de facto leader aung san suu kyi , who critics say have not done enough to protect the muslim minority from persecution .
the london-based burma human rights network has been advocating among the international community for human rights in myanmar since 2012 , it says on its website .