tokyo ( reuters ) - an increasing number of fishing boats from north korea has been appearing off japan - some in distress , some abandoned and some with dead bodies on board - raising fears about infiltration by spies as tension with north korea surges .
the coastguard has beefed up patrols in response to the boats - including one labeled military property - just off the coast , or even grounded on japanese beaches .
the coastguard and analysts of north korea have played down the fears , attributing the surge in boats to more mundane reasons , such as a north korean drive to increase winter fish catches .
but the worries persist .
the government is well aware that this is causing great anxiety to local people , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga told reporters this week .
the police and coastguard ... are working to clarify the situation , he said .
once we have the facts , we will respond firmly .
there were 28 cases of boats adrift off japan s coast or grounded on its shores in november , the coastguard said , compared with four in november last year .
one of the boats was a 14-metre wooden vessel from north korea found off the northern island of hokkaido with 10 crew on board .
raising alarm in a country north korea has threatened to destroy , amid tension over its relentless development of nuclear bombs and missiles , was a square plate attached to the boat reading : korean people s army , no .
854 military unit in korean script .
police and the coastguard questioning the crew declined to comment .
a day before that boat was detained , eight decomposed bodies were found in a small boat washed up on a beach .
also on board were life jackets bearing korean lettering .
i have no intention to stoke fears , opposition lawmaker tetsuro fukuyama told parliament on tuesday , referring to another case when eight men who said they were from north korea were found wandering along a marina .. what about the risk of these people , if they are special agents , making a landing just when some military operation is going on ?
analysts point to rising demand for fish in north korea , and competition with chinese boats , pushing north korean fishermen further out to sea .
north korea is calling for bigger catches from fishermen sailing rough winter seas in small , old boats with unreliable engines .
north korea s rodong sinmun newspaper last month urged fishermen to fight their important battle of meeting annual quotas in winter .
fish are like bullets and artillery shells , it said .
nihon university professor ken kotani said he did not think the boats signaled a north korean spy campaign , noting that local authorities were handling the situation .
the government has entrusted this to local police , he said .
satoru miyamato , professor at seigakuin university , said he suspected growing demand for fish was luring more fishermen to sea in rickety boats .
the number of wealthy people is growing and they re seeking a healthy diet .
fishing is meeting that demand , he said .