beijing ( reuters ) - the united states has created sensational hype over china s military modernization , the defense ministry has said in reaction to a white house report branding china a competitor seeking to challenge u.s. power .
u.s. president donald trump s administration on monday laid out a national security strategy based on trump s america first vision , singling out of china and russia as revisionist powers seeking not only to challenge u.s. power but to erode its security and prosperity .
china s foreign ministry said on tuesday cooperation between china and the united states was the only correct choice .
the spokesman for its defense ministry , ren guoqiang , said in a statement posted on the ministry website late on wednesday that the u.s. strategy had without regard for the facts , created sensational hype over the modernization of china s defenses .
ren also said the strategy had called into question the intentions of china s military development plan and that it ran counter to peace worldwide and the development of china s relations with the united states .
china s contribution to world peace was plain for all to see , he said .
attempts by any country or any document to distort the facts or cast aspersions will be in vain , ren said .
china s armed forces , the world s largest , are in the midst of an ambitious modernization program , which includes investment in technology and new equipment such as stealth fighters and aircraft carriers , as well as cuts to troop numbers .
the tough u.s. national security strategy comes after trump has sought to build strong relations with chinese president xi jinping .
trump has called upon xi to ensure china does more to help the united states rein in north korea s nuclear and missile programs .
the u.s. administration cited china s growing military might and its efforts to build military bases on manmade islands in the contested south china sea as evidence of chinese attempts to alter the status quo .
china says its expansion of islets in the south china sea is for peaceful purposes only and that , as it has irrefutable sovereignty there , no other country has the right to question its actions .