berlin/frankfurt ( reuters ) - germany is on guard against any last-minute meddling in sunday s election but experts have seen only isolated attempts to swing votes during the campaign .
there are also no signs that fake news will affect the outcome of the election , which chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats are expected to win .
the broadly clean bill of health from political experts and social media watchers is in contrast to the u.s. and french presidential elections of the past 12 months , in which russia was accused of trying to influence the outcome .
( for a graphic on german federal elections click tmsnrt.rs/2h0nqct ) people generally aren t expecting a huge amount of digital meddling because in the end it didn t work in france , and it s just too closely associated with russia .
it would hurt them ( russia ) , said sergey lagodinsky , a lawyer and researcher with a green party-connected think tank in berlin .
the sharing of false or misleading headlines and mass posting by automated social media bots have had little influence in germany s quiet campaign , government officials and political experts say .
and an oxford university study concluded this week that far less fake news was being spread in germany than in the united states before the 2016 presidential election .
concern had been raised in germany by the accusations of russian meddling in last year s u.s. presidential election to prevent democrat hilary clinton winning and in this year s french presidential election , in which eventual winner emmanuel macron s team complained his campaign was targeted by a massive and coordinated hacking operation .
russia has denied meddling in foreign elections .
far-right set to enter parliament germany s biggest political parties , worried about the impact of a hack that stole politicians data in 2015 , agreed this year not to exploit any information that might be leaked as a result of a cyber attack , and not to use bots .
social media watchers spotted a small-scale effort late in the campaign by russian accounts on twitter to amplify a call by german far-right activists for their supporters to volunteer as observers at polls to prevent possible voting fraud .
the far-right call for election monitors centered on a site with a tiny following called wahlbeobachtung.de , which features demands for a recount if many invalid ballots are found .
it was retweeted by a russian bot-for-hire 169 times in recent days , fake news tracking site digital forensic research labs said .
the site , run by einprozent ( one percent ) , an anti-immigrant , anti-merkel patriotic citizens network , has drawn just 305 facebook users to sign up as monitors so far .
german voters will cast votes at some 88,000 polling stations .
of 1 million tweets tracked by the oxford group in the first 10 days of september , 30 percent were tied to the anti-immigration alternative for germany ( afd ) , far outweighing support shown for the party in polls : it is running at around 10 percent .
that puts the afd on track to enter parliament for the first time as the third largest party .
facebook germany spokesman klaus gorny said the company was keeping a close eye on abuse while sticking to its principles of allowing free speech .
he said there was no doubt that right-wing postings , some of them quite offensive , had increased , but facebook was only removing content that was illegal .
there are certainly things that are completely off , but they re not illegal , he said .