tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese companies overwhelmingly want prime minister shinzo abe s ruling coalition to stay in power in this sunday s national election but about two-thirds want it to lose seats , a reuters poll found .
the survey suggests corporations want political stability but don t want to hand abe a landslide victory for fear he might become complacent about reviving the economy .
many companies in the survey expressed concern that a big election win would encourage abe to invest his energy in a long-held ambition to revise japan s pacifist constitution , at the expense of economic policy .
we need political stability .
but the top priority should be economic steps , not revising the constitution , wrote a manager of a construction company , who preferred an outcome in which the ruling bloc of abe s liberal democratic party and partner komeito may lose seats , but keep a simple majority .
japanese go to the polls on sunday to elect representatives for the country s 465-member lower house , the more powerful of japan s two-chamber national diet , or parliament .
forecasts published last week predicted abe s coalition would win around 300 seats , close to the two-thirds super-majority it held before he called the election .
along with like-minded parties , the ldp bloc also has a majority in the upper house , which would be needed to revise the constitution .
the corporate survey was conducted sept 28 to oct 12 and found that 94 percent of companies hoped abe s coalition would win the election .
however , some 48 percent wanted his bloc to obtain a smaller majority , while 20 percent hoped the ruling camp would retain the 323 seats it held before the lower house was dissolved last month .
seven percent wanted the ruling bloc to win more seats .
those who expect the unexpected like brexit and ( donald ) trump s presidency are doomed to disappointment .
this election has no single , overriding issue , said masaki kuwahara , senior economist at nomura securities , who reviewed the survey results .
split votes among opposition parties should help abe s coalition .
the campaign has seen the emergence of tokyo governor yuriko koike s new party of hope , which advocates a freeze on a planned sales tax hike in 2019 .
the reuters survey showed a slim majority wanted abe to stick to a budget-balancing goal , while opposing his plan to divert revenue from a planned hike in the national sales tax towards education and child-care , rather than towards debt repayment .
abe must be playing to the gallery by promising such a plan that may attract voters in the election .
how on earth will japan be able to finance the cost of social security services ?
a manager of a metal products machinery maker wrote in the survey .
asked what policies should be tackled after the election , fiscal consolidation - or efforts to curb the industrial world s heaviest public-debt burden - was the top choice , picked by 35 percent , followed by additional fiscal stimulus , chosen by 14 percent .
just 5 percent wanted further monetary stimulus , underscoring the dominant market view that easy-money policy has its limits .
only 3 percent said revising the constitution should be a top priority .
many companies are wary of a potential collapse of public finances , which would destabilize the financial system and broader economy , kuwahara said .
they also fear that revising the pacifist constitution will send a wrong signal to asian neighbors who suffered from japan s wartime aggression .
the survey , conducted for reuters by nikkei research , polled 548 big and mid-sized firms that reply on condition of anonymity .
around 230 companies answered the questions on the outlook for the election and policies .