new york ( reuters ) - within minutes of jeb bush dropping out of the presidential race saturday night , some of his donors were preparing to throw their financial support behind marco rubio , who has emerged as the strongest candidate among the establishment wing of the party .
“ jeb ’ s network is already naturally migrating to marco , ” said gaylord hughey , a top bush fundraiser from texas , echoing what four other top donors told reuters .
“ it ’ s the clear path. ” “ it ’ s a stampede , ” added another donor , who spoke on the condition of anonymity because he wanted to give bush some time after dropping out before he went public with his support of rubio , the u.s. senator from florida .
three other bush donors , who declined to be named , also said they now planned to support rubio .
although he has failed to win any of the first three nominating contests , rubio is considered by many political strategists as the best positioned to challenge frontrunner donald trump , a billionaire political outsider , and senator ted cruz of texas , who has campaigned on an anti-washington message .
the likelihood that some of bush ’ s deep-pocketed donors will back rubio comes at an opportune time for his candidacy , as he heads into a series of contests in march that will be crucial for building momentum .
brian ballard , who raised money for bush last year but switched allegiances last summer to rubio , said : “ it ’ s flooding tonight .
ninety-five percent of jeb ’ s money is going to end up with marco. ” rubio had only $ 5 million in cash on hand at the end of january , federal campaign finance reports released saturday night show , a slim buffer by modern campaign standards .
conservative solutions , a political spending group that supports his campaign , had $ 5.6 million on hand at the end of january , but spent an additional $ 9.3 million on advertising in the first 19 days of february .
by contrast , right to rise , bush ’ s political spending group , had $ 24.5 million on hand at the end of january but spent $ 6.6 million of that in february on ads .
and his network of donors have proven their financial might , helping bush at one point to amass a war chest of $ 150 million .
even before bush dropped out , some donors privately complained about the missteps of the campaign , expressing concern about the strength of trump ’ s candidacy and bush ’ s lackluster debate performances .
in january , a dozen top bush donors interviewed by reuters said they were angry that bush was using their money to lob attack ads at rubio , damaging the candidate they thought had the best chance to win .
they also said they had privately signaled to the rubio campaign that they would support him once bush dropped out .
but they wouldn ’ t go public at the time because they feared displeasing the bush dynasty .
in addition to the bush money , rubio is expected to reap the support of the billionaire industrialist koch brothers and their donor network , which is expected to spend $ 400 million in the presidential race , according to several network donors and koch political organization officials .
the koch brothers are also in the midst of planning efforts to undercut trump ’ s candidacy , network officials and members said at a recent private retreat in california .
their focus group research has shown that when voters learn more about how trump ’ s past business behavior has hurt ordinary people , they sour on him , according to the sources , who spoke on the condition of anonymity .
( reporting by michelle conlin ; editing by paul thomasch and mary milliken ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .