today is schedule your mammogram day with planned parenthood pp lies to the american people so we think it s important to call them out on the facts : they do not perform mammograms ! please call your local planned parenthood clinic and ask if you can schedule your mammogram with them do it today !
a few years ago , cecile richards went on television and said that if planned parenthood was defunded , women would lose access to services such as mammograms .
as a former clinic director of planned parenthood , i knew this was simply not true.we scheduled our first schedule your mammogram day after that .
we had over 10,000 people call planned parenthood .
while we were hoping for an official statement from planned parenthood , they were silent.just a couple nights ago at the miss america pageant , one of the contestants stated that planned parenthood shouldn t be defunded because women would lose access to those dang mammograms.we figured maybe it was time to make some more calls .
hey , maybe planned parenthood started providing mammograms in house ! ?
it s time to find out.we are asking prolifers everywhere to call your local planned parenthood clinics and ask to schedule your mammogram.goal : 20,000 calls ! who can call ?
anyone !
if you re a guy call to schedule one for the lady in your life .
when : all day on september 21 , 2015 where : google your local planned parenthood and call em up .
important : at the end of every call , make sure to tell the planned parenthood worker to go visit www.abortionworker.com.we will continue to do this month after month until planned parenthood makes an official statement announcing that they do not provide mammogram services .
it s time to bust this myth once and for all.at the end of every call , make sure to tell the planned parenthood worker to go visit www.abortionworker.com.planned parenthood is lying to you ! the big fib that planned parenthood leads with , and one that is endlessly repeated by their friends in the media , is that if planned parenthood is defunded , where will all those women go for their mammograms ?
planned parenthood ceo cecile richards says this wherever she goes.planned parenthood does not do mammograms .
lila rose of liveaction showed this by having people call dozens of planned parenthood facilities asked for a mammogram and being told every single time , no , we don t do mammograms and then being directed to a local clinic that does.no one has to take lila rose s word for it though , according to a dossier prepared by americans united for life , as recently as 2012 , the u.s. department of health and human services has confirmed that no planned parenthood clinic is authorized to perform mammograms .
read more : breitbart news