if you haven t yet discovered the remembrance project , please do so !
the remembrance project was started by families of relatives whose loved one was killed by an illegal alien .
it s heartbreaking to think that these deaths could have been prevented if we had a border .
a day after the obama administration argues for an extension of amnesty to millions of illegal immigrants before the supreme court , the mothers of victims murdered by illegal immigrants will appear before a house panel to call for tougher immigration enforcement.tuesday , michelle root , the mother of sarah root a recent college graduate who was killed by an illegal immigrant ( now on immigration and customs enforcement s most wanted list ) and laura wilkerson , the mother of josh wilkerson who was tortured and killed by an illegal immigrant will testify before the house judiciary committee s immigration and border security subcommittee .
not everyone is a dreamer or a valedictorian there are criminals motivated by malice and a conscious disrespect for the law , subcommittee chairman rep. trey gowdy ( r-sc ) 86 % said in a statement announcing the hearing .
but these losses are preventable , and it should not take the tragic death of another innocent life for this administration to begin enforcing our laws .
the obama administration has come under fire in recent years for what republicans and immigration hawks say is a significant dilution of immigration law and enforcement .
according to the committee , for example , from october 2011 to december 2014 , ice released criminal aliens from detention over 105,000 times , despite committing assault , sexual assaults , homicide-related offenses , and kidnapping prior to their release.root and wilkerson s prepared testimony , posted in advance of the hearing by the committee , offer a glimpse into the heart-wrenching testimony lawmakers will hear tuesday .
edwin mejia spent four days in jail and is believed to have fled the area and possibly the country after posting $ 5,000 bail , root s prepared testimony reads .
less than the amount it cost to bury my baby .
mejia is charged with killing 21-year-old sarah root while street-racing drunk .
he absconded after posting bail , and ice declined to hold him .
because of the lack of controls , the police , immigration , u.s .
marshals and law enforcement have little or no information on his whereabouts on him , his family and acquaintances .
he and those who protect and hide him are cowards , her testimony continues.wilkerson s prepared testimony delves into the torture and murder her teenage son underwent at the hands of hermilo vildo moralez , an illegal immigrant.at trial , the killer testified on his behalf and gave exact testimony on how he systematically killed josh .
first a punch in the face , so his vision was off .
next a knee to josh s abdomen so that he would go to the ground .
josh went to the ground as his spleen was sliced in half .
this killer was aggravated that it was not over , he grew tired of watching bloody bubbles coming from josh s nose as he was trying to breathe .
next he took a closet rod and beat josh over the head again and again until the rod broke in 4 pieces .
joshua still breathing .
next he strangled him , let him go to see if it was over , nope , so he continued until there were no more bubbles .
he waited and watched him die .
he tied josh s body up , stuffed him in the backseat of our truck , bought gas , dumped josh in a field and set his body on fire .
the killer went home took a shower and went to see a movie.read more : breitbart