the obama s just added millions onto the taxpayer s tab for the trip to cuba that barack was going on until they just announced the entire family will tag along the obamas have been famous for their lavish spending on trips and have racked up a big bill that the taxpayers are on the hook for .
we know that they pay for some of the travel but most of the travel is on us .
the known total expense to the american taxpayers thus far for all obama travel is now $ 70,880,035.78 !
here s a list of the first family vacations with the cost for each : obama family vacationswhy doesn t barack go alone since this sounds like a business trip ?
at least he ll be able to show his girls the horrible results of decades of communism come to think of it , it might be worth it ! first lady michelle obama and daughters sasha and malia will be joining president barack obama next week on his historic trip to cuba.obama will open his visit late on sunday by touring cultural sites in old havana along with michelle , sasha and malia .
cardinal jaime ortega will also host the obamas at the havana cathedral.the president then plans to use a speech in havana to lay out a vision of greater freedoms and more economic opportunity in cuba , white house officials said on wednesday , offering a glimpse of how the president hopes to use his trip to encourage change on the communist island .
obama s speech on tuesday at the grand theater of havana will mark a moment that seemed unimaginable only a few years ago , before obama and cuban president raul castro moved to restore relations between the two estranged countries.obama s advisers said they hoped cubans would be able to watch the speech live on television , adding that obama sought not to dictate outcomes but create the space for cuba to change on its own .
ultimately he will make clear that that s for the cuban people to decide , said ben rhodes , obama s deputy national security adviser .
we have great confidence in the ability of the cuban people to do extraordinary things .
during his three-day trip to cuba the first to the country by a sitting president in 88 years obama will also meet with castro at the palace of the revolution and attend a major league baseball exhibition game.his much-anticipated meeting with cuban dissidents will include prominent members of the government s opposition , rhodes said , stressing that the united states and not cuba was deciding who would attend .
the president will lay a wreath on monday at the memorial to jose marti , the cuban independence hero , before meeting with castro in his offices along the famed plaza of the revolution .
the white house said human rights , regional issues and ways to improve cubans standard of living were all on the agenda , with the leaders expected to address reporters after their meeting .
obama planned to meet with us and cuban entrepreneurs in a bid to boost cuba s nascent private-sector economy .
castro was to host the president for a state dinner at the palace on monday evening.despite cuban leaders view of such meetings as interference in the island s internal affairs , rhodes said there was no reason to believe the government would block any invitees from participating .
if there are any impediments to that meeting we would be very clear about this , rhodes said .
he declined to name any of those who would attend .
dozens of us lawmakers , including a handful of republicans , will travel with the president to cuba along with us business leaders and some cuban-americans , officials said , arguing that their inclusion reflected growing support in the united states for lifting the generations-old embargo .
yet there are few signs that congress will agree to repeal the sanctions anytime soon .
following his cuba swing , obama will travel to buenos aires to meet with new argentinian president mauricio macri , who took office in december pledging to reverse many of the policies of his predecessor , cristina fernandez .
obama has said that fernandez s policies were consistently anti-american and praised macri for recognizing that we re in a new era .
in argentina , obama will meet next wednesday with macri at the casa rosada presidential office before laying a wreath and touring the buenos aires metropolitan cathedral .
he ll also hold a town hall meeting with young people before being feted at a state dinner .
he planned to visit the picturesque city of bariloche in argentina s patagonia region on thursday before returning to washington.read more : daily mail