we certainly don t want to do anything that might offend the muslim faith .
by all means , america should do whatever islam dictates it s the politically correct thing to do right ? a california school district announced last week a ban on the drawing of religious figures after a parent complained about a class assignment in which students were directed to draw the islamic prophet muhammad.the task was part of a 7th-grade history worksheet , vocabulary pictures : the rise of islam , at high desert school in acton , according to the los angeles daily news .
muslims are forbidden from drawing muhammad , and threats from islamic terrorist groups have largely ended the practice among non-muslims as well .
i have directed all staff to permanently suspend the practice of drawing or depiction of any religious leader , acton-agua dulce unified school district superintendent brent woodard told the daily news in a text message on wednesday .
i am certain this teacher did not intend to offend anyone and , in fact , was simply teaching respect and tolerance for all cultures .
melinda van stone said she complained to the school when her 12-year-old son brought the assignment home in october .
van stone would not tell the daily news what religion she or her son practiced .
it s not appropriate to have our children go to school and learn how to insult a religious group , van stone said.high desert school principal lynn david said the worksheet was not part of a textbook , but came from supplemental material .
david said van stone was the only parent to complain about the assignment.drawing muhammad has become a deadly gambit .
islamic terrorists killed 11 and wounded 11 others in an attack on the satirical french newspaper charlie hebdo in january .
those responsible perpetrated the bloodbath because of the paper s numerous illustrations of muhammad .
four months later , two islamic gunmen were shot and killed outside of a muhammad cartoon contest in texas .
the duo had planned a massacre of the contest s participants .
via : fox news