trump-hating , bernie sanders supporter and domestic terrorist james t. hodgkinson , 66 , from belleville , illinois , was killed by capitol police after firing up to 100 rounds from an assault rifle at a baseball park in alexandria , virginia , leaving five injured including house majority whip steve scalise at 7am on wednesday.scalise s condition worsened throughout the afternoon and was deemed critical by hospital staff after he he was released from emergency surgery on his hip.two capitol police officers were shot as they bravely returned fire on hodgkinson while the lawmakers scrambled across the field to safety .
congressional staffer zachary barth and lobbyist matt mika were also shot but both are expected to recover .
daily mailduring the 2016 election , congressman steve scalise was a supporter of donald trump .
unlike some republicans , scalise continued to support his party s nominee after the leaked access hollywood tape on which trump could be heard bragging about grabbing women by the private parts.steve scalise stood by trump , even after the access hollywood tape leak when so many republicans abandonedhe is one of us pic.twitter.com/5t54yenwkq jack posobiec ( @ jackposobiec ) june 15 , 2017 let me be clear , donald trump will do more to rebuild our middle class , get our economy moving again , strengthen our national defense , and appoint supreme court justices who uphold our constitution rather than rewrite it , scalise told the advocate .
those are the reasons i ve supported donald trump for president and that is why i will continue to do so .
in march , donald trump recorded a special message for steve scalise s daughter on her birthday : .
@ potus has an important message for my daughter madison on her 10th birthday !
pic.twitter.com/grlz1yjech rep. steve scalise ( @ stevescalise ) march 17 , 2017steve scalise was also a supporter of president donald trump s original travel ban signed in january .
isis has said they want to infiltrate a lot of these refugee programs and we ve seen them carry that out in europe , scalise said .
so we want to make sure that people who are coming into the united states aren t being infiltrated by terrorist organizations and until that can be done i think this freeze from certain countries , where we can not vet , makes a lot of sense .
heavy