president obama pretty much trolled donald trump earlier by saying that he could have defeated the alleged billionaire and former reality show star .
obama spoke of his hope and change campaign and confirmed what we all know already .
his insight was that we just have to say no to that then that will puncture the balloon , that all this talk about hope and change and no red state and blue state is is proven to be a mirage , a fantasy , the president said .
and if we can if we can puncture that vision , then we have a chance to win back seats in the house and win back seats in the senate .
if i had run again and articulated it , i think i could ve mobilized a majority of the american people to rally behind it , he continued .
in the wake of the election and trump winning , a lot of people have suggested that somehow , [ my vision ] really was a fantasy , he continued .
what i would argue is , is that the culture actually did shift , that the majority does buy into the notion of a one america that is tolerant and diverse and open and full of energy and dynamism .
well , that nugget of information was too much for the thin-skinned president-elect to handle so after not tweeting for 24 hours , he unleashed a nonsensical tweet in response to obama s interview .
president obama said that he thinks he would have won against me .
he should say that but i say no way !
jobs leaving , isis , ocare , etc , trump tweeted with his tiny hands.president obama said that he thinks he would have won against me .
he should say that but i say no way !
jobs leaving , isis , ocare , etc .
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) december 26 , 2016we do not speak turnip here at addictinginfo , so if someone can translate that tweet it would really help .
thank you ! the internet called out the president-elect for being a big baby .
@ realdonaldtrump are you really fighting people you didn t even run against now ? !
dude , fucking grow up .
jon bershad ( @ jonbershad ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump you didn t win the popular vote so you re technically a loser .
tommy campbell ( @ mrtommycampbell ) december 26 , 2016 @ pourmecoffee @ realdonaldtrump he is a 70 year old child throwing a tantrum .
it will be a daily embarrassment at best .
pic.twitter.com/l9z0ljr5n3 this is not normal ( @ networkjunkyz ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump obama would have beat you to a pulp .
jeffrey guterman ( @ jeffreyguterman ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump not only would he win but he would make you so mad that your tiny hands would be slamming the table with tears in your eyes .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) december 26 , 2016 .
@ realdonaldtrump and let s be nice about the man who got osama and created 15 million jobs , donald .
you don t want to sound like a yahoo .
bess kalb ( @ bessbell ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump have some respect he s still your president you arrogant cheeto whitney meyer ( @ itswhitneymeyer ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump i mean technically hillary won more than 2.6 million more votes than you .
jack slater ( @ jack_slater ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump life comes at you fast , man pic.twitter.com/4rig5cvuaj jay willis ( @ farragutwest ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump well you would say that wouldn t you .
you daft shaved ape .
neil claxton ( @ mintroyale ) december 26 , 2016 @ realdonaldtrump he s only one of the most popular candidates ever and you rank 46 out of 58 .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) december 26 , 2016the fact is that obama s approval rating is soaring and trump has the lowest approval rating of any president-elect in modern history .
he s just not popular .
hillary clinton received nearly 3 million in the popular vote.photo by joe raedle via getty .