nairobi ( reuters ) - unknown attackers torched a car belonging to deputy head of the parliament of comoros late on sunday , the latest in a series of threats apparently aimed at derailing an investigation he is leading , the lawmaker said .
dhoulkamal dhoihir , vice president of the national assembly , is leading an inquiry into a plan to sell comoros citizenship to stateless people in gulf states .
the scheme would earn comoros , an island state off africa s eastern coast , $ 200 million to $ 300 million , but it has been dogged by allegations of corruption .
the incident comes a day before the commission dhoihir heads is due to question two former presidents - ikililou dhoinine , who left office last year , and ahmed abdallah mohamed sambi , who launched the citizenship scheme in late 2008 .
as i was finishing up my dinner i heard a loud noise and the car alarm go off .
i opened the door and saw my car on fire .
everything was destroyed , dhoihir told reuters on monday .
it was definitely linked to my work .
there are lots of people who don t want this information to come out , he added .
abdoul-kader mahmoud , the director of the police , said the investigation was continuing , but officers had not yet identified the cause of the incident .
it could have been a technical problem , but we are not ruling out any explanation , he told reuters .
dhoirir said that he had faced threats via social media and a group of mps have tried to shut down his commission of inquiry , which began work in the summer and is due to submit its report next month .
dhoirir said that the commission had requested extra security after coming under increased pressure as the investigation advanced .
none was provided until sunday night , after the fire , he said .
mahmoud denied commissioners had requested extra security before the incident but said officers had been dispatched to the residences of members of the commission .
we have taken the measures .
we have sent more men to protect these people , he said .
under president azali assoumani , the comoros government has suspended the issuing of new citizenships until the commission completes its work .
this is a very serious incident .
those who risk being exposed are sending a very clear message , a former top government official said .