katie couric is a wolf in sheep s clothing .
dan rather , brian williams and katie couric will forever be known as some of the worst liars at cbs and nbc , two of the three major news networks where most americans used to go to get their news.katie couric , who still faces a $ 12 million defamation lawsuit stemming from a deceptive edit in a film she produced , decried the effect of fake news on america during an interview on thursday.couric told the new york daily news she believes fake news is tearing [ america ] apart at the seams while discussing her latest effort cohosting a music and politics event in new york city .
i remember i got sent a lot of stories from friends who were quite educated and were like , did you see this ? '
couric said .
and i would say , come on , you re kidding , right ?
this is bs . '
she did not mention the controversy surrounding a deceptive edit included in her 2016 film under the gun .
during one scene in the movie couric is shown asking a group of gun rights activists from the virginia citizens defense league a question about background checks .
the group is then shown sitting in silence for nine seconds with nobody offering a response to the question .
wfblisten to rush limbaugh explain why katie couric is not a good person and not a nice woman : the makers of a new katie couric documentary on gun violence deceptively edited an interview between couric and a group of gun rights activists in an apparent attempt to embarrass the activists , an audio recording of the full interview shows.at the 21:48 mark of under the gun a scene of katie couric interviewing members of the virginia citizens defense league , a gun rights organization , is shown.couric can be heard in the interview asking activists from the group , if there are no background checks for gun purchasers , how do you prevent felons or terrorists from purchasing a gun ?
the documentary then shows the activists sitting silently for nine awkward seconds , unable to provide an answer .
it then cuts to the next scene .
the moment can be watched here : however , raw audio of the interview between katie couric and the activists provided to the washington free beacon shows the scene was deceptively edited .
instead of silence , couric s question is met immediately with answers from the activists .
a back and forth between a number of the league s members and couric over the issue of background checks proceeds for more than four minutes after the original question is asked.listen here : john lott , jr. explains to the blaze s dana loesch how this documentary was rigged from the outset : under the gun has been labeled dishonest politicking in the guise of media coverage , loose with the facts , and a full-length assault on guns and the second amendment by those in the gun community since its debut on may 15.the virginia citizens defense league labeled the deceptively edited segment featured in the film unbelievable and extremely unprofessional .
philip van cleave , the organization s president , said the editing was done deliberately to make it appear that league members didn t have a response to couric s question .
katie couric asked a key question during an interview of some members of our organization , he said .
she then intentionally removed their answers and spliced in nine seconds of some prior video of our members sitting quietly and not responding .
viewers are left with the misunderstanding that the members had no answer to her question .
nora ryan , the chief of staff for epix , the cable channel that is airing the documentary , told the free beacon in an email , under the gun is a critically-acclaimed documentary that looks at the polarizing and politicized issue of gun violence , a subject that elicits strong reactions from people on both sides .
epix stands behind katie couric , director stephanie soechtig , and their creative and editorial judgment .
we encourage people to watch the film and decide for themselves .
via : wfb