when president donald trump visited the cia saturday , he had hoped that cia director mike pompeo would accompany him .
but when trump arrived at the langley , virginia , headquarters of the agency , he was instead accompanied by congressman mike pompeo.here s what happened between schumer and cotton on friday : the senate reconvened after the inaugural ceremonies on friday , with pompeo s nomination set to come up at 4:50pm .
cotton angrily confronted schumer about his broken promise .
according to witnesses , schumer told cotton to lower his voice and asked him move off of the senate floor to an adjacent hallway for a private discussion .
we need to take this out into the hallway , schumer said .
cotton walked with schumer but loudly rejected his first request .
don t tell me to lower my voice !
he shouted , with an additional salty admonition tacked on for emphasis .
burr and cornyn were present , as was senator mark warner , ranking member of the senate intelligence committee , and several aides.schumer told cotton that the senate had never previously confirmed a cia director on inauguration day and if cotton had been around eight years earlier , he d know that republicans didn t extend that courtesy for incoming president barack obama .
eight years ago , i was getting my ass shot at in afghanistan , cotton snapped .
so don t talk to me about where i was 8 years ago .
cotton asked schumer why he d gone back on his word .
schumer claimed that he d only been speaking for himself when he promised to let pompeo through .
i said that i would not block him , schumer said , emphasizing the personal pronoun , according to sources who witnessed the exchange .
i never said that i could speak for 47 other democrats .
the republicans were stunned.senator chuck schumer is the poster boy for term limits .
his actions on this are a stain on his already tarnished reputation.thank you to great patriot tom cotton for your service and for standing up to this weasel ! read more : ws