cairo ( reuters ) - egyptian militant group hasm claimed responsibility on sunday for a small explosion at myanmar s embassy in cairo , saying it was in retaliation for that country s military crackdown on rohingya muslims .
egypt s interior ministry has not commented on saturday s blast , which residents and media initially reported as probably the result of a faulty gas pipeline .
two security sources told reuters that traces of explosives had been found at the scene .
this bombing serves as a warning to the embassy of murderers , killers of women and children in the muslim rakhine state , and in solidarity with the sons of this weakened muslim population , hasm said in its statement .
it was the first time that hasm , a group blamed for several attacks targeting judges and policemen around cairo since last year , has claimed an attack on a civilian target .
( we have used ) utmost caution to ensure that there were no civilian casualties or innocent people ( hurt ) during the operation , or else you would have seen a burning hell you could not have stopped , hasm said in the statement .
myanmar s government spokesman urged citizens abroad to be careful .
pls take care myanmar nationals around the world , the spokesman , zaw htay , said on his twitter feed .
the latest wave of violence in western myanmar s rakhine state began on aug. 25 , when rohingya insurgents attacked police posts and an army camp , killing about 12 people .
the myanmar military response has sent more than 410,000 rohingya muslims fleeing to bangladesh , escaping what they and rights monitors say is a campaign aimed at driving the muslim population out of the majority-buddhist country .
egypt accuses hasm of being a militant wing of the muslim brotherhood , an islamist group it outlawed in 2013 .
the muslim brotherhood denies this .
hundreds of egyptian soldiers and police have been killed fighting an islamist insurgency in sinai that has gained pace since mid-2013 , when general-turned-president abdel fattah al-sisi ousted mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood after mass protests against his rule .