when was the last time being loyal to your boss was a negative , especially when your boss is the potus ! the white house s new communications director anthony scaramucci is being divorced by his wife deirdre ball after three years of marriage because of his ruthless mission to get close to president donald trump , whom she despises .
a source says that while she liked the nice wall street life and their home on long island she did not care for the insane world of d.c. and she is tired of his naked ambition .
another source said the former couple had fought over his loyalty to trump .
the source noted , deidre is not a fan of trump , and she hasn t exactly been on board and supportive of anthony and his push to get back into the white house .
according to reports , ball donated $ 5,400 to the congressional campaign of anti-trump democrat kathleen rice in 2015 .
but she also donated $ 10,800 to wisconsin gov .
scott walker s presidential campaign and $ 2,700 to jeb bush s campaign the same year.deidre worked as a vice president in investor relations for skybridge capital , the firm scaramucci founded in 2005 and sold to ascend to the white house .
the source said that scaramucci had been hell-bent on claiming his position at the white house after he was originally pegged for a senior role .
this ambition was halted by reince priebus , trump s chief of staff .
but , after an aggressive campaign , scaramucci was made communications director by trump which prompted sean spicer to quit.scaramucci recently gave an incredibly strange interview with the new yorker , telling reporter ryan lizza that he thought priebus was a f king paranoid schizophrenic , a paranoiac .
he then added , i m not steve bannon , i am not trying to suck my own c k. he was also noted saying , i m not trying to build my own brand off the f king strength of the president .
i am here to serve the country .
ball went by the twitter handle @ mrsascaramucci but , according to reports , she deleted her account after her husband was appointed as white house communications director .
a friend close to scaramucci stated that anthony is focusing on his children , his work for the president and the american people .
there is nothing more important to him .
i don t know who deidre thought she was marrying but anyone who knows anthony knows he s an ambitious man .
read more : page six