kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysia s ruling party united behind scandal-tainted prime minister najib razak as he prepares for a general election due by august by deciding on friday that he could stand unopposed in a party leadership contest due some time next year .
najib is hoping to win a third term despite the multi-billion dollar corruption scandal at 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) that has dogged his premiership for the last two years .
najib has consistently denied any wrongdoing at the state fund , which he founded and served as chairman of the advisory board .
at its last annual party conference before a general election , the united malays national organisation ( umno ) gave both najib and his deputy , ahmad zahid hamidi , a free pass to retain their posts in a party leadership ballot next year .
therefore , in the spirit of togetherness and mutuality ... state-run news agency bernama quoted permanent chairman badruddin amiruldin as saying , it is decided at this assembly that the post of president held by datuk seri najib razak and the post of deputy president datuk seri dr ahmad zahid hamidi , will not be contested in the coming elections .
when the 1mdb controversy first erupted in 2015 , najib quashed an internal revolt after some umno leaders asked him to step down and he blocked an inquiry into the affair .
leadership elections were postponed as he went on to purge the party of dissent while he also dropped his former liberal image , cracking down on opponents and civil society , as he moved umno closer to conservative islamist values , worrying malaysia s sizable chinese and indian minorities .
addressing the conference earlier this week , najib called for loyalty from umno s 3.4 million members .
have absolute loyalty and obey all the instructions of the top leadership , he said in a keynote address to the party faithful .
four years ago , umno crept back into power despite registering its worst ever election performance , as an opposition front led the charismatic anwar ibrahim called foul after losing despite winning the popular vote .
this time , however , the challenge is coming from the veteran mahathir mohamad - who gave up the premiership in 2003 after 22 years in power and had been najib s political mentor .
mahathir , has come out of retirement to team up with anwar - who is languishing in jail having been convicted in a case that both he and independent observers say was politically motivated .
a rebounding economy and strengthening ringgit currency have helped najib improve his image among malaysians , who have been frustrated with the corruption and rising living costs .
but the 1mdb scandal refuses to go away , with u.s. attorney general this week referring to the case as the worst example of kleptocracy that the department of justice had investigated .