phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodian opposition leader kem sokha has been charged with treason and could face a jail term of 15 to 30 years if convicted , a court said on tuesday .
kem sokha was arrested on sunday in an escalating crackdown on critics of prime minister hun sen s government , which accused the opposition leader of plotting with the united states to undermine the southeast asian country .
trials of senior political figures in recent years have resulted in convictions and international rights groups questioned whether proceedings against kem sokha would be fair .
he had been charged with colluding with foreigners under article 443 of cambodia s penal code , the phnom penh municipal court said in a statement .
the act of secret collusion with foreigners is an act of treason , it added .
the evidence the government has presented is a video of kem sokha from 2013 in which he tells supporters of his cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) that he has had american support and advice for his political strategy to win power .
one of the opposition leader s lawyers , pheng heng , said what appeared in the video clip was no crime .
the legal procedure is wrong and the charge isn t correct , he said .
what he talked about was elections in a multi-party democratic way .
the arrest of kem sokha and growing pressure on independent media and rights groups have drawn condemnation from the united states and other western countries , which have raised doubts over whether a general election next year can be fair .
but hun sen , one of asia s longest serving rulers , has won support from china , which has made him one of its closest regional allies and provided billions of dollars in infrastructure loans .
next year s election could represent the greatest challenge to hun sen and his ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) in the more than three decades he has ruled , but his critics accuse him of trying to shut down all opposition in advance .
pro-government website fresh news said there could be further arrests of officials from the opposition party in the case .
the government and the ruling cpp have manufactured these treason charges against kem sokha for political purposes , aiming to try and knock the political opposition out of the ring before the 2018 electoral contest even begins , said phil robertson , deputy asia director of new york-based human rights watch .
kingsley abott , senior international legal adviser for southeast asia at the geneva-based international committee of jurists , said the allegations against kem sokha had the hallmarks of being politically motivated .
the absence of an independent and impartial prosecution and judiciary makes the delivery of a fair trial impossible in most political cases , he said .
kem sokha , was sentenced to five months in jail last september after failing to appear in court in connection with a case against two of his party colleagues , but he was later pardoned at hun sen s request .
he had avoided prison on that occasion by taking refuge at his party headquarters .
kem sokha s predecessor as party leader , sam rainsy , was found guilty of defamation in absentia .
he lives in france to avoid the conviction , which he says was politically motivated .