aboard a u.s. military aircraft ( reuters ) - u.s. defense secretary jim mattis said on friday that as offensive operations against islamic state in syria entered their final stages , he expected the focus to move towards holding territory instead of arming syrian kurdish fighters .
speaking with reporters on a military plane en route to cairo , mattis did not say if there had already been a halt to weapons transfers .
u.s. president donald trump informed turkish president tayyip erdogan in a call last week that washington was adjusting military support to partners on the ground in syria .
the syrian kurdish ypg spearheads the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting islamic state with the help of a u.s.-led coalition .
turkey s presidency had previously reported that the united states would not supply weapons to kurdish ypg fighters in syria .
until now , the pentagon has only gone as far as saying it was reviewing adjustments in arms for the syrian kurdish forces , which ankara views as a threat .
the ypg is armed and as the coalition stops offensive ( operations ) then obviously you don t need that , you need security , you need police forces , that is local forces , that is people who make certain that isis doesn t come back , mattis said .
when asked if that would specifically mean the u.s. would stop arming the ypg , mattis said : yeah , we are going to go exactly along the lines of what the president announced .
ankara has been infuriated by washington s support for the ypg militia , seen by turkey as an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has fought a decades-long insurgency in turkey and is designated a terrorist group by ankara , the united states and european union .
the united states expects to recover heavy weapons and larger vehicles from the ypg , but lighter weapons are unlikely to be completely recovered , u.s. officials have said .
earlier this week , the u.s.-led coalition fighting islamic state said more than 400 u.s. marines and their artillery would be leaving syria after helping to capture the city of raqqa from islamic state .
mattis said that was part of the united states changing the composition of its forces to support diplomats to bring an end to the war .
the troops are changing their stance ... that includes with our allies who are now changing their stance as they come to the limits of where they are going , mattis said .