new york ( reuters ) - jeffrey gundlach , the widely followed investor who runs doubleline capital , foresees a “ global growth scare ” between now and the end of the summer , triggered by a presidential nomination of donald trump .
“ that is where i see the vulnerabilities , ” gundlach said in a telephone interview on monday .
trump ’ s protectionist policies could mean negative global growth , gundlach warned .
“ as he gets the nomination , the markets and investors are going to worry about it more .
you will see a downgrading of global growth based on geopolitical risks .
you must factor this into your risk-management. ” trump has blamed currency devaluations around the world for hurting the u.s. economy and costing american jobs , and has called for a tougher u.s. stance on trade .
“ we just sit back and do nothing , ” trump said earlier this month .
“ that ’ s getting to be very dangerous as far as i ’ m concerned. ” a more effective economic move than devaluations would be charging a tax on products made abroad and sold in the united states , particularly those from china , trump said .
gundlach , who oversees $ 93 billion at los angeles-based doubleline capital , said it isn ’ t premature to think about a trump nomination .
“ you have to entertain the hypothetical. ” phone calls and emails to trump ’ s spokeswoman were not returned .
for its part , stock markets , which moved into positive territory after the u.s. federal reserve ’ s dovish move last week , will continue to track oil prices , gundlach said , who was prescient in his call for $ 40 per barrel .
“ i think oil will have a hard time moving up to $ 45 , ” gundlach said .
the risk-reward proposition is “ so bad right now because you had this easy rally ” in risk markets , gundlach said .
he added : “ no way i would buy junk bonds at this level. ” gundlach also criticized fed officials for changing their stance on interest rates .
“ they ’ ve been flip-flopping like crazy over the past few months , ” he said .
just three days after the fed held interest rates and cautioned “ global economic and financial developments continue to pose risks , ” atlanta fed president dennis lockhart said on monday that the united states may be in line for an interest rate hike as soon as april given “ sufficient momentum ” in u.s. growth .
gundlach said it ’ s become obvious fed officials are seeking guidance from markets .
“ if it is going to be about the markets , they should just come out and say , ‘ if the s & p hits 2,100 we will tighten - and if it goes to 1,900 we will ease , ” gundlach said .