alleged president donald trump doesn t want to be judged by his first 100 days in office even though it became a tradition after franklin d. roosevelt s first few months after taking the oath .
but really , we can t blame the former reality show star for wanting to forgo the tradition considering how horrifying trump s nearly 100 days in office has been .
as for his accomplishments , we re not seeing any .
and in comparison to former president barack obama , trump looks like an amateur.early this morning trump tweeted , no matter how much i accomplish during the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days , & it has been a lot ( including s.c. ) , media will kill !
no matter how much i accomplish during the ridiculous standard of the first 100 days , & it has been a lot ( including s.c. ) , media will kill !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) april 21 , 2017we re not sure what trump did in south carolina .
perhaps he s referring to georgia where democrat jon ossoff outperformed every republican candidate in the deep red district but he just didn t pay the 50 percent mark to avoid a runoff .
or maybe trump is talking about neil gorsuch .
it s hard to tell.trump s 100th day may begin with a government shutdown if congress fails to approve a new spending deal.obama passed 11 laws during his first 100 days in office .
so far , trump has focused on reversing vital things that his predecessor has done for this country , including internet privacy and health care , among others .
the bigot-in-chief failed twice to pass a ban on muslims entering the u.s. trump is inundated with scandals , including his administration s possible collusion with a hostile foreign government to interfere in our election process.the internet reacted to trump s tweet : trump says the first 100 days is a `` ridiculous standard '' signed legislation compared .
obama did everything on the left in the first 50 days pic.twitter.com/hdzw6gkkcl brian klaas ( @ brianklaas ) april 21 , 2017i think people know i 'm no trump fan but i searched signed legislation for major legislation to positively highlight trump .
it does n't exist brian klaas ( @ brianklaas ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump let 's look at some of trump 's accomplishments during his first 100 days : `` misplaced '' an entire naval strike group pic.twitter.com/xn3cycditj rob szczerba ( @ rjszczerba ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump on isis : `` they will have 30 days to submit to the oval office a plan for soundly and quickly defeating isis .
`` that was 83 days ago .
alex zalben ( @ azalben ) april 21 , 2017instead of working , trump has been golfing and taking weekend vacays .
@ realdonaldtrump look how many days you went golfing !
more than obama , bush , or clinton in the first 100 days !
big league accomplishment !
roland scahill ( @ rolandscahill ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump you accomplished ?
you 're charging us citizens thousands of dollars each time you use your own golf cart !
& that 's just the smaller charges ?
?
( @ veevee ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump soooooo what have you * actually * done ?
defeated isis ?
nope .
repealed aca ?
oh , nope golfed a lot ?
oh hell yep .
pic.twitter.com/is3zmyzpq4 cerian jenkins ( @ cerianjenkins ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump how typical .
as you 're about to fail the 100 day test , you begin attacking the `` unfairness '' of the test .
so predictable .
trita parsi ( @ tparsi ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump wait , what did he do to south carolina ?
pic.twitter.com/1toyo135vi rpbp ( @ rpbp ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump but you 've not accomplished anything , 45 .
hilarious you say this while currently under fbi investigation for treason .
we have n't forgot .
mike p williams ( @ mike_p_williams ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump i mean , you have rolled back many obama era regulations .
but i 'm pretty sure thats more like reversing progress , not a great accomplishment .
aaron shive ( @ aaronshhh ) april 21 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump where 's the report on russian hacking that you promised you would deliver in your first 100 days ?
we 're waiting .
caroline o .
( @ rvawonk ) april 21 , 2017unless trump considers his playdate with kid rock , ted nugent and sarah palin on thursday an accomplishment , then he s done nothing to move our country forward .
or embarrassing us in front of the world by disparaging our allies .
that , too , is not an accomplishment .
words mean things.but the fact trump hasn t blown anything up today is sort of an accomplishment for an angry 70-year-old twitter addict.photo by chip somodevilla/getty images