many on the left and in the liberal media are hoping president trump will butt heads with his new chief of staff , former general john kelly , proving he is incapable of getting along with senior officials in his administration .
but if trump s experience in the new york military academy is an indicator , he will surely excel with his new chief of staff john kelly and his disciplined military style.donald trump s freewheeling , off-the-cuff campaign style can sometimes make him look like he s winging it .
playing by the rules is not what the billionaire presidential candidate is known for .
but during a little-known time in his childhood military school playing the game meant following the rules .
and trump learned how to win at it.when rules were meant to be brokenbefore military school , trump was famous for breaking the rules .
long before buildings would be named after him , schoolmates used the trump name as shorthand for getting into trouble .
we used to refer to our detention as a dt a donny trump because he got more of them than most other people in the class , said paul onish , one of trump s grade school classmates.onish calls trump one of his best friends at the kew-forest school in forest hills , queens .
trump attended the school through seventh grade , and the two of them got into trouble together constantly talking out of turn during class , passing notes and throwing spitballs .
onish remembers a few stunts on the soccer field , too .
there was even a couple of incidences during half-time when we would eat whole oranges without peeling them in front of the competition to show them how tough we really were , onish said.getting sent up the riverit was the late 1950s and in the quiet , well-to-do community of jamaica estates , queens , the nonstop antics became embarrassing for trump s parents.so right before eighth grade , trump s father sent him literally up the river to new york military academy in the hudson valley .
trump would spend the next five years there.retired col. ted dobias remembers the tall , lanky kid who showed up at his dormitory .
i put [ him ] down at the end of the hall .
he didn t know how to make a bed .
he didn t know how to shine his shoes .
he had a problem , you know , with being a cadet .
you know , being a cadet , you got ta take care of yourself , dobias said.and trump the cadet didn t quite know how , at first .
dobias had a reputation for being one of the school s toughest instructors .
he was a hardened world war ii veteran who made it clear to trump he didn t care who his daddy was .
when he got out of line , he got the same treatment like everybody else .
his name was donald trump , like johnny jones .
it was all the same , dobias said .
nobody was different .
we treated everyone alike .
when following the rules becomes the gamenew york military academy , or nyma , is tucked in a small speck of a town called cornwall-on-hudson .
it s a short drive from west point .
arriving here is like stepping back in time .
antique cannons squat on green fields .
buildings date back to the 1800s.back in trump s day , cadets would wake up near the crack of dawn , hurry into their uniforms and march in formation to breakfast .
first-year cadets had to eat their meals squared-off lifting their forks in a right angle path into their mouths .
and after breakfast , they d scurry back to clean their rooms for inspection .
dobias said it was a place where kids who didn t like following the rules learned to like it .
it s a hell of a thing for a kid to go to a military school especially when you have to say , yes sir , no sir , have to learn how to salute , how to do about-face , how to march , how to carry a gun , said dobias.but instead of recoiling from the discipline , trump thrived under it .
in her book the trumps : three generations of builders and a presidential candidate , gwenda blair notes how donald seemed to welcome being in a place with clear-cut parameters , a place where he could focus on figuring out how to come out on top and get what he wanted .
mike kabealo , one of trump s roommates at nyma , said in the confines of the school s rigid rules , trump wanted to be a standout .
cocksure , positive and anything-you-can-do-i-can-do-better kind of stuff you know , he was very competitive , kabealo said.and friends say trump channeled that competitiveness into everything at military school .
when he was in charge of the rifle rack , he cleaned the rifles obsessively .
he was meticulous about his uniform .
when it was his turn to do inspections in the barracks , he whipped other cadets into shape .
my bed wasn t really made right , and he ripped it , said ted levine , another student who roomed with trump at nyma.trump tore levine s sheets off during inspections one morning .
levine s bed hadn t passed muster.trump became captain of the baseball team , and dobias was his coach .
he was very coachable , dobias said .
if i told him , do this , he ll do it .
if i told him to do it the other way , he ll do it that way .
so that s what made him a good baseball player .
he accepted criticism .
he wanted to be best .
not better .
here s a picture of trump with his soccer team : donald trump s new york military basketball team photo : trump was made a cadet captain at nyma one of the highest honors for graduates .
i don t think he had a handful of loyalists , you know ?
levine , his former roommate , said .
because he was so competitive that everybody who could come close to him he had to destroy .
but now , more than 50 years later , levine says he and the other guys still kind of admire trump.today levine s office is littered with donald trump knickknacks .
like a talking trump doll that belts out trumpisms such as brand yourself and toot your own horn , and have an ego there s nothing wrong with ego .
sometimes , levine said , he squeezes the doll for advice .
it s reinforcement positive reinforcement of true values that are very important for businessmen , he said.values like winning how to fight back and win.levine gave the doll another squeeze .
never give up , the doll squawked .
under any circumstances , never give up .
levine said he didn t learn that one from trump they both learned that one in military school.for entire story : npr