manila ( reuters ) - rescuers in the philippines searched on sunday for survivors of a storm that triggered floods and landslides and killed about 200 people , left scores missing and thousands homeless , most of whom apparently ignored warnings to move to safety .
misery in the largely christian philippines was compounded by the death of at least 37 people in a shopping mall fire , officials said on christmas eve .
the philippines is battered by about 20 typhoons a year and warnings are routinely issued , but the level of destruction wreaked by tropical storm tembin on the southern island of mindanao from late on friday came as a surprise .
it happened very fast , the flood waters quickly rose filling our house , farmer felipe ybarsabal , 65 , told reuters by telephone , saying he and his family had to run to higher ground .
we weren t able to save anything from the house .
there was no help from anyone because it was so fast .
everything was two to three meters under water in less than an hour .
police and disaster officials said they expected the toll of about 200 dead to rise with more fatalities likely to be discovered in remote farm communities and coastal areas , as rescuers reached them and restored communication and power links .
disaster officials said 159 people were listed as missing while about 70,000 had been forced from their homes .
soldiers and police joined emergency workers and volunteers to search for survivors and victims , clear debris and restore power and communications .
disaster officials said many villagers had ignored warnings to leave coastal areas and move away from riverbanks , and got swept away when flash floods and landslides struck .
the storm was moving west on sunday , over some outlying philippine islands and the south china sea toward southern vietnam , at a speed of about 20 kph ( 12 mph ) .
it intensified into a typhoon with winds of 120 kph ( 75 mph ) as it moved out of the philippine area of responsibility , the national meteorological agency said .
the united nations was ready to help the philippines , a spokesman for u.n. secretary-general antonio guterres said in a statement .
pope francis offered his prayers for the people of mindanao while delivering his weekly blessing to a crowd on st peter s square at the vatican .
merciful lord , take in the souls of the dead and comfort those who are suffering as a result of this calamity , he said .
last week , 46 people were killed in the central philippines when a typhoon hit .
in 2013 , super typhoon haiyan killed nearly 8,000 people and left 200,000 families homeless .
the south of the philippines has been plagued by insurgencies by communist rebels and muslim separatists for years , as well as often bearing the brunt of tropical storms roaring in from the pacific .
the region was hit by another disaster on the weekend when fire swept through a shopping mall in the city of davao , killing at least 37 people , most of them workers at a call center , city government officials said .
the vice mayor of the southern city of davao , paolo duterte , said the chance of survival for any of the 37 people missing at the ncc mall was zero .
the fire broke out on saturday at a furniture shop on the mall s third level and quickly engulfed an outsourcing business on the top floor , said a spokeswoman for the city government , ma .
teresita gaspan .
the cause was not known but an investigation was being launched as authorities searched for the bodies of the victims .
president duterte , and his daughter , sara duterte , who is mayor of the city , visited the scene late on saturday to meet anxious relatives of the missing and survivors .