chicago ( reuters ) - michael petyo is a carpenter , a u.s. navy veteran , a grandfather and russian orthodox church cantor who likes to boast about his homemade nut rolls .
he also happens to be a candidate for president of the united states .
the 66-year-old indiana man has no big financial backers , little political experience outside of two failed runs for congress and his odds of winning are almost nil .
but that has not stopped him from thinking he is the one to succeed president barack obama .
petyo is among a rising number of americans who aspire to be president , due to what psychology experts describe as growing narcissism , distrust of leadership and the power of social media to reach the public .
joining more than 1,500 others , according to the federal election commission , petyo admits he is a long shot , but figures he just needs some attention : “ how do they know i ’ m not the next guy waiting in the wings ? ” the number of candidates seeking the white house has more than tripled from 417 in 2012 , though some entrants have penned in possibly fictitious names such as “ disco daddy ” and “ darth vader. ” their ranks include susan young , a california social studies teacher aiming to give her students a lesson in democracy , terry jones , the florida pastor known for organizing koran burnings , and anti-virus software pioneer john mcafee .
another candidate , edie bukewihge , included her grandma ’ s chili recipe on her web site : www.vote4edie.org , along with the promise that the last two years of her term could be boring because she will have repaired the country ’ s “ damages. ” these hopefuls are not a factor in polls that show businessman donald trump and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas battling for the republican nomination and u.s .
senator bernie sanders of vermont and former secretary of state hillary clinton leading the democratic field ahead of next month ’ s iowa caucuses and new hampshire primary .
but a lack of attention has not diminished petyo ’ s enthusiasm .
he frequently compares himself to the bible ’ s david , the shepherd who god chose to be king .
like david , “ words flow from my lips like honey from a hive , ” petyo said .
petyo meets the constitutional requirements for the job - he ’ s at least 35 and a natural born u.s. citizen .
“ i don ’ t see how anybody can represent the people unless they ’ re one with the people , ” said petyo , who owns a construction company and has been handing out business cards at political events around the midwest .
he posts policy positions at www.petyoforpresident.com in an interview , petyo espoused conspiracy theories , claiming the internal revenue service ’ s home is in puerto rico , al qaeda members who carried out the sept. 11 , 2001 attacks had help from inside the u.s. government and the federal emergency management agency is setting up detainment camps around the country .
for candidates like petyo , the important thing is finding americans who will listen to them , said bart rossi , a political psychologist .
“ they want to get their thoughts and ideas out there , ” said rossi .
“ they want to be on the playing field even if they ’ re not going to win the game. ” michael maccoby , a psychoanalyst and leadership expert , said the world is going through deep changes , and more people distrust current leaders .
“ it ’ s understandable that you have a lot of people thinking they ’ ve got the answer , ” he said .
petyo is a republican , but shuns party labels as he supports unions , a typical democratic position , while espousing the belief that u.s. companies should pay little or no taxes .
he should receive at least one vote .
his long-time friend and supporter jim wright , a 65-year-old retired engineer who hands out flyers for the candidate , said he will vote for petyo even though he doesn ’ t have a “ snowball ’ s chance in hell . ”