jakarta ( reuters ) - indonesian authorities are preparing to divert flights to 10 airports across the country in case an increasingly active volcano on the holiday island of bali erupts and disrupts travel .
officials have warned that mount agung in eastern bali could erupt at any time , prompting several countries including australia and singapore to issue travel advisor for one of the world s most popular tourist destinations .
ten airports will serve as alternatives for flights bound for bali s ngurah rai airport in case it is closed because of volcanic ash , transportation minister budi karya said in a statement on wednesday .
authorities are also preparing ferries to help people leave bali in case air travel is disrupted , karya said .
airports in jakarta , surabaya , and lombok are among those being prepared to allow diverted flights to land .
bali s ngurah rai international airport is the second-busiest in the country , after jakarta s main international airport .
it was operating normally on wednesday .
nearly five million people visited bali last year - most of them from australia , china and japan .
over 75,000 residents have been evacuated from near the volcano and fears of an imminent eruption have prompted some travelers to rethink holiday plans .
several airlines in singapore and australia said they are preparing for disruptions , but that flights were running normally for now .
virgin australia , which flies to bali from australia , said on wednesday that it was expecting some delays .
at present , there is no visible ash cloud and therefore flights are planned to operate as scheduled .
however there may be some delays due to the fact that some of our bali bound flights will be making fuel stops in darwin as a precautionary measure , the company said in a statement .
mount agung s status was raised to the highest level last week and authorities have imposed a 12km exclusion zone around it .
a 4.3 magnitude quake shook the area on wednesday , indicating that seismic activity remains high , officials said .
the total number of tremors has decreased , but if we compare the strength ( of tremors ) it is definitely increasing , said gede suantika , an official at national vulcanology agency .
the volcano last erupted in 1963 , killing over 1,000 people .