the politically correct country of sweden paying a very big price for their kindness , generosity and open-borders policy this attack happened in norrmalmstorg , stockholm .
the two swedes told them not to vandalize flowerpots and as a response they got beaten up for it.https : //youtu.be/rsn_1to1kmuthis is indeed the future of europe .
by their irresponsible , short-sighted , suicidal immigration and refugee policies , europe s political and media elites have ensured a future of violence , bloodshed and chaos for their people .
sweden , the future of europe : people stock up on fire arms , police recommend vigilante groups , by nicolai sennels , 10news.dk , december 12 , 2015 ( thanks to thereligionofpeace.com ) : this is a very interesting read , because the whole of europe is heading the same way as sweden .
sweden is , so to speak , the future of europe .
and in this future , those who can afford it pay security companies the rest gest license for firearms and forms vigilante groups .
via : pamela gellar you have to understand that swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village .
they can see what has happened in other places .
salesman for alarm systems.since parliament decided in 1975 that sweden should be multicultural and not swedish , crime has exploded .
violent crime has increased by over 300 % and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472 % .the violence at the hands of muslim migrants is nothing new to sweden .
this horrific video was published in 2013 : many swedes see the mass immigration as a forced marriage : sweden is forced to marry a man she did not choose , yet she is expected to love and honor him , even though he beats her and treats her badly .
her parents ( the government ) tell her to be warm and show solidarity with him .
are the state and i now in agreement that our mutual contract is being renegotiated ?
alexandra von schwerin , whose farm who was robbed three times .
police refused to help.once upon a time , there was a safe welfare state called sweden , where people rarely locked their doors.now , this country is a night-watchman state each man is on his own .
when the minister of justice , morgan johansson , encourages breaking the law , it means opening the gates to anarchy .
mr. and mrs. swede have every reason to be worried , with the influx of 190,000 unskilled and unemployed migrants expected this year equivalent to 2 % of sweden s current population .
the number is as if 6.4 million penniless migrants who did not speak english arrived in u.s. in one year , or 1.3 million in britain.and the swedes are preparing : demand for firearms licenses is increasing ; more and more swedes are joining shooting clubs and starting vigilante groups .
after a slight dip in 2014 , the number of new gun permits has gone up significantly again this year .
according to police statistics , there are 1,901,325 licensed guns , owned by 567,733 people , in sweden .
add to this an unknown number of illegal weapons .
to get a gun permit in sweden , you need to be at least 18 years old ; law-abiding ; well-behaved , and have a hunting license or be a member of an approved shooting club .
in 2014 , 11,000 people got a hunting license : 10 % more than the year before .
one out of five was a woman .
there is also a high demand for alarm systems right now , says a salesman at one of the security companies in an interview with gatestone .
it is largely due to the turbulence we are seeing around the country at the moment .
people have lost confidence in the state , he added .
the police will not come anymore .
truck drivers say that when they see a thief emptying the fuel tank of their trucks , they run out with a baseball bat .
it is no use calling the police , but if you hit the thief , you can at least prevent him from stealing more diesel .
many homeowners say the same thing : they sleep with a baseball bat under the bed .
but this is risky : the police can then say you have been prepared to use force , and that might backfire on you .
the salesman , who asked to remain anonymous , also spoke of sweden s many facebook groups , in which people in different villages openly discuss how they intend to protect themselves : sometimes you get totally freaked out when you see what they are writing .
but you have to understand that swedes are really scared when an asylum house opens in their village .
they can see what has happened in other places .
one blog , detailing the consequences for the local population when an asylum facility opens , is aptly named asylkaos ( asylum chaos ) .
there is a list of companies the reader is prompted to boycott ; the blog claims these businesses encourage the transformation of sweden to a multicultural society , and are therefore considered hostile to swedes .
at another security company , a salesman said that every time the immigration service buys or rents a new housing facility , his firm is swamped with calls .
the next day , he said , half the village calls and wants to buy alarm systems .
ronny fredriksson , spokesman of the security company securitas , said that the demand for home alarm systems first exploded about six years ago , when many local police stations were shut down and police moved to the main towns .
this , he said , could result in response times of several hours .
more and more people now employ the services of our security guards .
shopping malls and stores in the city come together and hire guards .
we are kind of like the local beat cops of old .
even though securitas makes big money from the increased need for home security alarms and security guards , fredriksson says they also are worried about the effect on society : the problem is that we too need the police .
when our guards catch a burglar or a violent person , we call the police but the response times are often very long .
sometimes , the detainees get violent and quite rowdy .
on occasion , the police have told us to release the person we have apprehended , if we have his identity , because they do not have a patrol nearby .
even before the massive influx of migrants in the fall of 2015 , swedes felt a need to protect themselves and with good reason .
since the parliament decided in 1975 that sweden should be multicultural and not swedish , crime has exploded .
violent crime has increased by more than 300 % , and rapes have increased by an unbelievable 1,472 % .the politicians , however , ignore the people s fear completely .
it is never discussed .
instead , the people who express concern about what kind of country sweden has become are accused of xenophobia and racism .
most likely , that is the reason more and more people are taking matters into their own hands , and protecting themselves and their families to the best of their ability.all the same , some people do not settle for that .
it seems some people are trying to stop mass immigration to sweden .
almost every day there are reports of fires being set at asylum houses .
so far , miraculously , no one has been hurt.these fires are set not only by swedes .
on october 13 , a 36-year-old woman living in skellefte was convicted of setting fire to the asylum facility in which she herself resided .
the woman claimed she lit a candle and then fell asleep .
yet forensic evidence showed that a combustible fluid had been doused throughout the room , and the court found beyond a reasonable doubt that she herself had ignited the fire.the number of violent incidents at sweden s immigration service facilities is now sky-high .
in 2013 , according to dispatch international , at least one incident happened every day .
when gatestone institute recently acquired the incident list for january 1 , 2014 through october 29 , 2015 , that number had risen to 2,177 incidents of threats , violence and brawls on average , three per day.the swedish government , however , would apparently rather not talk about that .
foreign minister margot wallstr m conceded , in an interview with the daily dagens nyheter that garnered international attention , that sweden is , in fact , heading for a systemic breakdown : most people seem to think we can not maintain a system where perhaps 190,000 people will arrive every year .
in the long run , our system will collapse .
this welcome is not going to receive popular support .
we want to give people who come here a worthy reception .
symptomatic of swedish journalists , this statement was tucked away at the end of the article .
the headline was about how the political party that is critical of immigration , the sweden democrats party ( sverigedemokraterna ) , is responsible for the asylum-housing fires .
but foreign media , such as the daily mail and russia today , picked up wallstr m s warning about a systemic collapse and ran it as the urgent news it actually is.nevertheless , in official sweden , the imminent collapse is ignored .
instead , journalists exclusively focus on attacks by supposedly racist swedes on refugee centers .
to prevent new fires , the immigration service decided on october 28 that from now on , all asylum facilities would have secret addresses .
and meager police resources will now be stretched even further to protect asylum seekers .
police helicopters will even patrol refugee centers .
but considering there are only five helicopters available , and that sweden s landmass is 407,340 square km ( 157,274 square miles ) , this gesture is effectively empty.at a meeting with the nordic council in reykjavik , iceland , on october 27 , sweden s prime minister , stefan l fven , was questioned by his nordic colleagues about the situation in sweden .
l fven had recently said that , we should have the option of relocating people applying for asylum in sweden to other eu-countries .
our ability , too , has a limit .
we are facing a paradigm shift .
that comment led a representative of finland s finns party ( sannfinl ndarna ) to wonder , with a hint of irony , how mass immigration to sweden , which for years swedish politicians have touted as being so profitable , has now suddenly become a burden.another finns party representative , simon elo , pointed out that the situation in sweden is out of control .
sweden has great abilities , but not even the swedes have abilities that great , elo said.when l fven was asked how he is dealing with the real concerns and demands of the citizenry , his answer was laconic : of course i understand there is concern , l fven said .
it is not easy .
but at the same time there are 60 million people on the run .
this is also about them being our fellow men , and i hope that viewpoint will prevail .
the daily tabloid expressen asked l fven about the attacks on asylum facilities .
he replied , our communities should not be characterized by threats and violence , they should be warm and show solidarity .
as if such behavior can be forced.many swedes see mass immigration as a forced marriage : sweden is forced to marry a man she did not choose , yet she is expected to love and honor him even though he beats her and treats her badly .
and on top of that , her parents ( the government ) tell her to be warm and show solidarity with him.more and more swedish commentators are now drawing the same conclusion : that sweden is teetering on the brink of collapse .
editorial columnist ivar arpi of the daily svenska dagbladet , wrote an astonishing article on october 26 , about a woman named alexandra von schwerin and her husband .
the couple lives on the skarhults estate farm in sk ne in southern sweden ; they have been robbed three times .
most recently , they were robbed of a quad bike , a van and a car .
when the police arrived , von schwerin asked them what she should do .
the police told her that they could not help her .
all our resources are on loan to the asylum reception center in trelleborg and malm , they said .
we are overloaded right now .
so i suggest you get in touch with the vigilante group in esl v. what the police had called a vigilante group turned out to be a group of private business owners .
in 2013 , after being robbed more or less every night , they had decided to come together and start patrolling the area themselves .
currently , they pay a security firm to watch their facilities .
on principal , i am totally against it , von schwerin said .
what are the people who can not afford private security to do ?
they will be unprotected .
i m sure i will join , but very , very reluctantly .
for the first time , i feel scared to live here now .
are the state and i now in agreement that our mutual contract is being renegotiated ?
commenting on the police s encouraging people to join vigilante groups , social commentator and former refugee ombudsman merit wager wrote : so , the swedes are supposed to arrange and pay for their own and their families security and keep their farms from being subjected to theft , even though that has up to now been included in the social contract for which we pay high taxes , to have police we can count on to protect us and apprehend criminals ? !
when did the social contract expire ?
october 2015 ?
without any notice of termination , since the tax-consuming party is not fulfilling its part of the deal ?
this should mean that our part of the deal to pay taxes for public , joint services has also become invalid ?
if the social contract is broken , it is broken .
then it is musical chairs ( lawlessness , defenselessness , without protection ) , and that means that each and every one of us should pay less taxes .
ilan sad , lawyer and social commentator , wrote about the refugee chaos at malm central train station on the blog det goda samh llet on october 27 : the authorities no longer honor the social contract .
he described four large signs on display around the station that read refugee ?
welcome to malm !
in four different languages .
it is unclear who the sender of the message is , or , for that matter , who is in charge of the reception facility a number of barracks by the old post office in the inner harbor .
everything is utterly confusing .
it could be malm city or the immigration service , but it might as well be refugees welcome , or possibly a religious community .
i think to myself that a government agency could not reasonably write like this , a correct and pertinent sign would say something like : asylum seekers are referred to the barracks for information and further transport .
but i am probably wrong ; malm city is the chief suspect communicant .
the signs in and around the central station are symptoms of something incredibly serious : role confusion and the decay of the constitutional state .
and thus , that our authorities no longer honor the social contract .
in a post called anarchy , blogger johan westerholm , who is a social democratic party member and a critic of the government , wrote that the minister for justice and migration , morgan johansson , is now urging authorities to be pragmatic about laws and regulations ( concerning asylum housing for so-called unaccompanied refugee children ) .
westerholm stated that this is tantamount to the government opening the gates to anarchy : our country is founded on law ; parliament legislates and the courts apply these .
morgan johansson s statement and his otherwise passive approach are testimony to how this , our kind of democracy , may fade into a memory very shortly .
he now laid the first brick in the building of a state that rests on other principles .
anarchism .
if anarchy really does break out , it would be good to remember that there are nearly two million licensed firearms in sweden .
sweden s shooting clubs have seen a surge in interest ; many are welcoming a lot of new members lately .
via : gatestone institute