washington ( reuters ) - the death of justice antonin scalia on saturday means that the normally nine-member u.s. supreme court will probably be down to eight when it rules on such divisive issues as abortion , immigration , affirmative action and the power of public-sector unions .
with a replacement unlikely to be appointed before the current supreme court term ends in june , there is the possibility it will be split 4-4 on a string of rulings .
when the court is equally divided , the lower court ruling remains in place but no national precedent is set .
scalia ’ s death will affect cases that have not yet been argued and those in which arguments were already held but no ruling has been issued .
court experts say that any preliminary votes scalia took on cases already argued will no longer count .
for a graphic of major cases before the court in the current term , see tmsnrt.rs/1mcg8wn his death could deprive the court ’ s conservative majority of some major wins , but does not guarantee wins for liberal causes .
in the short term , justice anthony kennedy , a conservative who sometimes sides with the four liberals , will still be the key vote .
that could change the outcome of a major case argued in january that could affect the influence of public-sector unions .
the issue is whether public employees who do not want to join a union can be required to pay “ fair share ” service fees , which are equivalent to members ’ dues , without violating first amendment rights of free speech and association .
based on the oral arguments , it appeared the conservative majority was ready to vote against the unions .
now , a 4-4 split is a likely outcome , which would hand a win to the unions as that would leave the lower court ’ s ruling in their favor in place .
similarly , the court in december considered an important affirmative action dispute over whether a university of texas admissions program that considers the race of some applicants to ensure campus diversity violates the constitutional guarantee of equality .
it was unclear based on the oral argument how the court would vote .
justice elena kagan was already recused in that case , so scalia ’ s death means there can no longer be a 4-4 split .
the liberal wing could now win if kennedy joins them .
that would lead to an unexpected victory for affirmative action advocates .
the court has not yet heard oral arguments in three major cases in which scalia was likely to be a key vote on the conservative wing of the court .
on march 2 , the court will consider a tough new abortion law in texas that women ’ s health providers say infringes upon the constitutional right of women to have an abortion .
the law requires clinics carrying out abortions to have costly hospital-grade facilities and requires physicians carrying out abortions to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles of where they are operating .
it is the court ’ s first abortion case since 2007 .
if the court was split 4-4 , the law would be upheld .
in april , the court is due to weigh president barack obama ’ s bid to resurrect his plan to shield more than four million illegal immigrants from deportation , a unilateral executive action he took in 2014 to bypass the republican-led congress .
scalia ’ s death does not necessarily boost the administration ’ s chances .
obama ’ s executive action was blocked by lower courts , meaning a 4-4 split would leave that ruling intact .