if you worked for a company that offered the convenience of a microchip implanted in your hand , would you get it ?
a company in wisconsin is going with the trend : it s the next thing that s inevitably going to happen , and we want to be a part of it .
river falls , wisc .
a company in wisconsin is about to become the first in the us to offer microchip implants to its employees .
it s the next thing that s inevitably going to happen , and we want to be a part of it , three square market chief executive officer todd westby told ktsp.the company designs software for electronic break room markets , are commonly found in office complexes.people are currently able to purchase items at the market using phones , but westby wants to take things a step further and implant a microchip inside a person s hand .
we ll come up , scan the item , he explained , while showing how the process will work at an actual break room market kiosk .
we ll hit pay with a credit card , and it s asking to swipe my proximity payment now .
i ll hold my hand up , just like my cell phone , and it ll pay for my product .
more than 50 employees are having the devices implanted starting next week .
each chip , which is implanted between a person s thumb and forefinger , is about the size of a single grain of rice.along with purchasing market kiosk items , employees will be able to use the chip to get into the front door and log onto their computers.each chip costs $ 300 , but the company is eating the cost .
they re implanted between a person s thumb and forefinger.westby added the data is both encrypted and secure .
* there s no gps tracking at all , he said.fortune reported : the company is working with biohax international , a swedish company specializing in smart biometric sensors .
the embedded chip uses the same sort of near-field communications ( nfc ) technology that enables people to hold up their phones to a device to make payments .
* the chips also rely on wireless rfid ( radio frequency identification ) technology used to track packages in transit .
* * * does anyone else see a red flag here ? no employees at three square market will be required to get the chip implant.via : wbrz