isis supporters on twitter are making open death threats to bikers attending the freedom of speech round ii event to be hosted today in front of a phoenix , az mosque where two would be jihadists belonged .
isis sympathizers , nadir soofi and elton simpson were shot dead by police after planning to commit jihad at a draw muhammed cartoon contest hosted by pamela gellar in garland , texas on may 3 , 2015 .
freedom of speech rally round ii organizer , john ritzheimer , a us marine has become the target of isis supporters on twitter .
they ve been tweeting his home address and requesting fellow radical islamists who are seeking jannah take action against him : from seekers of the garden site : do you desire jannah ?
are you seeking that unimaginable paradise ?
deep down inside , your soul yearns for it .
are you willing to go that extra mile to perfect your deen , so that you may obtain the highest level of jannah ?
if not , then what holds you back ?
does this dunya overwhelmingly fill your day so that you find less time to devote to allah ? consider this : the messenger of allah , sallalahu alayhi wasalaam , said : nobody who enters paradise will ( ever like to ) return to this world even if he were offered everything on the surface of the earth ( as an inducement ) except the martyr who will desire to return to this world and be killed ten times for the sake of the great honor that has been bestowed upon him .
[ muslim , book 20 , number 4635 ] the truth is astonishing .
the words are compelling .
the commitment only returns an immeasurable reward whose likeness is not found in this dunya.here are some of the tweets and re-tweets on twitter threatening the lives of bikers ( and any of their children ) who attend the rally today : update : the account of dawlatil islam has just been removed from twitter .
freedom of speech round ii organizer john ritzheimer is moving forward with the armed rally .
watch cnn s sara sidner show her blatant disgust for the rally in the interview with anderson cooper leading up to his interview with organizer john ritzheimer : https : //youtu.be/vdc_6nioi7o