amman ( reuters ) - jordan on wednesday rejected the u.s. decision to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel , calling it legally null because it consolidated israel s occupation of the eastern sector of the contested city .
government spokesman mohammad al-momani told state news agency petra that the announcement by u.s. president donald trump violated long-standing u.n. security council resolutions that stipulated the non-recognition of the israeli occupation of the city s eastern sector and the adjacent west bank .
the staunch u.s. ally considered all unilateral moves that seek to create new facts on the ground as null and void , the spokesman added .
foreign minister ayman safadi said later in a tweet that the move frustrated peace efforts , adding that the status of jerusalem must be determined in direct negotiations between the palestinians and israelis .
jordan rejects the decision and all its implications and will continue to work for an independent palestinian state with east jerusalem as its capital , safadi added .
jordan lost east jerusalem and the west bank to israel during the 1967 war and says the city s fate should only be decided at the end of a final settlement .
palestinians claim east jerusalem for the capital of a future state .
israel regards jerusalem as its eternal and indivisible capital .
jordan s king abdullah warned of the repercussions of trump s expected move in talks last week in washington with top administration officials and warned of a backlash across the middle east .
the king s hashemite dynasty is the custodian of the muslim holy sites in jerusalem , making jordan sensitive to any changes in the status of the city .
a government source said palestinian president mahmoud abbas was due to hold talks with the monarch on thursday in a stepped-up diplomatic offensive to counter trump s plan .
several protests broke out in areas of jordan s capital , amman , inhabited by palestinian refugees in response to trump s announcement .
youths chanted anti-american slogans in amman , while in the baqaa refugee camp on the city s outskirts , hundreds of youths roamed the streets denouncing trump and calling on jordan s government to scrap its 1994 peace treaty with israel .
down with america .
america is the mother of terror , they chanted .
jordanian deputies in a special parliamentary session on wednesday condemned the move and urged the government to expel the u.s. ambassador and boycott u.s. goods .
a dozen activists staged a sit-in near the gates of the u.s. embassy .
many people in jordan are descendants of palestinian refugees whose families left after the creation of israel in 1948 .
jordan s powerful mainstream islamist movement , the country s largest political party and opposition group , said it would stage several major rallies across the country in the next few days and after friday prayers .