brasilia ( reuters ) - brazilian lawmakers rejected corruption charges against president michel temer on wednesday evening , shelving a case that had threatened to oust a center-right leader who investors hope will bring brazil s budget deficit under control .
the corruption case , involving the payment of bribes by meatpacker jbs sa ( jbss3.sa ) , had paralyzed temer s reform agenda for six months and weakened his government .
the lower house of brazil s congress , which has the authority to decide whether a president should stand trial by the supreme court , voted 251-233 to throw out charges of obstruction of justice and organized crime filed by federal prosecutors .
the vote means that temer is safe from prosecution while he remains president .
but he is still subject to investigation and possible trial by lower courts after his term ends in late 2018 .
while temer s opponents were far from the 342 votes - or two-thirds of the seats - needed to put him on trial , he got 12 votes less than in august when the lower house voted 263-227 to block an initial corruption charge against him .
the slip in support signals temer will have trouble passing a pension reform bill that is crucial for plugging brazil s budget deficit .
many lawmakers are reluctant to back the reform , which would make brazilians work more years before retirement .
the speaker of the house , rodrigo maia , said the shelving of the charges against temer cleared the way for the government and congress to move ahead with the pension reform debate .
allies said brazil could not afford the upheaval of removing a second president in little over a year , as latin america s largest economy struggles to overcome deep recession .
temer succeeded impeached leftist president dilma rousseff in 2016 .
opponents criticized temer for making policy concessions and fast-tracking pork barrel spending to win votes to ensure his survival .
to please the powerful farm lobby that has two-fifths of the votes in the lower house , temer agreed to lower fines for environmental damage .
he attempted to relax a definition of slave labor , but was forced to backtrack after an outcry .
a few hours before the vote , temer was taken to hospital in pain due to a urinary tract obstruction , a health scare that triggered a brief selloff in financial markets .
his office said he underwent a bladder test by catheter and left the hospital later on wednesday .
temer , 77 , was recently diagnosed with a partial coronary artery blockage .
brazil 's benchmark bovespa stock index .bvsp closed up 0.47 percent at 76,706 points after the house reached a quorum allowing the vote to go ahead .
earlier , it touched session lows on the news that temer was in the hospital .
stocks later pared losses and the currency was flat after his office gave details of his condition .