tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the organization of american states ( oas ) said on wednesday it may call for new honduran elections if any irregularities undermine the credibility of results in last month s disputed vote that has sparked a crisis in the central american nation .
in a statement , the oas also called for an immediate return of constitutional rights such as freedom of movement .
the honduran government imposed a curfew last week when protests erupted over the vote count in the nov. 26 presidential election , which has been tarnished by allegations of electoral fraud .
the statement , released by oas secretary general luis almagro , said the election result was not yet certain , and measures including a partial recount should be undertaken to clarify the outcome and restore credibility .
it is clear that it is not possible , without an exhaustive and meticulous process of verification that determines the existence or not of an electoral fraud ... to restore the confidence of the population , the statement said .
official results showed honduras conservative president juan orlando hernandez with a narrow 1.6 percentage point lead over center-left opposition leader salvador nasralla .
however , no victor has yet been declared by the election tribunal .
nasralla on wednesday evening called for an international arbiter to oversee the recount , saying he no longer recognized the honduran tribunal because of its role in the process .
if we hadn t had international participation , we would truly be in the law of the jungle , he said .
david matamoros , head of the country s electoral tribunal , told reporters that the opposition alliance against the dictatorship , which nasralla fronts , must still deliver its voting tally sheets and documentation so the tribunal can review the election results .
then the tribunal will discuss the oas recommendations and what can be done to implement them , matamoros added .
when asked about the possibility of a new election , matamoros said if the complaints about the process are borne out , the whole issue of the vote will need to be revalidated .
however , this would only be possible if the tribunal was in a position to review all the tally sheets , he added .
eight latin american governments said in a joint statement on wednesday they supported the tribunal s decision to hold a total recount of the disputed ballots , and urged hondurans to remain calm while awaiting final results .
uruguay was added to a list of seven originally issued by mexico s foreign ministry .
nasralla has demanded a recount and encouraged his supporters to protest , triggering demonstrations .
at least 14 people - including two police - have died in the protests , according to a human rights group in honduras known as cofadeh .
hernandez s center-right national party said it would hold a march in tegucigalpa on thursday to show solidarity with the president , pledging a turnout in the thousands .
the u.s. state department on wednesday advised u.s. citizens to delay or cancel unnecessary travel to mainland honduras due to ongoing political protests and the potential for violence .
the election results also show hernandez s national party winning the most seats in congress .
but third-placed presidential candidate luis zelaya , of the liberal party , said on wednesday that irregularities in the vote had polluted the results for legislators as well as the presidency , and reiterated that nasralla had won the top job .
he did not specify what the alleged irregularities were but said his party would share its copies of ballot sheets , including those disputed by the opposition , with the oas .
on tuesday , nasralla said the electoral tribunal should review virtually all the ballots .
if the tribunal was unwilling to do that , he proposed a run-off between himself and hernandez , something not allowed for under honduran law .
hernandez , who as president has won praise from the united states for his crackdown on violent street gangs , has not claimed victory in broadcast comments in recent days and indicated on wednesday that his party would support a recount .