sulaimaniya , iraq ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdistan s veteran leader masoud barzani will not extend his presidential term beyond nov. 1 , a kurdish government official said on saturday .
his decision came just weeks after a referendum on kurdish independence backfired and triggered a crisis for iraq s kurds who had been enjoying a period of unprecedented autonomy .
a plan to divide up the president s powers was outlined in a letter barzani sent to the kurdish parliament on saturday , the official told reuters .
the plan asks parliament to distribute the president s powers among the government , parliament and judiciary .
barzani s current term was set to expire in four days , the same date that presidential and parliamentary elections were due to be held .
however , those elections were delayed indefinitely last week , amidst an escalating regional crisis .
critics say the sept. 25 independence referendum , orchestrated and championed by the 71-year-old barzani , has left a bleak outlook for iraq s kurds .
less than four weeks after kurds in the region voted overwhelmingly to break away from iraq , the central government launched a military offensive to wrest back the oil-rich city of kirkuk , which the kurds regard as both their spiritual homeland , and a key source of revenue for their would-be independent state .
it was one of several retaliatory measures taken by baghdad , which vehemently opposed the referendum .
in a matter of days the iraqi government has transformed the balance of power in the north of the country , exerting tremendous pressure on barzani to step aside and wrecking decades-old dreams of kurdish independence .
iraqi forces have continued to advance on all kurdish-held territory outside the autonomous region s borders .
iraq s prime minister demanded on thursday that kurds declare their independence referendum void , rejecting the kurdish autonomous region s offer to suspend its independence push to resolve a crisis through talks .
earlier this year , barzani said he did not intend to stand in the november elections .
however , prior to the referendum , few expected he would stick to his promise .
barzani has held the office of the presidency since 2005 .
the region last held a presidential election in 2009 , in which barzani won .
his term of office expired in 2013 and was extended twice .
the president is expected to address his people before his term formally expires , marking the end of a storied career .
barzani was born in 1946 , soon after his legendary father , mulla mustafa , founded a party to fight for the rights of iraq s kurds .
after decades spent fighting with the peshmerga , barzani became a central figure in the drive to create an autonomous kurdish state in northern iraq , after saddam hussein was toppled in the u.s.-led invasion of iraq in 2003 .
barzani s letter will be discussed by parliament on sunday , though the government official said it was unclear whether ministers would need to vote the plan into action during the session .
( this version of the story corrects paragraph 7 to read ... of kurdish independence . )