if there s one person who definitely doesn t want donald trump to be president , it s the man who actually wrote trump s art of the deal , author and trump s ghostwriter , tony schwartz .
schwartz knows , more than anyone , after spending a lot of time with the guy , that trump s just absolutely unfit for the office of the presidency.and what better way to let the world know how awful trump is than by using the republican nominee s medium of choice twitter.pretty much day in and day out lately , schwartz has been letting people know how awful trump is and why he just shouldn t be president .
if you want to read his full twitter feed , you can find it here , but for now , i m just going to go back a few days and show you exactly what he s doing.on july 27 , schwartz wrote : i broke the unspoken code of confidentiality with donald trump on art of the deal because i truly believe his election imperils the planet .
i broke the unspoken code of confidentiality with donald trump on art of the deal because i truly believe his election imperils the planet .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 27 , 2016and it absolutely does , so schwartz keeps up his quest of making sure trump is never elected.here are just a few more of schwartz s tweets : in the face of social unrest and opposition , i can easily see donald trump declaring martial law and suspending the rights of all citizens .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 27 , 2016including this one that is pretty damning : something i saw early on w/ trump : most negative things he says about others are actually describing him .
read his tweets with that in mind tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 27 , 2016why trump s extreme russia remarks ?
feeling small after two nights of strong dem speeches .
incapable of measured reflection just reacts .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 28 , 2016the trump i know has never listened to anyone .
no one can tell him what to do .
wo n't take any advice .
terrifying in a president .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 28 , 2016biden on trump : no empathy or compassion .
over 18 months with trump .
i never once saw evidence of kindness , or care .
he 's only about trump .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 28 , 2016trump tweeting about `` poverty '' and `` despair . ''
never once heard him mention those concerns when i was with him .
they mean nothing to him .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 28 , 2016trump now says he was joking re : russia .
here 's what i know : he does n't joke .
he is humorless .
what he does is lie when he gets in trouble .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 28 , 2016trump viciously criticizes others daily .
when he 's criticized , wants to punch people in face .
thug instincts , not what we want in president tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 29 , 2016trump 's being criticized where he is most insecure his suspect wealth , his limited intelligence prompts him to lash out wildly .
scary .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 30 , 2016donald trump has made sacrifices ?
truly demented .
trump has lived his entire life in privilege .
the only thing he sacrifices is wives .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 30 , 2016trump attacks grieving parents of war hero .
i sometimes wonder if trump has any decency or humanity at all .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) july 30 , 2016all i 've been saying about trump incredibly reactive , absence of heart or soul , breathtaking ignorance on evidence this weekend .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) august 1 , 2016trump ca n't apologize for anything , no matter how outrageous .
sense of self-worth too fragile to admit he is wrong , even about the kahns .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) august 1 , 2016fundamental decency .
in 18 months of following trump around , i can not remember any acts of care or generosity , unless to promote himself .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) august 2 , 2016trump selling copies of art of the deal for $ 184 to raise money for campaign .
is n't worth paper it 's printed on .
i should know : i wrote it .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) august 2 , 2016trump doesn t take advice from anyone .
ever .
that wo n't change .
he is who he is .
he wo n't reset because he ca n't .
tony schwartz ( @ tonyschwartz ) august 3 , 2016and there you have it .
please , for the love of all things good and decent , listen to the guy who spent an incredibly large amount of time with trump .
he knows , and we will all be better for it .
trump simply can not be president.featured image via wikipedia