nairobi ( reuters ) - administrators closed kenya s oldest university on tuesday , citing fears for students safety in a planned protest over police beatings at a campus demonstration last week .
kenyan police frequently face accusations of brutality and extrajudicial killings from civilians and rights groups , but officers are rarely charged and almost never convicted .
despite this , kenya , an economic and transport hub in east africa and a key western ally in a volatile region , receives substantial financial support for its security services from international donors , including the united states and britain .
rights groups say at least 28 people were killed , mostly by police , in unrest following the aug. 8 election , whose results were later nullified by the supreme court due to irregularities .
a re-run of the presidential vote is scheduled for oct. 26 and the conduct of the police will be closely watched .
on sept. 28 , university of nairobi students protested against the arrest of an opposition lawmaker .
police responded by entering dormitories and classrooms , dragging out students , beating them with clubs and firing tear gas , according to a reuters witness .
the university said 27 students were injured .
a police spokesman did not respond to requests for comment but a presidential spokesman told local radio on monday that robbers were hiding among the students .
on tuesday , students had planned to demonstrate against the beatings but instead administrators shut down the university .
the ( university of nairobi ) senate has decided to send the students home for their ( own ) safety , john orindi , the university s corporate affairs director , told reuters .
on tuesday morning , riot policemen stood near a truck with water cannon outside the campus gates .
a 20-year-old veterinary student who did not want to be named for fear of retribution said students wanted the vice chancellor to resign for allowing anti-riot police to enter campus and seriously injure students .
university officials had talks on monday with the interior minister , police chief and the head of a kenyan government watchdog that is charged with investigating complaints against the police .