( this oct. 18 story corrects age in paragraph 19 to five , not six ) by tom bergin london ( reuters ) - the bill for compensating families of those who died in the grenfell tower fire in london may be as low as 4 million pounds ( $ 5 million ) , according to several lawyers and a reuters analysis of how damages laws apply in england .
the blaze engulfed a 24-storey social housing block in west london on june 14 , killing an estimated 80 people in the country s deadliest fire since world war two .
while similar disasters in the united states have led to massive payouts , any compensation for grenfell would be far lower because english laws offer less generous damages and don t allow punitive claims , even if companies are found criminally responsible , said brett dixon , president of the association of personal injury lawyers ( apil ) .
the four main firms that have been linked to the grenfell fire - u.s. companies arconic inc. and whirlpool corp. and britain s harley facades and rydon group - declined to comment on the size or calculation of potential payouts .
the reuters calculation of a bill of 4 million pounds is based on the compensation amounts stipulated in the fatal accidents act of 1976 , precedents set in previous cases and the individual circumstances of the 70 victims identified so far .
three personal injury lawyers have verified the methodology used by reuters and said the estimate for the total payout is reasonable .
if the courts find there was no unlawful behavior by any of the companies or public bodies involved , victims will not be entitled to sue for compensation and would only get the financial support and temporary housing already provided by the government and public donations , personal injury lawyers said .
the british judicial system is not renowned for being generous , said rebecca thomas of law firm duncan lewis , which is representing some victims families .
it s not about money for the families , said tim murphy , whose brother denis , a disabled former painter who lived on the 14th floor , died in the fire .
nothing can ease our pain , ( but ) i think it s quite insulting .
the u.s. legal system sees punitive damages as a way of encouraging companies to behave lawfully , but british and european governments have taken the view this approach would put excessive burdens on the judicial system , businesses , insurers and state bodies that might be liable , some legal experts say .
while apil said the grenfell tower disaster demonstrated the inadequacy of payouts to victims , duncan fairgrieve , who has advised the uk government on compensation rules , said more generous payouts could also harm society .
they could drive up insurance costs for all and lead to big claims against government bodies such as the national health service and the police , he said .
there is an affordability issue , said fairgrieve , a senior research fellow at the british institute of international and comparative law .
if the courts find someone was wrongfully killed , the claim categories are a flat 12,980 pounds per victim for bereavement , costs such as funeral bills , dependency damages where minors or dependent spouses are left behind , and property damage - all to be paid by the party found responsible .
under the 1976 law , only family members who were supported by those who died can claim dependency damages .
reuters has identified only five people who died leaving dependents who could definitely claim damages - on the basis they were financially dependent on the deceased .
daniel machover , a lawyer at hickman and rose , which is representing some victims families , also said he didn t expect there to be many claims .
most of the others who died in the fire were minors , single or elderly and did not leave family members who were financially dependent upon them .
the biggest dependency payout will be for children who lost both parents , said lawyers representing some of the victims .
one five-year-old girl , tasnim belkadi , lost her mother , father and all her siblings in the fire .
lawyers said she could get 300,000 pounds , based on a share of her parents income and some childcare costs up to her 18th birthday .
her aunt , with whom she now lives , did not respond to requests for comment on the reuters calculation .
grenfell plaintiffs can also claim expenses they incurred as the result of a death , such as the cost of a modest funeral .
heirs to the deceased could also claim the value of goods lost in the fire .
the association of british insurers puts the cost of replacing the contents of an average three-bedroom home at 55,000 pounds .
however , thomas said grenfell claims would probably be less than 30,000 pounds per property because compensation is based on the market value of personal belongings rather than replacement value , and the flats destroyed had only one or two bedrooms .
based on the victims circumstances , reuters has calculated the payout for dependency damages could be 1.2 million pounds , for property it could be 1.4 million and for bereavement it could come to 1.0 million .
other smaller claims for costs and loss of parental guidance take the total to 4 million pounds .
police said the fire started in a fridge freezer made by a subsidiary of u.s. company whirlpool and have been investigating whether the tower s cladding , made by u.s. firm arconic inc. , played a role in the spread of the blaze .
arconic said it was up to contractors to ensure its products were used correctly .
whirlpool said it was investigating the fire .
rydon group , the contractor that oversaw the refurbishment when the new cladding was added , said it had complied with all regulations .
sub-contractor harley facades ltd said it was not aware of any link between the fire and the cladding .
fears among investors that companies linked to grenfell could be sued for large sums in the united states hit their shares .
whirlpool s market value fell about $ 250 million on june 23 when police identified the maker of the appliance as hotpoint , a brand owned by indesit , which is a subsidiary of whirlpool based in italy .
more than $ 1 billion was wiped off arconic inc. s value after reuters reported in june that internal emails showed it had supplied flammable cladding panels , knowing they would be used on the tower and despite warning in its brochures that only non-combustible panels should be used on tall buildings .
arconic s share price has recovered since its late june lows but it and whirlpool s stock are below the levels they were at just before the fire , while the dow jones industrial average has climbed 7 percent over the same period .
awards against companies in u.s. courts have run into the tens of millions of dollars per family in some cases .
in 1980 , a fire blamed in part on inadequate fire safety measures killed 85 people at the mgm grand hotel in nevada and injured hundreds .
the hotel operator and contractors agreed to pay victims families and survivors more than $ 200 million .
foreigners have often tried to sue u.s. corporations in u.s. courts over alleged wrongdoing abroad .
however , judges have consistently ruled they lacked jurisdiction in such cases , saying adequate tribunals existed in the plaintiff s own country and that it would be hard for defendants to make their case in the united states .
machover at hickman and rose said he was considering whether grenfell victims could bring a u.s. case on the basis that two of the companies involved were based there .
but thomas at duncan lewis and leigh day partner jill paterson were skeptical that u.s. courts would agree to hear grenfell claims given the united kingdom offers a reasonable forum for redress and because the u.s. companies were involved through european-registered subsidiaries .
i can t see any circumstances under which they could bring this in the united states , said thomas .
arconic and whirlpool declined to comment on the possibility of legal claims against them .