madrid ( reuters ) - spain s supreme court refused bail on monday for two catalan pro-independence leaders accused of sedition ahead of regional elections that madrid hopes will defuse the nation s worst political crisis in four decades .
the ruling will leave the leaders of catalonia s biggest secessionist groups behind bars during campaigning for the dec. 21 election , and could generate sympathy for the independence movement just as opinion polls show some voters abandoning it .
the battle between madrid and secessionists in the wealthy northeast region has hurt the national economy and prompted thousands of companies to shift their legal headquarters outside catalonia , which accounts for a fifth of the spanish economy .
the former head of the regional government , carles puigdemont , and four of his disbanded cabinet , went in to self-imposed exile in belgium shortly after a call for secession oct. 27 .
they are currently under conditional release after an international arrest warrant was served against them .
the judge in brussels on monday said he would rule on puigdemont s extradition dec. 14 .
eight members of the disbanded cabinet , including vice-president oriol junqueras , were detained in custody nov. 2 facing potential charges of sedition , rebellion and misappropriation of funds .
in a court statement , the judge ruled that , while he considered there was no risk the defendants would leave the country , he did believe there was a risk of criminal reiteration .
the catalan politicians have since called to be released to campaign for the election , with junqueras heading his erc party s list .
campaigning officially begins on tuesday .
six other former members of the catalonia cabinet also detained in custody were set bail of 100,000 euros ( $ 118,570 ) .
while many polls have shown that the election is likely to be a dead heat between the pro-independence and pro-unionist camps , the latest official poll saw the secessionists just losing their majority in the regional parliament .
pro-independence party junts per catalunya was seen as winning 25-26 seats , erc another 32 seats and extreme-left party cup 9 seats , according to the poll carried out by sociological research centre ( cis ) published on monday .
that would give the secessionist camp just 67 seats in the 135-seat regional parliament , stripping them of the previous slim majority .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy has flatly refused to negotiate any talks on an independence referendum , saying that the constitution does not allow for any separation of any of the country s 17 autonomous regions .
the regional election was called to return legal certainty to catalonia , rajoy has said .
in an editorial in politico , published on sunday , junqueras said madrid could not be trusted to oversee the election , and called for the european union to step in .
it is hard to believe that spain s conservative people s party government will actually respect the result of these elections .
therefore , it is vital that the european union oversee the results to ensure they are truly respected , and to erase any doubts about the outcome , he wrote .
eu leaders are extremely wary of catalonia s search for independence because it has stirred separatist feelings far beyond spanish borders and european commission president jean-claude juncker had called nationalism a poison .
civic pro-independence group anc , whose leader jordi sanchez was one of the defendants to be refused bail on monday , has called for protests against the ruling at 8 pm ( 1900 gmt ) in front of catalan government buildings .
( $ 1 = 0.8434 euros )