geneva ( reuters ) - an estimated 270,000 rohingya refugees have fled myanmar in the past two weeks and sought refuge in bangladesh , where two existing refugee camps are bursting at the seams , the u.n. refugee agency unhcr said on friday .
the exodus of the minority rohingya was triggered by insurgent attacks on aug. 25 and an army counter-offensive .
myanmar says its forces are fighting a legitimate campaign against terrorists responsible for a string of attacks on the police and army since last october .
officials blame rohingya militants for killing non-muslims and burning their homes .
the two refugee camps in cox s bazar in southeast bangladesh home to nearly 34,000 rohingya refugees before this influx are now bursting at the seams .
the population has more than doubled in two weeks , totaling more than 70,000 .
there is an urgent need for more land and shelters , unhcr said in a briefing note for reporters in geneva .
the vast majority are women , including mothers with newborn babies , families with children .
they arrive in poor condition , exhausted , hungry and desperate for shelter .
the united nations was expecting a total refugee influx of 300,000 , up from a previous estimate of 120,000 , an official told reuters on wednesday .
the international organization for migration said the estimate of new arrivals had increased considerably partly because of an assessment on sept. 6 , when humanitarian workers visited more locations , and found 75,000 newly arrived people in nine locations .
there were 130,000 people in the registered refugee camps and three makeshift settlements , 90,000 in host communities , and nearly 50,000 in new spontaneous settlements which are expanding quickly with people still searching for space to make temporary shelters , an iom statement said .
while most of rohingya refugees arrive on foot , mostly walking through the jungle and mountains for several days , thousands are braving long and risky voyages across the rough seas of the bay of bengal , unhcr said .
at least 300 boats arrived in cox s bazar on wednesday , iom said .