trenton , n.j. ( reuters ) - new jersey governor chris christie proposed a $ 34.8 billion fiscal 2017 state budget on tuesday that relies on a modest 3.1 percent revenue growth and no tax hikes .
it was christie ’ s first major address to new jerseyans since he returned home after ending his run for the 2016 republican presidential nomination last week .
he thanked residents for that “ great privilege. ” “ while the result was not what i had hoped for , and maybe some of you too , the experience has made me a better governor , a better american and it ’ s made me a better person , ” he said .
christie spent more than half of 2015 out of state , much of it campaigning , and in a rutgers-eagleton poll on tuesday just 29 percent of registered new jersey voters had a favorable opinion of him , his lowest level yet .
gone from christie ’ s address was the broad national tone that dominated so many of his recent speeches .
instead he spoke , albeit briefly , about the need to fund transportation projects , a key state issue .
christie ’ s spending plan , which he said was built on “ fiscal restraint , ” included $ 250 million in savings from yet-to-come cost reductions in health benefits for public employees .
the cost cuts could come through required use of generic drugs and increased co-pays , examples from a treasury briefing for reporters before christie ’ s address to lawmakers in the statehouse .
christie ’ s budget could find favor with wall street credit rating agencies .
since he took office in january 2010 , new jersey has been hit with nine downgrades in part because of overly optimistic revenue projections and the use of non-recurring revenue sources .
the governor ’ s latest spending plan addressed both issues , with estimated revenue growth of just 3.1 percent .
the proposed plan overall is just 2.2 percent larger than the $ 34 billion of appropriations for fiscal 2016 , which ends on june 30 .
it also slashes reliance on one-shot revenues , to 0.7 percent of the total budget from 2.9 percent this fiscal year .
the state ’ s underfunded public pension system is another sore spot for rating agencies .
the governor proposed a $ 1.86 billion contribution in 2017 , the biggest amount ever for new jersey , but still less than half of what the state should be contributing to keep the system healthy , according to actuaries .
democrats , who control the legislature , said christie skirted real proposals for healthcare savings or transportation funding , which they have said could be paid for with a state gasoline tax hike .