melbourne ( reuters ) - australia s main medical association called on saturday for the government to allow independent doctors and other health experts to help more than 400 asylum seekers languishing inside a recently closed detention center in papua new guinea .
the asylum seekers have shut themselves inside the australian-run manus island centre for the past 18 days , defying attempts by australia and papua new guinea ( png ) to close it in a standoff the united nations describes as a looming humanitarian crisis .
australia has shut access to the center , and staff , including doctors , have left , leaving the men without sufficient food , clean water , power or medical care .
members of the australian medical association ( ama ) voted unanimously on saturday to call on the government to grant access to the center so doctors could assess the men s health , wellbeing and living conditions .
the ama has made many representations on this matter , both publicly and in private but , with a worsening and more dangerous situation emerging on manus , the federal council strongly believes that urgent action and answers are needed , ama president michael gannon said .
it is our responsibility as a nation with a strong human rights record to ensure that we look after the health and wellbeing of these men , and provide them with safe and hygienic living conditions .
government spokesmen were not immediately available for comment .
australia s sovereign borders immigration policy , under which it refuses to allow asylum seekers arriving by boat to reach its shores , has been heavily criticized by the united nations and human rights groups but has bipartisan political support in australia .
the 421 asylum seekers on manus island say they fear violent reprisals from the community if they move to transit centers , pending possible resettlement to the united states .
sudanese refugee abdul aziz said via text message on saturday that png officials had started to dismantle the center s perimeter fences and food was running low .
we are waiting drinking from the rainwater ... it s tense feeling , we don t have any idea what png will do to us .
their attitude toward us they are really aggressive , aziz said .
png s supreme court ruled last year that the center breached its laws and fundamental human rights , leading to the decision to close it .
new zealand has offered to accept 150 of the men , but australia has declined the offer saying the priority was an existing refugee swap deal negotiated with former u.s. president barack obama last year .
under that deal , up to 1,250 asylum seekers could be sent to the united states and australia will in turn accept refugees from central america .