kate steinle is the wrong race , and she was killed by someone obama is advocating for .
if they can only get fox news to stop reporting about it , this whole nightmare for obama s executive amnesty/votes for democrats program will go away the parents of kathryn steinle said monday in a cable television news interview that they support a proposal to give mandatory prison time to deported people who return to the u.s. illegally .
steinle , 32 , was walking along a waterfront in san francisco when she was shot by a gun allegedly fired by juan francisco lopez sanchez , a mexican national who was in the country illegally .
steinle s brother also appeared on fox and revealed to megyn kelly that the white house hasn t even bothered to reach out to the family .
not heard a word , brad steinle said .
instead , he said , we find solace in the fact that kate was doing what she loved and she was with the man she loved the most , my dad .
watch video interview with bill o reilly here : sanchez , 45 , who has pleaded not guilty , had been released from jail months before the shooting , despite a federal immigration order asking local authorities to hold him.jim steinle and liz sullivan , of pleasanton , california , were interviewed by fox news talk-show host bill o reilly for a monday segment on the o reilly factor.the death of their daughter has fueled a national debate on immigration , with advocates of stricter border control and even some bay area democrats denouncing san francisco as a city whose immigrant sanctuary protections harbor people who are in the country illegally.supporters of sanctuary protections have jumped on o reilly and others for politicizing the death .
they say public safety is improved when immigrants can work with local police without fear of deportation.steinle , who was at his daughter s side when she was shot , and his wife said the proposed kate s law would be a good way to keep her memory alive .
o reilly is collecting signatures for the petition , which would impose a mandatory five years in federal prison for people who are deported and return .
we feel the federal , state and cities their laws are here to protect us , jim steinle said .
but we feel that this particular set of circumstances and the people involved , the different agencies let us down .
it ll be a legacy in her name and her death would not go unnoticed .
the grieving parents said failings at multiple levels of government led to sanchez being freed , but they re tired of finger-pointing .
ff kate s law saves one person , then it s all for good , said steinle.federal records show sanchez had been deported three times before being sentenced to more than five years in federal prison .
he had completed another four years in federal prison when he was shipped to san francisco march 26 on an outstanding 1995 drug charge.the san francisco district attorney s office declined to prosecute , given the age of the case and the small amount of marijuana involved.via : uk daily mail