caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelans vote on sunday in nationwide mayoral polls boycotted by major opposition parties and likely to help leftist president nicolas maduro consolidate power ahead of a probable 2018 re-election bid .
after withstanding massive street protests , international sanctions and dissent within his ruling socialist party , the 55-year-old president saw his candidates win a surprise majority in october gubernatorial elections .
now , with 335 mayorships up for grabs , the socialists seem certain to repeat the feat , helped by opposition abstentionism , which would delight maduro after the international opprobrium he has faced all year .
the crumbling opposition coalition s main parties - justice first , popular will and democratic action - have opted out of sunday s vote , alleging the election system is biased and designed purely to keep a dictatorship in power .
it is crazy not to participate , said political analyst dimitris pantoulas .
the government most likely will have one of the best results in its history ... maduro will be very strong after this election .
he has the political momentum .
the socialists already hold more than 70 percent of venezuela s mayorships , and are forecast to increase that share , extending their grip at a grassroots level just as maduro mulls standing for a second six-year term in the opec nation .
despite presiding over one of the worst economic meltdowns to hit any country in modern history , and with ratings barely half when he was elected , maduro is enjoying a political upturn after the october gubernatorial vote .
he is the favorite to be the government s candidate at the 2018 presidential election and could win if the opposition does not re-unite and re-enthuse supporters .
despite the boycott by major parties , moderate opposition supporters were still planning to vote on sunday , arguing that it was the only way to stop the socialists amassing power .
some of the smaller parties are fielding candidates , fuelling acrimony and in-fighting within the coalition .
there s huge frustration at everything that has happened this year ... but we can not throw in the towel , said one of those candidates , yon goicoechea of progressive advance party .
just out of jail for allegedly plotting against maduro , goicoechea was running for el hatillo mayorship outside caracas .
i can t say when we will achieve democracy - maybe months , maybe years - but we have to fight with our only weapon : votes .
the election was taking place at the end of a fourth year of crushing economic recession that has brought hunger , hardship and shortages to venezuelans .
yet with the opposition in such disarray , maduro and his allies are buoyant .
we are going to have a great victory !
said erika farias running for a caracas district mayorship .
we are fulfilling the legacy of our commander hugo chavez .
with many venezuelans angry at both the government and opposition , some independents have registered for sunday s mayorship races , though there is still no sign of a third-way presidential candidate .
the country is demanding an alternative .
mine is a protest campaign , said nicmer evans , running against farias in the capital s libertador district for his recently-founded party , new vision for my country .
as well as the mayoral elections , voters in oil-rich western zulia state were choosing a new governor .
the opposition took that state in the october gubernatorial race but the election was annulled after winning candidate juan pablo guanipa refused to swear loyalty to a pro-maduro legislative superbody .
results were expected to start coming in on sunday evening .