it s difficult to look at romney coming out against trump and not wonder if there are a few sour grapes ?
romney s timing for questioning trump s character is very interesting , considering his former deputy campaign manager , katie packer was the key figure behind the anti-trump super-pac , our principles created for the sole purpose of taking down trump that just announced yesterday that they ve given up on their efforts .
former republican presidential nominee mitt romney stated that republican presidential candidates donald trump , texas senator sen. ted cruz ( r-tx ) , and florida senator sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) ought to release their taxes for the last two years that have already been filed and that there s good reason to believe that there s a bombshell in donald trump s taxes on wednesday s your world with neil cavuto on the fox news channel.he added , i think there s no question but that donald trump has the clearest path to become the republican nominee .
i think for the other people still in the race , their path is becoming a slimmer and slimmer opening , and they re having a difficult time communicating to their supporters just how they could become the nominee .
it s not impossible .
i think it s very difficult for any one of the non-donald trump contenders to be able to be a real threat , unless perhaps the field narrows.romney then said , when asked about his lack of an endorsement for anyone so far , well , frankly , i d like to see a number of things from the candidates , not just their positions on issues in some detail , and some candidates are more thorough in laying out what they re going to do than others , but i d also like to see their back taxes .
i d like to see where they filed their taxes in the last several years .
i m not talking about their taxes this year .
i m talking about the taxes that have already been filed with the irs .
and donald trump and marco rubio and ted cruz have [ not ] shown us their back taxes .
romney further stated that the last two years that have already been filed would give us a real sense of whether these people are on the up and up , and whether they ve been telling us things about themselves that are true or not .
he then said , i think we have good reason to believe that there s a bombshell in donald trump s taxes .
he explained , i think there s something there , either he s not as anywhere near as wealthy as he says he is , or he hasn t been paying the kind of taxes we would expect him to pay , or perhaps he hasn t been giving money to the vets , or to the disabled , like he s been telling us he s been doing .
and i think that s the reason that i think there s a bombshell in there , is because every time he s asked about his taxes , he dodges and delays and says , well , we re working on it .
hey , we re not talking about the taxes that are coming due this year .
of course they re working on those .
they won t be ready for months .
we re talking about taxes already filed , back taxes .
and my back taxes , when i ran in 2012 , my back taxes , i put out in january of 2012 .
we re now in late february and we still haven t seen either donald trump s , or marco rubio s , or ted cruz s taxes .
and frankly the voters have a right to see those tax returns before they decide who our nominee ought to be .
trump s response to romney s accusation : romney said that the scrutiny over his taxes when he ran back in 2012 is a good reason for getting these things out before the voters make their choices to who our nominee will be .
he continued , i put my taxes out in january of 2012 , and that gave people a chance to digest it , and decide whether i was going to be the nominee or not .
and if in fact donald trump s taxes , or marco rubio s , or ted cruz s , have some real problems in there , let s get them out there and see them .
but i think it s pretty clear that , given donald trump s dodging and weaving and delay , i think the last time he was asked about his taxes he said , well , it s going to be a month .
look , people have a right to know if there s a problem in those taxes before they decide .
romney concluded , you know , donald trump has said he s the best in the country for the disabled veterans , and for the disabled generally .
well , if his taxes show that he hasn t made any contributions to the disabled veterans , or to the disabled generally , that would be a big issue .
so and i m not saying that s the case .
i have no evidence of that .
but i m just saying there are things that could be issues , and when people decide they don t want to give you their taxes , it s usually because there s something they don t want you to see .
via : breitbartposted by donald j. trump on thursday , 25 february 2016 does romney s concern over trump and his taxes have anything to do with trump s go it alone attitude ?
or perhaps the donald has a point ? .
@ mittromney can only speak negatively about my presidential chances because i have been openly hard on his terrible `` choke '' loss to obama !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) october 18 , 2015mitt romney , the failed 2012 republican presidential nominee who , alongside running mate rep. paul ryan ( r-wi ) , lost the election to president barack obama and vice president joe biden , is lecturing 2016 gop frontrunner donald trump on how a republican can win the white house .
i think donald trump has said a number of things which are hurtful , and he has said they were childish in some respects , and i think will be potentially problematic either in a primary or in a general election if he were to become the nominee , romney said in a rare interview granted to former obama strategist david axelrod , according to the hill newspaper.romney added that he thinks trump will have some challenges if he proceeds to the next stage and that he thinks to a degree trump s comments and style do hurt the gop as a whole.while romney previously predicted that trump won t win the nomination , his change of tone in this axelrod interview seems to indicate he s now entertaining the possibility of a nominee donald trump.romney lost the election in 2012 after winning the nomination against a fairly weak gop primary field .
he also lost in 2008 , failing to win the nomination against sen. john mccain ( r-az ) .
like romney would four years later , mccain lost the 2008 presidential election to obama .
even though romney has lost every presidential election in which he s ever competed , some republicans still gravitate to him and his inner circle for political advice.earlier this cycle , romney met with several candidates , including former florida gov .
jeb bush and sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) the two leading establishment candidates vying for the nomination in new hampshire .
in the interview with axelrod , romney spoke very highly of both rubio and bush.in august 2012 during the heat of romney s presidential race with president barack obama , then-senate majority leader sen. harry reid ( d-nv ) 2 % charged romney hadn t pay taxes for 10 years.shortly after reid made those allegations , trump defended romney in an interview with fox news channel s greta van susteren on the august , 7 , 2012 broadcast of on the record .
i think it s a very strong statement that harry made , trump said .
and i ve known harry and i like harry .
but i think it s a statement that he probably wished he didn t make .
i don t think there was a source .
a lot of people don t think there was a source .
if there was a source , it s probably not allowed and it s probably not even legal .
i mean , who would be able to do that ?
who would be allowed to do that ?
i don t think there is a source .
watch donald trump defend romney s alleged tax issues with greta susteren at the 3:10 mark :