erimo , japan ( reuters ) - ever since north korea lobbed two missiles far above this windswept fishing town on japan s northern island of hokkaido , seaweed farmer mitsuyo kawamura says she s been on edge .
now when i hear a loud sound , i look outside , i look out at the ocean , 68-year-old kawamura said from her seaside cottage in erimo , where she lays out long dark strands of kombu seaweed on stones to dry in the sun .
i feel anxious , like i never know when it will come again .
as japan prepares to vote in sunday s national election , prime minister shinzo abe has called north korea s escalating threats it also conducted a sixth nuclear test last month a national crisis that only he can lead japan through .
yet the missiles that flew over erimo on aug. 29 and sept. 15 created an eerie threat : no one saw or heard them .
they streaked by several hundred kilometers above land , too high to see with the naked eye , before splashing into the pacific more than 1,000 kilometers ( 600 miles ) to the east .
warnings of the missiles spread through sirens and government-issued j-alerts on millions of cell phones throughout japan , jolting some out of sleep .
kawamura has since stocked up on extra food and keeps the radio on to listen for more warnings .
like many residents here and across japan she feels helpless , unsure of how to protect herself .
when it s launched , it could land here just moments later , she said .
there s nowhere to hide .
abe s rhetoric has grown harsher as north korea has threatened to sink japan and seems intent on developing nuclear warheads that can reach the u.s. mainland .
he has repeatedly backed u.s. president donald trump s all-options-on-the-table stance and says now is not the time for dialogue .
they promised in 1994 and again in 2005 that they would abandon their nuclear program .
but they have broken their word and developed nuclear devices and missiles , abe said at a campaign rally last week .
we re not going to be deceived anymore .
to protect itself , japan has deployed 34 patriot pac-3 anti-missile batteries around the country , including one in hokkaido , and aegis defense systems on several destroyers .
u.s. forces in japan also have ballistic missile defense equipment that can if all goes well take out a missile in mid-flight .
the rockets thrust tiny erimo , population 4,850 , into the global spotlight .
maps on tv broadcasts showed the missiles flight paths over nearby cape erimo , a jagged point that juts into the pacific where seals frolic .
at the town s docks , where fishermen sorted through the morning s haul of salmon , tossing them into vats of ice water , strong support for abe was mixed with worries that he s too strident , putting japan at risk .
right now , no one s better than abe , said satoru narita , a 72-year-old fisherman .
if anything , japan has been too passive , said 23-year-old ryosuke kinoshita , who supports abe s ruling liberal democratic party .
next time they launch one , i d almost like to see us fire one back , he said .
we can t live in peace and safety .
but haruki suminoya , head of erimo s fishing union , cautioned that being overly aggressive could provoke north korea into lashing out .
abe s approach is too strong , too hardline , he said .
a more restrained approach is better .
the recent war of words between trump and north korea unsettled many residents , who pointed out they were a much closer target than the united states .
while pressure was needed toward north korea , being too tough could be disastrous , said mayor masaki ohnishi .
if north korea does something serious , japan is within shooting range .
so far , it seems that abe is winning over voters .
nationwide polls show the ldp is headed for a big win this weekend .
erimo residents were divided on abe s signature policy of revising japan s war-renouncing constitution to clarify the status of the country s military .
critics worry that it could lead to an expanded role for the armed forces overseas and entangle it in u.s.-led conflicts .
but shinto priest hirotaka tezuka , 39 , said the constitution had grown outdated .
we need a constitution that s better suited to the present era .
yoshihiro naito , 77 , opposed the idea .
the commitment we ve made not to wage war has kept japan safe .
he plans to vote for an opposition party because he thinks abe and the ldp have become too powerful .
town officials said they have not taken any particular precautionary steps following the recent missile launches , nor do they plan any duck and cover drills that have been held elsewhere .
the town has loud speakers on 50 tall poles to broadcast warnings for tsunamis , typhoons and now missiles .
in recent months , they have installed wireless units in 1,500 of the 2,200 homes so people can hear them when they are indoors .
erimo also has emergency stocks of food , water and other supplies , the mayor said .
that s particularly important for erimo because it is linked to the rest of hokkaido by only one coast-hugging road , which gets closed several times a year due to heavy rains or massive waves .
local fishermen are nervous about north korea s warning that it might conduct a hydrogen bomb test over the pacific , which they worry would contaminate the water like the fukushima nuclear disaster did in 2011 .
the radiation would make all the fish inedible , said narita , the elderly fisherman .
like in fukushima , we couldn t do our jobs .
the town s dwindling fishing industry has already been hit hard by a plunge in the salmon catch as well as by a dearth of youngsters to take over the trade .
when young people move away to cities such as sapporo , hokkaido s capital , sometimes their parents follow them , residents said .
erimo s population , which peaked above 9,000 in the 1960s , has fallen to nearly half that level .
we re a fishing town , said naito , so if we can t catch fish any more , we re finished .