hollywood stars took to social media wednesday to express outrage over president donald trump s announcement that transgender people will not be allowed to serve in the u.s. military , reversing former president obama s decision last year allowing them to do so .
after consultation with my generals and military experts , please be advised that the united states government will not accept or allow transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the u.s. military , president trump tweeted wednesday morning .
our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming victory and can not be burdened with the tremendous medical cost and disruption that transgender in the military would entail .
thank you .
after consultation with my generals and military experts , please be advised that the united states government will not accept or allow donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .transgender individuals to serve in any capacity in the u.s. military .
our military must be focused on decisive and overwhelming .. donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017 .victory and can not be burdened with the tremendous medical costs and disruption that transgender in the military would entail .
thank you donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) july 26 , 2017the news spurred some stars to viciously attack the president , with some calling trump a cruel bigot .
-for entire story : breitbartstar trek actor and gay activist george takei sent what appeared to be a threat to trump , warning that he just pissed off the wrong community and said the president will regret this action.donald : with your ban on trans people from the military , you are on notice that you just pissed off the wrong community .
you will regret it .
george takei ( @ georgetakei ) july 26 , 2017takei also tweeted : history shall record that you are not only the stupidest , most incompetent president ever , but also the cruelest and pettiest .
# shame .
the actor also issued a call to action : invidious discrimination against any group must be opposed by all .
straight/cis allies : will you stand with lgbts ? # transrightsarehumanrights george takei ( @ georgetakei ) july 26 , 2017not funny actor/comedian seth rogan went after president trump s daughter ivanka on twitter because , of course .
remember when americans blamed chelsea for benghazi or for her the victims of her serial rapist father ? loudmouth actor , filmmaker and producer rob reiner , aka meathead fired off another one in a series hateful tweets to president trump since he took office : not allowing transgender people to serve in military , dt again shows astounding ignorance & bigotry .
simply put : dt is a hateful human being .
rob reiner ( @ robreiner ) july 26 , 2017leftist actress and vocal trump hater debra messing came up with a very clever little saying .
she was clearly hoping to make her hashtag trend .
it didn t # makingamericadiscriminateagain https : //t.co/tx6huiuhwd debra messing ( @ debramessing ) july 26 , 2017lena dunham , the not funny comedian who admitted to sexually abusing her younger sister tweets words of comfort to transgenders following the announcement of president trump s new transgender policy .
who better to speak out on behalf of transgenders than a pedophile , hillary-loving hollywood lib ? hey trans teens : this man does not represent the overwhelming love , support and pride waiting for you when you step out into the world .
lena dunham ( @ lenadunham ) july 26 , 2017