if you need more proof that the clinton foundation was a pay to play operation here it is !
executives from estee lauder got face time with clinton once they donated millions to the clinton foundation .
the left is trying to say that you can t prove a connection but anyone with half a brain would be able to put two and two together .
the prince of bahrain tried repeatedly to meet with hillary clinton but only after donating $ 32 million to the clinton foundation did he get a meeting.est e lauder executive nancy mahon was appointed to a government council and received special government employee status after donating to the clinton foundation while hillary clinton was secretary of state.executives at est e lauder were among those who got face time with secretary clinton after they donated to the clinton foundation , according to an ap report .
however , nancy mahon not only met with clinton , she also was appointed to a government position after a fund she helped run pledged millions to the foundation in 2008.mahon is a senior vice president at est e lauder and the global executive director of the mac aids fund , the cosmetics company s charitable arm .
through the fund , she pledged a commitment to the clinton global initiative in 2008 .
the mac aids fund ultimately donated between $ 1 and $ 5 million to the clinton foundation.mahon was appointed to the presidential advisory council on hiv/aids and elevated to chairperson in december 2011 , after launching a public-private partnership with the state department in june.clinton thanked all our friends at mac when announcing the partnership to combat gender-based violence in south africa on june 2 , 2011 .
soon we will expand this work through a new partnership with the mac aids foundation , clinton said .
this is a foundation that is well known to me .
i ve had the privilege of working with it in the past .
mahon was sworn in as the chairperson of the presidential advisory council on hiv/aids , or pacha , on dec. 2 , 2011.read more : wfb