washington ( reuters ) - front-runner donald trump said on sunday that he will have essentially sealed the republican u.s. presidential nomination if he wins tuesday ’ s contest in indiana , where he holds a big lead over chief rival ted cruz .
a new nbc/wall street journal/marist opinion poll showed trump with a wide lead in indiana , 49 percent to 34 percent for cruz and 13 percent for a third candidate , ohio governor john kasich .
trump , a 69-year-old billionaire real estate developer , sounded confident in an interview on “ fox news sunday ” when asked whether indiana would basically end the long-running republican race in his favor .
“ yes , it ’ s over , ” trump said .
“ it ’ s already over. ” the poll showed the depth of the challenge facing cruz , a conservative u.s. senator from texas who is trying to prevent trump from winning the 1,237 delegates needed to seal the nomination .
cruz ’ s hopes rest on emerging as a consensus alternative to trump at the republican national convention in cleveland on july 18-21 .
former u.s. secretary of state hillary clinton , 68 , leads u.s .
senator bernie sanders , 74 , of vermont in the race for the democratic nomination .
on nbc ’ s “ meet the press , ” cruz , 45 , was asked several times whether he would support trump if the new york businessman was the republican nominee .
cruz evaded the question each time and turned the questions into an attack on broadcast media .
“ i recognize that many in the media would love to see me surrender to donald trump because that means that hillary wins .
the media has given $ 2 billion in free advertising to donald trump , ” cruz said .
cruz said he has momentum in indiana based on his choice of former candidate carly fiorina for his vice president and friday ’ s endorsement by indiana governor mike pence .
americans will elect a successor to president barack obama on nov. 8 .
trump , who has amassed 996 delegates , according to an associated press count , has momentum behind him and looks increasingly likely to win the nomination outright , without a contested convention , perhaps when california votes on june 7 .
indiana has 57 republican delegates .
three are awarded from each of the state ’ s nine u.s. congressional districts with the candidate who receives the most votes taking them all .
the 30 others are awarded to the candidate who wins the most votes statewide .
at a rally in terre haute , indiana , trump urged republicans to join his “ movement ” and turn out for him in big numbers .
“ the more we can win by in indiana is so important .
it ’ s a mandate ... a really important mandate .
it ’ s a mandate for change , but not obama change .
real change .
it ’ s a mandate for genius , ” he said .
u.s .
senator lindsey graham of south carolina , a leading republican critic of trump , called him the “ most unelectable person ” the party could nominate .
graham had sought the nomination himself .
“ keep fighting ted , ” graham told cbs ’ s “ face the nation. ” on the democratic side , front-runner clinton told cnn ’ s “ state of the union ” that rival bernie sanders has been “ helpful ” in bringing millions of people into the party ’ s presidential race , but it was time for him to step aside .
“ there comes a time when you have to look at the reality , ” said clinton , who won four of the five northeastern states that voted last tuesday and who has a big lead in the delegate race ahead of the democratic national convention in philadelphia on july 25-28 .
but at a news conference in washington , sanders refused to get out , saying he believes the democratic battle will end up in a contested convention .
sanders said it was nearly impossible for clinton to win the 2,383 delegates needed for nomination without superdelegates , who are unelected and free to support any candidate they wish .
“ we intend to fight for every vote and delegate remaining , ” he said .
clinton has 2,165 to sanders ’ 1,357 delegates , according to an ap count that includes superdelegates who have said whom they support .
in his fox interview , trump defended at length his views on foreign policy , which he outlined in a speech last week in washington that drew criticism for sometimes contradictory views .
trump said he would move quickly to destroy islamic state ’ s militancy , but would resist interventionist policies in order to focus on nation-building at home .
trump said “ every move we made in the middle east was wrong ” over the past 15 years , with lives and money wasted .
he said he would resist such policies .
asked whether the united states should return to working with “ strongmen ” leaders like the late iraqi president saddam hussein , trump said : “ isn ’ t it too bad that we knocked him out in the first place ? ”