bucharest ( reuters ) - tens of thousands of romanians rallied in the capital bucharest and dozens of other cities on sunday , protesting against a widely criticized plan by the ruling social democrats to overhaul the judiciary .
the psd-led coalition , which holds a robust majority in parliament , is drafting an overhaul that the european commission , foreign diplomats and thousands of magistrates have criticized as placing the justice system under political control , potentially weakening an anti-corruption drive .
a special parliamentary commission started debating the bill last week , with the ruling party aiming to have it approved by the end of the year .
the commission is headed by florin iordache , who resigned as justice minister in february after a decree on corruption that he drafted triggered the biggest street protests since the 1989 anti-communist romanian revolution .
that decree , which was eventually rescinded , would have effectively shielded dozens of public officials from prosecution for corruption .
thieves , thieves , shouted thousands of protesters in front of the government s headquarters on sunday .
we want justice , not corruption .
psd is the red plague .
an estimated 30,000 people marched to parliament in bucharest , while roughly 20,000 held rallies in about 70 cities .
how do you trust wolves to make laws at the sheepfold , former technocrat prime minister dacian ciolos said on his facebook page before going to the protests in bucharest .
the most contested judicial changes include those to an inspection unit that oversees magistrates conduct , the way in which chief prosecutors are appointed and the president s right to veto candidates .
romanian prosecutors have investigated hundreds of public officials , including former prime ministers , in an anti-corruption drive over the past decade .
transparency international ranks romania among the european union s most corrupt states , though brussels has praised magistrates for their efforts .
prosecutors froze personal assets belonging to the leader of the psd , liviu dragnea , this month as part of an investigation into suspected theft of cash from state projects , some of them brussels-funded .
dragnea has denied any wrongdoing .
in a report published on nov. 15 , the european commission said that justice reform has stagnated in romania this year and challenges to judicial independence remain a persistent source of concern .