miami ( reuters ) - u.s. republican presidential front-runner donald trump came under fire from his rivals on thursday for saying muslims hate the united states at a debate where the gut-punching attacks of earlier forums gave way to a suddenly civil tone with a serious focus on the issues .
trump , who has voiced skepticism about u.s. military involvement abroad in the past , for the first time said america ’ s effort against islamic state militants might require between 20,000 and 30,000 u.s. troops , a number similar to what some republican hawks have proposed .
the cnn-hosted debate at the university of miami was crucial , coming days before votes in florida and ohio that will determine whether u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida and ohio governor john kasich will be able to continue with their increasingly long-shot candidacies .
with previous assaults on trump having failed to knock him down , rubio and u.s .
senator ted cruz of texas chose a more civil approach , raising questions about trump ’ s policy positions without attacking him personally .
trump , for his part , used the debate to try to attract establishment republicans , saying he is generating support from non-republicans who could help carry the party to victory in the nov. 8 election .
and he eschewed the inflammatory , personal attacks on his rivals that have drawn both cheers and boos in prior debates .
“ the republican party has a great chance to embrace millions of people that it ’ s never known before .
they are coming by the millions .
we should seize that opportunity , ” he said .
but he stuck to positions that many establishment republicans reject , such as his belief , as stated in television interviews , that followers of islam “ hate us. ” “ we have a serious problem of hate .
there is tremendous hate , ” said trump , who has proposed a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states .
rubio , cruz and kasich said the united states needs to maintain good relations with muslim countries in the middle east to help in the fight against islamic state militants .
“ we are going to have to work with people in the muslim faith even as islam faces a serious crisis within it , ” rubio said .
rubio also defended american muslims as patriots .
“ if you go anywhere in the world you ’ re going see american men and women serving us in uniform that are muslims , ” he said .
“ anyone out there that has the uniform of the united states on and is willing to die for this country is someone that loves america , ” he added .
rubio shifted to a more positive tone after his anti-trump tirades of the past two weeks .
but he and cruz repeatedly sought to raise questions about trump ’ s policy positions from trade to the middle east .
cruz pointed to areas where trump has been a late-comer to the conservative movement , such as his past support for democratic causes and candidates .
he also noted how trump has asked his supporters at rallies to demonstrate support by raising their right hand , a scene that produced photographs that some critics said looked like nazi germany .
“ at donald ‘ s rallies recently he ’ s taken to asking people in the crowd to pledge their support to him .
i have to say i think that ’ s exactly backwards .
we are here pledging our support to you , not the other way around , ” cruz said .
trump , in discussing how he would consider placing between 20,000 to 30,000 u.s. troops on the ground to defeat islamic state militants , vowed to complete the mission quickly and bring troops home to focus on rebuilding the united states .
“ we really have no choice , we have to knock out isis , ” trump said .
“ i would listen to the generals , but i ’ m hearing numbers of 20,000 to 30,000. ” it was the most detailed view yet of trump ’ s thinking about islamic state .
he has previously talked of “ knocking the hell ” out of isis without offering specifics .
next tuesday ’ s florida and ohio republican primaries both award delegates on a winner-take-all basis , meaning that the winner of the popular vote is awarded the state ’ s entire slate of delegates .
so far , 25 states and puerto rico have held nominating contests , and trump has amassed a solid lead in the delegate race .
according to the associated press , trump has 458 delegates , followed by cruz at 359 , rubio at 151 , and kasich at 54 .
clinching the republican nomination requires 1,237 delegates .
there are a total of 367 delegates at stake on tuesday , including a total of 165 in florida and ohio .
trump on thursday appeared to try to appear more presidential , something he has pledged often in the past to do so but never has .
on thursday he modulated both the tone of his voice and the tenor of his remarks , which in prior debates have drawn sharp criticism for being vulgar .
“ i would say this , we ’ re all in this together .
we ’ re going to come up with solutions , we ’ re going to find the answers to things , and so far i can ’ t believe how civil it has been up here , ” trump said .
the two-hour debate included a sober discussion of pressing foreign and domestic policy challenges , including illegal immigration , reform of social security , free trade deals , the role of the federal government in education and israel .
( additional reporting by ginger gibson , alana wise , amanda becker ; writing by steve holland ; editing by leslie adler ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .