washington ( reuters ) - germany and europe want to ensure that new u.s. sanctions against russia do not lead to a new ice age in ties between russia and the west , german foreign minister sigmar gabriel said on tuesday .
gabriel said he spoke with u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson about the sanctions in a meeting in washington , adding that he was grateful that u.s. president donald trump had agreed to coordinate on further measures with u.s. allies .
we as europeans have great concerns that this will have unintended consequences for europe .
we don t want to completely destroy our business relations with russia , especially in the energy sector , gabriel said .
trump this month approved new sanctions on moscow for its 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea peninsula and for what u.s. intelligence agencies say was its meddling in the u.s. presidential election , a charge russia denies .
gabriel has criticized the united states for the move , saying the new punitive measures expose european companies involved in energy projects in russia to fines for breaching u.s. law .
economy minister brigitte zypries even urged the eu to retaliate against the united states if the new sanctions on russia should end up penalizing german firms .
gabriel said european leaders were concerned that the latest sanctions would not only have economic consequences , but could also lead to a new ice age between russia and the united states and the west .
despite european concerns about the sanctions , gabriel insisted that moscow must do its part to implement a fragile ceasefire agreement in place for eastern ukraine , including the withdrawal of heavy weapons .
that would be a starting point for improved relations , gabriel said .
kurt volker , the newly appointed u.s. special representative for ukraine , told broadcaster deutsche welle , that washington would not forge any agreement with moscow over the heads of the ukrainians or behind the backs of the europeans .
the u.s. has made clear we fully support the normandy process , and it s not our intention to become a part of it or to try to go over the top of it , volker told deutsche welle .
he acknowledged russian concerns about washington s decision to consider arming ukraine in the conflict , but said it was quite reasonable for ukrainians to want to be better able to defend themselves .
german chancellor angela merkel and french president on monday called for russia and ukraine to increase their efforts to implement the ceasefire agreement .
the conflict between ukrainian forces and russian-backed separatists has claimed more than 10,000 lives since it erupted in 2014 .
germany and france have tried to convince both sides to implement a peace deal agreed in minsk in 2015 under the so-called normandy process but with little success so far .
merkel told reporters on tuesday that sanctions against russia would be lifted when the situation in eastern ukraine improved .