even though he s a rino this is a shocker !
in june , nevada s republican sen. dean heller tried to get the pentagon to change its practice of banning arms from our soldiers on bases and in recruiting centers here in america .
unfortunately for our soldiers , john mccain was the principle foe of the move and helped to defeat the arming of our soldiers , a decision that recently had deadly consequences in tennessee .
last week nebraska senator dean heller appeared spoke to radio host kevin wall on kkft am in carson city , nv , to talk about his amendment and noted that john mccain himself defeated the move to arm our soldiers.here is a transcript of what heller to the radio station : dean heller : so i submitted an amendment in the department of defense authorization bill to allow this to happen .
now this was of course six weeks ago before chattanooga .
and the chairman of the committee wouldn t support it by the way , chairman was john mccain did not want the amendment as part of the bill and wouldn t accept it .
here is what heller said on his website about the bill : today , u.s .
senator dean heller sent a letter to the chairmen and ranking members of the senate and house armed services committees , requesting that national defense authorization act ( ndaa ) conferees include his amendment to give military base commanders the authority to allow service members to carry personal firearms on base for their personal protection and force protection .
in june , senator heller offered this amendment during the senate s consideration of the fiscal year 2016 ndaa .
in addition , senator heller introduced stand-alone legislation to address this issue critical to the safety of our nation s service members .
john mccain made sure that the marines who died in chattanooga and all their brethren would not be able to fire back and save lives when a terrorist attacked .
how s that from a war hero ?
granted , even if the amendment had been included in the pentagon budget bill and passed , it isn t too likely that the change would have been made quickly enough to have allowed the marines in tennessee to protect themselves against an isis terrorist s rampage .
but that isn t the point , here .
the point is mccain saw no reason to even allow them to be able to defend themselves .
in the terror attacks on the two chattanooga recruiting facilities we now see just how wrong mccain is.via : publiusforum