a top republican took to the senate floor thursday to blame fired fbi director james b. comey for fanning conspiracy theories about the u.s. election that played right into russia s hands .
sen. chuck grassley , an iowa republican who , as chairman of the judiciary committee , has oversight of the fbi , also accused mr. comey of working to shade the truth by agreeing to the obama administration s attempt to soft-pedal the criminal probe of former secretary of state hillary clinton.despite rampant public speculation , mr. comey kept hidden the fact that the president wasn t under investigation allowing conspiracy theories and speculation to run wild , mr. grassley said.but mr. comey refused , saying later that he had feared saying something he d later have to correct .
none of this fiasco had to happen if mr. comey had just been transparent with the public , as i urged him to , mr. grassley said .
they played right into russia s hands , he added.the senator s remarks were striking .
a fiercely independent lawmaker , mr. grassley has used his office to probe both democrats and republicans.he s now in charge of one of the probes on capitol hill looking into mr. comey s firing and other aspects of the 2016 election brouhaha .
we re going to go where the facts take us , mr. grassley said.he said democrats ended up fostering the very russian meddling in american democracy that they decried and he specifically fingered senate minority leader charles e. schumer , saying the new york democrat knew from mr. comey that mr. trump wasn t under investigation but told the public differently.mr .
grassley said that as a member of the gang of eight the four high-ranking lawmakers in each party who get the most thorough intelligence briefing mr. schumer knew mr. trump wasn t being probed .
but mr. schumer told the media that the president was under investigation .
and , of course , that further helped feed media hysteria , mr. grassley said .
the minority leader even tried to say the senate shouldn t vote on the supreme court nomination because the president was under investigation .
and the whole time he knew it wasn t true , mr. grassley said.he said mr. comey told him and sen. dianne feinstein of california , the ranking democrat on his committee , about mr. trump being in the clear in march.watch grassley expose democrat lawmakers and their lies to the american public : that s the same time mr. schumer was demanding a vote on supreme court justice neil m. gorsuch be delayed , saying the president was under investigation .
washington times