xiamen , china ( reuters ) - china will give $ 80 million in funding for brics cooperation plans , chinese president xi jinping said on monday , while the bloc of five emerging countries pledged to oppose protectionism .
xi offered 500 million yuan ( $ 76.4 million ) for a brics economic and technology cooperation plan , and another $ 4 million for projects at the group s new development bank ( ndb ) during a three-day leaders summit in the southeastern city of xiamen .
china s new contributions to brics pale in comparison to its $ 124 billion pledge earlier in may for xi s own belt and road initiative , which aims to expand links between asia , africa , europe and beyond as a new way to boost global development .
the announcement came amid questions over the relevance of brics and china s commitment to the ndb in light of the belt and road initiative and the china-led asian infrastructure investment bank , both key efforts by beijing to bolster its global influence .
xi said during a plenary session at the brics leaders summit that the five emerging economies - brazil , russia , india , china and south africa - should increase cooperation in sectors such as trade and investment , monetary policy and finance , and sustainable development .
we should redouble our efforts to comprehensively deepen brics partnerships and open brics cooperation , he said .
set up in 20l5 as an alternative to the world bank , the shanghai-headquartered ndb was seen as the first major brics achievement after the group came together in 2009 to press for a bigger say in the post-world war two financial order created by western powers .
the brics leaders will gather in xiamen through tuesday , giving host china its latest chance to position itself as a bulwark of globalization in the face of u.s. president donald trump s america first agenda .
a draft xiamen declaration seen by reuters , a formal version of which is expected to be issued later , said brics countries will continue to firmly oppose protectionism as they are committed to an open and inclusive multilateral trading system .
the communique emphasized the need to be vigilant in guarding against inward-looking policies that could hurt global market confidence , and called upon all countries to fully implement the paris climate agreement .
the summit has been overshadowed by north korea s sixth and most powerful nuclear test , which came on sunday just hours before xi opened the meeting with a keynote speech , and prompted a vow of a massive military response from the united states if it or its allies were threatened .
though china s foreign ministry has condemned the test , xi did not mention north korea during that 45-minute address or in his televised remarks during monday s plenary session .
the brics grouping said in its draft communique that it strongly deplored pyongyang s test , but that the problem over its nuclear program should only be settled through peaceful means and dialogue .
we express deep concern over the ongoing tension and prolonged nuclear issue on the korean peninsula , it said .
north korea tested two icbms in july that could fly about 10,000 km ( 6,200 miles ) , putting many parts of the u.s. mainland within range and prompting a new round of tough international sanctions .
though angered over the tests , china - north korea s closest ally - has lambasted the west and its allies over recent weeks for promoting the china responsibility theory for north korea .
the u.n. security council was set to meet later on monday to discuss new sanctions against the isolated regime .
chen fengying , an economics expert at the state-backed china institutes of contemporary international relations , said on the sidelines of the brics meeting that at the most brics countries will take note of the north korean problem .
intervention is rather difficult .
our cooperation is mainly on global governance , she said .