belgrade ( reuters ) - serbia wants to maintain its delicate balancing act between russia and the west , its foreign minister said on thursday , dismissing u.s. calls for it to pick a side .
the largest of the states to emerge from the collapse of yugoslavia in the 1990s , orthodox christian and slavic serbia has natural affinity with moscow , but it is keen to join the european union .
this month , u.s. deputy assistant secretary for european and eurasian affairs hoyt brian yee told belgrade it can not sit on two chairs at the same time .
his remarks sparked sharp criticism in the serbian capital .
foreign minister ivica dacic , who heads the co-ruling socialists , once led by late strongman slobodan milosevic , said belgrade would maintain balance with the west , russia and china .
what we do not want is that someone pulls our own chair from under us ... what is important is to see what is in our own best interest , dacic told reuters in an interview .
although the eu is serbia s single largest trade partner and investor , russia controls its oil and gas supplies .
moscow has also sought to bolster military ties with belgrade with the donation of six mig-29 fighter jets .
at serbia s request , moscow blocked independent kosovo from becoming a member of the united nations .
the ethnic albanian-dominated kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 following a bloody 1998-1999 war .
it has been recognized by 115 countries including the united states and most eu members , but not serbia or russia .
dacic likened serbia s opposition to kosovan independence to spain s rejection of catalonia s referendum on secession .
if spain can fight for its concept of catalonia then we serbs can fight for our country , he said .
serbia , which cherishes kosovo as its historic birthplace , and the government in pristina should seek a win-win solution and an international conference that would prevent future wars for a century , dacic said .
earlier this year he suggested autonomy and delimitation for serb areas in kosovo .
that would be the only possible , realistic and lasting ... solution of the problem , he said in the interview .
there are around 120,000 serbs in kosovo and most of them , mainly in the north , just outside serbia , oppose the pristina authorities .