gothenburg , sweden ( reuters ) - european union leaders , wary of the rise of populism and xenophobia , are turning to one of their more successful programs , the erasmus student exchange scheme , to help foster cross-border education and european unity .
over lunch in the swedish city of gothenburg on friday , they discussed and gave political support to a european commission proposal to create a european education area , in which the eu could help promote studies across its various nations .
the idea is to foster a european identity by letting more people study in countries across the bloc , emphasizing language learning and engendering more cooperation between universities , including on curricula .
during our meeting today , we established political support for these ideas , the chairman of the leaders meeting donald tusk told a news conference .
the initiative comes as the union , about to lose its second biggest economy britain , seeks to make itself more appealing to european citizens , many of whom find the often highly technical or legal issues , which the eu deals with , disconnected from their everyday lives .
the erasmus exchange program of studying abroad is one of the most recognizable and popular eu policies .
it has already been used by 9 million europeans .
appreciation for it is growing fast , the commission said , adding that 90 percent of erasmus students , who typically spend a year at a university in another eu country , come back with an increased awareness of common european values .
as we look to europe s future , we need ... a driver for unity .
education is key , because it is education that ... helps us ... develop a european identity , commissioner for education tibor navracsics said .
scaling up the scheme could see 2 million more people taking part in erasmus over the next 2 years , the commission said , although leaders were cautious about the funding this would require .
talks on the money would start with discussions on the next seven-year eu budget that starts from 2020 .
eu leaders also backed the idea that by early 2019 , students in the eu should have an electronic student card enabling secure exchange of data like student records and academic attributes and access to services like course materials , enrolment services , online libraries in host institutions and countries .
by 2025 we should live in a europe in which learning , studying and doing research is not hampered by borders but where spending time in another member state to study , learn or work is the norm , commission vice-president jyrki katainen said .
the commission wants to set a goal that all university students should speak two languages in addition to their mother tongue by 2025 , improve computer literacy and create a network of world-class european universities that can work together .
the commission also wants all eu governments to invest , by 2025 , a minimum 5 percent of their gdp in education today s average rate , which germany , italy , ireland , greece , spain , bulgaria or romania do not meet .