brasilia ( reuters ) - the centrist brazilian social democracy party , or psdb , elected four-time sao paulo governor geraldo alckmin as its leader on saturday , making him its most likely presidential nominee in next year s elections .
alckmin threw the party s weight behind a social security overhaul that is currently before congress and would cut generous pensions for public-sector employees .
pension reform is necessary so that we do not have two classes of brazilian citizens , he told the convention , which elected him by a 470-3 vote .
alckmin said former leftist president luiz inacio lula da silva , a likely rival in the 2018 race , had led brazil into its worst recession and biggest corruption scandal .
lula wants to return to the scene of the crime , he told cheering supporters .
be sure , we will defeat him at the polls .
alckmin was picked to unite a divided party , with both supporters and opponents of brazil s unpopular president michel temer .
he plans to complete the psdb s withdrawal from the governing coalition .
but alckmin made it clear the psdb would back temer s pension proposal , which investors consider crucial for closing a huge budget deficit that cost latin america s largest economy its investment-grade credit rating .
with elections less than a year away , psdb lawmakers want to distance themselves from temer .
half of its 46 congressmen did not back him when the lower house voted in august to block corruption charges against him .
alckmin must overcome the party s own brush with brazil s ongoing political corruption scandal .
he succeeds senator aecio neves , the party s defeated 2014 presidential candidate who is under investigation for allegedly asking jailed joesley batista , owner of meatpacker jbs sa for 2 million reais ( $ 607,500 ) in illegal funding .
neves was booed and quickly left the convention after casting his vote .
the psdb s disengagement from the temer administration was almost completed on friday with the resignation of antonio imbassahy , the president s minister of political affairs .
alckmin , 65 , was governor of brazil s richest and most populous state from 2001-2006 and again from 2011 to now .
he ran for president in 2006 but lost to lula , who is still brazil s most popular politician despite a corruption conviction that could bar him from running or even land him in prison .
former brazilian president and psdb founder fernando henrique cardoso , who won two elections against lula , said it was better to defeat him at the polls than to put him in jail .