budapest ( reuters ) - hungarian prime minister viktor orban said on friday he would use all means necessary , including secret services , to combat what he called efforts to undermine him by u.s. financier george soros .
soros said in a video that hungary under orban was more oppressive than it was during the cold war soviet occupation .
he can not reach me , but he exploits and oppresses the people who are in opposition in hungary .
the spat marks a new high in the conflict between orban and soros , allies in dismantling communism during the 1980s who have grown apart .
soros has described orban as a dangerous autocrat while orban accuses the financier of interference in hungarian politics through its support of opposition groups .
we want a different future , and ... it was my duty to enlist all possible tools of the state , including intelligence , the secret services , legal and public debate , orban said in an interview .
therefore we ordered an intelligence report on the composition , workings and hungarian and european influence of this soros machinery .
orban told public radio that hungarian secret services had completed a report this week about a network of non-government organizations and other groups funded by soros in hungary and in europe .
he did not disclose its findings .
at the heart of their conflict is immigration , which orban rejects as an existential threat to the continent , while soros has promoted a more lenient policy mix , including controlled immigration and aid to migrants in europe and at home .
the ruling fidesz party faces elections in april next year , and orban - a strong favorite for a third consecutive term - said he expected soros to work on behalf of his pro-immigration opponents .
they will support publications , do propaganda , strengthen civil groups , and pay hundreds , thousands of people .
by election time they will establish civil centers which will work like campaigning parties , meaning the soros network has entered the hungarian election campaign .
daniel makonnen , a spokesman for soros open society foundations ( osf ) in budapest , told reuters that osf planned two new funding centers in the east and south of the country .
the centers , in the cities of debrecen and pecs , will make grants of a total of $ 1 million each this year and next for local education , health care and anti-poverty programs , he said .
immigration or electoral politics will not be on their agenda , nor will they open more branches , makonnen added .
we have differences we can not bridge because he considers us enemies , soros said of orban in a video message which surfaced online after orban s interview on friday .
i have no personal grudge but a difference in principle .
i oppose his system .
a government spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment about soros s latest remarks .
soros said orban wanted to expel his organizations .
i think the current system is more oppressive than it was during the russian occupation .