thugs burned down several buildings saturday night in milwaukee over the shooting death of a 23-year-old black man armed with a stolen gun by milwaukee police during a foot pursuit .
the deceased man s father is now speaking out .
who he s blaming should have every logical american scratching their heads note to dad : you can t blame the white man or the 2nd amendment because your son stole a gun from a home in the suburbs and refused to obey when the police officer who was pursuing him told him to drop it .the father of a man shot and killed by a milwaukee police officer saturday afternoon , august 13th has identified him as 23-year-old sylville smith.court records show in february of 2015 , smith was charged with one felony count of first degree recklessly endangering safety and one misdemeanor count of possession of thc .
the charges were dismissed by prosecutors in november.august of 2015 , smith was charged with felony intimidation of a witness/person charged/felony .
that charge was dismissed by prosecutors in september.in july of 2014 , smith was charged with carrying a concealed weapon a misdemeanor charge .
he pleaded guilty in november , and was sentenced to serve one day in the house of correction.in july of 2013 , smith was charged with felony retail theft intentionally taking $ 500 to $ 5,000 as party to a crime .
prosecutors dismissed the charge in october.fox6 s a.j .
bayatpour spoke with smith s father , patrick on sunday .
he had this to say in the wake of the shooting of his son by milwaukee police and the violence that followed : angry crowds took to the streets in milwaukee on saturday night/sunday morning to protest the shooting death of smith by a police officer hours earlier.protesters burned several stores and threw rocks at police in the city s north side , leaving one officer injured .
smoke and orange flames filled the night sky.the incident started saturday afternoon when two officers stopped two people who were in a car in the north side , according to the milwaukee police department.shortly after , both car occupants fled on foot as officers pursued them , police said.during the chase , an officer shot one of the two 23-year-old sylville smith , who was armed with a handgun , according to authorities .
he ( officer ) ordered that individual to drop his gun , the individual did not drop his gun , milwaukee mayor tom barrett said .
he had the gun with him and the officer fired several times .
smith at the scene .
it s unclear whether the second occupant of the car is in police custody.smith was shot twice in the arm and chest , the mayor said .
his handgun was stolen during a burglary in waukesha in march , according to police .
the victim of that burglary reported 500 rounds of ammunition were also stolen with the handgun , police said in a statement.the officer , 24 , was assigned to district 7 and has six years of service with the milwaukee police department three of those as an officer.he was not injured and will be placed on administrative duty during the investigation and subsequent review by the district attorney s office .
via : fox6now