( reuters ) - the family of an australian woman who was fatally shot wants the minneapolis policeman involved charged , their attorney said on tuesday , the same day investigators sent the evidence collected to the local prosecutor .
state investigators did not release their findings in the july 15 shooting of sydney native justine damond , 40 , who died from a single gunshot fired by officer mohamed noor .
the policeman was in a patrol car with officer matthew harrity .
damond had called police about a possible sexual assault near her house and had approached the police after their arrival , authorities previously said .
damond was living in minneapolis and engaged to be married .
the shooting sparked outrage in minnesota as well as in australia , where prime minister malcolm turnbull called the incident shocking and inexplicable .
minneapolis police chief resigned after city officials said procedures had been violated during the incident and damond didn t have to die .
the attorney for damond s family , bob bennett , said her family believes the officer should be held accountable .
they certainly believe charges are merited , he said in a telephone interview .
the most likely charges may be second-degree manslaughter , which carries a sentence of up to 10 years , bennett said .
attorneys for the officers could not be reached .
noor previously expressed condolences to the damond family in a statement , but declined to discuss the shooting .
hennepin county attorney mike freeman will review the case file to determine what , if any , charges might be brought after the findings were submitted tuesday , according to a statement .
a decision is expected by the end of the year , his office said .
harrity told investigators he was startled by a loud sound near the patrol car shortly before noor fired through the open driver s-side window , striking damond .
court documents said a woman slapped the back of the car before the shooting .
noor was put on paid leave after the shooting .
neither officer had their body cameras activated , police have said .
damond s family has not yet filed a civil lawsuit , bennett said .
he is the same lawyer who reached a nearly $ 3 million settlement for the family of black motorist philando castile who was shot and killed by minnesota police in july 2016 during a traffic stop .
because of past criticism over a lack of transparency when grand juries consider possible charges in police shootings , freeman plans to decide on charges himself , his spokesman said .
freeman s office said in a statement it might ask for additional investigation into the matter .