these are shocking revelations that have essentially taken place while america and our elected representatives slept.all of a sudden before obama there was virtually no outlandish presence of islam in america .
only 7 years later , here are some observations made by a 75 year old american:1 .
all of a sudden , islam is taught in schools .
christianity and the bible are banned in schools and in our military.2 .
all of a sudden we must allow prayer rugs everywhere and allow for islamic prayer in schools , airports and businesses.3 .
all of a sudden we must stop serving pork in prisons.4 .
all of a sudden we are inundated with law suits by muslims who are offended by american culture.5 .
all of a sudden we must allow burkas to be worn everywhere even though you have no idea who or what is covered up under them.6 .
all of a sudden muslims are suing employers and refusing to do their jobs if they personally deem it conflicts with sharia law.7 .
all of a sudden the attorney general of the united states vows to prosecute anyone who engages in anti-muslim speech .8 .
all of a sudden , jihadists who engage in terrorism and openly admit they acted in the name of islam and isis , are emphatically declared they are not islamic by our leaders and/or their actions are determined not to be terrorism , but other nebulous terms like workplace violence .
9 .
all of a sudden , it becomes policy that secular middle east dictators that were benign or friendly to the west , must be replaced by islamists and the muslim brotherhood.10 .
all of a sudden our troops are withdrawn from iraq and the middle east , giving rise to isis.11 .
all of a sudden , america has reduced its nuclear stockpiles to 1950 levels , as obama s stated goal of a nuke-free america by the time he leaves office continues uninterrupted.12 .
all of a sudden , a deal with iran must be made at any cost , with a pathway to nuclear weapons and hundreds of billions of dollars handed over to fund their programs.13 .
all of a sudden america apologizes to muslim states and sponsors of terror worldwide for acts of aggression , war and sabotage they perpetrate against our soldiers.14 .
all of a sudden , the american navy is diminished to 1917 pre-world war i levels of only 300 ships .
the army is at pre-1940 levels .
the air force scraps 500 planes and planned to retire the use of the a-10 thunderbolt close air support fighter .
a further draw down of another 40,000 military personnel is in progress.15 .
all of a sudden half of our aircraft carriers are recalled for maintenance by obama rendering the atlantic unguarded , none are in the middle east.16 .
all of a sudden obama has to empty guantanamo bay of captured jihadists and let them loose in jihad-friendly islamic states .
he demands to close the facility.17 .
all of a sudden america will negotiate with terrorists and trade five taliban commanders for a deserter and jihad sympathizer.18 .
all of a sudden there is no money for american poor , disabled veterans , jobless americans , hungry americans , or displaced americans but there is endless money for obama s syrian refugee resettlement programs.19 .
all of sudden there is an ammunition shortage in the usa.20 .
all of a sudden , the most important thing for obama to do after a mass shooting by two jihadists , is disarm american citizens.21 .
all of a sudden , the president of the united states can not attend the christian funerals of a supreme court justice and a former first lady because of previous ( seemingly unimportant ) commitments.finally and all of a sudden , i m sick to my stomach .
i m not sure the majority of americans recognize the seriousness of the situation and how much progress has been made by islam these last 7 years , a very brief time compared to a 75 year lifetime ! this was sent to 100 % fed up !
by a fan of our facebook page .