guatemala city ( reuters ) - a fraud trial against the brother and son of guatemalan president jimmy morales began on wednesday amid a scandal touched off by the president s attempt to expel the leader of a u.n.-backed anti-corruption unit investigating the case .
guatemala s top tribunal , the constitutional court , ruled definitively on tuesday against morales internationally criticized push to expel from the country ivan velasquez , the colombian who leads the international commission against impunity in guatemala ( cicig ) .
[ nl8n1lf4ry ] the cicig and the prosecutor s office accuse samuel sammy morales , the president s brother and one of his closest advisers , and jose manuel morales , one of the leader s four sons , of facilitating false receipts that defrauded the national property registry in 2013 , two years before morales was elected .
they deny any wrongdoing .
neither of the two gave a declaration before a judge on wednesday , where they appeared together with another 20 other defendants .
the scandal has hurt the popularity of jimmy morales , a former comedian , who won election in late 2015 after riding a wave of public discontent over the corruption scandals that brought down his predecessor otto perez molina .
the president has said the investigation into his family was not related to his controversial decision to declare velasquez persona non grata .
last week , velasquez and guatemalan attorney general thelma aldana asked to remove morales immunity , in order to investigate him for accusations of illegal campaign financing .
the case involves payments linked to the mother of jose manuel morales then-girlfriend in 2013 .
she allegedly sent the national property registry a $ 12,000 bill made out in the name of a local restaurant for 564 breakfasts , according to the attorney general .
the breakfasts were never delivered .
samuel morales recognized the acts as a favor to his nephew , but he denied that he had benefited or been implicated in the network of fraud that deprived the institution of thousands of dollars .
both were detained in january , then put under house arrest and barred from leaving the country .