maine state representative scott hamann ( d ) is clearly an unhinged individual who is clearly not stable or responsible enough to be making legislation decisions on behalf of the people in the south portland district .
hamann s facebook post reveals just how fearful democrats are of real change in government .
president trump has managed to get under the skin of and expose the truth nature behind the most intolerant group of people america .
not since the civil rights era have we seen such hatred towards anyone who is unlike them .
unfortunately for the democrats , the hate that these government officials and hollywood celebrities are spewing every day isn t going to help them to regain power .
contrary to what they believe , americans are leaving the democrat party in droves , as they are waking up to the fact that these individuals are not only okay with using violence and vulgarity to shut down anyone who disagrees with them , but they are also the least tolerant and divisive group of people in america.daily caller -a democratic state lawmaker in maine appears to have made a death threat against president trump .
trump is a half term president , at most , especially if i ever get within 10 feet of that pussy , rep. scott hamann wrote in a lengthy facebook tirade on tuesday.hamann , who represents a district in south portland and also works as project manager for a food bank , appears to have been responding to another facebook user who expressed support for trump.hamann accused trump of being anti-american , and an admitted rapist who was installed by the russians .
here is rep. scott hamann s repulsive facebook post : the 3-term democrat is being asked to resign by maine republicans , who were furious over his facebook post .
house speaker sara gideon , d-freeport , to take action against him.press herald hamann has since removed the post from his facebook page , but the maine republican party was able to make a copy before he did so .
in the closing sentence hamann writes , trump is a half term president , at most , especially if i ever get within 10 feet of that pussy .
hamann , who is serving his third term in the legislature , also lashes out at trump s supporters and makes reference to the president s controversial statements about women and republican u.s. sen. john mccain , a prisoner of war survivor who was held in vietnam .
he s an admitted rapist , hamann wrote of the president .
would you be okay with leaving him alone in a room with your wife ?
demi kouzounas , the chairwoman of the maine republican party , issued a statement calling hamann unhinged and dangerous .
words can not even begin to describe the level of revulsion i feel after reading rep. scott hamann s recent tirade that has come to light , kouzounas said in a prepared statement .
perhaps the most alarming aspect of this tirade is an implied death threat against our president in a statement wednesday , hamann said he regretted the post .