madrid ( reuters ) - a judge will give his ruling on monday on whether eight pro-independence catalan politicians charged with sedition should be released from custody so they can contest a regional election set for dec. 21 , judicial sources said on friday .
the eight , former members of catalonia s dismissed regional government , appeared before the supreme court on friday to request their release while they await trial in the wake of a disputed independence referendum .
catalan leaders , who previously held a slim parliamentary majority , made a unilateral declaration of independence in defiance of spanish law on oct. 27 , leading to their arrest and forcing madrid to take direct control of the region and call the election .
the face-off between barcelona and madrid has tipped spain into its worst political crisis in four decades , prompted more than 2,800 companies to move their legal headquarters out of the region , and forced the government to cut growth forecasts .
it has also deeply divided people in the wealthy northeastern region and caused resentment in the rest of spain .
sacked regional vice-president oriol junqueras , one of his erc party s main candidates for the election , has asked to leave jail in order to campaign in the december vote , which pro-independence parties see as a de facto vote on secession .
the presiding judge will make his decision on the cabinet members custody public on monday , judicial sources said .
any release would likely to be on bail and under strict conditions as the defendants await trial .
junqueras and seven other former cabinet members were jailed on nov. 2 pending trial on charges of sedition , rebellion and misappropriation of funds after organizing the illegal secession vote and declaring independence from spain .
earlier in november , the supreme court released catalan parliament speaker carme forcadell on bail of 150,000 euros ( $ 178,410 ) after she agreed to renounce any political activity that went against the spanish constitution .
all eight former cabinet members have said they would abide by a ruling giving madrid control over the region , according to their lawyers , although some of them said they did not agree with this unprecedented move stripping power from the rebel administration .
campaigning for the dec. 21 election officially starts on tuesday .
the former president of catalonia , carles puigdemont , in self-imposed exile in belgium and subject to an arrest warrant from spain for rebellion and misuse of public funds , has called the elections the most important in the region s history .
barely a quarter of catalans want to continue with the project of creating an independent state , a survey by pollsters metroscopia showed .
however , the same poll of 1,800 catalans taken between nov. 20 and nov. 22 , showed that separatist parties are forecast to win 46 percent of the vote , down slightly from 47.7 percent in a previous election in 2015 .
unionist parties combined would account for another 46 percent of votes , up from less than 40 percent last time .
the leaders of catalan civic groups asamblea nacional catalana ( anc ) and omnium cultural , jordi sanchez and jordi cuixart who were imprisoned last month , also testified before the supreme court over their role in the independence drive .
( $ 1 = 0.8408 euros )