beirut ( reuters ) - a bomb blast killed eight people and injured 16 others on a bus in syria s homs on tuesday , state media said , citing the city s health authority .
islamic state claimed the attack , saying the blast killed 11 members of the syrian army , its official news agency amaq said .
many of the passengers were university students , homs governor talal barazi told state-run ikhbariya tv .
the blast in the government-held city hit the akrama district , near al-baath university .
footage showed people crowding around the burned shell of a vehicle in the middle of a street .
state television said a bomb that terrorists planted in a passenger bus exploded .
islamic state militants had claimed responsibility for a similar attack in homs in may , when a car bomb killed four people and injured 32 others .
a string of bombings have struck cities under government control in syria this year , including the capital damascus .
the tahrir al-sham alliance led by fighters formerly linked to al-qaeda has also claimed some of the deadly attacks .
security agencies are constantly chasing sleeper cells , the homs police chief said on ikhbariya .
today , it could be a sleeper cell or it could be an infiltration .
barazi , the governor , said the state s enemies were trying to target stability as the stage of victory drew near .
the city of homs returned to full government control in may for the first time since the onset of syria s conflict more than six years ago .
with the help of russian jets and iran-backed militias , the damascus government has pushed back rebel factions in western syria , shoring up its rule over the main urban centers .
the army and allied forces then marched eastwards against islamic state militants this year .
the united states has voiced concern about syrian and russian attacks .
the u.s. state department on tuesday strongly condemned attacks this week on eastern ghouta believed to have been carried out by syrian and russian jets .
the jets struck crowded residential areas in the besieged rebel enclave near damascus on sunday , killing at least 27 people , aid workers and a war monitor said .
deliberate tactics to starve syrian civilians , including women and children , block humanitarian and medical aid , bomb hospitals , medical personnel and first responders in eastern ghouta , we consider that to be deeply troubling , state department spokeswoman heather nauert said .
she urged russia to live up to its obligations to uphold the de-escalation zone in eastern ghouta .