history has shown that one of the most cost-effective ways to project your dissatisfaction when attending a large organized protest is to go to an army surplus shop , buy a cheap m-65 field jacket for around $ 25 and some sharpies .
not only will the jacket keep you warm during the colder months , you can customize it to get the exact message you want across , all the while having that badass robert de niro in taxi driver vibe about you.the only problem with that approach is that customizing the jacket takes a combination of effort and creativity and not all of us have the time or the skills to pull it off some of us are just too lazy .
fortunately for those who fit into either of those demographics , barneys new york are now stocking the alpha industries anarchy jacket for am extortionate outlay of $ 375 .
sure , it may be kind of generic and not express exactly what is on your mind , but the general sentiment is there , i guess.so , what do you get for $ 375 ?
as the barneys website describes it , the alpha industries m-65 field jacket is constructed of olive cotton-blend canvas .
this military-inspired piece is detailed with assorted handwritten graffiti , a checked pattern pocket , and anarchy symbols at the front and back .
alpha industries were initially a contractor for the us military and according to angelyn fernandez , their vp of product , self-expression was the inspiration behind this piece .
we have seen resistance to power and authority become a trend in our current pop culture and society , often expressed through fashion , she said .
since 1965 the m-65 field jackets have been a favored method to graphically express one s opinion .
we developed the barneys m-65 anarchy jacket to encompass the artistic and graphic expressions of individuality .
there were just two major flaws in ms. fernadez s plan , the first being that the statements on the jacket can t really be deemed an expression of individuality if they are mass produced and sold for an enormous profit .
the second is that the key demographic for whom she was aiming generally tend to shun capitalism .
those exact people , however , have embraced social media and many took to twitter to show their lack of appreciation for the piece , many to hilarious effect .
* swipes platinum amex card * '' welcome to the resistance '' panamaorange ( @ panamaorange ) november 3 , 2017fight the power !
anarchy !
( only $ 375 from barneys department store ) https : //t.co/vycutnhqav nooruddean ( @ beardedgenius ) november 3 , 2017it 'll go great with my pre-ripped , pre-paint-spattered , pre-patched jeans and artisanally-soil-rubbed professionally-scuffed sneaks https : //t.co/paiu8tiv6u iron spike ( @ iron_spike ) november 3 , 2017they did n't include the saying 'when the people have nothing to eat , they will eat the rich ' wonder why https : //t.co/diywmpaa4j asia murphy ( @ am_anatiala ) november 3 , 2017 anarchy cotton blend is my favorite intentional arrangement of english words since sex pistols mastercard . ''
https : //t.co/k0elr0wt5n t. becket adams ( @ becketadams ) november 3 , 2017the revolution will be dry clean only .
https : //t.co/yccmwj2mst dan lactose ( @ danlactose ) november 3 , 2017i think when angelyn fernandez goes back to the drawing board after this disastrous attempt at cashing in on a global movement , she should conjure up memories of her days at business school and remember one of the most important lessons she was taught always know your audience.featured image via screen capture