( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate ted cruz failed to disclose to the federal election commission a loan from goldman sachs for as much as $ 500,000 that was used to help finance his successful 2012 u.s. senate campaign , the new york times reported on wednesday .
the loan does not appear in reports the ted cruz for senate committee filed with the fec , in which candidates are required to disclose the source of money they borrow to finance their campaigns , the newspaper reported .
other campaigns have been fined for failing to make such disclosures , which are intended to inform voters and prevent candidates from receiving special treatment from lenders , the times said .
cruz has surged in recent opinion polls and now leads billionaire businessman donald trump in iowa , which on feb. 1 holds the first contest in the process to choose the republican nominee for the november presidential election .
in 2012 , cruz was campaigning for the texas senate seat as a populist firebrand who criticized wall street bailouts and the influence of big banks in washington , and the loans could have conveyed the wrong impression about his candidacy , the times said .
speaking to reporters on wednesday after a campaign event in dorchester , south carolina , cruz called the failure to disclose the loans to the fec a “ technical and inadvertent filing error. ” “ those loans have been disclosed over and over and over again on multiple filings .
if it was the case that they were not filed exactly as the fec requires , then we ’ ll amend the filings .
but all of the information has been public and transparent for many years , ” he said .
catherine frazier , a spokeswoman for cruz , said cruz had taken out the goldman sachs loan against his own assets and had paid off the loan in full .
cruz and his wife , heidi , who is on leave as a managing director at goldman sachs , also received a loan from citibank for up to $ 500,000 , but it was not clear whether that money was used in the campaign , the newspaper said .
there was no evidence the cruzes got a break on their bank loans , which were disclosed in personal financial statements filed with the u.s. senate , according to the newspaper .