shamlapur , bangladesh ( reuters ) - for tens of thousands of rohingya muslims , an informal fleet of small wooden fishing boats has meant deliverance from what they say is an indiscriminate assault on their villages by the myanmar army .
deliverance , however , comes at a price .
some refugees told reuters they paid as much as 10,000 taka ( $ 122 ) per adult to boatmen to make the five-hour crossing from myanmar s coast to ports in southern bangladesh .
while the fishermen say they have a moral obligation to help desperate fellow muslims escaping persecution , bangladeshi officials accuse them of profiteering .
ordered to stamp out what they call human trafficking , they have made arrests and even set fire to fishing boats .
of course we want to keep going back to rescue more people .
our muslim brothers and sisters are in a bad situation , so i have to go and bring them , said mohammed alom , 25 , a fisherman in the bangladeshi village of shamlapur .
around 400,000 rohingya have arrived in bangladesh in less than three weeks and people are still coming , by land as well as by sea , after attacks by rohingya militants sparked a fierce counteroffensive by myanmar s army .
senior united nations officials have described the violence as ethnic cleansing .
the influx is placing huge strain on authorities in southern bangladesh , one of the poorest parts of a poor country .
don t say rescuers .
the rescuers should be going and they should rescue people , not in terms of money , said lieutenant colonel ariful islam , border guards bangladesh commander in teknaf on the country s southern tip , referring to the fishermen bringing refugees ashore .
these people are very poor , it s just extorting from them whatever they have .
we are helping those who arrived , but we re trying to insist that no human trafficking should take place .
reuters interviewed three rohingya fishermen and two bangladeshi boat owner-operators , all of whom had made at least two visits to myanmar in recent weeks .
the men didn t believe the profits they made detracted from what they saw as a rescue mission .
shaif ullah , 34 , a bangladeshi , who co-owns a fishing boat , said he made 100,000 taka ( $ 1,220 ) rescuing the family of a rohingya in malaysia who paid him via bkash , a popular mobile money service , after he returned to bangladeshi shores .
people from malaysia and saudi arabia call me and tell me to go there to get their family , he said .
they are crying for my help .
i take money from them , yes , but it s also a humanitarian act .
two refugees have told reuters their family members were detained by fishermen or brokers in bangladesh when they could not pay for the journey .
several also complained they had to hand over gold and other jewelry to boat operators .
we had no chance to negotiate with the boatmen , said ali johar , 75 , an elder from his village in southern maungdaw , just across the naf river that forms the border between myanmar and bangladesh , now staying in shamlapur .
he handed over his wife s gold necklace and a gold ring , in addition to 7,000 taka for the rescue of him and about 30 members of his extended family , including young children , he said .
but we are grateful to the fishermen for bringing us here , he said .
there were so many people trying to get here .
if they didn t bring us , we would be stuck .
pronay chakma says it was a stroke of fate that thrust him into a key role in bangladesh s response to the crisis .
the 31-year-old administrator arrived in teknaf to start a new job as sub-district assistant commissioner for land on aug. 23 , two days before northwestern myanmar exploded into violence .
the thing is that , yes , the fishermen can go there , no problem , but if they demand money from the pain of stricken people , is it humanitarian ?
no , he said .
chakma - a buddhist member of the chakma tribe who live scattered throughout south asia - is an executive magistrate , which means he can hand down jail terms in simple criminal cases .
he interrupted an interview with reuters to sentence a man to three months for possession of five methamphetamine tablets .
chakma and another local official have sentenced at least 100 people to terms of up to six months for continuing to charge rohingya refugees for ferrying them to safety .
each and every time we are warning them , he said .
yes , you can do that , but not in exchange of money .
he pointed to the deaths of women and children who , unable to swim , have died after their boats capsized near bangladeshi shores .
fishermen and local residents told reuters that authorities have also broadcast messages in their villages by loudspeaker ordering them not to pick up rohingyas .
at least five boats caught bringing refugees in exchange for money have been set on fire on the beach by officials .
the boatmen reuters spoke to said they were cautious about operating in bad weather and rejected allegations of coercion or detaining refugees .
tens of thousands of people may still be waiting to cross the mouth of the naf river , according to estimates by refugees , fishermen and rights groups .
i would like to go back to bring these people , because muslims are suffering , said bangladeshi boat owner moni ullah , 38 .
for me , it s hard to sit here and not go there , because i have seen so many people crying on the beach .
( $ 1 = 81.9300 taka )