london ( reuters ) - britain won a vote of confidence from its economically important life sciences sector on wednesday as several major drug companies committed to invest in the country under the government s industrial strategy plans after brexit .
the move is welcome news for prime minister theresa may , who has struggled to win over large sections of industry as britain prepares to leave the european union .
thanks to the strength of uk universities and the presence of two major pharmaceuticals companies in glaxosmithkline and astrazeneca , the drugs industry has been a bright spot in the british economy for many years .
but the highly regulated sector faces potential obstacles to trade as a result of brexit unless london and brussels manage to align regulatory regimes for medicines .
in a bid to soften the blow , the government has backed a report by immunologist and geneticist john bell designed to boost the pharmaceutical sector via fresh public-private collaborations .
that has paved the way for the life sciences sector deal , which will see gsk invest 40 million pounds ( $ 54 million ) of new money in genomic research , including a plan to sequence dna from all 500,000 volunteer participants enrolled in uk biobank , the world s most detailed biomedical database .
gsk s head of research patrick vallance said the deal showed britain remained an attractive place for drug discovery , but he cautioned : the uk needs to recognize going forward that science is an international endeavor , not a parochial endeavor .
other investments by pharma companies include plans by johnson & johnson and the medicines co to work on new clinical trials and genetic research by astrazeneca .
u.s. drugmaker merck & co had already announced plans to expand uk research operations under the deal last week .
in all , the government said the deal brought together existing and future commitments by 25 global organizations .
other companies in discussions with the government about investments include philips , roche diagnostics , siemens , ge healthcare and toshiba medical systems .
as a key part of the deal , the government said it was committed to increasing investment in r & d to 2.4 percent of gdp by 2027 and 3 percent over the longer term .