dubai/khobar ( reuters ) - london-listed nmc healthcare is in talks with the riyadh government to take over the running of a struggling saudi hospital , according to four sources familiar with the matter .
a deal for the saad specialist hospital in khobar , one of the top cancer treatment facilities in the gulf , would be a rare instance of a foreign group operating a saudi hospital .
it would be a test of riyadh s plan to bring overseas investors into the healthcare sector under a reform drive , led by crown prince mohammed bin salman , aimed at restructuring the kingdom s economy and reducing its dependence on oil revenue .
the saudi health ministry has asked interested parties to submit bids for the operational license by the end of this month , said the sources who declined to be named as the discussions are confidential .
uae-based nmc is involved in the process and is considered a frontrunner to win the contract , they added .
the 750-bed hospital is owned by saad group , a conglomerate owned by billionaire tycoon maan al-sanea which also operated the facility .
but in recent weeks the government has stepped in after the hospital become weighed down by financial problems , said the sources .
the hospital had effectively ceased operating - with the emergency room the last unit of the facility to close last month - due to debts which meant it was unable to pay salaries or contractors , according to the sources .
the government s intervention coincided with the detention of the al-sanea by saudi authorities for unpaid debts , sources have previously told reuters .
nmc healthcare and the saudi health ministry were not immediately available to comment .
saad specialist is one of only two hospitals in the kingdom to have a cyclotron , used to help identify cancerous tumors .
the ministry is keen to get it re-opened as quickly as possible .
it approached nmc and other healthcare companies a few weeks ago about taking over the running of the facility and conducted a site tour for potential bidders , which number around 10 , according to the sources familiar with the matter .
the sources did not name any other potential bidders .
saad specialist hospital , which al-sanea opened in 2001 , gradually ground to a halt this year as staff began to leave , including doctors and nurses , because of non-payment of salaries , which in some cases dated back around one year , said the sources .
in addition , contractors began to stop maintaining the high-tech medical equipment because of lack of payment , the sources said .
at the peak of his business success in 2007 , al-sanea was ranked by forbes as one of the world s 100 richest men , with his saad group owning interests in everything from banking to civil engineering .
but his empire has been embroiled in a high-profile debt dispute since 2009 spanning courts in london to the cayman islands , and saudi authorities have recently begun liquidating some of his assets .
al-sanea was detained in october in the kingdom s eastern province and he has been held in a civil detention center in khobar , sources previously told reuters .
his detention was a few weeks before prince mohammed launched a corruption crackdown in which dozens of saudi princes and businessmen are being held .
in an effort to get him released , reemas group , a financial consultancy hired by saad group , has outlined a proposed settlement covering $ 4 billion in debt , sources previously told reuters .
reuters was not able to determine whether the plan includes any provision to repay hospital staff or contractors .
nmc healthcare has $ 800 million available to start investing in 2018 in the gulf and other markets , its ceo prasanth manghat said this week .
we want to look at opportunities in saudi arabia , he said .
it is a very strong market and the reforms happening there will give the healthcare sector a lot of momentum .
the government is looking to bring in foreign investors to the healthcare sector as part of its vision 2030 plan .
but progress has been slow .
the health ministry has put on hold its tender seeking financial advisers for the privatization of 55 primary healthcare units in riyadh , a financial source familiar with the matter told reuters earlier this month .