tensions ran high outside of a campaign rally for donald trump in st. louis , missouri .
thousands of trump supporters waited outside in line to see the republican primary front-runner speak at the peabody opera house located in the downtown area of st. louis.according to the st. louis dispatch , protestors were also in attendance at the campaign rally .
they report : supporters wore red trump hats , waved american flags , and bought t-shirts and buttons from concession stands up set up around the perimeter .
protesters held up signs to crying hatred and , in a few cases , comparing trump to adolf hitler .
we re just trying to join with the muslim community saying hate speech has no place here , said jay kanzler , an episcopal priest and attorney who was among the protestors .
we stand with our muslim american bothers and sisters , our jewish brothers and sisters , our christian brothers and sisters for this community .
we re not going to let donald trump s hate speech divide us .
this lead to a near all-out race riot between trump supporters and protestors .
a man can be seen in video footage being escorted away from the event by police .
the man was assaulted by insults from trump s supporters waiting in line.one trump fan screams at the man , saying : hey , f * ck islam !
allah is a wh * re !
jesus is the most high god and you b * tches are done .
so f * ck islam .
here is the video : this guy though # trumprally pic.twitter.com/cftuhfavwu marissa ( @ southards_3 ) march 11 , 2016another video shows a young male trump supporter try to start a fistfight with the protestors .
he walks up to them reputedly telling them to you mother f * fuckers wan na go .
bring it battle lines drawn at trump rally pic.twitter.com/y9yrtnjoam trymaine lee ( @ trymainelee ) march 11 , 2016police are get involved.the first arrest .
a yelling match nearly turned into a fistfight .
the crowd cheered as they dragged him away .
pic.twitter.com/yztsrtapqo trymaine lee ( @ trymainelee ) march 11 , 2016more violent actions from trump supporters.my mother told me to never put hands on a woman pic.twitter.com/trxqm0axn9 junius randolph ( @ juniusrandolph ) march 11 , 2016trump supporters calling a woman a wh * re.hard to believe that anyone would get assaulted at rallies with these sorts of attendees pic.twitter.com/shhtkoufwl lachlan markay ( @ lachlan ) march 11 , 2016protestor screams f * ck donald trump .here we go again at the st. louis trump rally pic.twitter.com/bfcq5s2txu junius randolph ( @ juniusrandolph ) march 11 , 2016this is only the latest incident to prove that trump and his racist , fascist , supporters are tearing the united states apart.featured image from video screenshot via twitter