warsaw ( reuters ) - when presidential aide malgorzata sadurska joined the board of poland s biggest and oldest insurance company this summer , her lack of business experience was no obstacle .
her main qualification to help run state-owned powszechny zaklad ubezpieczen ( pzu ) was something else loyalty to the ruling law and justice ( pis ) party .
what pzu needs is a person who knows the pis program and is a guarantee that it will be implemented , parliamentary deputy marek suski told radio rmf fm as the conservative pis took to the airwaves to explain her appointment in june .
her task , he said , was to implement the program of the government , which is to repair poland .
sadurska , 41 , is one of hundreds of loyalists brought in to state companies by pis to tighten its grip on big business and help it implement its conservative , nationalist-minded policies since it returned to power in 2015 after an eight-year absence .
the aim is not only to ensure loyalty in major companies and give pis a say in their personnel , investment and policy decisions .
it has also enabled pis to use such firms as vehicles to buy out foreign interests in the banking and energy sectors , with a u.s.-owned news channel , tvn24 , seen by some business leaders as a likely next target because it is critical of the government .
opponents fear public procurement and financing rules are being blurred , giving pis access to large advertising budgets which can be used to fund publicity campaigns or events that promote the party s agenda .
this , they fear , will deepen the concerns of poland s european union partners about what they see as an assault on the rule of law and democracy since pis set its sights on asserting its power over the economy , the judiciary and the media .
aleksander laszek , chief economist at the civil development forum ( for ) , a warsaw-based economic policy think tank known for its liberal view on the economy , said the pis moves to assert control of big business were exceptionally strong and brazen .
sadurska s responsibilities at pzu include real estate , strategic partnership programs and bancassurance , under which an insurance company can sell its products to a bank s client base , pzu said .
pzu officials gave no further details of what she has done since joining the board .
before her appointment , she had no experience in insurance , finance or business beyond an mba in business management from her native lublin region in eastern poland .
but she had won a reputation for dedication to the pis cause since first being elected to the lower house of parliament in 2005 .
she has served as secretary of state responsible for labor and social policy and was chief of president andrzej duda s chancellery for almost two years from august 2015 .
contacted by phone , sadurska directed reuters to the pzu press office , which declined to answer emailed questions about her appointment or pzu business policy .
suski also declined to give any details to reuters .
asked whether sadurska had been appointed to pzu to implement pis policy , he said : she is a very good professional .
pzu has not said how much sadurska is paid .
her predecessor , according to pzu financial records , received the equivalent of just over 22,000 euros ( $ 25,850 ) a month .
after a series of personnel changes in the past two years that appear to reward political loyalty , the government now has greater control of the more than 200-year-old firm than at any time since four decades of communist rule ended in 1989 .
pzu s chief executive officer , pawel surowka , is among the recent appointees .
an experienced manager who also worked at bank of america merrill lynch , he was named ceo in april and had been brought in to head pzu s life insurance arm in 2016 .
surowka has said it is normal that a company such as his would try to fit in with government economic policy .
government influence has not had any discernible impact on the price of pzu insurance , but pzu s share price has risen by 39 percent this year .
the pis business policy has attracted less attention than its overhaul of the judiciary but the heads of most big state firms have been replaced in the last two years , sweeping away officials appointed under the previous , centrist government .
politics and business rarely act in isolation in any country , and it is not unusual for politicians to cross from parliament to boardroom .
but the extent of political control over big state business in poland alarms government critics .
pzu , with 27,000 employees and a market value of about $ 10.9 billion , has a pivotal role to play in the pis plans .
late last year , pzu teamed up with the state-run polish development fund to buy back state control over poland s second-biggest bank , bank pekao sa , from italian unicredit .
other state firms have also been used as buyout vehicles .
in march , state-controlled utility enea closed a deal to buy a power plant from french engie and in may poland s biggest power producer , pge , announced it would buy french group edf s local power and heating plants .
some business leaders expect pis , in tandem with poland s biggest bank , state-run pko bank polski , to move soon to buy out tvn24 and silence its criticism .
a pko bp spokeswoman dismissed the speculation , saying : there are no such plans ... we don t have this ( buying media ) in our statute .
but a manager at pko bp , speaking on condition of anonymity , said such a move was likely .
most probably it will be pzu along with pko that will buy tvn , though no decision has been made , the manager said .
discovery communications inc , which is acquiring tvn24-owner scripps networks interactive inc. , said : our policy is to not comment on market speculation or rumors .
pzu has also become a big sponsor of events and campaigns that dovetail with pis policy .
when a publicity campaign began last month in support of the government s planned judicial reform , it was launched by a foundation funded by state-controlled companies including pzu .
on aug. 1 , pzu s warsaw headquarters were illuminated with a symbol of poland s underground resistance to mark the anniversary of the failed 1944 warsaw uprising against occupation by nazi germany .
pis has put promotion of polish wartime victimhood at the center of its appeal to nationalism .
last month , pzu sponsored a picnic organized by an outspoken catholic priest , tadeusz rydzyk , with whom pis has built an increasingly close alliance .