washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration , in the first major review of the country ’ s coal program in three decades , on friday ordered a pause on issuing coal-mining leases on federal land as part of new executive actions to fight climate change .
the halt could last three years , u.s .
interior secretary sally jewell told reporters , while officials determine how to protect taxpayers ’ stake in coal sales from public lands and how burning coal could worsen climate change .
“ we have an obligation to current and future generations to ensure the federal coal program delivers a fair return to american taxpayers and takes into account its impacts on climate change , ” jewell said on a conference call .
federal land accounts for over 40 percent of u.s. coal production .
most leases are on public land in western states , primarily wyoming , along with colorado , new mexico and utah .
the review , the administration ’ s latest move to combat climate change using executive authority rather than wait for congressional action , comes at a tough time for the industry .
since 2012 , more than 50 coal companies have filed for bankruptcy in the face of competition from cheap natural gas and clean-air regulations that have raised costs for burning the fossil fuel .
national mining association president hal quinn said development of coal projects on federal land already took more than 10 years and friday ’ s announcement just adds more red tape .
“ the coal supply being cut off by today ’ s action has been the source of the lowest-cost and most reliable electricity keeping america ’ s lights on and people working , ” he said .
republican lawmakers were quick to criticize the reform effort , accusing the administration of “ ravaging ” coal country .
“ congress will continue to fight back against the president ’ s ruthless pursuit of destroying people ’ s low-cost energy sources in order to cement his own climate legacy , ” said u.s. house speaker paul ryan .
president barack obama , in his annual state of the union address on tuesday , hinted at the moves , saying he would “ change the way we manage our oil and coal resources so that they better reflect the costs they impose on taxpayers and our planet. ” environmental groups had pressed the white house for years to freeze fossil fuel leases , arguing that allowing coal development on public land undermines the president ’ s climate agenda .
environmental activists have said that while the coal reform program is a good first step , the administration should extend the review to oil and natural gas for it to meet its goal to slash greenhouse gas emissions .
“ any good-faith effort to meet international climate targets necessitates that the vast majority of all remaining coal , oil and natural gas on federal lands must stay in the ground , ” said elijah zarlin , director of climate campaigns at activist group credo .
jewell said the review will examine concerns flagged by the government accountability office and the interior department ’ s inspector general , as well as members of congress and the public .
she added that the interior department will also adopt measures to boost transparency of federal coal leasing .
measures include a public database to show the carbon emitted from fossil fuels developed on public lands , posting online pending requests to lease coal or reduce government royalties , as well as capturing methane emissions from mines .
jewell said the pause will not apply to existing coal production and that the government will allow mining of metallurgical coal used in making steel , as well as emergency leases if more reserves are needed for power generation .
“ we have plenty of coal , ” jewell said , adding that reserves already under lease are enough to sustain current levels of production from federal land for 20 years .