ankara ( reuters ) - turkish president tayyip erdogan will meet iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi this week to discuss their concerns about an independence referendum in iraq s kurdish region .
turkey , the united states and other western powers have advised authorities in the semi-autonomous region to cancel the vote , worrying that tensions it would generate might act as an unwelcome distraction from the war on islamic state in iraq and syria .
with the largest kurdish population in the region , turkey also fears that a yes vote would fuel separatism in its southeast , where militants of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) have waged an insurgency for three decades .
kurdish leader massoud barzani said on friday the referendum would go ahead as planned on sept. 25 .
speaking to reporters on sunday before departing for new york to attend the u.n. general assembly , erdogan said ankara and baghdad had the same view regarding the referendum .
we will have a meeting with mr abadi in the united states , and from what we can see our goal is the same .
our goal is not dividing iraq , said erdogan , who earlier said that barzani s decision to not postpone the vote was very wrong .
late on saturday turkish prime minister binali yildirim said the referendum was an issue of national security and turkey would take any necessary steps in response .
in istanbul , close to a thousand people gathered to protest the inclusion of kirkuk in the referendum , at an event organized by the nationalist opposition mhp party .
kirkuk , an oil-rich province claimed by authorities in both baghdad and the kurdish region , was included after its governor , najmaddin kareem , voted in favor of taking part .
iraq s parliament voted on thursday to remove the governor from office following a request from abadi , according to several lawmakers present , a move barzani condemned .
last month , mhp leader devlet bahceli said the referendum should be viewed by ankara as a reason for war if necessary , but the prime minister dismissed the comments .
bahceli s ideas reflect those of a segment of turkish society fiercely opposed to the idea of an independent kurdistan and supportive of iraq s turkmen ethnic minority , which has historical and cultural ties to turkey .
with barzani pressing on with the referendum , erdogan said the turkish government had brought forward planned national security council and cabinet meetings to sept. 22 and that turkey would announce its position on the referendum afterwards .
turkey has , however , built good relations with barzani s administration , founded on strong economic links and shared suspicions of other kurdish groups and iraq s central government .
the kurdish regional government , led by barzani s kdp party , exports hundreds of thousands of barrels of oil every day to world markets via turkey .
iraqi president fuad masum on sunday called on the country s leading politicians to start urgent dialogue to defuse tensions linked to the referendum plans .
masum , a kurd , holds a largely ceremonial position under the iraqi federal power-sharing regime , which concentrates executive powers in the hands of the prime minister , a shi ite .