seoul/moscow ( reuters ) - north korea s latest missile test puts washington within range , but pyongyang still needs to prove it has mastered critical missile technology , such as re-entry , terminal stage guidance and warhead activation , south korea said on friday .
south korea s ministry of defence said the hwasong-15 missile tested on wednesday was a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile ( icbm ) which can fly over 13,000 km ( 8,080 miles ) , placing washington within target range .
the test prompted a warning from the united states that north korea s leadership would be utterly destroyed if war were to break out , a statement that drew sharp criticism from russia .
on friday , russian foreign minister sergei lavrov termed the threat from u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley a bloodthirsty tirade and said military action against pyongyang would be a big mistake , russian news agencies reported .
we will do everything to ensure that ( the use of force ) doesn t happen so that the problem is decided only using peaceful and political-diplomatic means , lavrov said .
separately , russian lawmakers just back from a visit to pyongyang said north korea was not prepared to disarm , and while it did not want nuclear war it was morally ready for it , russia s ria news agency reported .
pyongyang has said its wednesday missile test was a breakthrough and leader kim jong un said the country had finally realized the great historic cause of completing the state nuclear force .
after north korea released video footage and photographs of hwasong-15 , u.s. based experts said it appeared north korea was indeed capable of delivering a nuclear weapon anywhere in the united states and could only be two or three tests away from being combat ready .
yeo suk-joo , south korea s deputy minister of defense policy , told the south korean parliament that north korea still needed to prove some technologies , like re-entry , terminal stage guidance and warhead activation .
even so , south korea s unification ministry said north korea was likely to pause its missile tests for a number of reasons , including the northern hemisphere winter season .
for now if there are no sudden changes in situation or external factors , we feel there is a high chance north korea will refrain from engaging in provocations for a while , said lee yoo-jin , the ministry s deputy spokeswoman .
north korea is known to test fewer missiles in the fourth quarter of the year as troops are called to help with harvests , while the cold temperatures are a strain on the country s fuel supplies .
this week s missile launch was the first in 75 days .
south korea defence minister song young-moo told parliament he expected north korean leader kim jong un to use his new year s address to declare that north korea had completed its weapons program .
south korean and u.s. officials say the hwasong 15 is the most advanced missile north korea has ever tested .
yeo told lawmakers the first stage engine of the missile featured a clustering of two engines from a smaller hwasong-14 icbm test-launched in july .
he said the hwasong-15 is two meters ( six feet ) longer than the hwasong-14 .
he said the second-stage engine requires further analysis .
yeo said u.s. strategic assets would continue to be rotated on and near the korean peninsula until the pyeongchang winter olympics in south korea next february in a bid to deter further north korean provocations .
u.s. president donald trump has responded to the latest north korean test with a fresh round of insults directed against kim jong un , who he called little rocket man and a sick puppy .
trump has vowed to respond with tougher sanctions , but his administration has warned that all options are on the table in dealing with north korea , including military ones .
north korea has stuck to its effort to develop a nuclear-tipped missile capable of hitting the united states in spite of years of international sanctions and condemnation .