warsaw ( reuters ) - poland s parliament has passed a bill that gives the government , rather than a panel of top judges , control over who conducts elections , a move the opposition called satanic .
minutes before midnight on thursday , lawmakers of the right-wing law and justice ( pis ) party and their allies approved a bill that allows the interior minister to nominate all candidates for head of the national election bureau .
the pis has said its bill will make voting more transparent , but critics have said the real aim is to boost the electoral prospects of the party , which has denied european commission accusations of eroding democratic standards .
the head of the judges panel , the state electoral commission ( pkw ) , said the bill would undermine the electoral process .
de facto , the minister will take decisions , not us , pkw head wojciech hermelinski told reporters on friday .
poland is already at risk of sanctions from the eu over a pis judicial reform ; prime minister mateusz morawiecki said on thursday he expected the european commission to launch an unprecedented punishment procedure against warsaw next week .
hermelinski said germany had a functioning system where government officials organized elections , but that the polish government should not leave the independent pkw in place as a camouflage without real powers .
according to the bill , if none of the minister s candidates meet with the judges approval , the minister can simply appoint the head of the election bureau .
lawmaker jacek protas from the opposition civic platform said in parliament that the bill was a satanic idea that would give a controlling stake in democracy to a single political party .
the pkw head said he would speak to members of the pis-dominated upper house , the senate , and president andrzej duda to urge them to prevent the measures passing into law .
the changes will also require the pkw to appoint about 100 lower-ranking election officials from lists of candidates presented by the interior minister .
those candidates will no longer have to be judges themselves and , as with the head of the bureau , if the pkw rejects all the names put forward , the minister will have the power to impose a choice .
the pis-dominated senate is set on thursday to approve the overhaul of the judiciary - the deepest since poland s transition from communism nearly three decades ago - which the opposition says violates the constitution .