strasbourg ( reuters ) - european commission chief jean-claude juncker told the eu s eastern states on wednesday he would fight for equal rights for their consumers , but their workers would not be allowed to unfairly undercut those in western members .
juncker extended an olive branch to the eurosceptic governments in poland , hungary , slovakia and the czech republic in his annual speech on the state of the european union , where east-west divisions have driven a painful wedge .
east to west : europe must breathe with both lungs .
otherwise our continent will struggle for air , junker said .
in a union of equals , there can be no second class consumers .
i will not accept that in some parts of europe , people are sold food of lower quality than in other countries , despite the packaging and branding being identical .
slovakia , the czech republic , bulgaria and romania have complained that food products sold by multinational producers on their markets are often of poorer quality than the same ones in the west .
juncker said national authorities would be given better legal instruments to root out such illegal practices , an attempt to woo the reluctant easterners at a time when the eu needs unity as it negotiates over the complex terms of britain s departure in 2019 .
in another gesture toward the eastern states , juncker said it was time to let bulgaria and romania into the eu s schengen zone of passport-free travel .
but he also said the bloc would go ahead with reforming its labor rules , which now allow workers from the poorer eu east to work in the wealthier west for low salaries .
french president emmanuel macron has made ending this practice , which he says amounts to social dumping , a key priority .
the eastern states are opposed , saying they should be allowed to compete in that way to catch up after decades of communist rule after world war two .
while the so-called posted workers only represent around one percent of the eu workforce , the issue has become sensitive .
eu diplomats say the bloc will change the current rules , a plan also backed by belgium , the netherlands and luxembourg , in a move that could make it easier for macron to carry out economic reforms at home by showing he is delivering for french workers .
in a union of equals , there can be no second class workers .
workers should earn the same pay for the same work in the same place , juncker said , adding he would seek to establish an eu labour agency for ensuring fairness in our single market .
juncker said he was saddened with the refusal by the ex-communist eastern states to take in refugees arriving in the bloc to help their western and southern peers .
more than two years of bruising battles over migration have caused a lot of bad blood in the eu , spilling over to other policy areas and reinforcing calls from the west to cut generous eu funding for the eastern states who deny help .
but juncker reserved his most pointed criticism for poland and hungary , where nationalist governments have clashed with the brussels on multiple issues , including a contested judiciary overhaul in poland and hungary s continued rejection of refugees despite the bloc s top court ruling that they must be taken in .
the rule of law means that law and justice are upheld by an independent judiciary , juncker said .
the judgments of the european court of justice have to be respected by all .
to undermine them , or to undermine the independence of national courts , is to strip citizens of their fundamental rights .
the rule of law is not optional in the european union .
it is a must .
as the eu contemplates deeper integration after britain s departure , the eastern states - mostly outside the euro zone - fear they will be pushed out of the decision-making core and will lose out in a multi-speed eu .
juncker offered some reassurances on that , saying he did not favor a separate euro zone budget , or a euro zone finance minister , but closer ties between all 27 eu states remaining after brexit .