the washington post published a propaganda organizing piece for the democrat party : democrats resistance calls for a july 4th recess push to kill gop billfrom the article : the moment that senate majority leader mitch mcconnell ( r-ky. ) told republicans that there could be no vote on the party s health-care bill this week , senate democrats were in a familiar position headed to a protest.in the senate swamp , a well-kept lawn across from the capitol , hundreds of activists from planned parenthood , afscme and smaller progressive groups were hooting and cheering their latest mini-victory .
the people s filibuster , scheduled to last all week , had triumphed in its first few minutes .
the delay of brca , which republicans had hoped to vote on this week , came after disagreements inside the majority party .
but it was egged on by the resistance , the loose collection of more than 1,000 groups working to stop the republican agenda that sprang out of trump s surprise election .
a bill designed by wealthy white men , for wealthy white men will only further marginalize disenfranchised communities , said the organizers of the jan. 21 women s march in a statement .
while a delay on the vote is a small victory , it s time to crank up the outrage and tell all senators to vote no .
the call to action that has everyone on social media laughing however was a tweet by michael moore who suggested liberals storm ( nonviolently ) the local offices of senators and pack their town halls .
hmmm .is there such a thing as nonviolently storming someone s office ?
perhaps someone should tell the irrelevant michael moore that the senators don t work over the july 4th weekend.i call upon everyone to observe this 4th of july week by nonviolently storming the local offices of your senators , pack town halls , rise up !
michael moore ( @ mmflint ) june 28 , 2017moore got called out on twitter by several people who were smart enough to figure out the senate would be on recess or that storming offices of us senators was anything but nonviolent : his everyone = flint 's & # ofa soros paid violent protesters.btw , storming is violent. # july4th @ fbi adnilhoom ( @ adnilhoom ) june 29 , 2017what is the point in storming offices that are going to be completely empty because july 4th is a holiday , you utter moron ?
https : //t.co/o8eiakkr4f paul joseph watson ( @ prisonplanet ) june 29 , 2017yes , yes !
storm offices that will be closed on the 4th of july .
pic.twitter.com/owunmi7c5y the mental recession ( @ rustyweiss74 ) june 29 , 2017the most embarrassing propaganda piece we could find was usa today s piece titled : usa today joined in with other leftist propaganda rags in an effort to help the left organize agains our president and the gop .
yesterday , they ran a one-sided fear mongering article that was clearly designed to motivate democrats to spend their extended holiday weekend harassing republican senators to change their votes on the replacement bill for the failed obamacare.in an effort to discredit the efforts of the gop , usa today s propaganda piece mentions how republican senators are not 100 % on board with the bill .
usa today even offers their readers a george soros resource to help them find ways to resist our president and the gop agenda.usa today also offered their readers a heavy dose of fear with a youtube video featuring a woman named priscilla and her 38-year-old daughter who has cerebral palsy and could die from seizures without health insurance.usa today also featured 2 tweets in their article showing americans who are singing the praises of obamacare .
every day , we see horror stories about americans who were financially devastated by obamacare , not one of those stories appeared in the lopsided usa today article .
these 2 tweets were apparently the only examples a major publication like usa today could find in their embarrassing propaganda piece : b/c of the aca i was able to give a kidney to my husband @ kevinbehr when he needed it .
this is us post op '15 and now # howtheacasavedmylife pic.twitter.com/ilx6ikeva3 erica behr ( @ the_erica ) june 27 , 2017 # aca ensures my chemo baby and i will always have coverage despite me surviving being # pregnantwithcancer # howtheacasavedmylife # facesofaca pic.twitter.com/9l3f3o9hvu beth kacm ( @ elizebethtown ) june 26 , 2017here s the extent of usa today s balanced reporting , as they mention the gop near the end of the article , but only in a negative light , as they make a point to say the gop is attacking democrat senator elizabeth warren .
they also point out that according to polls , most americans disagree with the gop and want taxpayers to pay for everyone s health care : republicans will have their own messaging campaign , as they try to tie all democrats to comments made by sen. elizabeth warren , d-mass. , who is pressing for a single-payer health care system , in which the government would run a health insurance program available to any american.republicans plan to have their own digital campaign and hold press conferences that include testimonials from americans who ve been negatively impacted by obamacare , said republican national committee spokesman rick gorka.yet mcconnell has acknowledged if republicans can t pass a bill soon , they may have to work with democrats , who will demand preserving the current obamacare program by shoring up the individual market exchanges .
people get really emotional about health care , but republicans have clearly lost the narrative on this , and the discussion has moved towards who are you taking health care away from ?
said former republican house member tom davis of virginia , who previously headed reelection efforts for his party.republicans worry democrats will ultimately push for a single-payer system that is anathema to their limited-government , free-market driven ideology .
once a politically toxic prospect hillary clinton faced significant blow back as first lady for her 1990 s flirtation with universal health care that stopped short of single payer polls now show modest increases in support for such a system.a recent survey by the pew research center found 33 % of respondents favor a single-payer system .
more relevant to the current debate , 60 % said the federal government is responsible for providing healthcare coverage to all americans .
in an interview on msnbc , ohio rep. tim ryan , d-oh , who represents a working-class area including youngstown , also expressed support for single-payeradditional polling also suggests democrats have a running start on public opinion heading into the break .
according to a usa today/suffolk university poll , just 12 % of americans support the republican plan , a similar number other major surveys including by marist .
nbc news/wall street journal found just 16 % of adults believe the house bill was a good idea .