dublin ( reuters ) - the unlikely choice of argentinian communist guerrilla leader ernesto che guevara , hero of the cuban revolution , as the face of the new 1-euro postage stamp in ireland is stoking controversy on both sides of the atlantic .
the traditionally catholic country , which has never had a left-wing government , only established diplomatic relations with cuba in 1999 , 40 years after guevara helped lead the cuban revolution with fidel castro .
however guevara s father , ernesto guevara lynch , was a civil engineer of irish descent and the iconic red and black print of the long-haired che known from t-shirts and posters around the world was produced by an irish artist , jim fitzpatrick .
on this basis ireland s postal service this week issued the new stamp featuring fitzpatrick s image of guevara to mark the 50th anniversary of his death .
the postal service described guevara , killed by cia-backed bolivian soldiers in bolivia in 1967 , as the quintessential left-wing revolutionary .
it said demand for the stamp has rivaled that of its two previously most popular releases , commemorating the sinking of the titanic and ireland s 1916 rising against british rule .
but it was quickly reminded that guevara remains for many symbol of the violent abuses of cuba s communist government , with one irish senator describing guevara as a barbaric interrogator , jailer and executioner of hundreds of supposed class enemies .
it is my belief that he is most definitely not a suitable candidate for such an honor , said neale richmond , a member of irish governing party fine gael in a letter to ireland s communications minister .
cuban-american radio host ninoska perez castellon joined the fray urging listeners to write to the postal service to ask for the stamp to be scrapped .
fitzpatrick , whose 1968 print based on a picture taken by cuban photographer alberto korda was adopted by left-wing students on t-shirts and posters , turning it into a global sign of rebellion , said he was not surprised by the response .
irish anti-communists threatened to throw a brick through a local shop window when it displayed the image when he first produced it half a century ago .
it s not totally unexpected .
it was a revolution and you have two parties of opposites and we had the same after the civil war in this country , fitzpatrick told reuters at his dublin home , where the front room doubles as a studio with old drawings and sketches scattered about the desk .
i thought it was amazing that they ( the postal service ) wanted to do a stamp of che and it was a great honor for me , he said .
fitzpatrick , who has designed album covers for irish rock star sinead o connor and the band thin lizzy , said in 2011 that he was seeking to obtain the copyright to his image of che , to prevent crass , commercial use of it .
a spokesman for the postal service said neither fitzpatrick nor the estate of the photographer korda was being paid for the use of the image on the stamp .