phoenix ( reuters ) - the u.s. department of justice has launched an investigation into the handling of last month ’ s presidential nominating contest in arizona ’ s most populous county , citing complaints of exceedingly long lines at polling places with high levels of minority voters .
the justice department ’ s civil rights division has asked maricopa county , which includes phoenix , to provide detailed information that could help authorities determine whether the march 22 primary election violated federal law , including how the number and locations of polls were decided .
the justice department made the request in a letter dated april 1 .
the letter followed a call for a federal probe by phoenix mayor greg stanton , a democrat , immediately after the election , calling the vote “ a fiasco ” as he cited “ unacceptably disparate distribution of polling locations. ” in what officials called a cost-cutting move , maricopa county slashed its polling sites to 60 , down from 200 in 2012 .
voters last month waited in line for up to five hours to cast ballots and well into the night at the sharply reduced number of polls .
in its letter , the justice department cites reports of “ a disproportional burden in waiting times ... in some areas with substantial racial or language minority populations. ” the justice department set an april 22 deadline for a response .
following the election , officials said their decisions on polling places were based on recent voting patterns and an increasing number of mail-in ballots .
karen osborne , county elections director , denied there was any intent to rob voters of their rights and said officials would comply with the justice department request .
“ this is a request for information , ” osborne said in a brief interview on monday with reuters .
“ we are going to gather the information , and we will get it together by the 22nd , and we will make it public. ” the state formally certified the election on monday and candidates have five days to contest the results .
in the republican contest , donald trump won , while in the democratic contest , hillary clinton won .
an attorney for democrat bernie sanders has said his campaign is considering a challenge .