yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar s army said on wednesday that it had appointed a senior officer to investigate whether any members of the security forces were involved in the killing of 10 people whose bodies have been uncovered in a mass grave in rakhine state .
a violent crackdown by the security forces in response to attacks by militants in the western state has caused around 650,000 rohingya muslims to flee to bangladesh in recent months .
the discover of the grave , at the village of inn din , about 50 km ( 30 miles ) north of the state capital sittwe , was announced by the military two days ago .
in a statement posted on the facebook page of the military s commander-in-chief , senior general min aung hlaing , the army said a five-member investigation team had left the capital naypyitaw on wednesday .
the team , led by lieutenant general aye win , would investigate whether the security forces took part or not , in relation to the unidentified dead bodies found in inn din village graveyard .
it gave no further details and military officials were not immediately available for comment .
general aye win is the same officer who led a wider probe into the conduct of troops in a conflict that began in late august , which concluded in a report last month that no atrocities took place .
myanmar s armed forces launched what they termed clearance operations in northern rakhine , where many of the stateless muslim minority lived , after rohingya militants attacked 30 police posts and an army base on aug. 25 .
rights monitors have accused troops of abuses , including killings , mass rape and arson during those operations .
the united states has said it amounted to ethnic cleansing .
myanmar s civilian leader , aung san suu kyi , has faced fierce international criticism for failing to do more to protect the rohingya .
the civilian government , which has no control over the military , has said the army was engaged in legitimate counter-insurgency operations .
it has promised to investigate allegations of abuses in rakhine if it is given evidence .