seoul ( reuters ) - when kim jong un sat down in september to order the sixth and largest of north korea s nuclear tests , hwang pyong so sat by his side , his khaki military uniform conspicuous among the suits at the table , photos released by state media at the time showed .
now hwang , once one of kim s most-trusted advisers , is facing unspecified punishment on the orders of another man who also sat at that exclusive table in september , choe ryong hae , south korean intelligence officials believe .
information on north korea is often difficult to obtain , and with few hard details and no official confirmation from pyongyang , analysts said it was too soon to draw any firm conclusions from the unspecified punishments .
but the moves , which appear to involve two of kim s top four advisers , are being closely watched for indications of fractures within his secretive inner circle , and come as north korea faces increasing international pressure over its nuclear weapons program .
having his advisers compete with each other suits kim just fine , said christopher green , an analyst with the crisis group .
it is hardwired into autocracy to have underlings in competition , he said .
hwang , a shy , bespectacled general in his mid-60s , is a close confidant of kim jong un and has had an unprecedented rise to the top rungs of north korea s leadership in the space of a few years .
in 2014 , he became one of the most powerful people outside the ruling kim family when he was named chief of the general political bureau of the army , a powerful position that mobilizes the military for the leader .
his apparent punishment takes on additional meaning as it was orchestrated by choe who has competed with hwang in the past and stands to gain from any demotion , according to south korea s spy agency .
the two men were last seen in public together early last month as they watched a gymnastics gala , according to state media .
hwang has since faded from public view , whereas choe was the ranking official who met with a senior envoy from china in pyongyang last week .
kim has not shied away from removing or punishing even favored leaders who could become powerful enough to threaten his grip on power , said michael madden , an expert on the north korean leadership at 38 north , a project of the u.s.-korea institute at johns hopkins school of advanced studies in washington .
vice marshal hwang pyong so could not have continued in the capacity that he was operating in , without it coming back to bite him , he said .
both hwang and choe came to south korea during the asian games in 2014 - the highest such visit by north korean officials to the rival south .
dressed in a drab , olive army uniform and his large officer s cap , hwang , who had been promoted to the no.2 spot behind kim just one week earlier , had tea and lunch with choe and south korean officials and waved to crowds at the games closing ceremony .
the trip had been announced just one day in advance and took many south korean observers by surprise .
some suggested there may have been a power struggle between the two men , neither wanting to yield the high-profile visit to the other .
choe , who was subjected to political reeducation himself in the past , now appears to be gaining more influence since he was promoted in october to the party s powerful central military commission , according to south korean officials .
the national intelligence service indicated choe now heads the organisation and guidance department ( ogd ) , the secretive body which oversees appointments within north korea s leadership .
the punishment represents the first time hwang has faced any major blow to his standing , said lee sang-keun , a north korea leadership expert at ewha woman s university s institute of unification studies .
hwang had a reputation of playing a respectful and careful role around the notoriously unpredictable kim .
photos released by state media often showed him covering his mouth as he politely laughed with the supreme leader .
the punishment may not reflect any specific mistakes on hwang s part but could be part of a wider effort by kim to ensure that the ruling party retains its control over the military , lee said .
the moves are part of a sweeping ideological scrutiny of the political unit of the military for the first time in 20 years , according to kim byung-kee , a lawmaker on south korea s parliamentary intelligence committee .
they could also be an effort to prevent a repeat of a major purge in 2013 , 38 north s madden said .
kim s uncle and second most powerful man in the secretive state , jang song thaek , was executed during that purge after a special military tribunal found him guilty of treason .
preemptively putting hwang in his place now meant kim might prevent him from becoming so powerful he could only be dealt with in a similar way , madden said .
what ( kim s ) doing can be described as clipping wings .