washington ( reuters ) - the supreme court on wednesday headed toward a possible 4-4 split over a legal challenge by christian nonprofit employers who object to providing female workers insurance covering birth control as required by president barack obama ’ s healthcare law .
an evenly split ruling , with the court ’ s four liberals backing the obama administration against the four conservative justices , would leave in place lower-court rulings rejecting challenges brought by the christian organizations that oppose providing contraception coverage for religious reasons .
justice anthony kennedy , who often casts the deciding vote in close cases , appeared more aligned with the court ’ s three other conservatives in favoring the challengers , which primarily were roman catholic including the archdiocese of washington .
the christian employers call contraception immoral and argue that the government should not compel religious believers to choose between following their faith and following the law .
they argue they should get the complete exemption from the mandate already given to places of worship such as churches , mosques and temples .
kennedy said if religious employers were forced to comply with the contraception mandate they would be “ in effect , subsidizing the conduct that they deemed immoral. ” only eight justices heard the latest high-profile conservative challenge to the law , considered obama ’ s signature legislative achievement , following conservative justice antonin scalia ’ s feb. 13 death .
the court heard 90 minutes of arguments in the case , zubik v. burwell , on the sixth anniversary of obama signing into law the affordable care act , known as obamacare .
the law has expanded medical insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans .
conservatives have mounted numerous legal challenges to the law .
the supreme court in 2012 and 2015 issued high-profile rulings leaving obamacare intact .
the court heard arguments on seven consolidated cases focusing on whether nonprofit entities that oppose the requirement can object under a 1993 u.s. law called the religious freedom restoration act to a compromise measure offered by the government .
a ruling is due by the end of june .
a 4-4 split would set no national legal precedent against such claims , and would allow them in some parts of the country depending on lower-court rulings .
the justices also potentially could order the case reargued .
the christian groups object to a 2013 compromise offered by the obama administration that allowed groups opposed to providing insurance covering birth control to comply with the law without actually paying for the required coverage .
groups can certify they are opting out of the mandate by signing a form and submitting it to the government .
the government then asks insurers to pick up the tab for contraception .
the challengers contend the accommodation violates their religious rights by forcing them to authorize coverage for employees even if they are not paying for it .
one question before the hearing was whether kennedy would be more sympathetic to the government than he was in a 2014 case concerning the same contraception requirement .
kennedy was in the majority when the court ruled 5-4 that family-owned companies run on religious principles , including craft retailer hobby lobby stores inc , could object to the provision for religious reasons .
kennedy wrote a concurring opinion then saying an accommodation like the one now at issue could be acceptable .
nothing he said during wednesday ’ s arguments indicated he thinks the accommodation now before the court passes legal muster .
the federal government asserts it has a compelling interest in protecting the health of female workers , and that contraceptive coverage is part of that .
the challengers say the government has imposed a substantial burden on their religious rights and that the waiver is not the least restrictive means , as required under the religious freedom law , toward its goal .
kennedy questioned whether it would be difficult for the government to arrange alternative access to contraception coverage that would not force religious groups to be complicit .
“ if it ’ s so easy to provide , if it ’ s so free , why can ’ t they just get it through another ( insurance ) plan ? ” kennedy asked .
liberal justices raised concerns about giving nonprofit religious organizations the same exemptions churches get .
justice elena kagan said congress might stop giving churches exemptions when it passes laws , posing a “ mortal danger ” to them .
liberal sonia sotomayor referred to the danger of widespread exemptions from government requirements , asking , “ how will we ever have a government that functions ? ” liberal stephen breyer said religious groups often contend with government decisions they oppose .
he cited quakers , who opposed the vietnam war but were still required to pay taxes that funded military spending .
conservative chief justice john roberts said the challengers ’ contention that the government was seeking to “ hijack ” their insurance plans in order to provide contraception coverage appeared to be an “ accurate description of what the government wants to do. ” among other challengers in the case were : the little sisters of the poor order of roman catholic nuns that runs care homes for the elderly ; and bishop david zubik and the roman catholic diocese of pittsburgh .