mexico city ( reuters ) - the mexican government has noted serious shortcomings in its fight against corruption in a classified report seen by reuters , which was prepared ahead of an international evaluation of the country s efforts to combat money laundering .
the undated government report estimated that the drug trade , tax fraud and other crimes were worth at least 1.13 trillion pesos ( $ 58.5 billion ) a year in mexico , with all of that money susceptible to money laundering .
in october last year the government published a much shorter official version of the findings , which broadly described the risks of money laundering without going into detail .
the sum of illicit funds identified in the classified report was equivalent to 6.6 percent of the mexican economy in 2014 , when the data was compiled .
it did not include an estimate of the value of corruption and several other crimes .
the 321-page report was prepared ahead of an evaluation of the country s performance in preventing money laundering by the financial action task force ( fatf ) , a global group of government agencies dedicated to tackling money laundering .
the view is that the risk represented by illicit funds susceptible to money laundering in mexico generated within the jurisdiction is high , the report said , capitalizing the word .
the government said on thursday the fatf evaluation , which is not yet public , showed mexico had made significant progress in combating money laundering since the last evaluation in 2008 .
the fatf did not immediately reply to a request for comment .
the mexican government report is the first of its kind , according to people familiar with it , and was assembled from official data and independent research .
part of a broader investigation into illicit wealth in mexico , the government concluded that mexico needed more efficient mechanisms to prevent graft , including new laws that would complement the national anti-corruption architecture .
reuters contacted the ministries of finance , economy and the interior , as well as the navy , the attorney general s office and the central bank , all of which were identified as contributors to the report .
all either declined to comment or did not reply .
the report urged the government to standardize laws at state level to iron out differences in how authorities deal with corruption , as well as improve collaboration between agencies tasked with implementing policy and collecting data .
public policies should be overhauled to better understand the phenomenon of corruption in mexico , the report said .
graft scandals have for decades dogged the political elite in mexico , which ranked 128th out of 137 nations for ethics and corruption in the world economic forum s 2017-2018 global competitiveness index .
president enrique pena nieto has been criticized for referring to corruption as a cultural problem in mexico .
civil society groups and opposition lawmakers said this downplayed the severity of the problem and the government s role in fixing it .
in 2016 , mexicanos contra la corrupcion y la impunidad , a civil group , calculated corruption was worth between 2 percent and 10 percent of mexico s gross domestic product , based on data from the world bank , the international monetary fund and others .
tax evasion and associated crimes accounted for the biggest source of illicit wealth identified by the study at 484 billion pesos ( $ 25.3 billion ) , followed by trade in cocaine and marijuana at 404 billion pesos .
the report did not address income from heroin and methamphetamine , which make up a large chunk of the drug trade .
nor did it include white collar crimes such as embezzlement of public funds and insider trading , trafficking in people and arms , fuel theft and sexual exploitation .
while incomplete , the findings stand in contrast to the amount of illicit funds the government has said it removed from circulation in recent years .
according to government data , the organized crime unit of the attorney general s office secured $ 11.4 million and 543.2 million pesos in its anti-money laundering efforts between september 2016 and june 2017 .
( $ 1 = 19.1472 mexican pesos )