thanks to daniel greenfield for digging up this bombshell of a fact : carter did what trump just announced he d like to do .
this reminds us all ( i hope ) that we ve been doing this muslim terrorism thing for waaay too long !
it s been decades of dealing with this barbaric behavior and hate .
if you ve never seen argo , please make time to watch it !
it s a really great flashback of terrorism in the 70 s but we re still dealing with this evil remember benghazi ?
here s a trailer from the movie about the hostage crisis in 1979 under president jimmy carter : so who s the hitler now ?
the name calling has been so over the top against trump that it s almost embarrassing .
the rino republicans ( lindsey graham ) and liberal press ( shepard smith ) were absolutely ridiculous !
take the emotion out of this and look at the facts ! during the iranian hostage crisis , carter issued a number of orders to put pressure on iran .
among these , iranians were banned from entering the united states unless they oppose the shiite islamist regime or had a medical emergency.here s jimmy hitler carter saying it back in 1980.fourth , the secretary of treasury [ state ] and the attorney general will invalidate all visas issued to iranian citizens for future entry into the united states , effective today .
we will not reissue visas , nor will we issue new visas , except for compelling and proven humanitarian reasons or where the national interest of our own country requires .
this directive will be interpreted very strictly.apparently barring people from a terrorist country is not against our values after all .
it may even be who we are .
either that or carter was a racist monster just like trump.meanwhile here s how the iranian students in the us were treated.carter orders 50,000 iranian students in us to report to immigration office with view to deporting those in violation of their visas .
on 27 december 1979 , us appeals court allows deportation of iranian students found in violation.in november 1979 , the attorney general had given all iranian students one month to report to the local immigration office .
around 7,000 were found in violation of their visas .
around 15,000 iranians were forced to leave the us.meanwhile any iranians entering the us were forced to undergo secondary screening.interestingly enough , carter did this by invoking the nationality act of 1952 .
a law originally opposed by democrats for its attempt to restrict communist immigration to the united states .
if this oasis of the world should be overrun , perverted , contaminated , or destroyed , then the last flickering light of humanity will be extinguished , senator mccarran said of the law .
he was a democrat.now unlike muslims , iranians were not necessarily supportive of islamic terrorism .
many were and are opponents of it .
khomeini didn t represent iran as a country , but his islamist allies .
so trump s proposal is far more legitimate than carter s action .
carter targeted people by nationality .
trump s proposal does so by ideology.read more : frontpage magazine