johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa s ruling african national congress holds an election this weekend to replace jacob zuma as party leader in a closely fought contest whose winner is likely to emerge as the nation s next president .
the front runners are deputy president cyril ramaphosa , a former trade union leader and one of south africa s richest people , and zuma s preferred candidate , his ex-wife nkosazana dlamini-zuma , a former minister and chairwoman of the african union commission .
in a race seen as too close to call , seven candidates are seeking to succeed zuma , who has been at the helm of the party for a decade .
the stakes are high because the anc s electoral dominance means whoever wins the party s top job is likely become the next president of south africa after a national election in 2019 .
the party holds its conference in johannesburg between dec. 16-20 .
all seven anc leadership hopefuls pledged to zuma at a meeting last month that they would accept the outcome of the leadership vote in the interests of keeping the 105-year-old organization intact and avoid splits that could weaken its strength at the national elections in 2019 .
ramaphosa edged dlamini-zuma by getting the majority of nominations to become leader of the party , but the complexity of the leadership race means it is far from certain he will become the next party leader and therefore the likely next president .
adding another level of complexity , delegates are not bound to vote for the candidate their anc branch nominated .
zuma said last week he was very happy to be stepping down as anc president .
he can remain as head of state until 2019 .
political uncertainty over the anc race is a major threat to the country s credit rating .
s & p global ratings and fitch rate south africa s debt as junk .
analysts have said south africa s business and consumer confidence has been dented in recent years by allegations of corruption in zuma s government and influence-peddling by the gupta family - businessmen who are close friends of the president .
zuma and the guptas have denied the allegations .
ramaphosa is viewed as more investor friendly and has pledged to fight the corruption that has plagued zuma s tenure .
dlamini-zuma has said she is not tainted by graft and it is fine if the country s white business community will not endorse her .
she has said her priority is to improve the prospects for the black majority .