brussels ( reuters ) - finance ministers from latvia , luxembourg , portugal and slovakia bid on thursday to replace jeroen dijsselbloem as the head of the euro zone finance ministers , the eurogroup , before a vote next week among the 19 countries sharing the euro .
the president of the eurogroup chairs monthly meetings of finance ministers and heads the euro zone bailout fund which has saved greece , ireland , portugal , spain and cyprus from bankruptcy during the sovereign debt crisis .
finance ministers dana reizniece-ozola of latvia , pierre gramegna of luxembourg , mario centeno of portugal and peter kazimir of slovakia all submitted formal applications for the job on thursday , officials told reuters .
the decision is expected to be taken on monday .
the current eurogroup chairman , dutchman dijsselbloem will step down on jan 13 after two terms since 2012 .
he is no longer a finance minister after dutch national elections earlier this year .
he confirmed on thursday that he had received four applications .
asked if there was a frontrunner , dijsselbloem said : i love them all .
the chairman will be chosen by a simple majority of votes , so the winner has to secure the backing of 10 euro zone finance ministers .
european socialists , of which dijsselbloem is one , have been calling for the job to remain with a socialist because the european center-right already has many of the top eu jobs , such as european commission president .
centeno is a socialist and has the backing of italy , whose own finance minister pier-carlo padoan also wanted the job , but dropped out because it is not certain he will stay in government after italian elections due by may 2018 .
the harvard-educated economist has led portugal during a strong recovery from the country s 2011-14 debt crisis and bailout .
the country is growing at its fastest pace in at least a decade and the budget deficit is set to fall to its lowest in many decades .
in may , former german finance minister wolfgang schaeuble dubbed centeno the ronaldo of eu finance ministers a reference to the portuguese soccer star as portugal was about to exit the eu s disciplinary procedure for running excessive deficits .
some in the eurogroup say , however , say a minister from a country that had to be bailed out because of past policy mistakes would have smaller chance of getting the job .
many also say that centeno has not contributed much to eurogroup discussions in the past .
slovakia s kazimir , also a socialist , has run a tight fiscal ship at home and has been hawkish on bailouts for greece .
some officials say that among socialist candidates he would have the backing of germany and the netherlands .
critics of his candidacy , however , say that he has not taken the opportunity of slovakia s european union presidency to drive his economic agenda harder and show leadership .
gramegna is a liberal and has more of a centrist stand , although some colleagues have criticized his view on eu cooperation on taxes .
tiny luxembourg also already holds the prestigious position of european commission president .
reizniece-ozola , 36 , is the only female candidate and her party associates itself with the european center-right , rather than socialists , which could win her the support of center-right finance ministers .
she is a chess grandmaster .
her critics however , also mention that as in the case of centeno , she has not been very vocal in eurogroup meetings so far and that she had campaigned against latvia s adoption of the euro in 2014 .
in an interview with latvian television in march 2015 she said she still hasn t changed her mind about latvia joining the euro .