it isn t much of a secret these days that rich people do not pay their fair share of taxes .
i m not even talking about the small business owner who loves to complain about having a higher tax bill than some .
i mean the offensively wealthy .
multi-millionaires and billionaires that draw a salary they don t need just so they can have a larger pile of money to sit on top of while throwing a middle finger at the middle class.did you ever wonder , what could we do in this country if everyone actually paid their fair share of taxes on a progressive scale ?
the short answer is , we d have about $ 124 billion extra per year for the government to use.thanks to a leak of the panama papers , which detail just how much money is being hidden by corporations , the wealthy and even world leaders , we can now start to answer that question .
here are a few examples of what we could do with the money:1 : help to reduce the deficitrepublicans always say the federal deficit is the great evil of our time .
it prevents everything from your business succeeding to sunny days from happening .
$ 124 billion dollars a year would be able to negate nearly one quarter of the federal deficit .
republicans are strangely silent on this obvious remedy.2 : help to protect the elderlythanks to republican shenanigans , social security has some budget problems .
currently , it s experiencing a shortfall of about $ 182 billion because people like ronald reagan couldn t keep their hands out of the social security lockbox .
rather than consigning our seniors to complete and total poverty for generations to come , $ 124 billion extra a year could help resolve the social security problem until another method can be used to patch the rest and protect 80-year-olds from having to work full-time jobs.3 : fund universal preschooluniversal pre-k would cost about $ 90 billion a year .
we would actually have money left over from this one .
the economic policy institute has already put forth a plan to establish preschool and childcare for parents of infants and toddlers up to 4 years old for just 10 percent of their income .
the government would pick up the rest of the tab .
the plan would end up paying for itself in the long-term because younger children educated earlier in life will earn more and avoid the need for social welfare programs and have fewer run-ins with our drastically expensive criminal justice system.4 : pay the full salaries of all of our troopsthe pentagon s personnel costs in 2014 totaled $ 116 billion dollars .
here we are again with some absolutely huge and important thing being paid for with money to spare , yet republicans are silent .
strangely enough , even the troops don t motivate them on this one .
republicans love our troops .
right ?
sadly no , they don t. they only love having flag draped coffins for photo ops.5 : make sure nobody in america goes hungryat its recent peak , food stamps cost $ 80 billion dollars in 2013 .
it has since lowered as the economy has steadily improved and people have gotten off the program at a modest pace .
however , instead of screaming cut !
cut !
cut !
as republicans are inclined to do , we could fully pay for it and have a little over $ 40 billion a year left to do other things with.here is a chart showing the costs of a few things , and where the extra money falls in comparison .
it s so embarrassing .
we could do two of the cheapest ones at the same time and still have a little money left over .
but , republicans are bound and determined to make sure america can t have nice things.featured image via flickr