a we the people petition was started on july 6th , asking the government to formally designate black lives matter as a terrorist organization .
the white house requires that the person or group who initiates a petition on their we the people petition page must gather at least 100,000 signatures in 30 days .
once they have the signatures , the white house site guarantees they will review the petition and offer an official response .
obama will no doubt spin this , but in the meantime , it s a statement by over 100,000 american citizens about their belief that black lives matter is nothing more than a terror organization .
the overwhelming support for labeling black lives matter at terror group won t bode well for hillary , who has openly supported them in an embarrassing effort to pander for votes.from the white house created we the people petition page : about we the peoplethe right to petition your government is guaranteed by the first amendment of the united states constitution .
we the people is a platform that empowers the american public to take this action like never before it s a way for anybody , anywhere , to speak directly to the government and become an agent for change.with we the people , you can easily create a petition online , share it , and collect signatures .
if you gather 100,000 signature in 30 days , we ll review your petition , make sure it gets in front of the appropriate policy experts , and issue an official response.petitioning has the potential to enact real change just check out some of our petition creator s success stories but it s also your fundamental right as an american citizen , and an opportunity to connect with a community of like-minded people who are invested in making a change .
ideally , running a petition on we the people is just the start of something bigger a long-term , robust form of civic engagement.the white house reviews and respondsonce the petition reaches the required threshold ( 100,000 signatures ) , it will be put in a queue to be reviewed by the white house .
others can still sign the petition while it is awaiting a response .
when the white house responds , everyone who has signed the petition will get email from the white house to let you know that we ve reviewed and responded to the petition.q : how will the white house decide which petitions to respond to ? the white house plans to respond to each petition that crosses the current signature threshold , which you can view on the terms of participation page .
in some cases , the white house response might not address the facts of a particular matter to avoid the appearance of improper influence ( such as in specific procurement , law enforcement or adjudicatory matters ) .
in addition , the white house will not respond to petitions that violate we the people s terms of participation .
in some cases , a single update may be used for petitions on similar topics.to date , the petition has collected 107,652 signatures .
if you d like to add your name , click here .