london ( reuters ) - britain will soon repay a decades-old debt of over 400 million pounds ( $ 527 million ) to iran , the iranian ambassador said on friday , adding that the payment was not linked to the case of a british-iranian charity worker jailed in iran .
an outstanding debt owed by the u.k. to tehran will be transferred to the central bank of iran in the coming days .
the payment ... has nothing to do with nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe s case , hamid baeedinejad wrote on his telegram channel .
zaghari-ratcliffe was detained in april 2016 in tehran as she tried to leave iran after a visit with her two-year-old daughter .
she was sentenced to five years in prison after an iranian court convicted her of plotting to overthrow the clerical establishment .
she denies the charges , and britain has called for her release .
iran does not recognize dual citizenship for its nationals .
britain s debt to iran dates from the 1970s , before the islamic revolution of 1979 toppled the u.s.-backed shah .
iran paid up front for 1,750 chieftain tanks and other vehicles , but most were never delivered because of sanctions imposed on tehran after the revolution .
a british government official , who asked not to be named , said on friday it was speculation that the money would be paid .
the treasury said in a statement the money was frozen by a british court and could not be paid because of sanctions .
the telegraph newspaper reported on thursday that britain was working on a plan to pay iran the debt , as part of efforts to secure the release of zaghari-ratcliffe .
on thursday , british prime minister theresa may s spokesman denied there was any link between the debt and the charity worker s case .
tehran also dismissed the telegraph report .
zaghari-ratcliffe is a project manager with the thomson reuters foundation , a charity organization that is independent of thomson reuters .
it operates independently of reuters news .
in 2009 , the international chamber of commerce ordered britain to repay iran for the undelivered vehicles , but un and eu sanctions prevented that .
under a deal between iran and six major powers in 2015 , most sanctions on iran were lifted last year , in exchange for tehran curbing its nuclear program .
iran s foreign ministry spokesman said that a range of issues would be discussed with britain during a visit to tehran this month by foreign secretary boris johnson , iranian media reported on thursday .