if you haven t yet heard that fox news came out on top in ratings during donald trump s inauguration , all you need to do is check president asterisk s twitter timeline .
after a rousing first few days of working toward dismantling obamacare , endangering the health of women and girls worldwide , and signing our environment away for a few short-term construction jobs , the donald hopped on twitter to get right back to what appears to be his real job : attacking news agencies that report unflattering details about him .
congratulations to @ foxnews for being number one in inauguration ratings , trump tweeted .
they were many times higher than fake news @ cnn public is smart !
congratulations to @ foxnews for being number one in inauguration ratings .
they were many times higher than fake news @ cnn public is smart !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) january 25 , 2017neilson estimates that 30.6 million people tuned in to watch the trainwreck that was trump s sparsely-attended inauguration millions fewer than barack obama s first swearing-in ( maybe that s why he just threatened to send the feds to march on chicago ) .
trump is correct that more people watched fox news than any other individual news station , but he is also correct that the public is smart .
what he fails to realize is that the majority of the smart public didn t watch fox.mediaite reported monday that during the peak coverage block of 11 a.m. to 4 p.m. est , fox news drew 8.77 million viewers .
this may seem like a lot , but nbc brought in 5.90 million people , abc attracted 4.90 million , cbs had about 4.65 million viewers , 2.61 million watched cnn , and 1.38 million tuned in to msnbc .
in other words , the smart people watched different networks than the vapid , meth-addled freaks who enjoyed trump s victory with the whitest news team on television.naturally , the internet wasn t about to tolerate the president * attacking legitimate news agencies : @ realdonaldtrump this is beyond sad .
turn off the tv and start running the country .
parker molloy ( @ parkermolloy ) january 25 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ foxnews @ cnn yes , we are smart .
we see you for who you are , you orange huckster .
ben berkon ( @ benberkon ) january 25 , 2017 .
@ realdonaldtrump well you did n't last a week .
back to insulting people again .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) january 25 , 2017 @ jordanjamie @ jordanuhl @ realdonaldtrump his majesty has spoken .
pic.twitter.com/kmvwqfhvxx wm bruce murdock ( @ bruce466177 ) january 25 , 2017 @ realdonaldtrump @ foxnews @ cnn nobody intelligent respects fox news .
tommy campbell ( @ mrtommycampbell ) january 25 , 2017 @ pourmecoffee a very reliable source tells me fox news ' us ratings are fake and they 're actually kenyan ratings .
jordan uhl ( @ jordanuhl ) january 25 , 2017just a reminder of something he wants to forget : the women s march in d.c. alone drew 750,000 ( three million nationwide ) , many times the donald s sh * tty inauguration numbers .
public is smart ! featured image via getty images ( chip somodevilla ) /screengrab