abidjan ( reuters ) - four moldovan citizens were killed and two others were injured on saturday when a cargo plane chartered by the french military crashed into the sea near the airport in ivory coast s main city , abidjan , ivorian and french officials said .
four french citizens were also injured in the crash , which occurred as the antonov 26 plane , en route from burkina faso s capital ouagadougou , neared the airport , said sinaly silue , director general of ivory coast s civil aviation authority .
a witness had earlier told reuters that the plane crashed shortly after takeoff .
there were 10 people aboard including six crew members , three french soldiers and a french civilian who was working for the ( aviation ) company , silue said at a news conference .
he said the plane was registered in moldova , but did not name the company .
the control tower in abidjan lost contact with the plane at 8:24 a.m. ( 0824 gmt ) during a heavy thunderstorm , silue added .
abidjan s airport is located in a heavily populated area but it did not appear that anyone on the ground was hurt .
the french military operates a logistics base next to the airport in support of its barkhane operation , combatting islamist militants in west africa s sahel region .
this was a plane chartered by the french army in the framework of the barkhane force in order to carry out logistical missions , french army spokesman colonel patrick steiger said .
silue said he did not yet have information about what caused the crash , though he noted that the weather was very bad along the approach to the airport .
an investigation had been launched and ivorian authorities were in contact with their french and moldovan counterparts , he said .
the four injured french citizens were being treated at the french military base adjacent to the airport .
france s ambassador to ivory coast , along with french gendarmes and soldiers , had quickly arrived at the crash site , where hundreds of local residents gathered to look at the wreckage .
some of them assisted firefighters and rescue divers who had to contend with rough seas as they freed the bodies of the dead from the plane , which had broken into several large pieces .