beijing/seoul ( reuters ) - south korean president moon jae-in will unveil an array of tv talent and k-pop celebrities at events , including a state dinner , in china on thursday as he attempts to smooth out a year of difficult diplomacy with a star-laden charm offensive .
south korean celebrities , including some of those accompanying moon , had been shut out of chinese television and concert halls as relations cooled between the east asian neighbors as they faced the threat posed by north korea s missile and nuclear programs .
the thorniest issue was south korea s deployment of a u.s. anti-missile system that china sees as a threat to its security .
moon is hoping to use his first visit to china since taking office in may to build support for a diplomatic solution to the north korean crisis that has grown steadily through the year .
pyongyang tested its most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile on nov. 29 , which it said could put all of the united states within range , in defiance of international pressure and u.n. sanctions .
meeting in beijing s great hall of the people , moon told chinese president xi jinping he would be discussing north korea with him .
i expect to reaffirm and discuss specific cooperation with president xi about our common position that we ll address the north korean nuclear issue , which is threatening peace and security of not only the northeast asia region but the entire world , in a peaceful manner and establish eternal peace on the korean peninsula , moon said in comments in front of reporters .
moon also oversaw the signing of a memorandum on follow-up negotiations about services and investments under a south korea-china free trade agreement .
top south korean actress song hye-kyo , star of 2016 s hit drama descendants of the sun and the face of many south korean cosmetics brands , will join moon and xi in a state dinner later on thursday .
song will be joined by married south korean and chinese actors , choo ja-yeon and xiaoguang yu .
boy band exo , one of the top-earning artists of major k-pop talent agency s.m .
entertainment , joined moon and song at a bilateral business event earlier on thursday .
the presence of such celebrities reflects seoul s hope to break the ice after the row over its deployment of the u.s. terminal high altitude area defense ( thaad ) anti-missile system .
china complains that the thaad system s powerful radar can see far into its territory and does nothing to ease tension with north korea .
the thaad deployment cost south korean firms such as k-pop businesses dearly as china retaliated .
concerts in china by major k-pop artists have been halted since the second half of 2016 , south korean celebrities dropped from advertisements and south korean dramas all but disappeared from chinese tv channels this year , korean entertainment industry officials said .
xi told moon that relations between their countries had experienced some setbacks - likely a reference to the thaad dispute - but that he hoped his visit would be an important opportunity to improve them .
as friendly neighbors and strategic partners , china and south korea have broad common interests in keeping the region peaceful and promoting mutual developments , xi said .
south korea and china share the goal of getting north korea to give up its nuclear weapons and stop testing its increasingly sophisticated long-range missiles , but the two have not seen eye-to-eye on how to achieve this .
u.s. secretary of state rex tillerson offered on tuesday to begin talks with north korea at any time and without pre-conditions , but a white house official later said no negotiations could be held until north korea improved its behavior .
moon , whose trip ends on saturday , has been accompanied by the largest business delegation ever to accompany a south korean leader abroad .
the thaad disagreement is estimated to have knocked about 0.4 percentage points off expected economic growth in south korea this year and resulted in lost revenues of about $ 6.5 billion from chinese tourists in the first nine months of 2017 , according to the bank of korea and korea tourism organisation .