how very diverse !
these refugees sure know how to assimilate in their new host countries don t they ? stickers calling for democracy to be replaced with islam and for women who do not wear a veil to be raped have appeared in public places in sweden .
they have been reported to the police .
pictures of the stickers , which have been stuck to objects on streets in nybro , sm land , have been circulating on social media.jihad watch surprised ?
don t be .
the qur an teaches that infidel women can be lawfully taken for sexual use ( cf .
its allowance for a man to take captives of the right hand , 4:3 , 4:24 , 23:1-6 , 33:50 , 70:30 ) .
the qur an says : o prophet , tell your wives and your daughters and the women of the believers to bring down over themselves of their outer garments .
that is more suitable that they will be known and not be abused .
and ever is allah forgiving and merciful .
( 33:59 ) the implication there is that if women do not cover themselves adequately with their outer garments , they may be abused , and that such abuse would be justified.how these muslim migrants have enriched sweden ! one of the stickers reads , in english : women who don t wear a headscarf are asking to be raped .
another reads : no democracy .
we just want islam , fria tider has reported.the stickers have been reported to the police who are currently investigating who placed them there , but admitted that at the moment they do not know who is behind them.the appearance of the stickers comes just weeks after a number of stickers appeared in nearby emmaboda bearing the message multiculturalism is bad for your children and your grandchildren .
however , those stickers were emblazoned with nordfront , the swedish branch of the nordic resistance movement , a national socialist movement .
they were also stylised , made to look like the health warnings carried on cigarette packets.but unlike the nordfront stickers , the islamist stickers feature plain white text on a plain dark grey background with no logo or marking to indicate who placed them .
consequently , while some people have argued that they were placed by newly arrived asylum seekers with an agenda to promote islam in sweden , others have argued that they could be the work of swedes seeking to incite hatred against the immigrants.in that respect , the controversy closely resembles a recent case in which leaflets were posted through letterboxes in manchester , england , calling on british people not to walk their dogs in public in order for the area to be kept pure for muslims .
as citizens of a multicultural nation , those who live in the uk must learn to understand and respect the legacy and lifestyle of the muslims who live alongside them , the leaflets read.they were distributed by a group called public purity , who stated on their website their intention to have all dogs removed from the public sphere in britain to keep muslims pure .
if dogs are not permitted to be present in public , muslims could live their lives with a burden lifted from their shoulders and without having to fear being tainted with no fault of their own , the group argued.via : breitbart