barcelona ( reuters ) - hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of catalonia s capital barcelona on sunday to express their opposition to declaring independence from spain , showing how divided the region is on the issue .
a crowd estimated by local police to number 350,000 waved spanish and catalan flags and carried banners saying catalonia is spain and together we are stronger .
they poured into the city center after politicians on both sides hardened their positions in the country s worst political crisis for decades .
two more catalonia-based companies set board meetings for monday to decide whether to shift their head offices out of the region , adding to the intense pressure catalan leader carles puigdemont is under to back away from declaring independence when he addresses the regional parliament on tuesday .
spanish prime minister mariano rajoy said on saturday he would not rule out removing catalonia s government and calling a fresh local election if it claimed independence , as well as suspending the wealthy region s existing autonomous status .
catalonia , which has its own language and culture and is led by a pro-independence regional government , held a referendum on oct. 1 over secession , in defiance of spain s constitutional court which had declared the vote illegal .
the catalan authorities say the referendum showed voters overwhelmingly support independence .
more than 90 percent of those who voted backed secession , but opinion polls on the issue suggest the region is more closely divided .
turn-out for the referendum was 43 percent , with most residents who wish to remain in spain staying home .
the anti-independence demonstration , which included catalans and people from other parts of spain , underlined how the dispute has riven the region itself .
a month ago , a million people rallied in the city to support independence .
we feel both catalan and spanish , araceli ponze , 72 , said during sunday s rally .
we are facing a tremendous unknown .
we will see what happens this week but we have to speak out very loudly so they know what we want .
puigdemont will address the catalan parliament at 6 p.m. ( 1600 gmt ) on tuesday on the current political situation amid speculation he could ask the assembly to declare independence .
puigdemont said in an interview broadcast on catalan television on sunday that a law passed by the catalan parliament preparing the way for the referendum called for a declaration of independence in the event of a yes vote .
we will apply what the law says , he said , according to a partial transcript released by tv3 .
puigdemont said he had not been in contact with the madrid government for some time because spain refused to discuss independence .
what is happening in catalonia is real , whether they like it or not .
millions of people have voted , who want to decide .
we have to talk about this , he said .
rajoy has said repeatedly he will not talk to the catalan leaders unless they drop their plans to declare independence .
the spanish government sent thousands of national police to the region to prevent the vote .
about 900 people were injured when officers fired rubber bullets and charged crowds with truncheons in scenes that shocked spain and the world , and dramatically escalated the dispute .
losing catalonia is almost unthinkable for the spanish government .
it would deprive spain of about 16 percent of its people , a fifth of its economic output and more than a quarter of its exports .
there is widespread opposition to a catalan breakaway among people in the rest of the country .
the political stand-off has pushed banks and companies to move their headquarters outside catalonia .
the board of catalonia-based infrastructure firm abertis will meet on monday to discuss moving its head office elsewhere in spain , a source familiar with the matter said .
real estate firm inmobiliaria colonial also called a board meeting for monday to discuss moving its head office out of catalonia , a source close to the firm said .
companies that have already decided to move their head offices out of catalonia include spain s third biggest lender , caixabank , and the fifth-biggest , sabadell .
the exodus adds to pressure on catalan leaders by potentially undermining tax revenues paid by companies .
concern is growing in eu capitals about the impact of the crisis on the spanish economy , the fourth largest in the euro zone , and on possible spillovers to other economies .
some european officials are also worried that any softening in spain s stance toward catalan independence could fuel secessionist feelings among other groups in europe such as belgium s flemings and italy s lombards .
until the weekend , rajoy has remained vague on whether he would take the unprecedented step of triggering article 155 of the constitution , the so-called nuclear option which enables him to sack the regional government and call a local election .
however , asked if he was ready to do so , rajoy told el pais newspaper on saturday : i don t rule out anything that is within the law ...
ideally , we shouldn t have to take drastic solutions but for that not to happen there would have to be changes .
rajoy also said he planned to leave in catalonia the 4,000 national police the government had shipped in for the referendum , until the crisis was over .
he ruled out using mediators to resolve the crisis - something puigdemont has said he is open to - and added the issue would not force a snap national election .
sunday s demonstration in barcelona was organized by the anti-independence group catalan civil society to mobilize what it believes is a silent majority that opposes independence .
the people who have come to demonstrate don t feel catalan so much as spanish , said 40-year-old engineer raul briones , wearing a spanish national soccer team shirt .
we like how things have been up until now and want to go on like this .
the rally was addressed by nobel prize-winning novelist mario vargas llosa , who has dual spanish and peruvian nationality .
he told reporters it showed many catalans don t want the coup d etat the catalan government is fostering .