seoul ( reuters ) - north korea s leader kim jong un vowed to develop more nuclear weapons on tuesday while personally decorating scientists and officials who contributed to the development of pyongyang s most advanced intercontinental ballistic missile , the hwasong-15 .
hwasong-15 , which was test-launched on nov. 29 , has been largely perceived by analysts and government officials to have a range that can reach all of the mainland united states .
however , experts believe north korea still has some technical points it needs to improve before fully completing its goal of developing a nuclear-tipped missile that can hit the entirety of the united states .
kim jong un said on tuesday the scientists and workers would continue manufacturing more latest weapons and equipment to bolster up the nuclear force in quality and quantity , the north s central news agency reported on wednesday .
the north korean leader was speaking at the close of a rare two-day munitions conference to celebrate the hwasong-15 .
kim also said north korea should develop and manufacture more diverse weapons .
kim personally awarded medals to those in the field of defense science who most faithfully and perfectly carried out the party s plan for building strategic nuclear force , successfully test-fired icbm hwasong-15 and thus demonstrated the dignity and might of our powerful state all over the world once again , kcna said without naming the recipients .
they were given several medals , including the order of kim il sung and order of kim jong il , the highest orders of the dprk , an acronym for north korea s official name , the democratic people s republic of korea .
in addition to the medals , kcna said the scientists and officials were given watches engraved with the names of kim il sung and kim jong il , the north korean leader s grandfather and father .
he solemnly declared that the development of new strategic weapon systems including a-bomb , h-bomb and icbm hwasong-15 with indigenous efforts and technology and the realization of the great cause of completing the state nuclear force serve as a great historic victory of our party and people of the country , north korea s state media added citing kim .
the isolated state has previously said it has succeeded in developing atom bombs and hydrogen bombs as it carried out six nuclear tests from 2006 , with the latest in september this year , although no outside entity has been able to confirm the north s announcements .