wellington ( reuters ) - the new zealand first party , which emerged as a kingmaker after new zealand s election in september , will begin preliminary talks with both the ruling national party and separately with the labour party this week , according to a media release .
the statement comes after prime minister bill english told media on monday that he had called new zealand first leader winston peters but he had not picked up .
both parties have since said the two leaders had spoken by telephone .
while english s national party won a 10-point lead over the opposition labour party in the sept. 23 election , neither won enough seats to govern alone and both have been left courting the outspoken peters to form a government .
english s national party secured 58 seats , only just short of the 61 seats needed to form a government in new zealand s proportional representation system .
labour won 45 seats , new zealand first won nine and the green party seven .
preliminary talks will proceed this week when arrangements suitable to both parties are concluded , the new zealand first party said on its website .
it is a familiar situation for peters .
the veteran politician is holding the balance of power for a third time , having previously joined coalitions led by both national and labour .
while his policies are thought to have more in common with those of labour - both want to curb immigration - some analysts say he could opt for national as it would be a simpler coalition of just two parties .
labour , however , would have to form a three-way coalition which would include the green party , with which it already has a working agreement .
there was speculation over the weekend that the national party could sound out the greens , but english said he was undecided .
i think the greens would need to show that there is a serious possibility of negotiation , english told local media .
so far mr. peters has indicated that he is willing and able to negotiate , including with national , the greens haven t indicated that so far ... the greens are pretty committed to working with labour alone .
james shaw , the leader of the green party , declined to comment when contacted by reuters .
labour leader jacinda ardern , who boosted her party s chances after taking over as leader in august , said she had spoken to peters earlier and confirmed that their teams were looking to meet this week .
we will look to hold a meeting between our respective teams later this week , while we wait for special votes to be counted , ardern said in an emailed statement .
a final tally of the results is due on oct. 7 , when special votes , which make up 15 percent of the total and include overseas votes , are released .