tokyo ( reuters ) - eight bodies , which had been reduced partly to skeletons , were found on monday in a small wooden ship that washed up on a beach in the sea of japan , the japan coast guard ( jcg ) said .
the ship came ashore on a beach 70 km ( 44 miles ) north of a marina where police last week found eight men who said they were from north korea .
police said they appeared to be fishermen whose boat , found nearby , had run into trouble .
the jcg said they were working to establish the nationalities of the eight bodies on the ship .
the bodies of two males , similarly partly skeletonized , were also found at the weekend on the western shore of the sea of japan island of sado .
although the nationalities of these two have not yet been established , what appeared to be north korean cigarettes and life jackets with korean lettering on them were nearby , the jcg s sado station said .
both local police and the jcg said the two may have been from north korea .
the incidents come at a time of rising tension over north korea s nuclear arms and missile programs after president donald trump redesignated the isolated nation a state sponsor of terrorism , allowing the united states to levy further sanctions .
experts say north korea s food shortages could be behind what is potentially a series of accidents involving north korean ships .
north korea pushes so hard for its people to gather more fish so that they can make up their food shortages , said seo yu-suk , research manager of north korean studies institution in seoul .
small and old north korean ships that sail beyond its coastal waters are vulnerable to bad weather , he said .
yoshihiko yamada , professor at japan s tokai university , said fishermen operating in the sea of japan have just entered a season of hostile weather conditions .
during the summer , the sea of japan is quite calm .
but it starts to get choppy when november comes .
it gets dangerous when northwesterly winds start to blow , he said .
a total of 43 wooden ships that were believed to have come from the korean peninsula washed up on japanese shores or were seen to be drifting off japan s coast from january to nov. 22 this year , compared with 66 ships for the whole of last year , the jcg said .