seoul ( reuters ) - a series of tremors and landslides near north korea s nuclear test base likely mean the country s sixth and largest blast has destabilized the region , and the punggye-ri nuclear site may not be used for much longer to test nuclear weapons , experts say .
a small quake was detected early on friday near the north s nuclear test site , south korea s weather agency said , but unlike quakes associated with nuclear tests , it did not appear to be manmade .
the tremor was the latest in a string of at least three shocks to be observed since pyongyang s sept. 3 nuclear test , which caused a 6.3 magnitude earthquake .
friday s quake was a magnitude 2.7 with a depth of 3 km in north hamgyong province in north korea , the korea meteorological administration said .
the united states geological survey ( usgs ) measured the quake at 2.9 magnitude at a depth of 5 km .
the series of quakes has prompted experts and observers to suspect the last test - which the north claimed to be of a hydrogen bomb - may have damaged the mountainous location in the northwest tip of the country , where all of north korea s six nuclear tests were conducted .
the explosion from the sept. 3 test had such power that the existing tunnels within the underground testing site might have caved in , said kim so-gu , head researcher at the korea seismological institute .
i think the punggye-ri region is now pretty saturated .
if it goes ahead with another test in this area , it could risk radioactive pollution .
according to 38 north , a washington-based project which monitors north korea , numerous landslides throughout the nuclear test site have been detected via satellite images after the sixth test .
these disturbances are more numerous and widespread than seen after any of the north s previous tests , 38 north said .
the explosion from the sixth test was large enough for residents of the chinese border city of yanji , 200 km ( 125 miles ) north of north korea s nuclear test site , to feel the ground shake beneath their feet .
the reason why punggye-ri has become north korea s nuclear testing field is because this area was considered stable and rarely saw tremors in the past , said hong tae-kyung , a professor of earth system science at yonsei university in seoul .
the recent small quakes suggest that the test might have triggered crust deformation .
south korea s spy agency said recently the north was readying possibly two more tunnels following its latest test , according to ruling democratic party lawmakers who had been briefed on the issue .
the tunnel used for pyongyang s first nuclear test had been shut down after that test , while a second tunnel had been used for the following five , the national intelligence service was cited as saying last month .
this second tunnel may have caved in after the sixth test , the intelligence officials said .
north korea has hinted its next test could be above the ground .
foreign minister ri yong ho said last month the north could test an unprecedented scale hydrogen bomb over the pacific ocean , in response to u.s. president donald trump s threat to totally destroy the country .
arms experts say detonating a nuclear-tipped missile over the pacific ocean , while seen as the logical final step to prove the success of its weapons program , would be extremely provocative and carry huge risks .
another issue that could keep north korea from using punggye-ri for nuclear tests the nearby active volcano of mt .
paektu , yonsei university s hong said .
the 2,744 meter ( 9,003 ft ) mountain , straddling the northwestern border between china and north korea , last erupted in 1903 .
since north korea began testing its nuclear capabilities , experts have debated whether explosions at punggye-ri could trigger another volcanic eruption .