fox news made a desperate effort to convince everyone that donald trump is having more economic success than president obama did , and it was shamefully dishonest.trump has been touting his first 100 days as the best since world war ii despite the fact that his first three months in office have been a complete embarrassment .
no major legislation has been signed and trump has issued a ton of destructive executive orders.trump has been especially bragging about the economy , and fox news tried to help him by comparing the economy after trump s first 100 days with the economies under obama , george w. bush and bill clinton in their first 100 days.dow jones industrial average change after first 3 months in office : trump vs. obama vs. bush vs. clinton .
pic.twitter.com/ve8rqfcbyx fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 29 , 2017hourly wages after the president s first 3 months in office : trump vs. obama vs. bush vs. clinton .
pic.twitter.com/kmjqhbteed fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 29 , 2017jobless rate after first 3 months : trump vs. obama vs. bush vs. clinton .
pic.twitter.com/w8fzjj9nxc fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 29 , 2017jobs added during first 2 months trump vs. obama vs. bush vs. clinton .
pic.twitter.com/pabpjhfnin fox news ( @ foxnews ) april 29 , 2017however , fox news apparently ignored the fact that presidents inherit the state of the economy from their predecessors.for instance , president obama inherited the great recession from president bush , which is why the economy during his first 100 days stood in shambles as 1.5 million jobs were lost , unemployment topped 9 percent , and gdp dropped by 5 percent.in other words , president obama was not responsible for those economic losses .
but he did reverse them.after eight years in office , president obama managed to bring down the unemployment rate to 4.8 percent , oversaw the longest streak of job creation on record and created 11.3 million jobs .
obama s best year for average gdp growth was in 2015 at 2.6 percent , but he did have many months that topped three percent .
and he did all of this despite republican obstruction at every turn.donald trump inherited obama s economy , which is why he is touting it as his achievement .
the fact is , however , that we won t really know what trump s economy will be until his policies take effect.so far , trump has touted 500,000 jobs created , but that number is lower because he included the entire month of january , which rightfully should be in obama s column .
trump s first three months in office also shows a gdp of 0.7 percent , far lower than the 4 percent he promised on the campaign trail.but again , trump inherited obama s economy , so he owes the positive growth rate that he is starting with to president obama.when it comes to wages , trump also doesn t have a leg to stand on .
many states passed laws increasing the minimum wage in 2015 and 2016 , many of which went into effect this year .
meanwhile , the federal minimum wage remains at $ 7.25 an hour .
republicans refused to raise the federal wage during obama s presidency .
trump himself opposes raising the minimum wage and his first labor secretary appointee supported killing minimum wage laws entirely .
republicans also still largely oppose the minimum wage .
with that much opposition to minimum wage , including trump s own opposition against it , he can hardly take credit for the minimum wage boosts that have occurred.these graphics were incredibly misleading and were clearly designed to make trump look good at the expense of president obama .
but the tweets backfired spectacularly as twitter users pointed out that they were not only lies , but demonstrated that republican presidents inherit good economies from democratic predecessors .
@ foxnews what a stupid comparison obama inherited bush s & trump inherited obama s. the rate of job growth has declined 50 % ( ! )
under trump .
william legate ( @ williamlegate ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews fixed it for you , @ foxnews pic.twitter.com/xxcvdiwc3b danny sullivan ( @ dannysullivan ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews fox just proved that republicans leave office with high unemployment rates and democrats fix it .
tony posnanski ( @ tonyposnanski ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews this is an ad for democrats .
matthew savener ( @ msavener ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews the most misleading statistic imaginable .
are fox viewers really stupid enough to fall for this shit ?
wideangle_ ( @ wideangle_ ) april 29 , 2017 @ gourmetspud @ foxnews they keep running this bullshit .
it just indicates the terrible economy that clinton & obama inherited from their gop predecessor .
kevin bartner ( @ heshsson ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews that s a dumb tweet .
here s some labor data https : //t.co/blvrnosxzw pic.twitter.com/206gm9apbf robert maguire ( @ robertmaguire_ ) april 29 , 2017 @ foxnews looks like clinton and obama did a great job of setting up their successors , who then screwed things up !
thanks clinton and obama !
alex zalben ( @ azalben ) april 29 , 2017so democratic presidents have inherited economic messes and have left the economy in much better shape for their gop successors .
got it .
https : //t.co/wgbtjj5xxe julie roginsky ( @ julieroginsky ) april 29 , 2017fox news just got owned.featured image : win mcnamee/getty images