united nations ( reuters ) - the united nations security council is considering a draft resolution that would insist any decisions on the status of jerusalem have no legal effect and must be rescinded after u.s. president donald trump recognized the city as israel s capital .
the one-page egyptian-drafted text , which was circulated to the 15-member council on saturday and seen by reuters , does not specifically mention the united states or trump .
diplomats say it has broad support but will likely be vetoed by washington .
the council could vote early next week , diplomats said .
a resolution needs nine votes in favor and no vetoes by the united states , france , britain , russia or china to pass .
trump abruptly reversed decades of u.s. policy this month when he recognized jerusalem as israel s capital , generating outrage from palestinians .
trump also plans to move the u.s. embassy to jerusalem from tel aviv .
after the decision , arab foreign ministers agreed to seek a u.n. security council resolution .
while the draft is unlikely to be adopted , it would further isolate trump over the jerusalem issue .
the u.s. mission to the united nations declined to comment on the draft .
u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley has praised trump s decision as the just and right thing to do .
the draft u.n. resolution affirms that any decisions and actions which purport to have altered , the character , status or demographic composition of the holy city of jerusalem have no legal effect , are null and void and must be rescinded in compliance with relevant resolutions of the security council .
it calls upon all countries to refrain establishing diplomatic missions in jerusalem .
israel considers the city its eternal and indivisible capital and wants all embassies based there .
no vote or debate will change the clear reality that jerusalem is the capital of israel , israel s ambassador to the united nations , danny danon , said in a statement .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in a 1967 war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
the draft council resolution demands that all states comply with security council resolutions regarding the holy city of jerusalem , and not to recognize any actions or measures contrary to those resolutions .
a u.n. security council resolution adopted in december last year underlines that it will not recognize any changes to the 4 june 1967 lines , including with regard to jerusalem , other than those agreed by the parties through negotiations .
that resolution was approved with 14 votes in favor and an abstention by former u.s. president barack obama s administration .