bochum , germany ( reuters ) - a 77-year-old spy , known as germany s james bond for his secret missions during and after the cold war , was convicted of tax evasion on thursday and handed a suspended two-year sentence .
werner mauss , whose career spanned 40 years , says on his website that he was involved in smashing more than 100 criminal gangs and in the arrests of around 2,000 individuals .
in a trial that has been going on for about a year , mauss - who wore a hooded jacket in court - was accused of concealing millions of euros from german tax authorities in offshore accounts between 2002 and 2011 .
ultimately , the extent of the damage is only one aspect to consider ( in determining the sentence ) , said volker talarowski , spokesman of the court in bochum .
all aspects have to be considered , among them the age of the defendant .
the defendant is 77 years old and he has never been sentenced , and he has achieved a special life s work .
german authorities say nothing about mauss .
but media credit him with being one of germany s most distinguished undercover agents .
the sueddeutsche zeitung newspaper said he had had 100 different identities and a line to the chancellor s office .
the charges were raised after the sueddeutsche zeitung named him as being involved with shell companies exposed by the panama papers , documents leaked by law firm mossack fonseca .
he is one of the most mysterious figures in post-war german history .
he was used by countries , companies and individuals as a private agent , the newspaper said at the time .
he worked for the german foreign and domestic intelligence agencies and the police .
they named him the institution m. mauss argued the offshore accounts were set up by third parties to pay for undercover missions , such as the freeing of hostages .
he says he was involved in finding treasure from cologne cathedral hidden near belgrade in the 1970s and catching the robbers .
he also says he helped in the arrest of red army faction militant rolf pohle in athens , as well as being involved in hostage releases in lebanon and colombia .