friday , wikileaks released their first batch of podesta s emails , which included excerpts from clinton s wall street transcripts that reaffirmed why clinton refused to release them in full .
during the second presidential debate , clinton confirmed their authenticity by attempting to defend one statement she made in the speech about having a public and private stance on political issues .
she cited abraham lincoln , a defense comparable to her ridiculous invocation of 9/11 when pressed on her ties to wall street during a democratic primary debate.the latest release reveals current dnc chair donna brazile , when working as a dnc vice chair , forwarded to the clinton campaign a january 2016 email obtained from the bernie sanders campaign , released by sarah ford , sanders deputy national press secretary , announcing a twitter storm from sanders african-american outreach team .
fyi brazile wrote to the clinton staff .
thank you for the heads up on this donna , replied clinton campaign spokesperson adrienne elrod.the second batch of emails include more evidence of collusion between the mainstream media and clinton campaign.one email , received by prolific clinton donor haim saban , was forwarded to clinton staff , praising the friendly moderators in the early march 2016 democratic primary debate co-hosted by univision in florida .
haim , i just wanted to tell you that i thought the moderators for last nights debate were excellent .
they were thoughtful , tough and incisive .
i thought it made hilary appear direct and strong in her resolve .
i felt it advanced our candidate .
thanks for univision , wrote rob friedman , former co-chair of the motion picture group.another email discusses planting a favorable clinton story in the new york times in march 2015 .
nyt heroine .
should she call her today ?
podesta wrote to other clinton campaign staffers with the subject line laura donohoe .
i do think it s a great idea !
we can make it happen , replied huma abedin .
the story they referred to is likely in new hampshire , clinton backers buckle up , published in the new york times on march 12 , 2015 about laura donahoe , a retired nurse and clinton supporter in new hampshire.john harwood , new york times contributor and cnbc correspondent , regularly exchanged emails with podesta communicating more as a clinton surrogate than a journalist.in an october 2015 email thread , clinton staff were in damage control over hillary s support for the 1996 defense of marriage act ( doma ) , which defined marriage as between a man and a woman .
hillary clinton would not disavow her support for it .
i m not saying double down or ever say it again .
i m just saying that she s not going to want to say she was wrong about that , given she and her husband believe it and have repeated it many times .
better to reiterate evolution , opposition to doma when court considered it , and forward looking stance .
former clinton foundation director , darnell strom of the creative artist agency , wrote a condescending email to congresswoman tulsi gabbard after she resigned from the dnc to endorse bernie sanders , which he then forwarded to clinton campaign staff .
for you to endorse a man who has spent almost 40 years in public office with very few accomplishments , doesn t fall in line with what we previously thought of you .
hillary clinton will be our party s nominee and you standing on ceremony to support the sinking bernie sanders ship is disrespectful to hillary clinton , wrote strom.a memo sent from clinton s general counsel , marc elias of the law firm perkins coie , outlined legal tricks to circumvent campaign finance laws to raise money in tandem with super pacs.read more : the observer