manchester , england ( reuters ) - apologizing for losing her conservative party s majority at a june election , prime minister theresa may responded to her critics on sunday by saying she had the right strategy to lead britain and win a brexit deal .
may , who has faced calls from within her party to step down , wants to use the conservatives annual conference in the northern english city of manchester this week to try to reset her agenda , offering money to students and those people she once described as just about managing in britain .
in an interview with bbc television , she dismissed talk of rifts among top ministers , saying they were united on their program and more importantly brexit .
that came a day after foreign minister boris johnson , perhaps may s biggest rival , set out four personal red lines in the complex talks with the eu .
but with thousands of protesters just outside the conference center gates demanding britain stay in the european union , may has a long way to go to unite not only her governing party , but also the country after last year s divisive referendum vote .
we ve listened to the message that came from that ( june ) election .
but i ve been very clear , i called the election , i led the campaign , i take my responsibility and i m sorry that some very good members of parliament lost their seats , may said in an appeal to those party members still angry over the vote .
what i have is a cabinet that is united in the mission of this government ... and agreed on the approach that we took in florence , may said about a speech she made in italy last month to try to kick-start brexit talks that had all but stalled .
boris is absolutely behind the florence speech and the line that we have taken .
arriving at the conference , johnson was quick to say he was loyal to the prime minister .
but he has yet to comment further on his four red lines , which include a transition period of no longer than two years , that he set out on the eve of the conference in what his critics said was a clear move to pressure may .
minster after minister appealed for unity from a party deeply disillusioned by the june election , with several saying the only way to win back voters was to challenge the growing appeal of the main opposition labour party directly .
i think one of the problems we have at the moment and what kind of rankles with me a little bit is that we have got to stop talking about the party , trade minister liam fox told an event .
the party needs to stop talking about the party and start talking more about the country .
following a bullish labour conference last week , may hopes to fire up thousands of conservative party members who feel let down by a disastrous election campaign , when their leader was dubbed by critics the maybot for her repetition of slogans .
may is now dependent on a small northern irish party for a majority in parliament , and opinion polls indicate labour is a growing threat , persuading rivals in the party not to try to topple her quite yet .
on her 61st birthday , she unveiled new policies to extend a program to help people buy their own homes and to freeze student tuition fees to try to win back younger people , who have flocked to labour leader jeremy corbyn .
she offered brexit supporters a promise that she would walk away if she could not get a good deal , saying the government was working on plans for a no deal ; and tried to keep pro-eu campaigners onside by saying she wanted an agreement .
may s ally and effective deputy damian green said he was confident she could lead the conservatives into the next election in 2022 and criticized those fuelling leadership speculation that hampers a job not just for the party but more importantly for the government and the country .
but may has a long way to go to win over doubters .
if you run any organization ... and something goes monumentally wrong , as did the election ... then the buck does have to stop with that individual , said grant shapps , former conservative party chairman .
the reality is , every serious person knows , of course she can t lead us into the next election .