madrid ( reuters ) - leaders of spain s industrialized northeastern region of catalonia said the regional population had voted for independence in a ballot on sunday that the central government said was illegal and non-representative .
with 95 percent of the vote counted , authorities said the yes vote stood at 90.1 percent , albeit with a turnout of just a little over 40 percent - 2.26 million out of 5.34 million registered voters .
on tuesday , barcelona metro stations were closed , pickets blocked main roads and civil servants walked out in response to a strike called by pro-independence groups .
the stand-off could now take three different paths .
catalan leader carles puigdemont continues with his pledge to declare unilateral independence , likely prompting the central government to trigger article 155 of the spanish constitution , which would strip the region of its autonomous status and put it under direct madrid rule .
if article 155 is triggered , the next step would be snap elections in catalonia .
pro-independence parties only hold the majority in the regional parliament with the help of the far-left group cup , and polls , before sunday s ballot , suggest these groups could lose their hold on power if a new election was called .
however , after events on sunday , when police swung truncheons and fired rubber bullets in the direction of mostly peaceful demonstrators to shut down the referendum , pro-independence parties may again win the election .
such a result would raise doubts surrounding prime minister mariano rajoy s ability to govern .
rajoy s immediate opposition in the national parliament lacks the numbers to force him out through a no-confidence vote , but without cross-party support on catalonia , he may be forced to call a snap national election himself .
rajoy was voted in as a minority leader twice in last year s two elections and a fractious parliament suggests a snap election may prompt a similar result .
if the catalan parliament gives up the push for independence , rajoy may sit down with puigdemont to hammer out a new deal for the region including a better tax deal and greater fiscal autonomy .
budget minister cristobal montoro and economy minister luis de guindos have suggested this may be a possibility if the independence drive is completely abandoned .
puigdemont has yet to make a unilateral declaration of independence , instead calling for a period of reflection , leaving the door open for such a scenario .
however , after the violent scenes on sunday and continued protests on tuesday via a partial strike across the region , the catalan leader may be keen to keep face and avoid being seen bowing down to madrid .
if the catalans do not go ahead with a declaration of independence but also fail to sit down for talks with rajoy as the two party s positions diverge beyond a possible compromise , madrid may refer the matter to the constitutional courts .
legal and financial action against catalan leaders is likely to fuel animosity and could prompt further protests , pushing leaders on both sides into difficult positions .