johannesburg ( reuters ) - african leaders were embarrassed by zimbabwean president robert mugabe and already encouraging him to step down before the army began moves last week to oust him , according to a secret zimbabwean intelligence cable seen by reuters .
the cable , dated oct 23 and written by someone within the central intelligence organisation ( cio ) to an unknown recipient , also says mugabe spoke to south african president jacob zuma about his rivalry with emmerson mnangagwa , the vice president whose sacking by mugabe prompted the army action .
the 93-year-old president stepped down on tuesday , the speaker of parliament said , in the middle of impeachment proceedings from his own zanu-pf party and after a week of pressure from the military and crowds which thronged the capital at the weekend .
two party officials said mnangagwa would take his place .
the cable , one of a series seen by reuters this year which give a detailed , insider s view of zimbabwean politics , described intelligence officials warning mugabe he would face fierce resistance from the military if mnangagwa was removed .
first seen by reuters before the army intervened , it said the 16-country southern african development community ( sadc ) led by zuma was pressuring mugabe to resign and zuma had suggested offering him a senior african union role to ease him out .
zuma s spokesman , bongani ngqulunga , dismissed the account as completely untrue and scandalous .
president jacob zuma did not communicate with president mugabe about former vice-president mnangagwa at all about the issues you mention .
regional support allowed mugabe to overcome an election setback in 2008 and could have held the key to his future as leader this time round .
sadc leaders met on tuesday to discuss the crisis in zimbabwe ; zuma and his angolan counterpart , joao lourenco , were set to travel to harare on wednesday .
all sadc leaders and african leaders want mugabe to retire .
mugabe is seen as an embarrassment to the whole african continent , the document said .
a zambian government source said zuma , at the sadc meeting in luanda , floated the idea of an au position for mugabe although the consensus was that he was too old .
reuters was not able to verify the assertion of widespread african opposition to mugabe in the oct 23 cable , which contrasts with his image as the respected grand old man of african politics .
botswana president ian khama is the only african leader to have openly called for him to step down .
khama told reuters on friday mugabe should go and allow for an opportunity to put zimbabwe on a path to peace and prosperity .
ugandan president yoweri museveni , a longtime strongman leader like mugabe , condemned the de facto seizure of power by the army , which put troops on the streets of harare and took over the state broadcaster .
uganda , which is not in the sadc , reiterated its support for mugabe on tuesday .
mugabe is one person who couldn t care what the west thought .
he spoke out for africans rights , pan africanism , said okello oryem , uganda s state minister for foreign affairs .
sadc and the african union ( au ) have avoided characterizing last week s intervention by the military as a coup , a definition that would carry diplomatic consequences .
the au had no immediate comment on the account in the cable .
the cable said zuma told zimbabwe s longtime leader that mnangagwa , a former security chief known as the crocodile , was a tricky customer with many lives and that by taking him on mugabe was playing with big fire .
mnangagwa is widely expected to take over as president .
his whereabouts are unknown after he fled the country citing fears for his safety .
his political allies were not immediately available for comment .
the same cable said zimbabwean intelligence officers and sadc leaders told mugabe the army would not accept mnangagwa being fired as vice-president to pave the way for mugabe s 52-year-old wife , grace , to succeed him .
mugabe was openly told by senior cios that the military is not going to easily accept the appointment of grace , it read .
the intelligence services of other countries in the region also knew the military might rebel and step in , it continued .
sadc leaders also shared the same sentiments with the cios , the cable said .
reuters reported in september that mnangagwa was plotting to succeed mugabe , with army backing , at the helm of a broad coalition .
( nl4n1ll3v1 ) the plot posited an interim unity government with international blessing to allow for zimbabwe s re-engagement with the world after decades of isolation from global lenders and donors .