( this november 28 story corrects to add attribution to information in paragraphs 13 and 14 ) by margarita antidze tbilisi ( reuters ) - a former islamic state warlord suspected of masterminding a deadly attack on istanbul airport in 2016 is believed to have been killed during a special operation in ex-soviet georgia last week , three sources familiar with the case told reuters .
akhmed chatayev , an ethnic chechen , is highly likely to have lost his life during a police operation against a group of armed men on the outskirts of the georgian capital tbilisi last week , the three sources said .
one georgian special forces serviceman and three members of the armed group , which was suspected of terrorism , were killed in the operation .
four police officers were wounded and one member of the group was arrested during the 20-hour operation at the apartment block where the group was hiding .
we suspect that one of the gunmen killed in the special operation in tbilisi could be akhmed chatayev , nino giorgobiani , deputy chief of the state security service , told reuters on tuesday .
she said that the final conclusions would be reached after experts had completed their work and the relevant united states agencies ( had ) joined the investigation .
two other sources , who did not want to be named , told reuters it looked very likely chatayev had been killed .
there is every indication that one of them ( members of the group ) was chatayev , said one of the sources .
according to my information , chatayev was there ...
he blew himself up , said the other source .
chatayev was named by turkish media and a u.s. congressman as the mastermind of the suicide bombing of istanbul airport in 2016 which killed 45 people .
his involvement in the airport bombing has not been confirmed by turkish officials .
a veteran of chechnya s conflict with moscow during which he lost an arm , he lived in georgia s pankisi gorge , a remote area populated largely by people from the kist community , ethnic chechens whose ancestors came to mainly christian georgia in the 1800s .
when , after the collapse of the soviet union , chechnya rose up in an armed rebellion against moscow s rule , the kist community were drawn to the fight .
thousands of refugees arrived from chechnya , and some insurgents used the gorge to regroup and prepare new attacks .
chatayev was wounded and arrested in georgia in august 2012 following a clash between the georgian police and a group of militants , who were allegedly trying to cross the georgian-russian border and move to dagestan .
he was released from jail on bail and georgian prosecutors dropped the case against him in january 2013 , citing a lack of evidence , according to civil.ge , an online news service .
soon after his release , chatayev left georgia , saying he intended to go to austria to convalesce and by 2015 , he had moved to islamic state-controlled areas in syria and iraq , the news service reported .
chatayev was listed as a terrorist in 2015 by the u.s. treasury which accused him of planning attacks against unspecified u.s. and turkish facilities and added him to the u.n. security council s al-qaeda sanctions list , according to civil.ge .
he was also wanted by the russian authorities .