21st century wire says amid the tossing and turning of media hit pieces and partisan mud slinging in advance of the us presidential vote in november , very little focus is given on the actual record and policies of hillary clinton as secretary of state.with this week s damning revelations regarding gulf arab monarchs buying access into the us state dept via the clinton foundation , a clearer picture is now emerging about how the sponsorship of religious extremism , as well as geopolitical instability in the middle east and beyond links directly back to the clinton global network of international oligarchs .
watch this week s abc news segment : based on this line of inquiry , what will four years of a clinton presidency bring in terms of us foreign policy ?
a few answers to this question from global research andre vltchek global researchif the west in general and the united states in particular , left the arab and muslim world alone and in peace , we would most likely never see all those terrorist attacks , which are rocking the world from indonesia to france .
there would be no mujahedeen and its mutation into al-qaeda ; in afghanistan or elsewhere .
there would be no traces of the isis ( or isil or i.s .
or daesh or however you choose to call it ) , in syria , iraq , libya or anywhere else.and the super-conservative wahhabi islam , that outdated , freak saudi mutant , would remain in the religious schools of the ultra-regressive kingdom , instead of gaining ground all over southeast asia , the middle east and africa.secular islambut the west embarked on a brutal , machiavellian path : it decided to destroy socialist islam that ( historically ) moderate , compassionate and progressive religion .
it smashed once secular egypt ; it overthrew the government in socialist iran and then in near-communist indonesia , implanting in all these places horrifically degenerate and fully outdated religious concepts .
it used extremists to destroy healthy patriotism and socialism .
like the brits in the 19th century ( you can control people s brains , while we will control your natural resources ) , the west embraced wahhabi teaching , because it was able to guarantee full obedience , dictatorial ( pro-western ) governance and oppressive feudalism.islam has been used and abused , manipulated and virtually stripped of its essence .
the process has gone so far that two leading iranian scholars , during my visit last-year to tehran , declared to me : in so many parts of the world , the west created an absolutely new religion .
we don t recognize it , anymore .
it has nothing to do with islam .
if the west in general and the united states in particular , left the arab and muslim world alone and in peace , we would most likely never see all those terrorist attacks , which are rocking the world from indonesia to france correct .
like a naughty , spoiled and heartless child , the west , after destroying the soviet union , painstakingly constructed its new enemy militant islam so it could continue indulging in its favorite activity , which is perpetual conflict , endless wars and plunder.it is as simple as that.the greatest oppressors of the muslim people , those in saudi arabia , bahrain , and indonesia have all been closely allied to the west .
the most terrible terrorist muslim organizations , from al-qaida to isis , have been created , armed and supported by the west and its cronies.in europe and in the united states , the fear of terrorists is fully exploited by the western regime a global class alliance of plutocrats , in actuality , with headquarters in washington , where the main military and media muscle reside .
it still clings to power mainly thanks to such fear implanted in the brains of ordinary people .and what about the war on terror ?
yes , there really is such war , but the west is not the one who fights it .
as this goes to print , the war against terrorism is being fought by russia , iran , china , syria , hezbollah and their allies ! the west is still closely collaborating with the terrorists .
it miraculously avoids targeting them when fighting wars against them ; it financially supports some and trains others .
it criticizes and antagonizes those who are actually fighting the extremist militant groups.extremists have been unleashed , like rottweiler fighting dogs , against almost all progressive governments in the middle east , but also against china and russia .
extremist muslims , extremist christians , even extremist buddhists ! in turn , the politicians in the united states are regularly supported , financially , by the regimes ( including those of saudi arabia , bahrain , etc . )
that are spreading , relentlessly , throughout the world , the most intolerant and grotesquely violent religious concepts.despite their essential servility and cowardice , even some north american mainstream media outlets are now actively discussing various schemes involving the financing of the clinton foundation by saudi arabia ( alongside several leading transnational corporations and wall street s largest banks ) .on its breaking news , as far back as in 2008 , cnn reported : the donations to the william j. clinton foundation include amounts of $ 10 million to $ 25 million from the kingdom of saudi arabia , the bill and melinda gates foundation and real estate mogul stephen bing , a personal friend of the clintons.the clintons came under intense pressure during hillary clinton s campaign for the democratic presidential nomination to release the names of donors to both the foundation and to the clinton presidential library in arkansas.bill clinton agreed to the release of the list after president-elect barack obama nominated hillary clinton to become secretary of state.the governments of kuwait and qatar are also on the list , as is saudi businessman nasser al-rashid , who has close ties to the saudi royal family .
saudi sheikh mohammed h. al-amoudi , reputed to be one of the richest men in the world , is among the donors as well .
both saudis contributed in the $ 1 million to $ 5 million range .
a group called friends of saudi arabia and the dubai foundation appear in the same category .
as recently as on august 20th , 2016 , the new york times wrote something similar , essentially reconfirming the validity of the earlier reports , while adding many more details and adjusting the figures : the kingdom of saudi arabia donated more than $ 10 million .
through a foundation , so did the son-in-law of a former ukrainian president whose government was widely criticized for corruption and the murder of journalists .
a lebanese-nigerian developer with vast business interests contributed as much as $ 5 million.for years the bill , hillary and chelsea clinton foundation thrived largely on the generosity of foreign donors and individuals who gave hundreds of millions of dollars to the global charity .
but now , as mrs. clinton seeks the white house , the funding of the sprawling philanthropy has become an achilles heel for her campaign and , if she is victorious , potentially her administration as well .
long time clinton s top aide , huma abedin ( who spent part of her childhood in saudi arabia ) has been an intermediary between the former secretary of state and pro-saudi interests .
she also negotiated financial support for ms. clinton from mr. chagouri and other individuals , organizations and businesses originating from the middle east.the accusations and evidence keep coming in , from different media outlets , both left wing and right wing .
on august 1st , 2016 , the conservative breitbart news stated : khizr khan , the muslim gold star father that the mainstream media and former secretary of state hillary clinton have been using to criticize donald j. trump , has deep ties to the government of saudi arabia and to international islamist investors through his own law firm .
in addition to those ties to the wealthy islamist nation , khan also has ties to controversial immigration programs that wealthy foreigners can use to essentially buy their way into the united states and has deep ties to the clinton cash narrative through the clinton foundation .
hillary s saudi sponsorshillary clinton s dependence on saudi sponsors has been strongly influencing her decision to maintain a foreign policy in the service of riyadh and support for various terrorist groups controlled by saudi arabia and qatar , in and beyond the middle east region [ including those currently active in syria and iraq ] .in reality , she is simply representing continuity of an already existing , deadly trend .
the regime has been evolving for decades , but especially since the ronald reagan years .
republicans or democrats : it truly matters very little .
both parties spread terror all over the world .
true , george w. bush invaded iraq , but people like bill clinton are close friends and supporters of paul kagame , the rwandese butcher of congo , with the blood of some 10 million people on his hands .
democrat and moderate , bill clinton , was also responsible for the criminal bombing and destruction of socialist yugoslavia .
and so it goes but under barack obama s rule , the last hope for an independent middle east and the arab world has virtually evaporated .
libya has been destroyed ; the syrian civil war was launched from washington , london and paris .
saudis bathed rebellious yemen in blood using uk and us produced weapons .
virtually all arab spring revolutions were infiltrated and diverted .
and in bahrain , the shi a majority was literally raped by saudi arabia and its own ruthless rulers , with british advisors standing-by.the us and europe have kept selling arms to the gulf , building new military bases while supporting the most appalling and bloodthirsty regimes.the obama/ ( hilary ) clinton era has greatly improved the symbioses of western imperialism , big business , and pro-western fascist regimes worldwide , but particularly in the middle east and africa.this toxic embrace has proved fatal to millions of people in these two parts of the world .
hopes for self-governance have been ruined .
corpses keep piling up in syria , iraq , libya , yemen , south sudan , somalia , the democratic republic of congo ( drc ) , and elsewhere.the west does not care , as long as it stays in charge of the show , and for as long as hundreds of billions of dollars are made by weapons producers .
even if millions are dying , there is still an uninterrupted flow of raw materials to the west and japan .
therefore , it is business as usual .
un-people and their lives are worth nothing.at one point , russia , iran , china and others have said enough is enough ; let s fight against the true terrorists !
let s fight isis and other bigots !
let s give a hand to the independence-minded , socially-oriented patriots .predictably , .
this led to total outrage in washington , london , and paris ( and tokyo ) .
disobedience and rebellion against the global ( western ) order could not be tolerated !
it had to be crushed , even at the cost of new and deadly world war.nato , washington , europe , japan , and south korea all started a direct confrontation policy against russia , china , iran , north korea ( dprk ) and other members of the coalition of daring .
brazil , an important member of brics , was recently destroyed by the extreme-right coup supported by the west.even the republican presidential candidate donald trump , in his rare moments of sanity , is clearly aware of the danger .
he does not wish to confront russia .
he is obviously not willing to sacrifice tens of millions of human lives for some grotesque dreams of total world domination by a market fundamentalism backed by the white ( or western ) supremacist dogmas.but trump s moments of sanity are defined as madness by the mainstream propaganda .
not surprisingly !
as was correctly stated by the great indian thinker , arundhati roy , some several years ago : now war is called peace and black is called white .
orwellian indeed , with a vengeance.the clinton campaignthe clinton campaign has gone into overdrive .
it attempts to distract attention from its own funding scandals , by accusing donald trump s aides of receiving financing from abroad .
trump is now described as russia s agent .this game it is all self-serving : nothing to do with the interests of the world , or even the interests of the common american people .for as long as the general political trend of the west does not radically change , or for as long as the west is not stopped by outside forces , perpetual wars will continue .
monstrous genocides in africa , the destruction of entire states and regions in the middle east , all this could easily spread to other parts of the planet.it is clear now that if provoked and confronted , countries like china , russia and iran would not hesitate to fight back .
they also may fight for others for their tortured allies.the western implants and their buddies , mujahedeen/al-qaida , have already destroyed afghanistan and the soviet union .
isis , another mutant unleashed by the west and its allies , have been devastating iraq , syria , libya and now what is left of afghanistan.these movements have really nothing to do with islam .
they were manufactured in washington , riyadh , london , and doha ( and most likely even in tel aviv ) , for several concrete purposes , all of them thoroughly foul.they are making sure to ruin the socialist nature of islam , insisting exclusively on the implementation of outdated , medieval fundamentalist interpretations.huma abedin s mother , dr. saleha mahmood abedin , is one of the founding members of the muslim sisterhood , and chairperson of the international islamic committee for woman and child ( iicwc ) .
she is also a well known writer and editor based in saudi arabia .
her organization ( iicwc ) had repeatedly argued that laws banning female circumcision should be revoked , as well as laws prohibiting child marriage and marital rape .
during her visit to ksa , hillary clinton spoke at the islamic college of dar el-hekma ( where dr. saleha abedin was a vice-dean ) shoulder-to-shoulder with her favorite aide huma.was this just an insignificant episode ?
like those millions of dollars in saudi arabian funding for clinton s foundation ?
like the us foreign policy in the gulf and in the middle east , like spreading muslim extremist groups to all corners of the world , from africa , the middle east , to southeast asia and even china ?
like unleashing conservative islam against socialist muslim countries ? too many episodes !
too much blood it is time to say what is by now obvious : the us establishment is not fighting muslim terrorism or even extremism ; it is manufacturing it , and injecting it everywhere .
the only real enemy that washington , london and paris have , for decades , even for centuries , is the anti-colonialist struggle , and the burning desire of people , worldwide , to terminate the west s global dictatorship .
philosopher , novelist , filmmaker and investigative journalist , andre vltchek has covered wars and conflicts in dozens of countries .
his latest books are : exposing lies of the empire and fighting against western imperialism .
discussion with noam chomsky : on western terrorism .
point of no return is his critically acclaimed political novel .
oceania a book on western imperialism in the south pacific .
his provocative book about indonesia : indonesia the archipelago of fear .
andre is making films for telesur and press tv .
after living for many years in latin america and oceania , vltchek presently resides and works in east asia and the middle east .
he can be reached through his website or twitter account .