moscow ( reuters ) - british foreign minister boris johnson told his russian counterpart on friday there was abundant evidence of moscow meddling in foreign elections , but said any russian efforts to interfere in last year s brexit referendum had fallen flat .
on the first visit to russia by a british foreign minister in five years , johnson said he wanted to normalize uk-russia relations , which were going through a very difficult patch .
but that didn t mean pretending that britain did not have serious concerns about russia s behavior , he said .
... we can t pretend that they ( the problems ) do not exist , and that we share a common perspective on the events in ukraine , or in the western balkans or ... on russian activities in cyberspace , said johnson .
he also said britain had a duty to speak up for the lgbt community in chechnya .
two men from chechnya told reuters in june they had been tortured because they were gay .
chechen authorities deny the allegations .
johnson s visit comes at a time when relations between london and moscow are strained by differences over ukraine and syria as well as by allegations , which russia flatly denies , that moscow has meddled in the politics of various european countries by backing cyber attacks and disinformation campaigns .
russian foreign minister sergei lavrov challenged that narrative , however , saying johnson himself had recently said he had no proof that moscow had meddled in last year s british referendum on leaving the european union .
not successfully , not successfully , i think is the word , johnson a leading advocate of brexit shot back , to which lavrov replied : he s scared that if he doesn t disagree with me , his reputation will be ruined at home .
johnson , who said there was abundant evidence of russian election meddling in germany , the united states and other countries , said it was lavrov s reputation he was worried about .
i think it is very important ... to recognize that russian attempts to interfere in our elections or in our referendum , whatever they may have been , they ve not been successful , said johnson .
lavrov said he blamed britain for the poor state of relations , complaining about insulting and aggressive statements from london .
he also complained about britain airing its differences with moscow publicly rather than in private .
but although the two men spent much of their joint news conference exchanging barbs , both sounded upbeat when it came to trying to cooperate in narrow areas , such as in the u.n. security council , and on security arrangements for next year s soccer world cup in russia .
lavrov complained , however , that britain was still not fully cooperating with russia s fsb security service .
johnson had riled russian officials before his visit by telling britain s sunday times newspaper that moscow was closed , nasty , militaristic and anti-democratic .
but when asked about the comment on friday , he rowed back , saying he had been referring to the soviet union , not modern russia .
russian media has portrayed johnson as anti-russian .
johnson told reporters on friday however that he was a committed russophile .