beirut ( reuters ) - iranian president hassan rouhani said on tuesday that saudi arabia presents iran as an enemy because it wants to cover up its defeats in the region .
saudi arabia was unsuccessful in qatar , was unsuccessful in iraq , in syria and recently in lebanon .
in all of these areas , they were unsuccessful , rouhani said in the interview live on state television .
so they want to cover up their defeats .
the sunni muslim kingdom of saudi arabia and shi ite iran back rival sides in the wars and political crises throughout the region .
saudi arabia s crown prince called the supreme leader of iran , ayatollah ali khamenei , the new hitler of the middle east in an interview with the new york times published last week , escalating the war of words between the arch-rivals .
tensions soared this month when lebanon s saudi-allied prime minister saad hariri resigned in a television broadcast from riyadh , citing the influence of iran-backed hezbollah in lebanon and risks to his life .
hezbollah called the move an act of war engineered by saudi authorities , an accusation they denied .
hariri returned to lebanon last week and suspended his resignation but has continued his criticism of hezbollah .
iran , iraq , syria and russia form a line of resistance in the region that has worked toward stability and achieved big accomplishments , rouhani said in the interview , which was reviewing his first 100 days in office in his second term .
separately , rouhani defended his government s response to an earthquake in western iran two weeks ago , a major challenges for his administration .
the magnitude 7.3 quake , iran s worst in more than a decade , killed at least 530 people and injured thousands .
the government s response has become a lightning rod for rouhani s hard-line rivals , who have said the government did not respond adequately or quickly to the disaster .
supreme leader khamenei , the highest authority in iran , has also criticized the government response .
hard-line media outlets have highlighted the role played by the islamic revolutionary guards corps , the most powerful military body in iran and an economic powerhouse worth billions of dollars , in helping victims of the earthquake .
government ministries have provided health care for victims and temporary housing has been sent to the earthquake zone , but problems still exist , rouhani said in the interview .