we can all agree on solutions to end terrorism but it takes something like a horrific terror attack to ditch the pc and work together to enforce common sense solutions that really work .
one of the best but more controversial methods of weeding out terror is surveillance .
the political shocker of the week is that barney frank and donald trump are coming together in agreement on surveillance ! barney frank , a long serving member of the u.s. house of representatives from massachusetts , voiced concerns regarding the safety of gay americans , an islamic element in terrorism and an increased need for surveillance.frank spoke of the attack at a gay nightclub in orlando this weekend in an interview with the new york times monday .
it s an attack against gay people but it does not reflect a general deterioration of our standing in america , he said .
it reflects the virulence of the hatred in this sector of islam .
frank represented massachusetts in the house for 32 years , completing his final term in office in 2013 .
he came out publicly as gay in 1987 , the first member of congress to voluntarily do so , and has been a vocal gay rights advocate.the former massachusetts representative said he d like to see more monitoring of people with extreme islamic beliefs by both the muslim community and government agencies .
there is an islamic element here , he told the times .
yes , the overwhelming majority of muslims don t do this , but there is clearly , sadly , an element in the interpretation of islam that has some currency , some interpretation in the middle east that encourages killing people - and l.g.b.t .
people are on that list .
and i think it is fair to ask leaders of the islamic community , religious and otherwise , to spend some time combatting this .
frank said the mass shooting reinforces his belief that there should be significant surveillance of people identified by the fbi to have radical beliefs.the lone shooter , omar mateen , was interviewed by the fbi twice in recent years , but as a connection could not be drawn between him and terrorist organizations , both investigations were closed.law enforcement officials say the gunman pledged his allegiance to isis during a 911 call just before the shooting.the day after 50 people including mateen were fatally wounded , the islamic state issued a statement claiming responsibility for the attack.president barack obama said monday that there is no clear evidence the shooting was apart of a larger plot or directed by a terrorist organization .
read more : masslive