kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - north korea has granted a soccer loving malaysian prince access to its airspace anytime he wants , his palace said on tuesday , as pyongyang prepares finally to host an asian cup tie that became a casualty of the assassination in malaysia of the north korean leader s estranged half brother in february .
having been delayed twice due to malaysia s fears for the safety of its players , the match between north korea and malaysia is now set to be played on oct. 5 .
the game had originally been scheduled for march 28 , but the two formerly friendly governments suffered a diplomatic meltdown as north korea reacted angrily to malaysian police investigating the role north korean officials allegedly played in the murder of kim jong nam at kuala lumpur international airport .
the president of the football association of malaysia ( fam ) tunku ismail sultan ibrahim , the crown prince of the southern state of johor , met with north korea s senior-most diplomat in malaysia on tuesday to discuss the match , according to a statement from the johor palace .
amongst issues discussed were foreign relations and current affairs as well as the upcoming group b match of the afc asian cup uae 2019 qualifying final round , in which both teams will ensure the safety of players and team officials , the statement said .
north korea also granted the prince full access to its airspace anytime he wants to visit north korea from malaysia , the palace statement said .
it is the highest honor as any other world leader will need to stop by in beijing beforehand , it said .
the trial of two women , an indonesian and a vietnamese , charged for the murder of kim , is set to begin in kuala lumpur on oct.2 , but the north koreans sought by police were believed to have fled malaysia soon after the murder .
the meeting took place on the same day as the opening of the united nations general assembly in new york , where u.s. president donald trump delivered a stern warning to north korea over its ballistic missile launches and nuclear tests .