a connecticut college professor has created a firestorm for calling white people inhuman a-holes who need to die following last week s shooting attack on congressional republicans .
professor johnny eric williams is a sociology professor !
who wants to send their child to trinity college at $ 61,000 a year to have this jackwagon teach them ?
this is exactly how college kids are indoctrinated into hating their own race .
this is sick and twisted ! trinity college s johnny eric williams social media feed ( his twitter feed is now set on private ) after the june 14 shooting of louisiana rep. steve scalise included racial tirades and commentary calling on minorities to confront white people and end this now , a reference to an alleged system of white supremacy .
it is past time for the racially oppressed to do what people who believe themselves to be white will not do , put end to the vectors of their destructive mythology of whiteness and their white supremacy system .
# letthemf ingdie , the associate professor of sociology said june 18 in a series of facebook posts .
the time is now to confront these inhuman assholes and end this now .
the educational watchdog campus reform and the blaze both reached out to the professor for comment tuesday to no avail .
trinity college offered no statement regarding the professor s action .
instead , the hartford institution reiterated its right on facebook to remove comments that are deemed inappropriate , profane , defamatory , or disrespectful to users of the page and/or members of the greater trinity college community .
mr. williams facebook page also featured an anonymous article on medium accusing mr. scalise of being a racist and one of the most anti-lgbtq politicians in washington .
if you see [ white people ] drowning .
if you see them in a burning building .
if they are bleeding out in an emergency room .
if the ground is crumbling beneath them .
if they are in a park and they turn their weapons on each other : do nothing , a june 16 article by son of baldwin says .
let .
them .
f-ing .
die .
and smile a bit when you do .
we included the link to mr. willians facebook page but it appears as though he s set his page on private .
he is in groups like black lives matter on facebook we re not surprised by that ! read more : campus reform