here s the brutal truth on the socialist who wanted to be your next president and take your hard earned money : sanders spent most of his life as an angry radical and agitator who never accomplished much of anything .
and yet now he thinks he deserves the power to run your life and your finances we will raise taxes ; he confirmed monday , yes , we will .
one of his first jobs was registering people for food stamps , and it was all downhill from there.sanders took his first bride to live in a maple sugar shack with a dirt floor , and she soon left him .
penniless , he went on unemployment .
then he had a child out of wedlock .
desperate , he tried carpentry but could barely sink a nail .
he was a shi * * y carpenter , a friend told politico magazine .
his carpentry was not going to support him , and didn t. then he tried his hand freelancing for leftist rags , writing about masturbation and rape and other crudities for $ 50 a story .
he drove around in a rusted-out , bondo-covered vw bug with no working windshield wipers .
friends said he was always poor and his electricity was turned off a lot .
they described him as a slob who kept a messy apartment and this is what his friends had to say about him.the only thing he was good at was talking non-stop about socialism and how the rich were ripping everybody off .
the whole quality of life in america is based on greed , the bitter layabout said .
i believe in the redistribution of wealth in this nation .
so he tried politics , starting his own socialist party .
four times he ran for vermont public office , and four times he lost badly .
he never attracted more than single-digit support even in the people s republic of vermont .
in his 1971 bid for u.s. senate , the local press said the 30-year-old sanders describes himself as a carpenter who has worked with disturbed children .
in other words , a real winner.he finally wormed his way into the senate in 2006 , where he still ranks as one of the poorest members of congress .
save for a municipal pension , sanders lists no assets in his name .
all the assets provided in his financial disclosure form are his second wife s. he does , however , have as much as $ 65,000 in credit-card debt.sure , sanders may not be a hypocrite , but this is nothing to brag about .
his worthless background contrasts sharply with the successful careers of other outsiders in the race for the white house , including a billionaire developer , a world-renowned neurosurgeon and a fortune 500 ceo.the choice in this election is shaping up to be a very clear one .
it will likely boil down to a battle between those who create and produce wealth , and those who take it and redistribute it.via : ibd