vilnius ( reuters ) - lithuania s government lost its majority in parliament on saturday after its junior coalition partner quit , saying they has been sidelined over policies ranging from alcohol age limits to subsidies on central heating .
a parliament vote on next year s budget , expected by early december , will be the first test for the minority government following the departure of the social democrats after less than a year in power .
the government will need to convince opposition parties to support it on a case-by-case basis .
the lithuanian farmers and greens union , the sole party remaining in power , have a block of 57 members in lithuania s 141-seat parliament .
the country , once ruled from moscow but now a member of both the european union and nato , is rebuilding its military in the face of an assertive russia but has found development hampered by emigration and raising wages , eating away at competitiveness .
all preconditions are in place for our government to continue until the next general election in 2020 , saulius skvernelis , prime minister since november 2016 , told reuters .
the social democrats took a short-sighted and suicidal decision , he added .
lithuania s foreign minister linas linkevicius , a social democrat , told reuters he will leave his party to continue in the government .
at least one of the two other social democrat appointees will leave the 15-member government , said social democrat chairman gintautas paluckas , elected in april this year on a reform mandate .
relationships within the coalition were bad , our opinions differed on almost all major issues and , since farmers and greens looked for votes elsewhere , we had scant possibilities to shape its politics , he told reuters .
this will cost us influence in the short term , but we ll be in a position to better represent our supporters in the long term , he said .
the social democrats , which have held power for long stretches since lithuanian independence , have been looking for a way to reconnect with the voters after finishing a distant third in the 2016 general election .
social democrat rank-and-file overwhelmingly supported leaving the government in a recent poll , in contrast to the party s members of parliament who preferred staying in power .