geneva ( reuters ) - north korean women are deprived of education and job opportunities and are often subjected to violence at home and sexual assault in the workplace , a u.n. human rights panel said on monday .
after a regular review of pyongyang s record , the u.n. committee on the elimination of discrimination against women also voiced concern at rape or mistreatment of women in detention especially those repatriated after fleeing abroad .
north korean women are under-represented or disadvantaged in tertiary education , the judiciary , security and police forces and leadership and managerial positions in all non-traditional areas of work , the panel of independent experts said .
the main issue is first of all the lack of information .
we have no access to a large part of laws , elements and information on national machinery , nicole ameline , panel member , told reuters .
we have asked a lot of questions .
north korea told the panel on nov. 8 that it was working to uphold women s rights and gender equality but that sanctions imposed by major powers over its nuclear and missile programs were taking a toll on vulnerable mothers and children .
domestic violence is prevalent and there is very limited awareness about the issue and a lack of legal services , psycho-social support and shelters available for victims , the panel said .
it said economic sanctions had a disproportionate impact on women .
north korean women suffer high levels of malnutrition , with 28 percent of pregnant or lactating women affected , it said .
we have called on the government to be very , very attentive to the situation of food and nutrition .
because we consider that it is a basic need and that the government has to invest and to assume its responsibilities in this field , ameline said .
unfortunately i am not sure that the situation will improve very quickly .
the report found that penalties for rape in north korea were not commensurate with the severity of the crime , which also often goes unpunished .
legal changes in 2012 lowered the penalties for some forms of rape , including the rape of children , rape by a work supervisor and repeated rape .
this has led to reducing the punishment for forcing a woman in a subordinate position to have sexual intercourse from four years to three years , the report said .
it said women trafficked abroad and then returned to north korea , are reported to be sent to labor training camps or prisons , accused of illegal border crossing , and may be exposed to further violations of their rights , including sexual violence by security officials and forced abortions .