didn t america have to suffer through a high profile perjury case for another clinton not so many years ago ?
oh yeah that was bill clinton who was actually impeached for lying to a grand jury .
is there a more corrupt , self-serving power-driven couple in america ?
washington , d.c. today , house oversight and government reform committee chairman jason chaffetz ( ut-03 ) and house judiciary committee chairman bob goodlatte ( va-06 ) sent a letter to the u.s. attorney for the district of columbia requesting an investigation into whether former secretary of state hillary clinton committed perjury and made false statements when testifying under oath before congress.the letter states : the evidence collected by the fbi during its investigation of secretary clinton s use of a personal email system appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony .
in light of those contradictions , the department should investigate and determine whether to prosecute secretary clinton for violating statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements to congress , or any other relevant statutes .
background : during a july 5 , 2016 hearing before the house oversight committee , federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) director james comey stated the truthfulness of secretary clinton s testimony before congress was not within the scope of the fbi s investigation .
according to director comey the department of justice requires a criminal referral from congress to initiate an investigation into secretary clinton s congressional testimony.additionally , chairman chaffetz sent a letter to director comey requesting the fbi s full investigative file from its review of former secretary clinton s use of an authorized private email server.chairman goodlatte sent a letter to director comey pressing for more information about the fbi s investigation and also led a letter signed by over 200 members of congress demanding answers from fbi director comey regarding the many questions surrounding his announcement that he does not recommend federal prosecution against former secretary hillary clinton for mishandling classified information through private email servers.full text of letter : the honorable channing d. phillips u.s. attorney for the district of columbia 555 fourth street nw washington , d.c. 20530dear mr. phillips : we write to request an investigation to determine whether former secretary of state hillary clinton committed perjury and made false statements during her testimony under oath before congressional committees.while testifying before the house committee on oversight and government reform on july 7 , 2016 , federal bureau of investigation ( fbi ) director james comey stated the truthfulness of secretary clinton s testimony before congress was not within the scope of the fbi s investigation .
nor had the fbi even considered any of secretary clinton s testimony .
director comey further testified the department of justice requires a criminal referral from congress to initiate an investigation of secretary clinton s congressional testimony .
we are writing for that purpose.the evidence collected by the fbi during its investigation of secretary clinton s use of a personal email system appears to directly contradict several aspects of her sworn testimony .
in light of those contradictions , the department should investigate and determine whether to prosecute secretary clinton for violating statutes that prohibit perjury and false statements to congress , or any other relevant statutes.thank you for your attention to this important matter .
oversight.house.govwatch hillary caught in lies during testimony in video here : watch the impeachment of hillary s serial sexual abuser husband , bill for lying before a grand jury about his affair with young intern monica lewinsky :