nairobi ( reuters ) - kenyan president uhuru kenyatta was sworn in for a second term on tuesday , shortly before riot police teargassed the convoy of opposition leader raila odinga , who promised supporters he would be sworn in himself on dec. 12 .
such a move would only deepen divisions opened by the extended election season in kenya , a western ally in a volatile region .
months of acrimonious campaigns and sporadic clashes have already blunted growth in east africa s richest economy .
at a lavish inauguration attended by the heads of many african nations , kenyatta did his best to paint a picture of a country moving beyond that divide .
the elections are now firmly behind us ...
i will devote my time and energy to build bridges , he told a rapturous crowd of around 60,000 supporters as he was sworn in for a second , five-year term in a sports stadium in the capital nairobi .
but , he warned , kenyans needed to free ourselves from the baggage of past grievances , and ... keep to the rule of law .
such words may ring hollow to citizens accustomed to the government ignoring reports on corruption from the country s auditor-general and documentation of hundreds of extrajudicial police killings every year from human rights groups .
last year , kenyatta angered many kenyans by saying he wanted to tackle corruption but his hands are tied .
his government has also promised to improve police accountability , but an independent watchdog has managed to convict only two officers of murder despite thousands of brutality complaints .
on tuesday , at least one odinga supporter was killed and three others were injured , a reuters witness said .
other witnesses said the man had been shot by the police .
a statement from odinga said five people were shot , including his daughter s driver .
television stations ktn and ntv reported that a 7-year-old boy was hit by a stray bullet while playing on the balcony of a house near the site of a planned opposition prayer meeting .
when i came home , i did not know it was my child who had been killed .
police were passing by shooting , peter mutuku , the boy s father , was quoted saying on ntv .
police could not immediately be reached for comment .
less than an hour after kenyatta spoke , kenyan national television carried pictures of riot police swinging clubs at civilians with their hands up .
i didn t hear him say a single word on corruption and how he s going to fight it .
i didn t hear anything on justice , said prominent anti-corruption campaigner boniface mwangi .
when he says that there s the rule of law , his actions and the actions of his government show there s no rule of law .
kenyatta won a repeat presidential election on oct. 26 that was boycotted by odinga , who said it would not be free and fair .
the supreme court nullified the first presidential election , in august , over irregularities .
supporters of kenyatta - who won the october poll with 98 percent of the vote after odinga s boycott - want the opposition to engage in talks and move on .
i m sure uhuru will be able to bring people together and unite them so we can all work for the country , said eunice jerobon , a trader who traveled overnight from the rift valley town of kapsabet for the inauguration .
but odinga s supporters see such talk of unity as tantamount to surrender .
many of them are drawn from poorer parts of the country , and feel angered because they say they are locked out of power and the patronage it brings .
political arguments often have ethnic undercurrents , with odinga s supporters pointing out that three of the country s four presidents have come from one ethnic group , the kikuyu , although the country has 44 recognized groups .
odinga accuses the ruling party of stealing the election , overseeing rampant corruption , directing abuse by the security forces and neglecting vast swathes of the country , including odinga s heartland in the west .
this election of october 26 is fake .
we do not recognize it , odinga told supporters from the rooftop of a car .
on dec. 12 , we will have an assembly that will swear me in .
shortly after that , riot police teargassed his convoy and charged his supporters .
the opposition had planned to hold a prayer meeting in the capital on tuesday , saying it wanted to commemorate the lives of odinga supporters killed during confrontations with the security forces over the election period .
more than 70 people have been killed in political violence this election season , mostly by the police .
riot police sealed off the scene of the rally in the morning , and fired teargas at residents , trying to prevent a crowd from gathering , as a helicopter hovered overhead .
roads were blocked by burning tyres , rocks and uprooted billboards .
in his speech , kenyatta promised to raise living standards by increasing jobs , home ownership , electricity connections and health insurance coverage .
he also said all africans would now get visas on arrival in kenya , and members of the east african community could own property , work and live in kenya , adding to underscore kenya s commitment to pan africanism , this shall not be done on the basis of reciprocity .