apopka , fla. ( reuters ) - with hurricane irma barreling down on central florida , apopka resident carmen nova had a decision to make .
a mexican immigrant living in the country illegally , she knew her mobile home was at risk in the storm .
but the 30-year-old mother of three also knew that seeking protection could pose its own hazards .
in a time of increasing public sentiment against illegal immigration , undocumented immigrants like nova are nervous about reporting to authorities , even if it is to take refuge from a hurricane .
there s an internal storm , there s an external storm , and there s a political storm , and they re all targeting this community , said sister ann kendrick , a roman catholic nun , community organizer and immigrant rights advocate .
they re getting hammered , said kendrick , who has worked hard in advance of the hurricane to convince undocumented immigrants that it is safer to take shelter than to remain in less-than-sturdy homes .
like other counties in florida , apopka s orange county issued an evacuation order for people living in mobile homes , which are also known as manufactured homes and are a popular housing choice for immigrants .
fears among immigrants in the area were heightened in recent days after the sheriff in neighboring polk county pledged to check criminal records of people seeking shelter .
although the statement did not mention immigration status and officials later clarified that undocumented immigrants would not be targeted , the warning nevertheless reverberated in migrant communities .
in apopka , a town of about 50,000 people outside orlando , kendrick had plenty of work to do in advance of the storm .
the area s undocumented immigrants historically came to the area to work on farms but in more recent years have shifted to construction , landscaping and housekeeping .
tirso moreno , leader of the apopka-based farmworker association of florida , said the polk county warning had an impact in orange county .
it scared people , said moreno , who also spread the word with immigrants that they must take shelter .
moreno said he was not convinced that all the undocumented workers he spoke with would take his advice , saying some were likely to wait out the storm in their mobile homes .
the big problem is that many of them don t have enough information , although it s better than it used to be now that we have more spanish-language media , moreno said .
kendrick said she fielded calls throughout the day on friday from undocumented immigrants who wondered if it was safe to report to shelters .
about 50 people , including several undocumented families , were waiting in line outside a shelter at apopka high school when it opened at 9 a.m. on saturday , kendrick said .
they trust the schools , and they trust us , so if we tell them it s safe , they re coming , kendrick said .
nova , who cleans houses for a $ 15 an hour while her husband works as a landscaper for $ 12 an hour , was among those who decided to seek shelter , saying she would put her fate in god s hands .
if they ask for papers , i don t have them , nova said from her mobile home with boarded up windows as she prepared her family to move to the shelter .
the authorities will have to do what they have to do .
i am not going to live in fear .