washington ( reuters ) - emboldened by a strong debate performance , u.s. republican presidential candidate marco rubio went after front-runner donald trump again on friday , undeterred by opinion polls predicting the billionaire would win big in the crucial super tuesday nominating contests next week .
with trump , 69 , increasingly looking to be the party ’ s likely nominee for the nov. 8 election , rubio on thursday night scored his most aggressive debate performance of the months-long election campaign .
trump ’ s swipes at rival candidates and heated exchanges with others have bolstered his standing in nominating contests and opinion polls .
on thursday night , his rivals struck back .
the u.s. senator from florida , rubio , 44 , brought up the real estate developer ’ s four past bankruptcies and his use of imported polish workers to work at a florida resort , and pointedly suggested the new yorker would not be where he is today in the real estate business without a family inheritance .
but attacks by rubio and fellow candidate ted cruz , a conservative u.s. senator from texas , only dented trump ’ s momentum , according to opinion polls and online betting markets .
predictwise , a research project that analyzes opinion polls and betting markets , said trump would comfortably win among republicans in all but one of 11 states that it measured in the march 1 nominating contests , known as super tuesday .
cruz , 45 , is likely to win in texas , his home state , predictwise said .
predictit , based out of victoria university in wellington , new zealand , on friday gave trump a 73 percent chance of winning the nomination compared with a peak 75 percent chance two days earlier .
rubio is his closest rival at 27 percent , up only a point from the day before .
with trump , a brash former reality tv show host , now winning three straight nominating contests in new hampshire , south carolina , and nevada , denial is giving way to a mostly gloomy acceptance among republicans in washington that he may have too much momentum to be stopped , especially if he wins big in the key southern primaries next week .
rubio , the leading candidate from the republican establishment , took a swipe at trump again on friday .
“ guys , we have a con artist as the front-runner of the republican party , ” he said at a campaign event in dallas .
rubio described various trump business ventures that he said had failed .
“ you ever heard of trump vodka ?
you have ?
well , it isn ’ t around anymore , ” said rubio , a first-term senator and foreign policy hawk .
trump has vowed to build a wall on the u.s.- mexican border , called for a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and promised to take a tough stance on trade against china .
( additional reporting by dan burns and derek caney in new york ; writing by alistair bell ; editing by howard goller ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .