gwadar , pakistan ( reuters ) - china is lavishing vast amounts of aid on a small pakistani fishing town to win over locals and build a commercial deep-water port that the united states and india suspect may also one day serve the chinese navy .
beijing has built a school , sent doctors and pledged about $ 500 million in grants for an airport , hospital , college and badly-needed water infrastructure for gwadar , a dusty town whose harbor juts out into the arabian sea , overlooking some of the world s busiest oil and gas shipping lanes .
the grants include $ 230 million for a new international airport , one of the largest such disbursements china has made abroad , according to researchers and pakistani officials .
the handouts for the gwadar project is a departure from beijing s usual approach in other countries .
china has traditionally derided western-style aid in favor of infrastructure projects for which it normally provides loans through chinese state-owned commercial and development banks .
the concentration of grants is quite striking , said andrew small , an author of a book on china-pakistan relations and a washington-based researcher at the german marshall fund think tank .
china largely doesn t do aid or grants , and when it has done them , they have tended to be modest .
pakistan has welcomed the aid with open hands .
however , beijing s unusual largesse has also fueled suspicions in the united states and india that gwadar is part of china s future geostrategic plans to challenge u.s. naval dominance .
it all suggests that gwadar , for a lot of people in china , is not just a commercial proposition over the longer term , small said .
the chinese foreign ministry did not respond to a request for comment from reuters .
beijing and islamabad see gwadar as the future jewel in the crown of the china-pakistan economic corridor ( cpec ) , a flagship of beijing s belt and road initiative to build a new silk road of land and maritime trade routes across more than 60 countries in asia , europe and africa .
the plan is to turn gwadar into a trans-shipment hub and megaport to be built alongside special economic zones from which export-focused industries will ship goods worldwide .
a web of energy pipelines , roads and rail links will connect gwadar to china s western regions .
port trade is expected to grow from 1.2 million tonnes in 2018 to about 13 million tonnes by 2022 , pakistani officials say .
at the harbor , three new cranes have been installed and dredging will next year deepen the port depth to 20 meters at five berths .
but the challenges are stark .
gwadar has no access to drinking water , power blackouts are common and separatist insurgents threaten attacks against chinese projects in gwadar and the rest of baluchistan , a mineral-rich province that is still pakistan s poorest region .
security is tight , with chinese and other foreign visitors driven around in convoys of soldiers and armed police .
beijing is also trying to overcome the distrust of outsiders evident in baluchistan , where indigenous baloch fear an influx of other ethnic groups and foreigners .
many residents say the pace of change is too slow .
local people are not completely satisfied , said essar nori , a lawmaker for gwadar , adding that the separatists were tapping into that dissatisfaction .
pakistani officials are urging gwadar residents to be patient , vowing to urgently build desalination plants and power stations .
china s gwadar project contrasts with similar efforts in sri lanka , where the village of hambantota was transformed into a port complex - but was saddled with chinese debt .
last week , sri lanka formally handed over operations to china on a 99-year lease in exchange for lighter debt repayments , a move that sparked street protests over what many sri lankans view as an erosion of sovereignty .
the hambantota port , like gwadar , is part of a network of harbors beijing is developing in asia and africa that have spooked india , which fears being encircled by china s growing naval power .
but pakistani officials say comparisons to hambantota are unfair because the gwadar project has much less debt .
on top of the airport , chinese handouts in gwadar include $ 100 million to expand a hospital by 250 beds , $ 130 million towards upgrading water infrastructure , and $ 10 million for a technical and vocational college , according to pakistani government documents and officials .
we welcome this assistance as it s changing the quality of life of the people of gwadar for the better , said senator mushahid hussain sayed , chairman of the parliamentary committee that oversees cpec , including gwadar .
china and pakistan jointly choose which projects will be developed under the cpec mechanism , sayed added .
when china suggested a 7,000 meter runway for the new airport , pakistan pushed for a 12,000 meter one that could accommodate planes as large as the airbus 380 and be used for military purposes , according to sajjad baloch , a director of the gwadar development authority .
the scale of chinese grants is extraordinary , according to brad parks , executive director of aiddata , a research lab at the u.s.-based william and mary university that collected data on chinese aid across 140 countries from 2000-2014 .
since 2014 , beijing has pledged over $ 800 million in grants and concessional loans for gwadar , which has less than 100,000 people .
in the 15 years before that , china gave about $ 2.4 billion in concessional loans and grants during this period across the whole of pakistan , a nation of 207 million people .
gwadar is exceptional even by the standards of china s past activities in pakistan itself , parks said .
there are early signs china s efforts to win hearts and minds are beginning to bear fruit in gwadar .
baluchistan is backward and underdeveloped , but we are seeing development after china s arrival , said salam dashti , 45 , a grocer whose two children attend the new chinese-built primary school .
but there are major pitfalls ahead .
tens of thousands of people living by the port will have to be relocated .
for now , they live in cramped single-story concrete houses corroded by sea water on a narrow peninsula , where barefoot fishermen offload their catch on newly-paved roads strewn with rubbish .
many of the fishermen say they fear they ll lose their livelihoods once the port starts operating .
indigenous residents fear of becoming a minority is inevitable with gwadar s population expected to jump more than 15-fold in coming decades .
on the edge of town , mansions erected by land speculators are popping up alongside the sand dunes .
analysts say china is aware that previous efforts to develop gwadar port failed partly due to the security threat posed by baloch separatists , so beijing is trying to counter the insurgents narrative that china wants to exploit baluchistan .
that weighs heavily on the minds of the chinese , parks added .
it s almost certainly true that they are trying to safeguard their investments by getting more local buy-in .
chinese officials , meanwhile , are promoting the infrastructure development they are funding .
every day you can see new changes .
it shows the sincerity of chinese for development of gwadar , lijian zhao , the deputy chief of mission at the chinese embassy in islamabad , tweeted last month .
for its investment in gwadar , china will receive 91 percent of revenues until the port is returned to pakistan in four decades time .
the operator , china overseas ports holding company , will also be exempt from major taxes for more than 20 years .
pakistan s maritime affairs minister , hasil bizenjo , said the arrival of the chinese in the region contrasted with the experience of the past two centuries , when russia and britain , and later the united states and the soviet union , vied for control of the warm water ports of the persian gulf .
the chinese have come very smoothly , they have reached the warm waters , bizenjo told reuters .
what they are investing is less than a peanut for access to warm waters .
when a u.s. pentagon report in june suggested gwadar could become a military base for china , a concern that india has also expressed , beijing dismissed the idea .
talk that china is building a military base in pakistan is pure guesswork , said a chinese defence ministry spokesman , wu qian .
bizenjo and other pakistani officials say beijing has not asked to use gwadar for naval purposes .
this port , they will use it mostly for their commercial interests , but it depends on the next 20 years where the world goes , bizenjo said .
( this story has been refiled to correct typos in spellings of names of chinese officials in paragraphs 40 , 46 )