brasilia ( reuters ) - brazilian president michel temer was charged with obstruction of justice and racketeering on thursday , according to a statement posted on the prosecutor general s office website , threatening to delay the government s economic reform agenda in congress .
it is the second set of criminal charges filed against the president based on the plea-bargain testimony of the owners of the world s largest meatpacker , jbs sa .
they accused temer of taking bribes in return for political favors and of conspiring to buy the silence of a witness who could implicate the leader .
in a statement on thursday , temer strongly rejected all allegations of wrongdoing .
temer s earlier corruption charge , that he took bribes from jbs officials , was blocked in august by temer s allies in the lower house of congress , which has the power to decide whether a president should stand trial by the supreme court .
despite the lower house s move to block the charges , they remain valid and can be pursued by prosecutors once temer leaves office .
his term ends on jan. 1 , 2019 .
brazil s top public prosecutor rodrigo janot has also filed charges against joesley batista , the billionaire former chairman of jbs who implicated temer .
batista was arrested on sunday for concealing other crimes in his plea bargain deal .
batista s lawyer antonio carlos kakay rejected the charges brought by janot , arguing in a statement that the prosecutor had violated the rules of plea bargains by using his client s testimony to incriminate him .
on wednesday , batista s brother wesley , the chief executive officer of jbs sa , was also arrested for alleged insider trading to avoid hefty losses related to the may plea deal .
late on thursday , supreme court justice edson fachin converted joesley and executive ricardo saud s temporary detentions into preventative detention and gave them 10 days to respond before ruling on janot s request to withdraw their plea deal .
the arrests of the batista brothers have improved temer s prospects of surviving the new charges and serving out his term through 2018 .
temer and his allies expect the new charges to be voted in the lower house next month with wider support than he obtained in the 263-227 vote last month blocking a trial .
fachin heeded a request from temer s defense not to deliver the accusation to the lower house until after a supreme court plenary vote on the matter .
the vote should be held before wednesday .
the allegations are part of brazil s sprawling corruption probes that have resulted in ex-president luiz inacio lula da silva s conviction and four pending trials ; investigations and charges implicating three former presidents and dozens of members of congress ; and guilty verdicts against well over 100 powerful business and political figures .
most of the schemes involve political kickbacks in return for contracts at government-run enterprises or cheap loans from brazil s state development bank .
the racketeering charge against temer was based on the plea bargain testimony of l cio funaro , a businessman who accused the president and his closest aides in the ruling pmdb party of operating a criminal organization to collect bribes in exchange for political influence .
the obstruction of justice charge was based on testimony by joesley batista that temer endorsed payments of hush money to try to keep funaro from talking .
a short legislative agenda ahead of an election year , the absence of public pressure to oust temer and the lack of any convincing replacement for him are also likely to weigh in the president s favor .
given the short timetable , the general public apathy and lack of a viable alternative , it is quite possible that brasilia will continue to punt this down the road , said matthew taylor , a professor at the american university in washington .