washington ( reuters ) - if u.s. president donald trump tells congress in october that iran is not complying with a 2015 nuclear deal it brokered with world powers , that does not mean a u.s. withdrawal from the agreement , u.s. envoy to the u.n. nikki haley said on tuesday .
under u.s. law , the state department must notify congress every 90 days of iran s compliance with the nuclear deal .
the next deadline is october , and trump has said he thinks by then the united states will declare iran to be non-compliant .
if the president chooses not to certify iranian compliance , that does not mean the united states is withdrawing from the jcpoa ( the nuclear deal ) , haley told the american enterprise institute think tank in washington .
should he decide to decertify he has grounds to stand on , said haley , adding that she did not know what trump would decide .
we will stay in a deal as long as it protects the security of the united states .
most u.n. and western sanctions were lifted 18 months ago under the nuclear deal .
iran is still subject to a u.n. arms embargo and other restrictions , which are not technically part of the deal .
in april , trump ordered a review of whether a suspension of sanctions on iran related to the nuclear deal , negotiated under president barack obama , was in the u.s. national security interest .
he has called it the worst deal ever negotiated .
iranian president hassan rouhani warned last month that iran could abandon the nuclear agreement within hours if the united states imposes any more new unilateral sanctions .
( the nuclear deal ) is a very flawed and very limited agreement ... iran has been caught in multiple violations over the past year and a half , haley said .
the iranian nuclear deal was designed to be too big to fail .
the u.s. review of its policy toward iran is also looking at tehran s behavior in the middle east , which washington has said undermines u.s. interests in syria , iraq , yemen and lebanon .
iran s leaders want to use the nuclear deal to hold the world hostage to its bad behavior , she said .
haley traveled to vienna last month to meet international atomic energy agency ( iaea ) officials for what she described as a fact-finding mission as part of trump s review .
the iaea polices restrictions the deal placed on iran s nuclear activities and reports quarterly .
while haley asked if the iaea planned to inspect iranian military sites to verify tehran s compliance , something tehran has said they would not allow , she said on tuesday : we never ask the iaea to do anything .