washington ( reuters ) - the two u.s .
senators representing california said on friday they will propose a federal task force to investigate the cause and response to the massive natural gas leak near los angeles .
democratic senators barbara boxer and dianne feinstein announced they will introduce an amendment to a national energy bill being debated by the senate that would direct u.s. energy secretary ernest moniz to lead a task force that will recommend how to solve the ongoing methane leak and prevent future incidents .
southern california gas company ’ s aliso canyon natural gas storage facility , which sprung a leak in october that has not yet been sealed , has raised alarms about the danger of aging oil and gas infrastructure .
there is little oversight of the 400 underground natural gas storage facilities in 30 u.s. states .
“ we have a responsibility not only to address this leak , but also to ensure nothing like this ever happens again , ” feinstein said in a statement .
the amendment is one of nearly 100 that senators have introduced or plan to offer next week , as the senate works to pass the country ’ s first major energy bill in over eight years .
the bill , which aims to modernize the country ’ s aging energy infrastructure , is one of the few in congress to have bipartisan support .
senate majority leader mcconnell said he expects the legislation to pass late next week , after members vote on the list of amendments .
the california senators ’ proposal would direct moniz to lead a six-member intergovernmental task force to study the impacts of the leak on affected communities as well as the environment and issue its findings within six months .
those findings and subsequent updates would help agencies such as the pipeline and hazardous materials safety administration and the environmental protection agency ( epa ) help respond to the leak .
the task force would recommend whether to continue operations at aliso canyon and other facilities in close proximity to densely populated areas .
other amendments the senate will consider next week include a proposal by michigan democrats to deal with another environmental crisis - lead water contamination in flint .
the proposal would also direct $ 200 million for a research center to focus on the needs of children , and would also require the epa to warn the public of high lead levels in drinking water if a state fails to do so .