how this woman is even trending in the polls should tell you everything you need to know about the democrat party good morning , ma am , a member of the uniformed secret service once greeted hillary clinton .
f off , she replied.that exchange is one among many that active and retired secret service agents shared with ronald kessler , author of first family detail , a compelling look at the intrepid personnel who shield america s presidents and their families and those whom they guard.kessler writes flatteringly and critically about people in both parties .
regarding the clintons , kessler presents chelsea as a model protectee who respected and appreciated her agents .
he describes bill as a difficult chief executive , but an easygoing ex-president .
and kessler exposes hillary as an epically abusive arctic monster .
when in public , hillary smiles and acts graciously , kessler explains .
as soon as the cameras are gone , her angry personality , nastiness , and imperiousness become evident .
he adds : hillary clinton can make richard nixon look like mahatma gandhi .
kessler was an investigative reporter with the wall street journal and washington post and has penned 19 other books .
among much more in first family detail , he reports : hillary was very rude to agents , and she didn t appear to like law enforcement or the military , former secret service agent lloyd bulman recalls .
she wouldn t go over and meet military people or police officers , as most protectees do .
she was just really rude to almost everybody .
she d act like she didn t want you around , like you were beneath her .
hillary didn t like the military aides wearing their uniforms around the white house , one former agent remembers .
she asked if they would wear business suits instead .
the uniform s a sign of pride , and they re proud to wear their uniform .
i know that the military was actually really offended by it .
former agent jeff crane says , hillary would cuss at secret service drivers for going over bumps .
another former member of her detail recollects , hillary never talked to us .
.
.
most all members of first families would talk to us and smile .
she never did that .
we spent years with her , yet another secret service agent notes .
she never said thank you .
within the white house , hillary had a standing rule that no one spoke to her when she was going from one location to another , says former fbi agent coy copeland .
in fact , anyone who would see her coming would just step into the first available office .
one former secret service agent states , if hillary was walking down a hall , you were supposed to hide behind drapes used as partitions .
hillary one day ran into a white house electrician who was changing a lightbulb in the upstairs family quarters .
she screamed at him , because she had demanded that all repairs be performed while the clintons were outside the executive mansion .
she caught the guy on a ladder doing the lightbulb , says franette mcculloch , who served at that time as assistant white house pastry chef .
he was a basket case .
white house usher christopher b. emery unwisely called back barbara bush after she phoned him for computer troubleshooting .
emery helped the former first lady twice .
consequently , kessler reports , hillary sacked him .
the father of four stayed jobless for a year.while running for us senate , hillary stopped at an upstate new york 4-h club .
as one secret service agent says , hillary saw farmers and cows and then erupted .
she turned to a staffer and said , what the f - - - did we come here for ?
there s no money here .
secret service agents consider being assigned to her detail a form of punishment , kessler concludes .
in fact , agents say being on hillary clinton s detail is the worst duty assignment in the secret service .
watch hillary show her true colors when a reporter in africa accidentally refers to barack obama as mr. clinton .
hillary doesn t forgive her faux pas and does her best to embarrass the reporter : after studying the secret service and its relationships with dozens of presidents , vice-presidents and their families , ronald kessler s astonishment at hillary clinton s inhumanity should reverberate in every american s head.as he told me : no one would hire such a person to work at a mcdonald s , and yet she is being considered for president of the united states .
via : nyp