toronto ( reuters ) - two canadian groups on tuesday asked a court to overturn a new quebec law that bans observant muslim women from wearing a full-face veil when providing or receiving government services .
the national council for canadian muslims , the canadian civil liberties association and quebec muslim resident marie-michelle lacoste asked a provincial court to declare the law invalid , arguing that it discriminates against muslim women and violates equality and freedom of religion protections in the canadian and quebec constitutions .
the provincial liberal government that backed the law , passed on oct. 18 , has rejected claims that it targets muslim women .
it argues that the ban on all face coverings was necessary for security reasons and to facility communication and identification of people .
debate has focused on the niqab , a veil worn by a small minority of muslim women that covers the whole face save for the eyes .
opponents of the law say it targets a visible minority that has been subject to threats and violence in the primarily french-speaking province .
quebec had about 243,000 muslims as of 2011 , according to statistics canada .
the government believes the law is constitutional and will defend it in court , isabelle marier st-onge , a spokeswoman for quebec justice minister stephanie vallee , said by phone on tuesday .
the law affects teachers , police officers , hospital employees and daycare workers in government agencies , and users of public services , from school to mass transit systems .
such blatant and unjustified violations of freedom of religion , as well as of the equality guarantees of the quebec and canadian charters , have no place in quebec or canada , the groups court submission said .
the plaintiffs stand a good chance of success , said political scientist emmett macfarlane , who has written extensively about canada s constitution and supreme court .
it s a pretty clear case , where we know who s being adversely affected and we know it s a distinct minority , macfarlane said .
in january a gunman walked into a quebec city mosque and shot six people to death .
a french-canadian university student has been charged as the sole suspect .
france , belgium , the netherlands , bulgaria and the german state of bavaria have imposed restrictions on the wearing of full-face veils in public places .
denmark plans to institute its own ban .