new york ( reuters ) - about a quarter of u.s. republicans do not want to see obamacare repealed , according to a reuters/ipsos poll released on tuesday .
trump and his fellow republicans , who control congress , have promised to repeal and replace the affordable care act , known as obamacare , but a majority of americans , including 25 percent of republicans polled , do not want it to be repealed .
the law has been credited with helping about 20 million people get insurance coverage .
only one in five americans would repeal the law immediately , the poll found .
republicans were sharply divided , with 25 percent of those polled wanting to keep it intact or fix problem parts .
some 32 percent would repeal it immediately , while 44 percent would wait to repeal it once an alternative plan is ready to go .
“ there is some recognition , even from republican supporters , that the underlying goals of the law are worthwhile , ” said jack hoadley , a research professor at georgetown university ’ s health policy institute .
“ they still want something done , they don ’ t want it to disappear. ” about 10 percent of democrats polled would keep the 2010 law as it is and another 70 percent want it to remain intact with some fixes .
some 19 percent of them want the law repealed , including 13 percent who want a replacement passed first .
respondents interviewed by reuters said they want the u.s. congress to address problems such as the rising cost of healthcare but even many republicans who have insurance don ’ t want it scrapped without a replacement .
“ i ’ m afraid if you just repeal , people will lose it , ” said kathy dugas , a republican who works as a dietician near jackson , mississippi , which has one of the country ’ s highest obesity rates .
“ healthcare should be about people , not about politics , ” she said .
“ there has to be something to take care of people. ” some congressional republicans have expressed concern about starting a repeal absent clarity about how to replace provisions of the complicated and far-reaching law , but congress is under pressure from trump to act quickly .
on friday , the u.s. house of representatives passed a fiscal 2017 budget by a vote of 227-198 , nearly along party lines , that establishes a reconciliation procedure to shield an obamacare repeal from senate filibusters .
the reuters poll mirrors findings from a poll released in early january by the kaiser family foundation that also found the public divided : almost half the people in that poll wanted the law repealed but 28 percent of that group want to know the details of the replacement before obamacare is scrapped .
the reuters/ipsos poll was conducted online in english in all 50 states .
the question on obamacare included responses from 2,232 american adults , including 951 democrats and 879 republicans .
it has a credibility interval , a measure of accuracy , of 2 percentage points for the entire group , and 4 percentage points for the democrats and republicans .