eric holder in a dress eric holder got the ball rolling for obama when he used taxpayer dollars to pay people to protest during the trayvon martin controversy .
loretta lynch is just the person to carry his racist torch of injustice for the oppressed black man .
these people are not capable of colorblind justice .
their desire to punish anyone who disagrees with their radical ideology is much stronger than their desire to see true and honest justice served in america members of the black lives matter movement should not get discouraged by those who would use your lawful actions as a cover for their heinous violence , attorney general loretta lynch said friday.her encouragement of the radical movement came a few hours after five officers were gunned down and six were wounded by an african-american radical attacker during a black lives matter protest in dallas.throughout her friday statement , she zig-zagged between her calls for more political protests , her suggestions that cops should be blamed for the high number of african-americans killed during interactions with law enforcement , and her calls for less violence during political protests .
after the events this week , americans across the country are feeling a sense of helplessness , of uncertainty , of fear .
now , these feelings are understandable and they are justified .
but the answer must not be violence .
the answer must never be violence , lynch said .
rather , the answer must be action : calm , peaceful , collaborative and determined action .
calm , peaceful , collaborative and determined action .
we must continue working to build trust between communities and law enforcement .
we must continue working to guarantee every person in this country equal justice under the law , she said.she played up the administration s pre-election focus on gun control , instead of the political conflicts that spur violence .
and we must take a hard look at the ease at which wrongdoers can get their hands on deadly weapons , and the frequency with which they use them , she said.like many officials , lynch also implied moral equivalence between the deliberately murdered officers in dallas and the suspects killed by other police officers on duty .
this has been a week of profound grief and heartbreaking loss .
the peaceful protest that was planned in dallas last night was organized in response to the tragic deaths of alton sterling in louisiana and philando castile in minnesota .
we have opened a civil rights investigation in louisiana and we are providing assistance to local authorities in minnesota who are leading the investigation there , said lynch.lynch repeatedly appeared to praise black lives matter , though not by name , and encouraged black racial activists to continue demonstrating against police .
to those who seek to improve our country , through peaceful protest and protected speech , i want you to know that your voice is important .
do not be discouraged by those who would use your lawful actions as a cover for their heinous violence , she continued .
we will continue to safeguard your constitutional rights and to work with you in the difficult mission of building a better nation and a brighter future .
and to all americans , i ask you , i implore you : do not let this week precipitate a new normal in this country .
i ask you to turn to each other , not against each other as we move forward .
but some of those demonstrators not easily restrained .
some black activists in dallas called for murdering whites and police officers just last summer , telling one veteran : we are going to rape and gut your pregnant wife , and your f ing piece of sh-t unborn creature will be hung from a tree .
the attorney general also included some vague calls for unity amid her controversial support for the divisive blm movement.via : breitbart news