niamey/dakar ( reuters ) - chad has withdrawn hundreds of troops from neighboring niger , where they were helping local forces fight boko haram islamist militants , humanitarian sources and officials said .
the pull-out over the past two weeks could weaken a region-wide struggle against the militants who have killed tens of thousands of people , forced many more to flee and triggered a humanitarian crisis .
there was no immediate explanation or comment from defense officials in chad .
but the move came a month after the vast central african country complained about an unexpected u.s. travel ban imposed on its nationals .
chad warned at the time the order could affect its security commitments - which include its involvement in the u.s.-backed fight against boko haram .
residents said the withdrawal had already had an impact on niger s diffa region , which has seen a string of attacks by boko haram militants crossing over from their base in neighboring nigeria .
ibrahim arimi from the border village of bosso said banditry had increased since the chadian troops started leaving and he had been temporarily moved to another village for safety .
diffa parliamentarian lamido moumouni said residents had started complaining .
they have come to rely on the forces so there is a perception that security will be lacking , he said by telephone .
at its peak in 2016 after an attack in bosso , chad had 2,000 troops in niger to help counter boko haram although security sources said this has fallen since .
boko haram has attacked chad , niger and cameroon from its base in northeast nigeria .
its eight-year bid to carve out an islamist caliphate has driven millions from their homes - more than 200,000 of them are now based in diffa , with little prospect of returning home .
thousands of them are camped alongside an unfinished highway in the middle of a barren savannah with few resources .
chad s soldiers also occupy front-line positions in a peacekeeping force in northern mali .
falling oil revenues after the price crash in 2014 has also sapped chad s appetite for expensive regional security commitments , analysts say .