nairobi ( reuters ) - south sudan is hiking fees for humanitarians and blocking them from reaching hungry families , even as the oil-rich country appeals for nearly 2 billion dollars to help avert starvation amid a civil war , five aid groups told reuters .
the government and the united nations announced on wednesday that south sudan needs $ 1.7 billion in aid next year to help 6 million people half its population cope with the effects of war , hunger and economic decline .
but aid groups said bureaucracy , violence and rocketing government fees were stopping their work , despite a promise from president salva kiir to allow unhindered access after the united states threatened to pull support to the government in october .
all the aid workers spoke on condition of anonymity , citing fear of expulsion from the country .
alain noudehou , the u.n. s top humanitarian official in the country , said the increased fees are a major concern .
[ it ] will take away from the resources we have to address the crisis , noudehou , humanitarian coordinator for the u.n. mission in south sudan ( unmiss ) , said on wednesday .
juba announced plans in march to charge each foreign aid worker $ 10,000 per annual permit but later dropped them .
it revised the fees steeply upwards last month , however , requiring some foreign aid workers to pay $ 4,000 for a permit 16 times the old rate .
at least two aid groups have paid , they told reuters on condition of anonymity .
humanitarian affairs minister hussein mar nyout said on wednesday he had received many complaints over the new fees and restrictions on travel for some aid workers .
this is not in the spirit of the president and we are going to implement the order of the president , he said in response to questions at a news conference .
about one-third of south sudan s 12 million population have fled their homes since the civil war began in 2013 , two years after it won independence from sudan .
the united nations describes the violence as ethnic cleansing .
earlier this year , pockets of the country plunged briefly into famine .
the economy has nosedived , there is hyperinflation , and the government is unable to pay civil servants and soldiers because oil production has collapsed and official corruption is rampant .
the confusion over permits delays aid , organizations said .
nobody understands who is giving directives and who is supposed to implement , said the head of one international aid group in south sudan .
he said customs have seized his organization s it equipment , despite an import tax waiver for aid groups .
last week , a team of doctors said they were denied permission to travel outside the capital because they had not received work permits they had paid for .
another aid group said it is unable to bring in foreign medical staff to complete a government-approved project because authorities said even a consultant visiting south sudan for a week had to pay $ 4,000 for a permit that takes months to obtain .
the first issue is the inherent absurdity and impracticality of the rules , said an employee of the aid group .
the second is that laws are being tried inconsistently by four government agencies that are at loggerheads .
south sudan expelled the norwegian refugee council s country director last year , while some 28 aid workers have been killed this year , with nine shot dead in november alone , according to the united nations .
unmiss staff are exempt from the work permit requirement but the government has forced some contractors to pay , in violation of an agreement with the u.n. , an unmiss spokeswoman said .
juba is not honoring a similar treaty exempting aid agencies receiving u.s. funding , a western diplomat said .