san juan , puerto rico ( reuters ) - u.s. president donald trump expressed satisfaction on tuesday with the federal response to hurricane maria s devastation of puerto rico , despite criticism that the government was slow to address the crisis .
trump , who has grappled with hurricanes harvey , irma and maria in the past six weeks , said at a briefing that the disasters were straining the u.s. budget .
i hate to tell you , puerto rico , but you ve thrown our budget a little out of whack because we ve spent a lot of money on puerto rico , he said .
and that s fine .
we ve saved a lot of lives .
two weeks after it was hit by the worst hurricane in 90 years , many of puerto rico s 3.4 million residents are still struggling without basic necessities .
shortly after trump left puerto rico , governor ricardo rosello said the death toll had risen from 16 to 34 .
the u.s. territory s economy already was in recession before hurricane maria and its government had filed for bankruptcy in the face of a $ 72 billion debt load .
in an interview with fox news , trump said the island s debt would have to be erased .
they owe a lot of money to your friends on wall street and we re going to have to wipe that out .
you re going to say goodbye to that , i don t know if it s goldman sachs but whoever it is you can wave goodbye to that , trump said in the interview , conducted while he visited the island .
moody s on tuesday estimated maria s total cost to puerto rico , including lost output , at $ 45 billion to $ 95 billion and significant relief from the federal government would be required .
trump said the federal response to maria compared favorably with a real catastrophe like katrina , the 2005 storm that swamped louisiana and mississippi and killed more than 1,800 .
what s happened in terms of recovery , in terms of saving lives - 16 lives that s a lot - but if you compare that to the thousands of people who died in other hurricanes that frankly were not nearly as severe , he said .
the hurricane wiped out the island s power grid , and fewer than half of residents have running water .
it is still difficult for residents to get a cell phone signal or find fuel for their generators or cars .
about 88 percent of cellphone sites are still out of service .
on air force one on his return flight to washington , trump said it had been a great day and he had heard no criticism during his day in puerto rico .
we ve only heard thank yous from the people of puerto rico , he said .
it is something i enjoyed very much today .
he said local truck drivers are still needed to help distribute supplies .
in washington , senate democratic leader chuck schumer said republican president trump should stop blaming puerto rico for the storm that devastated their shores and should start trying to make the situation better .
the white house is preparing to ask congress for a $ 29 billion aid package for puerto rico and other areas hit by natural disasters , a white house official said , speaking on condition of anonymity .
additional requests from the administration are expected for longer-term assistance to puerto rico , as well as texas and florida , which also were hit by powerful storms in recent weeks .
during his 4-1/2 hour visit to puerto rico , trump s motorcade sped past trees stripped of their leaves and the occasional home without a roof .
he and his wife , melania , met survivors of the disaster in the town of guaynabo , walking down a street and talking to several families whose homes were damaged .
sidewalks were piled with debris .
you know who helped them ?
god helped them .
right ?
trump said .
san juan mayor carmen yulin cruz , who has criticized the administration s response to puerto rico , was among those trump met with during his visit to the territory .
days before , trump lashed out at cruz on twitter , accusing her of poor leadership and saying that some people on the island want everything to be done for them .
trump shook hands with cruz but he saved his warm words of praise for other local and federal authorities .
right from the beginning , this governor did not play politics , he said of puerto rico governor ricardo rossello .
on cnn , cruz said she told trump , this is about saving lives ; it s not about politics .
trump took a helicopter tour of the destruction , seeing hills that are normally lush and green , brown and bare after maria s winds stripped the branches .
he also saw from the air the usns comfort , the just-arrived hospital ship .
valentine navarro , 26 , a salesman in san juan , shrugged off trump s trip as a public relations exercise .
i think he s coming here because of pressure , as a photo-op , but i don t think he s going to help more than he has already done and that s not much , navarro said .