harare ( reuters ) - retired correspondent cris chinaka worked for reuters in harare from 1990 to 2015 .
before that he reported on zimbabwe for the ziana news agency and moto , a weekly newspaper .
here he reflects on a third of a century of covering uncle bob .
there are two images of robert gabriel mugabe that jump out of my memory to illustrate the contrasting sides of the man who led zimbabwe for 37 years .
the first is of a combative and ebullient 57-year-old , dressed in an olive green military-type suit in the dying days of what was then white-run rhodesia .
waving a clenched fist in the air , he was scolding his opponents and rallying his supporters as they marched confidently towards the birth of a new nation : zimbabwe .
the second is of a shrunken 93-year-old slumped in a cushioned seat , snoozing .
his wife grace , more than 40 years his junior , whispers in his ear while placing a colorful cowboy hat on his head as thousands of fawning zanu-pf party faithful applauded .
in the nearly four decades that separated those two episodes , zimbabwe had , in the eyes of its critics , declined into the same state as its leader : hollowed out , impotent and for some an object of ridicule .
that first image is from my first meeting with mugabe , in february 1980 , at a zanu-pf rally in the southeastern province of masvingo , ahead of the vote that would mark independence from britain .
as mugabe was ushered off the stage by his security guards , i introduced myself , shook his hand and asked for an interview .
he was warm and attentive at this approach from a junior reporter and said my newspaper , the moto weekly , was one of his favorite publications .
aside from its nationalist editorial line , the paper may also have appealed to the jesuit-educated mugabe as it was published by the catholic church to which he belonged .
shortly after our conversation , mugabe survived what would be one of many assassination attempts when a land mine exploded , narrowly missed his vehicle in the motorcade heading back to the capital , harare .
i had a longer one-on-one meeting three years later in march 1983 in india , where i was on a commonwealth scholarship studying for a postgraduate degree in journalism .
mugabe prided himself on his elephantine and encyclopedic memory , but he must have been briefed on the backgrounds of the students at the zimbabwean mission function in delhi .
when i introduced myself , he remarked , oh , you are our roman catholic man , right ?
five years later , when i was covering an official visit to brussels for zimbabwe s national news agency , mugabe s chief of protocol told him : your excellency , that young roman catholic man is now a father .
on the return journey , mugabe came through from the presidential section of the plane into economy class , as he frequently did on such trips , to chat with members of the delegation .
this time he sat next to me .
he asked about my wife and our new baby daughter .
we also discussed my job and current affairs .
as he got up to leave after a 30-minute conversation , mugabe said : you sound like an intelligent young man .
why did you go into journalism ?
was he just joking , or was this a rare insight into what mugabe - a man who would later be accused of gagging free speech and individual rights - really thought about the news business ?
you re the one who says i m dying ?
mugabe knew the name of my daughter , tariro , and for many years he would ask after her .
i sometimes thought he remembered because she was born around the same time as his own daughter , bona .
on other foreign trips around africa and europe , i had opportunities for discussions with mugabe , invariably about the subject of his mission , but i always got a sense that he was only giving away glimpses of his real thoughts and feelings .
even as his years advanced and his ability to recall distant facts and figures deserted him , he retained a sense of humor - especially at suggestions that he was on his way out .
in 2010 , having secured an interview for reuters , i was ushered into his office and greeted him as he sat behind his desk .
in return , he remarked with a smile : aargh , so you are the man who has been reporting that i am dying ?
the interview lasted 90 minutes , and covered everything from his health , the desperate state of the economy and the western sanctions that his zanu-pf government blamed for the ills that had befallen the nation .
my story focused on his denial that he was suffering from cancer and featured , for the first time , a line that he would repeat many times over the following years .
jesus died once , and resurrected only once - and poor mugabe several times , he said , clapping his hands in glee .