berne ( reuters ) - neutral switzerland is prepared to act as a mediator to help resolve the north korea crisis , including by hosting ministerial talks , swiss president doris leuthard said on monday .
leuthard said swiss troops were deployed on the demarcation zone between south korea and north korea and noted that her country - along with sweden - had a long history of neutral and discreet diplomacy .
this has included switzerland representing u.s. interests in both iran and cuba .
but china and the united states had to take their share of responsibility , she added , warning against over-reactions after the north s sixth and largest nuclear test .
sanctions did not change many things in terms of convincing pyongyang to abandon its weapons programs , even though its population had suffered , leuthard said .
i think it really is time for dialogue , she told a news conference in berne .
we are ready to offer our role for good services as a mediator .
i think in the upcoming weeks a lot will depend on how the u.s. and china can have an influence in this crisis .
that s why i think switzerland and sweden can have a role behind the curtain .
part of the task would be to find a suitable location for officials perhaps the countries foreign ministers to meet , she said .
i think that s our role , to look at what kind of possibilities we find .
because , well , twitter won t be an adequate instrument ...
this must be very discreet .
noting that the communist party congress in north korea s neighbor and ally china was due to take place in october , leuthard said the time for such initiatives was not ideal , so perhaps this was also part of the plan of north korea .
north korean leader kim jong un spent part of his youth in berne studying under an assumed name .
a framework agreement between north korea and the united states , under the clinton administration , was clinched in 1994 in geneva after long negotiations .
the deal by which pyongyang was to freeze construction of its nuclear reactors , suspected of being part of its covert weapons program , in exchange for two light water nuclear reactors , unraveled in 2003 .
north korea is a worrying situation .
we are a small country .
perhaps they could meet in switzerland to find a political solution , not one with arms , leuthard said .