berlin ( reuters ) - chiefs of the parties aiming to form germany s next government hope to agree the outlines of a coalition deal by the end of the week , they said on tuesday , after two smaller parties broke a logjam by dropping demands on tax and climate policy .
with the three camps still divided on several issues , the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) offered ground by saying they would accept more modest income tax cuts than a campaign pledge of 30-40 billion euros ( $ 35-46 billion ) of relief .
the ecologist greens also offered a concession , saying they would no longer insist on fixed dates to shut down coal-fired power stations and to ban cars with internal combustion engines .
however , the christian social union ( csu ) , the bavarian sister party of chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) was skeptical about the concessions offered .
abandoning nonsense deadlines is hardly a compromise , the csu s chief negotiator alexander dobrindt said after the conclusion of talks on tuesday .
the three camps agreed to leave smaller expert groups to thrash out compromises on the areas dividing them this week , with top officials , having identified problem areas , only returning to the table on friday .
we are now switching to work mode , michael kellner , a top green official .
the three-way coalition the parties are trying to form is untested at national level , and the negotiations follow a fracturing of the vote in a national election in september , when merkel s conservatives bled support to the far right .
should the talks stall , berlin would face a lengthy period of uncertainty at a time when many in the european union are looking to germany , its biggest economy , for leadership on issues ranging from euro zone governance to trans-atlantic relations .
merkel , who is seeking a fourth term , said on monday that immigration and climate policy were the most contentious topics in the exploratory talks , which she hopes to advance to full-blown negotiations on nov. 16 .
there is broad support among her conservatives comprising the cdu and csu for tax reforms .
the cdu/csu alliance also reached a deal on migrant policy last month .
the main sticking point to a broader deal on that front is a conservative proposal to cap at 200,000 a year the number of migrants germany would accept on humanitarian grounds .
the greens reject such a limit , which they say is unconstitutional .
also complicating the path to a coalition deal , negotiators will need to seek approval from their parties before proceeding to full-blown talks .
a crucial test will be a greens party conference on nov. 25 , when party leaders will seek the blessing of their base .
signaling a readiness to compromise , greens co-leader simone peter told rheinische post newspaper : for us , it doesn t matter if the last coal-fired power station is off the grid in 2030 or 2032 .
that s where we are pragmatic .
but it was crucial to agree on further climate protection measures to cut germany s co2 emissions by 40 percent from 1990 levels by 2020 , as merkel had promised .
greens co-leader cem ozdemir signaled readiness to compromise on car policy after an emissions scandal at germany s leading automaker volkswagen ( vowg_p.de ) plunged the industry into crisis .
it s clear to me that we alone can not enforce the end date of 2030 for the approval of combustion engines , ozdemir told stuttgarter zeitung and stuttgarter nachrichten newspapers .