charleston , s.c. ( reuters ) - before donald trump ’ s put-downs and the stumbles in presidential debates , and before the profound frustration of voters became so unmistakably apparent , jeb bush appeared to be best positioned to win back the white house for republicans in 2016 .
he amassed a $ 150 million war chest in 2015 , surrounded himself with some of the best minds in the party , had a famous last name and attracted the support of the party establishment .
and yet , after a dismal finish in south carolina , bush dropped out of the race on saturday with an emotional speech .
“ i firmly believe the american people must entrust this office to someone who understands that whoever holds it is the servant , not the master , someone who will commit to that service with honor and decency , ” he said .
how bush found himself out of the race after just the third nominating contest of 2016 is a cautionary tale of political miscalculation and strategic errors , according to interviews with a dozen republican operatives , many with close ties to the bush campaign and others who worked for the last two republican presidential nominees , conducted during the last days of his campaign .
from the start , they said , bush appeared to misjudge the mood of the republican base .
in december 2014 , for instance , bush gathered his senior aides and a small group of national political operatives for a meeting in miami to talk about his coming candidacy .
a survey to gauge the national mood of the party was dismissed by bush and his aides as unnecessary .
such polling , a participant said , would have made clear to bush the rebellious sentiment of the conservative base of the party .
“ they missed the boat , ” the participant said .
the polling may have also helped the campaign spot the threat of trump , a billionaire and political outsider who tapped into that anti-establishment anger and stormed to the top of the polls .
the bush campaign disputed the charge as inaccurate .
“ he has shared the frustration of voters from the outset and he has not strayed from that , ” said spokeswoman kristy campbell .
“ he has presented a hopeful , optimistic message that is based on the belief that he has the leadership skills to get the job done. ” viewing trump as a summer fad who would fade given his outrageous comments , the campaign was slow to respond to the billionaire when he first blasted bush last august as “ low-energy. ” bush maintained his above-the-fray strategy and focused on his policy proposals instead of mixing it up with trump .
trump relentlessly and bluntly attacked bush in speeches and on twitter , portraying him as tired , weak and out of touch with the party .
trump has mentioned bush on twitter hundreds of times , far more than any other republican candidate .
“ there was a decision made that he was not a serious person and would fade away , ” said one republican strategist close to the bush camp , who asked to remain anonymous .
“ you don ’ t want to dignify somebody who wasn ’ t a serious candidate .
it wasn ’ t just jeb .
nobody thought he was. ” when the “ low energy ” attacks on bush started to take hold and his poll numbers began dropping , he went out of his way to insist he had plenty of energy to be president , talking of working 16-hour days , putting in feistier appearances on the stump and hitting back at trump hard .
behind the scenes , though , donors said they fretted that too much time had gone by before he took the problem seriously .
some confidants of the former florida governor seethed for weeks at trump ’ s taunts and urged the campaign to shift to a more aggressive posture .
“ they made a horrendous miscalculation in not understanding the intent of the low-energy attack , which was designed to emasculate bush , to make him look weak , ” said steve schmidt , who was campaign manager to 2008 republican nominee john mccain .
“ defining him as weak denied him the ability to make the argument that by resume , competence and experience he was the most fit to command , ” said schmidt .
when bush launched his campaign in june , he was the clear frontrunner among republicans , polling at nearly 18 percent in a crowded field .
roughly six weeks later trump had taken a commanding lead with 26 percent and bush had dropped to around 12 percent , according to reuters/ipsos polling .
today trump stands at 38 percent .
but trump was hardly bush ’ s only obstacle .
perhaps his biggest misstep was one of his own making , when he spent days trying to explain whether he would have launched the iraq war begun by his brother , former president george w. bush .
even george w. bush has admitted mistakes were made in the 2003 conflict .
but for a week last may , jeb bush was flummoxed by the question .
the trouble began when he told fox news that “ i would have ” launched the invasion even knowing what is now known - that iraq did not possess weapons of mass destruction .
while bush said he did not understand the question , his response began days of controversy that fed a narrative pushed by democrats that he was little different from his brother when it came to iraq .
some of bush ’ s foreign policy advisers were surprised that bush did not have an answer prepared for the inevitable question .
there was a disagreement among his advisers on how best to respond , “ a genuine amount of confusion and upsetness about the whole thing , ” said one outside adviser to the campaign , who asked to be anonymous .
not wanting to be disloyal to his brother , bush spent days trying to articulate a position until he finally disavowed the statement and declared he would not have ordered the war .
“ the fact that we went through this anguished process of several days and several kinds of answers was quite astonishing , ” the adviser said .
finally , george w. bush told his brother he did not need to defend decisions made back in 2003 .
jeb bush had an on-again , off-again strategy to embrace the family name , but finally took full advantage of his family in new hampshire and especially in south carolina , where the bush family name remains a valuable brand .
for the first time in the campaign former president george w. bush hit the campaign trail in south carolina for his brother , addressing thousands of republicans at a rally .
“ i know campaigns are stressful and taxing , ” he said .
“ but they should be .
because the job of the president is much harder than the campaign. ” the challenges of the campaign were driven home two days later when jeb bush learned that south carolina ’ s governor , nikki haley , would endorse rubio .
it was a double blow for bush : not only did he fail to secure the backing of a popular governor , it went instead to rubio , his one-time political protégé who has been the target of stinging attacks from bush .
his allied super pac , right to rise usa , spent at least $ 12.5 million on advertising opposing rubio , according to federal election commission data .
bush learned about the endorsement at a town hall meeting in summerville , south carolina , where some members of the audience gave him advice on how to run his campaign .
he summed up the news briskly .
“ disappointed , ” he said .
by saturday night , less than two hours after the polls had closed , bush had called it quits .
( additional reporting by grant smith , melissa fares and chris kahn ; editing by paul thomasch and ross colvin ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .