a painting on display at a university of alaska anchorage art gallery , which depicts the severed head of president donald trump , is sparking debate about free speech rights and whether the image is appropriate for display , at a public institution.the artwork , created by assistant professor of painting thomas chung , is part of a faculty art exhibition , at the uaa fine arts building.in describing his painting , chung said , it s an image of the actor who plays captain america , and two eagles are sort of screaming into his ears , and he s holding the severed head of trump , and there s a young hillary clinton clinging to his leg .
i was reminded of those 80 s rock posters , where there s a woman in tattered clothes clinging to a strong male hero s leg .
chung says the motivation for the painting was his dismay over the results of the presidential election .
after trump was elected , i spent days just weeping .
and it was really surprising , because i m not a political person , chung said .
i am a social artist .
i deal mostly in ideals of culture and global culture , but this election bled into that .
the painting has prompted debate on social media and complaints to the university.paul berger , a former adjunct professor at uaa , went to see the painting , after a family member saw it on display .
berger posted pictures of the painting on his facebook page .
the painting itself , i kind of found disturbing , berger said .
the image itself was very graphic .
so from that point of view , and as a father , trying to explain to my children what the artist is trying to say [ it s ] difficult .
berger said he supports free speech , but questions whether it is appropriate for display , at a publicly-funded institution .
had the roles been reversed , and it was obama s head hanging there , i think the outrage would be fantastic , berger said .
as a free speech advocate , everyone has a right to express their opinion the way they want to express them .
but as a parent and a citizen , there s a discussion .
in a university setting , what s appropriate ?
chung said he had reservations about putting his painting on display at uaa , because of its political message .
i was really torn about putting this piece up a faculty show , because i would never talk about my own political beliefs to my students , chung said .
i would never push that upon them and make them feel uncomfortable , and so i wondered to myself if putting up this painting was in a way doing that .
but i realized that i feel very strongly about this , and i think even students that might be pro-trump supporters could benefit from having a conversation with me about why i feel this way why i painted this .
berger , who describes himself as a political conservative , questions whether a painting , depicting the decapitation of the president , will help civil discourse about politics .
prior to the election , it was important to the opposing side that we accept , move forward , respect our president and respect the rule of law , berger said .
as we raise our kids in our schools , we try to teach them and inculcate them in our civics .
paintings like that i really think send a strong , powerful , wrong message to children and students .
steven godfrey , chairman of the fine arts department at uaa , said , i guess the people are upset about the work that s being shown .
if they were taking a class at the university and made art that was considered controversial , no matter what their political or religious bent is , we would do our best to protect them and protect their rights to make that kind of work in the institution , whether it would be a student or faculty .
the exhibition that includes the painting is scheduled to remain on display through april 20 , in the kimora gallery .
ktuutom chung was born in new jersey and grew up in hong kong and new york city .
he received his bachelors of fine arts degree from the san francisco art institute in 2010 and his masters of fine arts degree from yale university in 2013 .
he has participated in numerous group and solo shows throughout the united states .
his multidisciplinary work has been written about in art in america , the new yorker , and modern painters magazine .