kabul ( reuters ) - one of the main parties behind afghanistan s western-backed government warned president ashraf ghani that it could withdraw its support unless he reversed the dismissal of one of its most powerful regional governors this week .
the warning from the jamiat-e islami party came after ghani removed atta mohammad noor as governor of balkh , a strategic northern province bordering afghanistan s central asian neighbors turkmenistan , uzbekistan and tajikistan .
describing the dismissal as a unilateral decision by ghani , jamiat s leadership called into question the legitimacy of the unity government formed after a disputed presidential election of 2014 .
if the presidential palace does not reconsider its one-sided action which is misusing the presence of the international community , jamiat-e islami will nullify the national unity government agreement and will employ all options to defend the legitimate rights of the people , the party leadership said in a statement .
the man named as atta noor s replacement , mohammad daoud , also from jamiat , said he would not take up the position until the situation had been resolved .
i want to stay out of it for now , he told reuters .
the standoff adds to an already clouded political climate in afghanistan , where the united states has announced a stepped-up military effort to break a stalemate with the taliban and force a settlement to 16 years of conflict .
long-delayed parliamentary elections , officially scheduled for next year , are now in doubt and an array of political leaders both inside and outside the government are positioning themselves ahead of a presidential election in 2019 .
ghani s government retains strong international backing but has faced increasing pressure from opposition groups and debilitating tension within its ranks between allies of ghani and government chief executive abdullah abdullah , a senior jamiat leader .
however , jamiat is itself divided and it remains unclear what approach will be taken by abdullah , who was ghani s rival in 2014 before taking the specially created post of chief executive in a u.s.-brokered power-sharing deal .
abdullah , who has regularly clashed with atta noor , has made no public comment on his dismissal .
the move to oust atta noor , one of a group of powerful regional strongmen , followed calls from politicians including former president hamid karzai for a loya jirga , or grand assembly of elders and political leaders to discuss the future of the government .
this month , atta noor was prevented from attending a meeting in the southern city of khandahar to discuss the loya jirga proposal .
as the political uncertainty has deepened , tension between pashtuns and ethnic tajiks , afghanistan s two largest ethnic groups , as well as others including ethnic uzbeks and the mainly shi ite hazara minority , have worsened .
many in jamiat , a mainly northern , ethnic tajik party , see ghani as a pashtun nationalist bent on concentrating power in his own office while jamiat s own opponents see the party as a base for old-style warlords who undermine national unity .