beijing ( reuters ) - members of china s ruling communist party have a duty to follow orders from the central leadership lest the country stray into anarchy , the country s top newspaper wrote on friday , warning against those who put themselves above the party .
president xi jinping has amassed power since taking office five years ago , tightening party control over all aspects of life and locking up rights activists and dissidents on subversion charges .
xi has also gone after competing power bases by jailing opponents for corruption , including the powerful former domestic security chief zhou yongkang and the popular one-time party boss of chongqing , bo xilai .
the party under xi s leadership has repeatedly warned that it will not tolerate dissenting voices , and the official people s daily struck a firm note in pressing home that message against a phenomenon it termed de-centralism .
de-centralism is a way of thinking and behaving where each goes their own way , with only freedom and no discipline , only thinking of acting alone and ignoring everyone else , the paper wrote in a commentary .
it is an extreme expression of individualism , and in its essence it s anarchy , it added .
the government has previously accused some of its disgraced former top officials , including zhou and bo , of seeking to establish independent kingdoms .
both men are currently serving life terms for corruption .
bo was well-known for his populist policies , including a high-profile crackdown on organized crime , investments in flashy infrastructure projects and quasi-maoist practices like organizing mass sing-alongs praising the party .
chongqing , one of china s most important cities and located in the country s southwest , has remained a hotbed of intrigue .
another former party boss , sun zhengcai , is currently awaiting trial in his own corruption scandal .
he too is accused of paying lip service to orders from beijing .
the people s daily said that some party officials were too free and undisciplined in their thinking .
add to that is the encroachment of individualism , hedonism and the worship of money .
a small number of these people slip into the morass of de-centralism and can not extract themselves , it said .
party members must do as they are told , as that is the only way to guarantee the authority of the central leadership , the paper added .