mexico city ( reuters ) - mexican rescuers raced against the clock on wednesday to save a 12-year-old girl trapped beneath a collapsed school and reach other possible survivors buried in rubble in central mexico following the country s most deadly earthquake in three decades .
at least 237 people were killed by the 7.1-magnitude quake that struck about 150 km ( 90 miles ) southeast of mexico city on tuesday afternoon , 32 years after a 1985 quake killed thousands .
rescue workers were able to communicate with the girl , identified only as frida sofia , who responded that there were two other students nearby but she could not tell if they were alive , according to broadcaster televisa , whose cameras and reporters had special access to the scene .
rescuers previously had seen a hand protruding from the debris , and she wiggled her fingers when asked if she was still alive , televisa said .
the girl s full name was not made public , but her family waited in anguish nearby , knowing that the bodies of 21 school children and four adults were already recovered from the enrique rebsamen school .
they and other parents clung to hope after rescue teams reported a teacher and two students had sent text messages from within the rubble .
rescuers moved slowly , erecting makeshift wooden scaffolding to prevent rubble from crumbling further and seeking a path to the child through the unstable ruins .
as in rescue scenes throughout the central valley of mexico , officials ruled out using heavy equipment as long as there were signs of life below .
some 14 hours after the effort began , rescue workers in hard hats made an urgent plea on camera for beams and chains to support parts of the school ruins that were collapsing .
we have a lot of hope that some will still be rescued , said david porras , one of scores of volunteers helping the search at the school for children aged 3 to 14 .
but we re slow , like turtles , he said .
rescuers periodically demanded total silence bystanders , who would freeze in place and stay quiet , to better hear calls for help .
similar efforts have pulled more than 50 survivors from buildings around the country , president enrique pena nieto said in a national address .
such rescues lead to impassioned cries of yes we can !
from responders and bystanders .
fifty-two buildings collapsed in mexico city alone , mayor miguel angel mancera told reporters .
in all the quake killed 102 people in mexico city and the remaining 135 from five surrounding states .
another 1,900 people were treated for injuries , the president said .
the quake struck a mere 31 km ( 32 miles ) beneath the surface , sending major shockwaves through the metropolitan area of some 20 million people .
much of the capital is built upon an ancient lake bed that shakes like jelly during a quake .
initial reports suggest that collapses were limited mostly to buildings that predated the 1985 quake , after which stricter building codes were enacted .
the central part of mexico city , in the lake bed , is always going to be a complicated place to build , said rodrigo suarez , chief operating officer at mexico city-based apartment developer hasta capital .
these old buildings ( may ) survive an earthquake or two or three , but since they weren t built to modern code , there s always going to be a risk in major earthquakes .
the national electric company restored service to 95 percent of the 5 million customers who had lost power , pena nieto said , and the state oil monopoly pemex said its installations suffered no significant damage and that all its operations were normal .
mexico was still recovering from another powerful tremor that killed nearly 100 people in the south of the country less than two weeks ago .
reinforcements from other countries began to arrive and more were on the way .
the united states , israel , spain , japan and several latin american countries had already responded with technical assistance and rescue teams , the president said .
a panamanian team of 32 rescue workers dressed in orange jumpsuits and helmets and two dogs arrived at mexico city s international airport on wednesday , prepared to go to work immediately searching for survivors .
they came self sufficient with seven days worth of food , water and supplies and prepared to work around the clock , said cesar lange , leader of the panamanian civil protection unit .
the u.s. agency for international development ( usaid ) was sending a disaster assistance response team to help , at the request of the mexican government , the agency said .
the united states remains committed to helping our neighbors during this difficult time , the statement said .
throughout the capital , crews were joined by volunteers and bystanders who used dogs , cameras , motion detectors and heat-seeking equipment to detect victims who may still be alive .
pena nieto spent the day surveying several of the rescue sites , making note of the large number of university students and others have volunteered for the search and rescue effort .
i have seen an active and very committed participation from the mexican youth .
...
i have seen a lot of solidarity , pena nieto said .
the president has been unusually visible since the two earthquakes , a sign of the political sensitivity of disaster relief less than a year before the next presidential election .
we re clearly aware that this is a test we can not flunk , said senator miguel angel chico of the ruling institutional revolutionary party , or pri .
for a graphic on earthquake location , click : here