lisbon ( reuters ) - portugal s interior minister resigned on wednesday after wildfires killed more than a hundred people in the past four months , but the move did little to appease the opposition which called on prime minister antonio costa also to step down .
hundreds of fires have raged across northern and central portugal since sunday after the driest summer in nearly 90 years , killing at least 41 people and overwhelming firefighting and rescue services .
in june , a forest fire killed 64 people .
the government , which has enjoyed strong approval ratings due to an improving economy , faces a no-confidence vote next week over its slow response to the fires and a failure to prevent heavy loss of lives .
although the motion is unlikely to pass , the socialist government has been weakened by the public clamor over the fires and a further reshuffle may be on the cards , some analysts believe .
costa , who said he felt secure about confidence in his government , nonetheless accepted the resignation of interior minister constanca urbano de sousa whose office is in charge of firefighting , and the police and civil protection services .
although this tragedy resulted from many factors , i no longer have the political and personal conditions to remain in my position , the minister said in her resignation statement .
the social democrats , the main opposition , on wednesday threw their support behind the no-confidence motion launched by a relatively small centre-right party cds-pp .
the two , however , do not have enough seats to bring down the government , whose left-wing allies closed ranks around it on wednesday .
you would do a favour to the country by submitting your resignation , social democrat bench leader hugo soares told costa during a fierce debate in parliament .
in order to stay in power , you are telling portuguese to go screw themselves .
but left bloc leader catarina martins called the no-confidence motion a grotesque trick and exploitation of the country s vulnerability after the tragedy .
the minority government relies on support from left bloc and communists in parliament .
both parties have blamed previous governments , especially the social democrat-cds coalition which ruled in 2011-15 and imposed painful austerity measures , for bad forestry management and underfinancing of fire prevention .
costa once again promised reforms to meet any new such challenges in the future and blamed severe drought for the fires and decades of neglect in management of forested areas .
he was due on wednesday to meet president marcelo rebelo de sousa , who has also been critical of the state s response .
this year s fires have burnt a record 520,000 hectares of forest , 52 times the size of lisbon proper and representing nearly 60 percent of the total area burnt in the entire european union in 2017 , data from the eu showed on wednesday .
portugal represents just about 2.1 percent of europe s total landmass .