two months before the 2016 election , teen vogue featured a personal essay by hillary clinton , a conversation between amandla stenberg and gloria steinem , and an interview with loretta lynch.in their latest grotesque attempt to make immoral behavior appear to be mainstream for young girls , teen vogue asks their young readers .
in the article , gigi engle suggests that young girls stay away from the internet when it comes to exploring the topic of anal sex and instead , rely strictly on teen vogue for all of their information .
hmmmm .that s an interesting concept ; don t read anything else , just rely on teen vogue as your sole source of information .
sounds like indoctrination 101.here s an excerpt from the article one might expect to find in penthouse magazine : teen vogue when it comes to your body , it s important that you have the facts .
it s not doing your sexual health or self-understanding any favors to keep you in the dark.with that sentiment in mind , we re here to lay it all out for you when it comes to anal sex.why anal ? anal sex , though often stigmatized and shamed , is a perfectly natural way to engage in sexual activity .
people have been having anal sex since the dawn of humanity .
seriously , it s been documented back to the ancient greeks and then some .
so , if you re a little worried about trying it , or are having trouble understanding the appeal , just know that it isn t weird or gross.in a separate article , vogue magazine talks about a makeup manufacturer offering butt-plugs : omg https : //t.co/wu0nbw3wf3 teen vogue ( @ teenvogue ) july 11 , 2017teen vogue is filled with anti-trump and anti-republican propaganda .
scroll through their twitter feed and you ll be hard pressed to find an article about fashion , makeup tips or how to handle mean girls in middle and high school .
articles like the one below are designed to incite anger and hate towards anyone who doesn t agree with the writers point of view , yet teen vogue is being passed off as vogue magazine for teens .
`` tragically , the quality of education around the world is too often determined by race , gender , and zip code . ''
https : //t.co/oekzvoomk5 teen vogue ( @ teenvogue ) july 11 , 2017here s the same article with a different tweet that s designed to incite hate and anger towards president trump and his administration .
`` this is beyond discriminating against communities of color and low-income students ; this is cruel . ''
https : //t.co/bmcogvstja teen vogue ( @ teenvogue ) july 10 , 2017how did teen vogue become such a radical leftist indoctrination tool for teens ? the atlantic in may , 29-year-old elaine welteroth took over as editor from amy astley , who helped found the magazine in 2003 .
welteroth , the digital editorial director phillip picardi , and the creative director marie suter have moved the magazine more aggressively into covering politics , feminism , identity , and activism .
together , the three have shepherded a range of timely , newsy stories , including an interview exploring what it s like to be a muslim woman facing a trump presidency , a list of reasons why mike pence s record on women s rights and lgbtq rights should trouble readers , and a video in which two native american teenagers from the standing rock sioux tribe discuss the dakota access pipeline protests.teen vogue was founded in 2003 at the behest of vogue s editor-in-chief , anna wintour , who tasked astley , the magazine s beauty editor at the time , to conceive test issues of a spinoff publication for teens .
the publication s early focus was fashion .
we are going to do what we do well , which is fashion , beauty , and style , astley told the new york times s david carr shortly before its launch .
a lot of other teen magazines are focused on relationships , boys , sex , and embarrassing moments .
that is not our equity .
at the time , carr noted , many rival teen publications were struggling .
and since teen vogue debuted , a number of them elle girl , cosmogirl ! , teen people , teen have folded .
* one of the challenges is that teen audiences tend to evolve faster than the adults catering to them can catch up .
it s always been such a volatile market because your audience morphs so rapidly , john harrington , a publishing consultant , told the times in 2013 .
the genius of the current iteration of teen vogue is that it s caught on to its current readers enthusiasm for topical issues in a timely enough fashion to actually engage them .
i think in 2016 we found our footing and our voice as a publication in a strong way , picardi , the publication s digital editorial director , told me via email .
obviously , the election has provided unique circumstances and a real need for someone to dissect the news for young people .
since we are , in particular , a brand that speaks directly to millions of young women , we have a responsibility to do right by them and view the news through that very specific lens .