donald trump is a serial liar and that probably explains his dislike for fact-checkers .
donald has viciously targeted the media and his supporters respond by frequently referring to reporters as the enemy .
while giving a speech at an airport in sanford , florida , trump went after fact-checkers .
these fact-checkers , they ll check facts with me and i m like , like , 99-per-cent right , and they ll say , and therefore he lied , trump said .
oh boy , these people are bad .
what a group of people we have .
what a group of dishonest scum we have , i m telling you .
he literally called fact-checkers scum .
daniel dale , a washington correspondent for the toronto star , fact checks donald and the paper produces a list almost daily of trump s lies.dale noted on twitter that trump said 35 false things yesterday .
donald trump said 35 false things yesterday .
# trumpcheck pic.twitter.com/ewfyfedfx9 daniel dale ( @ ddale8 ) october 26 , 2016his following tweet reads , donald trump s 35 false claims on tuesday follows his record-tying 37 false claims on monday .
donald trump s 35 false claims on tuesday follows his record-tying 37 false claims on monday .
daniel dale ( @ ddale8 ) october 26 , 2016the day before trump s speech in which he blasted fact-checkers , the star counted 37 false claims from the gop presidential nominee.that tied the record he set at the third and final presidential debate , which he claimed every poll showed him winning , which was , of course , not at all true.the paper admits that there are grains of truth in some of his false claims but most are flat wrong .
the list includes trump s regurgitated rhetoric on hillary clinton s emails .
trump claimed the deletion of emails was such an expensive process , however , a free software program was used.he said nobody has asked her running mate , tim kaine , about comments her aides made about catholics in hacked emails , though kaine has been asked on national television .
he bragged , for at least the second time , that he had won 42 states in the republican primary , though it was 36 states.watch : there is a massive imbalance in the frequency of dishonesty .
@ ddale8 says trump lies a lot more than clinton https : //t.co/kp6kvpntmo reliable sources ( @ reliablesources ) october 30 , 2016the paper fact-checked the three presidential debates .
trump said 104 false things .
in contrast , clinton said 13 .
you have a candidate who is frequently saying 20 false things in a day , up to 37 on some days , dale said.at the rally in florida , trump called journalists a bunch of phony low-lifes .
trump s assault on the first amendment has been vicious .
in august , trump pointed at msnbc s katy tur .
what a lie .
katy tur .
what a lie it was , trump said , pointing at her from the stage .
third .
rate .
reporter .
remember that .
after that , the secret service had to escort her to her car .
and now it s fact-checkers who are being targeted.photo by chip somodevilla via getty .