helsinki ( reuters ) - finnish president sauli niinisto is set to be elected for a second six-year term in january elections by a wide margin , a poll commissioned by public broadcaster yle showed on thursday .
known for cultivating good relations with russian counterpart vladimir putin , 69-year-old niinisto an independent candidate who previously represented the conservative national coalition party had the support of 76 percent in the poll .
fourteen percent of respondents backed lawmaker pekka haavisto from the greens of finland while five others had in total around 10 percent .
the president is in charge of finland s foreign and defense policy together with the government , but otherwise the post has become largely ceremonial in the past few decades .
following the ukraine crisis and chilly east-west relations , niinisto has taken an active role in maintaining relations with neighboring russia by regular contacts with putin .
finland is an eu member but it has stayed out of the nato military alliance under its tradition of avoiding confrontation with russia .
the two countries share a 833 mile ( 1,340 km ) border and a difficult history .
i don t easily declare myself as an advisor ...
but my message to moscow , brussels , washington and any other place is : you should have dialogue , niinisto told reporters last week .
the election will take place on january 28 .
if no candidate gets half of the votes , there will be a second round in february .
if niinisto and haavisto met in a second round , niinisto would win 82 percent of that vote , the poll showed .
the numbers are exceptional .
incumbent presidents always have an advantage , but we ve never seen one s popularity grow as the election gets closer , said johanna vuorelma , political scientist at university of helsinki .
with the current tensions in the baltic sea region , it seems people look for a safe and familiar candidate , and don t even want to consider alternatives .
the poll by taloustutkimus surveyed 1,470 finns last week .