geneva ( reuters ) - north korea is ready to send more gift packages to the united states , one of its top diplomats said on tuesday , dismissing the international uproar over his country s latest and biggest nuclear weapons test .
han tae song , ambassador of the democratic people s republic of korea ( dprk ) to the united nations in geneva , was addressing the u.n.-sponsored conference on disarmament two days after his country detonated its sixth nuclear test explosion .
i am proud of saying that just two days ago on the third of september , dprk successfully carried out a hydrogen bomb test for intercontinental ballistic rocket under its plan for building a strategic nuclear force , han told the geneva forum .
the recent self-defense measures by my country , dprk , are a gift package addressed to none other than the u.s. , han said .
the u.s. will receive more gift packages from my country as long as its relies on reckless provocations and futile attempts to put pressure on the dprk , he added without elaborating .
u.s. disarmament ambassador robert wood sought to turn the tables on han by using his language against him .
with regard to the so-called gift packages that the north is presenting , my recommendation to the north would be , instead of spending inordinate amounts of money on nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles , that it give its people the gift package of peace with their neighbors , economic development and an opportunity to rejoin the family of nations .
han said military measures being taken by north korea were an exercise of restraint and justified self-defense right to counter the ever-growing and decade-long u.s. nuclear threat and hostile policy aimed at isolating my country .
pressure or sanctions will never work on my country , han declared , adding : the dprk will never under any circumstances put its nuclear deterrence on the negotiating table .
wood said that north korea had defied the international community once again with its test .
we look forward to working with our partners in the ( u.n. security ) council with regard to a new resolution that will put some of the strongest sanctions possible on the dprk , he told the conference .
advances in the regime s nuclear and missile program are a threat to us all ... now is the time to say tests , threats and destabilizing actions will no longer be tolerated , wood said .
it can no longer be business as usual with this regime .
the white house said on monday president donald trump had agreed in principle to scrap a warhead weight limit on south korea s missiles following the north s latest test .
the united states accused north korea s trading partners of aiding its nuclear ambitions and said pyongyang was begging for war .