george soros is trying his best to destroy america !
he is ramping up his efforts now !
james woods said it best when he tweeted that soros would be happy with what happened in charlottesville : attorney general jeff sessions released a statement that there would be an investigation into what happened in charlottesville .
we re hoping sessions digs deep !
if ag jeff sessions doesn t dig deep asap to uncover soros involvement in antifa and blm , then this soros-funded war will continue .
we need a fighter to win the battle against this evil hungarian globalist ! liberal billionaire george soros s advocacy arm is ramping up its lobbying efforts this year , disclosure forms show.soros wants open borders and globalism : the amount soros spent on lobbying shot up to $ 11 million in 2013 , a drastic increase from the $ 3.4 million the group had spent in 2012 .
the uptick could be attributed to the group s push for comprehensive immigration reform during this time.the open society policy center , a d.c.-based nonprofit that focuses on advocacy efforts and is a separate entity from the soros grant making open society foundations , has spent nearly as much on lobbying in the first half of 2017 as the group did in the entirety of 2016.the open society policy center reported spending $ 4.6 million in the first and second quarters , which runs from jan. 1 to june 30 , according its disclosure forms filed to the house of representatives and the senate.three in-house lobbyists ?
the group has three in-house lobbyists who lobby the u.s. senate , house of representatives , national security council , the department of defense , and the department of state.soros even tried to influence the decision of the supreme court on immigration according to the daily caller : open society foundations , hungarian-born billionaire george soros stated vehicle for progressive social change , orchestrated a well-funded attempt to secure a desired outcome in a u.s. supreme court case on illegal immigration enforcement , according to a newly discovered memo between the organization s top u.s. officials and board members.soros drastically extended the policy scope of his lobbying efforts as the year progressed , including to issues that have been seen as a direct strike against the hungarian-born billionaire.if hungary ( soros home country ) can try and ban his gov t interference , why can t we ? from january to march , soros s group lobbied on three issues .
from april to june , the group lobbied 17 different issues , including the bill on foreign funded organizations in hungary ( lexngo ) , hungary s crack down on foreign-funded organizations in the country.hungary s parliament approved the law that targets foreign-funded organizations in june , which they have said can threaten the country s political and economic interests and interfere with the functioning of its institutions , according to text of the law.although the law does not mention soros by name , politicians in hungary previously said they wanted to sweep out organizations tied to soros.soros s open society foundations has given money to a number of prominent ngos in hungary .
the group has said that the country s bill seeks to suppress democratic voices in hungary .
the lobbyists also worked on issues such as the restricting first use of nuclear weapons act of 2017 and the national defense authorization act for fiscal year 2018 , among others.soros s lobbying efforts have quietly skyrocketed in recent years.the policy center reported spending $ 19,120,000 on lobbying for policy and legislative efforts with congress and government agencies between 2002 and 2012 , which averages out to $ 1.9 million per year.we had a puppet master pulling the strings in the white house for 8 years !
it s time for this to stop !
read more : wfb