( reuters ) - nearly 400,000 rohingya muslims have fled to neighboring bangladesh since a surge in violence in myanmar s rakhine state began on aug 25 .
the exodus of refugees , sparked by a fierce military response to a series of rohingya militant attacks , is the most pressing crisis nobel laureate aung san suu kyi has faced since becoming leader last year .
she has been the target of criticism from fellow nobel laureates and religious leaders across the world , for failing to condemn the human rights abuses against the rohingya .
here are a selection of quotes about her reticence : aung san suu kyi - 1991 nobel peace prize , myanmar leader `` we have to take care of our citizens .
we have to take care of everybody who is in our country , whether or not they are our citizens . ''
( sept 7 - reut.rs/2x1s4ey ) desmond tutu - 1984 nobel peace prize , anti-apartheid leader , addressing suu kyi : `` my dear sister : if the political price of your ascension to the highest office in myanmar is your silence , the price is surely too steep . ''
( sept 7 - bit.ly/2xqiv0p ) malala yousafzai - 2014 nobel peace prize , women s rights activist over the last several years , i have repeatedly condemned this tragic and shameful treatment .
i am still waiting for my fellow nobel laureate aung san suu kyi to do the same .
`` the world is waiting and the rohingya muslims are waiting . ''
( sept 4 - bit.ly/2ertmzq ) nobel women s initiative - open letter to aung san suu kyi from five nobel peace laureates `` how many rohingya have to die ; how many rohingya women will be raped ; how many communities will be razed before you raise your voice in defense of those who have no voice ?
( sept 11 - bit.ly/2wwra7u ) petition hosted on change.org - online petition urging nobel committee to revoke suu kyi s peace prize gathers more than 420,000 signatures .
`` until this second , the de facto ruler of myanmar , aung san suu kyi , has done virtually nothing to stop this crime against humanity in her country . ''
( bit.ly/1wbrfjn )