nairobi ( reuters ) - kenya s police monitor said on monday investigations into the alleged killings by police of a girl and a baby in election-related violence were complete , and a spokesman said the case would probably end up in court .
kenyan police frequently face accusations of brutality and extrajudicial killings from civilians and rights groups , but officers are rarely charged and almost never convicted .
human rights groups say at least 66 people have died in bloodshed associated with the august election , which was later voided by the supreme court , and in unrest surrounding the re-run of the presidential vote last month .
stephanie moraa , an 8-year-old girl in the nairobi slum of mathare , died after being hit by a stray bullet as police fired to disperse protesters on aug. 12 , the day after election results were announced .
and the parents of six-month-old samantha pendo said she was teargassed and clubbed by police who invaded their home in kisumu looking for protesters .
on monday , the government-funded but civilian-run independent police oversight authority ( ipoa ) said it had forwarded its findings and recommendations to the director of public prosecutions for review and direction .
asked on monday what ipoa had recommended to the prosecutor s office regarding the two deaths , spokesman dennis oketch said : it s a matter which will most likely end up in court .
we don t want to give any information that can become prejudicial .
we will wait for the [ prosecutor s ] review .
ipoa s statement did not specify if it had identified suspects in the two deaths .
it did not mention any other investigations into election-related violence .
it has however , completed another investigation into alleged police beatings at a demonstration in september at kenya s oldest university that sparked opposition anger at what they see as a pattern of police brutality .
ipoa said it had recommended to a police service commission that it take stern disciplinary action against the responsible commander .
it had also forwarded the investigation file to the prosecutor s office , the statement read .
shortly after the august election , ipoa said it was fast-tracking investigations of all deaths and injuries for which the police were alleged by rights groups to be responsible .
kenyan police dispute those accounts .
the national police service described a report last month by human rights watch and amnesty international on 33 deaths in nairobi during the crackdown as totally misleading and based on falsehoods .
despite its history of police brutality , kenya is an economic and transport hub in east africa and important western ally against militant islam that receives substantial financial support for its security services from international donors , including the united states and britain .
the ipoa was set up in 2011 after the killings of around 1,200 people in violence following the disputed 2007 election .
it has received more than 9,000 complaints of police brutality and corruption since then .
last year , it secured its first conviction , of two police officers sentenced for the death of a 14-year-old girl shot dead during a house raid in 2014 .
a survey last year by the non-profit international police science association ranked kenya s police force as the 125th worst-performing out of 127 national police forces studied .
only forces in the democratic republic of congo and nigeria did worse , measured on factors such as process and legitimacy .