caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan leftist president nicolas maduro said on tuesday that terrorists had broken into a national guard unit over the weekend and stolen weapons , the latest sign of volatility in the oil-rich country convulsed by a profound economic crisis .
oscar perez , a rogue venezuelan police pilot wanted for lobbing grenades and shooting at government buildings in june , claimed responsibility for the attack , which he called operation genesis .
a video posted on perez s youtube account shows armed , masked men taking control of military barracks under cover of night .
they smash photos of maduro and his predecessor , the late hugo chavez , handcuff around a dozen soldiers and berate them for supporting dictatorship in venezuela .
you yourselves are dying of hunger .
why have you not done anything , given you have weapons ?
why do you keep protecting these drug-trafficking dictators ?
the assailants shout at gagged soldiers crouching on the floor of what appears to be a bathroom .
soon we ll win the war ... so that venezuela can be free , says perez , under the cover of a black balaclava .
his twitter account later posted a purported summary by authorities of the attack .
the summary says some 49 armed men stole around 26 kalashnikov ak-103 s and over 3,000 munitions for the rifles , as well as pistols , in miranda state near caracas during the early hours of monday .
reuters was not able to independently confirm details of the attack .
the information ministry did not respond to a request for comment .
an action film star who portrays himself as a james bond cum-rambo figure on social media , perez has added surreal twists to venezuela s long-running political drama .
he rose to fame in june after hijacking a police helicopter flying over caracas center .
he fired shots at and lobbed grenades on the interior ministry and the supreme court to fight what he said was a tyrannical government .
he went into hiding after the attack , only to pop up two weeks later at an opposition vigil for anti-government protesters killed during demonstrations that rocked the country earlier this year .
perez s latest offensive highlights instability in venezuela , an opec member state heaving under malnutrition , disease and the world s steepest inflation rate .
the opposition has long appealed to the military , historically a powerbroker in venezuela , for help .
maduro on tuesday denounced the attackers , whom he did not name , as terrorists sent by his ideological enemy the united states .
wherever they appear , i ve told the armed forces : fire at the terrorist groups !
he said during a speech on state television , as he blamed opposition groups in miami for orchestrating the raid .
do these people think they can attack a unit of the armed forces to steal some guns and threaten democracy and that that s going to be tolerated ?
zero tolerance !
maduro said .
the military has played a key role in government since chavez - himself a former military officer - took office in 1999 promising to bring greater equality to venezuela , home to the world s largest oil reserves .
the top brass continues to publicly profess loyalty to maduro s government .
critics say juicy government contracts , corruption and contraband mean that many military officials want maduro to stay in office and fear persecution should the opposition take power .
discontent is higher among lower-tier officials , who are often sent to control rowdy protests and are paid the equivalent of just a handful of u.s. dollars a month .