yangon ( reuters ) - myanmar must guarantee equal rights for everyone in troubled rakhine state as talks on repatriation of more than 620,000 rohingya muslims who have fled to bangladesh gather steam , the new eu ambassador to the country said on thursday .
kristian schmidt , who took over the european union mission in yangon some two months ago , also called on the administration of nobel peace laureate aung san suu kyi to break down barriers between buddhist and muslim communities in rakhine .
he said the return of refugees should be voluntary and the involvement of the united nations agencies in the repatriation process would be extremely useful .
the initial deal struck by bangladesh and myanmar mentions the u.n. refugee agency , unhcr , but does not specify its role .
schmidt said myanmar must address the root causes of the rakhine crisis , such as decades-long discrimination against the rohingya population that included restrictions on movement and lack of access to proper education .
the primary priority , which is for the local authorities and the union government to establish rule of law , non-discriminatory civilian administration ... and equal rights for everyone , schmidt told reuters in an interview in yangon .
there are root causes that must be addressed in rakhine state so when the refugees return they do not return to the situation ex ante - this is not sustainable , he said .
the exodus of rohingya was triggered by an army crackdown in response to rohingya militant attacks on security forces on aug. 25 - attacks schmidt referred to as terrorism and the eu has condemned .
schmidt said confining the rohingya to villages reduced education opportunities and could have radicalized some .
you should not be surprised later that some of the elements of that population radicalizes .
becomes increasingly desperate , he said .
amid the army crackdown , scores of rohingya villages were burnt and refugees have told reporters of killings and rapes .
the united nations and the united states have both accused myanmar of ethnic cleansing , a charge the country denies .
in response to the army operation , brussels suspended invitations to myanmar army chief min aung hlaing and senior army officers .
we are ready to review that decision at any time in light of positive or not-so-positive news .
we still of course understand the importance the military of myanmar plays in myanmar s economic and democratic transition so dialogue is open , said schmidt .
he added , however , that there was the need for accountability and reiterated the eu s support for a u.n.-mandated fact-finding mission that suu kyi s administration has opposed and blocked from operating in the country .
there has to be a credible , independent investigation of the events that led 620,000 people to flee to quite horrible conditions on the other side of the border , he said .
we need to know .
the danish diplomat spoke on the sidelines of a conference promoting the eu s erasmus+ program of exchanges between university students .
he wants myanmar students to take part in it to help overhaul institutions as the country emerges from decades of isolation under military dictatorship .