manila ( reuters ) - most filipinos believe only the poor are killed in their country s war on drugs , and want president rodrigo duterte to reveal the identity of alleged narcotics kingpins and charge them in court , a survey released on monday showed .
the survey of 1,200 filipinos by social weather stations ( sws ) conducted late in june also showed public opinion was split over the validity of police accounts of operations against illegal drugs that resulted in deaths .
more than 3,800 people have been killed during duterte s 15-month-old crackdown , all during police operations .
human rights group say the death toll is much higher and the official figures overlook murders attributed to shadowy vigilantes .
some activists say unknown gunmen have collaborated with police to kill drug dealers and users .
police and the government vehemently reject those allegations and accuse critics of exaggerating the death toll for political gain .
the high death toll in duterte s fight against crime and drugs , a key election plank , has stoked international alarm , although domestic polls have shown filipinos are largely supportive of the tough measures .
the crackdown has come under heavy scrutiny of late , prompted largely by the police killing of a 17-year-old student on august 16 .
two witnesses on monday told a senate inquiry they saw police officers kill another teenager arrested earlier in the same area for robbery .
in both teen killings , however , police said the victims had violently resisted arrest .
a third teenager arrested with the second victim was found dead with 30 stab wounds in a province about a three-hour drive away from the capital .
duterte has several times brandished what he called a file on 6,000 alleged druglords at the center of the country s trade .
in the sws survey , 74 percent of respondents said they wanted him to make that list public .
the survey also showed 60 percent agreed with the statement that only poor drug pushers were killed .
duterte , who enjoys huge support among working class filipinos , has been angered by critics who characterized his campaign as a war against the poor .
the survey also showed nearly half of respondents were undecided whether police were telling the truth when saying that drugs war deaths happened only when suspects refused to go quietly .
twenty-eight percent said the police were lying but a quarter believed they were being honest .
the philippines , extremely sensitive about foreign criticism of its drugs war , last week accused the west of bias , hypocrisy and interference after 39 nations , most of them european , expressed concern about the drug-related killings .