raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - u.s.-backed militias battled foreign fighters defending the last pocket of islamic state s one-time syrian capital of raqqa on monday , bringing their four-month offensive for the city to the brink of victory .
a reuters correspondent saw smoke rising above the city and heard mortar fire , but did not see air strikes while in raqqa .
a field commander of the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias , said he expected the operation to end on monday .
the u.s.-led coalition that backs them said it could not give a timeline .
sdf spokesman mostafa bali said they were fighting islamic state in only one small zone of raqqa in the evening , around the city s national hospital and stadium .
bali said he could not determine how much longer the battle would take .
the clashes are ongoing , he added .
a convoy of syrian islamic state fighters quit raqqa on saturday night with their families , leaving only 200-300 foreign jihadists to mount a last stand , the sdf has said .
the sdf is now poised to end islamic state s rule over a city where it had launched a string of lightning victories in 2014 and plotted attacks on civilian targets across the west .
its defeat in raqqa mirrors its collapse across iraq and syria , where its enemies have driven it from cities , killed its leaders in air strikes and regained the oil fields that funded its self-declared caliphate .
islamic state lost mosul in iraq , its largest city and most prized possession , after months of fighting in july .
the militants , which at their height ruled millions of people in both countries , are now forced back in syria into a strip of the euphrates valley south of deir al-zor and desert on each side .
we have conducted some ( air ) strikes in the last 24 hours , but i suspect that that will pick up here very soon with the sdf advancing into the final remaining areas of the city , said coalition spokesman colonel ryan dillon .
the sdf said they gained control of six more districts on monday .
the coalition has supported the sdf with air power and special forces throughout its raqqa campaign , which began in november with an offensive to isolate the city .
the battle inside raqqa started in june , and the intense air strikes and street-to-street fighting drove many of its people to refugee camps and left much of the city a mess of concrete debris .
the field commander in raqqa described monday s fighting as a clearing operation and said he expected it to be completed by the end of the day with the sdf controlling the whole city .
ilham ahmed , a senior kurdish leader who co-chairs the sdf s political affiliate , said earlier she expected the end of the offensive to be declared within hours or days .
a reuters correspondent was with an sdf sniper unit on a frontline facing the hospital complex that represents one of islamic state s last strongholds in the city , and saw two men in camouflage clothing climb a building and raise a flag .
cars in the streets below had loudspeakers mounted on their roofs broadcasting messages to the last islamic state fighters telling them they would not be ill-treated if they surrendered .
another sdf field commander , who gave his name as ashraf serhad , said he had heard that 250 is fighters remained and on sunday he had seen several vehicles leave the hospital carrying some who had surrendered .
saturday night s convoy included about 100 is fighters and nearly 200 family members , said omar alloush , a member of the raqqa civil council set up under sdf auspices to run the city .
the fighters who left in the convoy , as part of a deal brokered by tribal leaders , are being held by security forces before interrogation and may be tried in court , he added .
the deal also allowed civilians to leave is-held districts .
dillon said about 3,500 civilians had left the militant-held parts of the city in the past week .
the strongest group in the sdf is the ypg , a kurdish militia that turkey regards as an extension of the pkk , which has waged an insurgency against ankara for three decades .
ypg influence across swathes of northern syria including in majority arab areas , and its backing by the u.s. , has provoked disquiet in turkey .
the u.s.-backed offensive has pushed islamic state from most of northern syria , while a rival offensive by the syrian army , backed by russia , iran and shi ite militias , has driven the jihadists from the central desert .
when the jihadist group was entrenched in syria and iraq , it turned raqqa into a planning and operations hub .
many of its leaders were at times based there , and former hostages said mohammed emwazi , better known as jihadi john , imprisoned them along with those he later executed in a building near the city .
the group killed dozens of captured syrian soldiers there in july 2014 and made the city the site of a slave market for yazidi women captured in iraq and given to fighters .
the coalition has said raqqa was a center for attacks abroad , and in november 2015 , after militants killed more than 130 people in paris , france launched airstrikes on islamic state targets in the city .
but as the group defends its last patch of bomb-cratered ground in the city , the cost of the battle lies evident all around .
much of raqqa lies ruined , hundreds of civilians have been killed , and thousands more have fled .