des moines , iowa ( reuters ) - donald trump shunned thursday night ’ s debate of the republican presidential candidates hosted by fox news and instead filled an auditorium a few miles down the road , trying to prove his widespread support only days before iowa kicks off the u.s. nominating voting process .
trump , with just one day ’ s notice on a weeknight , was able to fill to capacity a hall at drake university that holds 700 .
“ i didn ’ t want to be here , to be honest , i wanted to be about five minutes away ” at the debate , trump told the crowd .
“ when you ’ re treated badly , you have to stick up for your rights - whether we like it or not. ” the back-and-forth between trump and fox news continued even after the debate had begun .
trump said he skipped the debate because he would not be treated fairly by fox news anchor and debate moderator megyn kelly .
he told the crowd that fox news made repeated calls to try to persuade him to change his mind .
he said officials , presumably the network ’ s chairman , roger ailes , called him until moments before the debate began .
fox news told the story differently .
the network acknowledged that ailes had three conversations with trump but said in a statement that trump had offered to participate in the debate only if fox news donated $ 5 million to his charity .
fox news declined to make the payment , calling it a “ quid pro quo ” in its statement .
trump has made such a demand previously , telling cnn when it hosted a republican debate that it should donate $ 5 million to charity from the profits gained from advertising .
cnn turned down that demand .
trump was able to garner a tremendous amount of attention on thursday without having to share much of the spotlight .
cable news networks cnn and msnbc provided extensive coverage of his event .
in deciding to hold a competing event , trump said the gathering would be to benefit veterans and he welcomed his rivals to attend .
former arkansas governor mike huckabee and former u.s .
senator rick santorum of pennsylvania joined trump after participating in the undercard debate held for the republican candidates at the bottom of the polls .
both men spoke briefly about the need to help the nation ’ s veterans .
trump told the crowd that in one day he raised more than $ 5 million for a veterans group , although his campaign did not say which group was getting the funds .
at the conclusion of the event , trump announced that the total raised for veterans had risen to $ 6 million .
trump said he personally donated $ 1 million .
trump ’ s decision to skip the debate was sharply criticized by his opponents .
u.s .
senator ted cruz opened the debate by mocking trump in his absence .
“ i ’ m a maniac and everyone on this stage is stupid , fat and ugly , ” cruz said , imitating trump .
“ and ben , you ’ re a terrible surgeon .
now that we ’ ve gotten the donald trump portion out of the way. ” there are risks in holding his own event for trump , who several recent polls have shown barely leading cruz .
if trump wins the iowa caucuses , the move will be lauded as proof that he has built a movement capable of circumventing establishment media .
if he places second , the skipped debate will be blamed as a fatal tactical error that allowed opponents to paint him as weak in the fact of tough questions .
trump acknowledged that he did not know whether the event would ultimately hurt or help his campaign .
“ who the hell knows , but it ’ s for our vets , ” he said .
supporters and some curious onlookers waited in the sub-freezing cold in a line that wrapped around the building and down a block .
trump ’ s campaign erected a large jumbotron outside the auditorium to allow an overflow crowd to watch his remarks .
before trump took the stage , some of his well-known supporters spoke .
lynnette “ diamond ” hardaway and rochelle “ silk ” richardson , two women with a large online video blog following , urged the crowd to back trump .
randy bowling , a trump supporter from ottumwa , iowa , said some of his friends who are undecided in the republican contest said trump ’ s decision to not participate in the debate raised doubts about supporting him .
“ we have mixed emotions , ” bowling said .
“ we caught a lot of flak from our friends who are on the fence. ” sharon and richard lode drove three hours from sioux rapids , iowa to see trump ’ s event , deciding they would make the drive with only one-day ’ s notice .
sharon lode , who is 65 , was not worried that skipping the debate could hurt trump on caucus day .
“ it took a lot of guts to stand up to them , ” she said .
steven doran , 19 , was one of the many students and other curious area residents who attended the event with no plans to ultimately support trump .
doran plans to participate in the democratic caucus .
“ the spectacle , ” doran said , when asked why he was there .
“ i ’ ve never seen trump in person . ”