liberals on twitter just can t find enough reasons to hate trump or anyone connected to him .
tonight , libs went nuts over a picture that was taken of kellyanne conway in the oval office as she positioned herself on a couch ( gasp with her shoes still on ) while taking a group picture , as president trump met with the leaders of the nation s historically black colleges and universities .
hmmm .maybe the anger wasn t really about conway s shoes after all .
maybe the outrage is really more about the idea that president trump met with a large group of prominent black leaders in the oval office .
they couldn t attack the black leaders , so why not attack one of the most accomplished women in america ? things must be slow at the liberal rag buzzfeed , as their deputy news director took to twitter over his concern for kellyanne conway wearing her shoes while kneeling on the couch in the oval office : shoes on the couch in the oval office pic.twitter.com/h2mxuocear jon passantino ( @ passantino ) february 28 , 2017and this from a chicago tribune columnist : i have so many questions about this photo , but chief among them is why nobody is telling kellyanne conway to get her damn feet off the couch pic.twitter.com/tu0cbs36fe rex huppke ( @ rexhuppke ) february 28 , 2017here s our response to this clever tweeter who attempted to imagine if hillary clinton actually put her shoes up on the couch in the oval office .
yeah , never mind that whole monica lewinsky thing with bill in the oval office .
kellyanne s shoes on the couch is much worse than hillary s husband committing sex acts with a 19 year old intern in the oval office .
lol ! you 've clearly forgotten what @ hillaryclinton 's husband did in the oval office.he turned it into cheap motel for 19 yr old interns 100 % fed up !
( @ 100percfedup ) february 28 , 2017you d think a motherboard climate change freak reporter would be using every waking moment to cover the changes trump s epa is about to implement but no , this reporter is consumed with kellyanne conway s shoes on the couch , suggesting she may even need therapy .
we could ve told you that before you tweeted !
lol i have to go to therapy after seeing the kellyanne conway shoes on the couch pic sarah emerson ( @ sarahnemerson ) february 28 , 2017here s a screen shot of liberal kaivan sheriff s post .
he blocked us on twitter , so we had to settle for an image of his tweet .
apparently he feels threatened by two moms who tweet about real news here are just a few examples of obama doing much worse .
yeah , okay libs wan na talk about disrespecting the oval office ?
we saved the best one for last : people `` outraged '' at kellyanne conway putting her feet on a couch so she can take a photo , but pic.twitter.com/6iw5iv31qw paul sacca ( @ paul_sacca ) february 28 , 2017https : //twitter.com/politibunny/status/836409990915162112