this latest move by america s notorious transportation security authority ( tsa ) seems to be step one in a move towards a national id card , complete with biometrics and embedded rfid technology.by forcing residents of nine states to get passports in order to board domestic flights , the tsa is de facto pushing those states towards the implementation of a new state-of-the-art id card system.this will help to give real teeth to the the real id act it s just the next phase in the further militarization of us society.forbes reports you may have thought you don t need a passport because you don t travel outside the united states .
but for residents of nine states , that will change at the beginning of 2018 for any commercial flight , whether international or domestic.nine states will no longer allow travelers to board an airplane with just their state issued driver s licenses as of january 22 , 2018 .
to get past tsa security checkpoints , another form of identification will be required : passport , permanent resident card/green card or a military id.the real id act of 2005 states that state-issued ids from these nine states do not meet the minimum security standards of the federal government : with just a few months until the real id act goes into full effect , it is time to start planning now and look into getting your passport .
here is the airport signage , placed around the security checkpoints in airports to remind u.s. travelers of what ; s to come ( with my emphasis ) : starting january 22 , 2018 , you will need a driver s license or id from a state compliant with the real id act , a state that has an extension for compliance , or an alternate id to fly .
for real id information , and a list of acceptable ids , visit tsa.gov .
some states have started working on offering federally approved issued ids that would not require a passport for domestic air travel .
check with your local government office to see if there is a different type of id you can apply for , and the tsa website to clarify this situation .
because on january 22 , 2018 , the enforcement for those nine states will go into effect , and by 2020 , even more people will end up needing a passport , as confirmed by the official website of the transportation security administration.to repeat , if you re going to take a flight and you have a state-issued id from one of those nine states listed above , unless your state has made federally approved changes before january , you should use a passport to go anywhere across the country , as all domestic travel is included in these new standards .
( states other than those nine will not be affected .
) continue this story at forbesread more tsa news at : 21st century wire tsa filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv