( reuters ) - a top north carolina lawmaker vowed on tuesday to correct the “ radical course ” taken by leaders in charlotte , the state ’ s largest city , after they voted to allow transgender people to use public bathrooms matching their gender identity .
the charlotte city council expanded the city ’ s nondiscrimination ordinance late on monday to add protections for marital and familial status , sexual orientation , gender expression and gender identity .
a provision that permits bathroom choice based on gender identity drew opposition ahead of the 7-4 vote from christian evangelist franklin graham and north carolina ’ s republican governor , pat mccrory , a former mayor of charlotte .
state house of representatives speaker tim moore , a republican , said he would consider legislation to block the measure , which some critics fear would allow sexual predators to gain access to women ’ s bathrooms .
“ the charlotte city council has gone against all common sense and has created a major public safety issue by opening all bathrooms and changing rooms to the general public , ” moore said in a statement .
“ i join my conservative colleagues and governor mccrory in exploring legislative intervention to correct this radical course , ” he added .
civil rights groups rejected the public safety concerns as overblown .
they praised the council for passing what they said was the first ordinance in the state to prohibit discrimination against gay , lesbian , bisexual or transgender people in public accommodations , including restaurants , hotels and taxis .
charlotte was one of the largest u.s. cities without a law explicitly protecting the lgbt community from discrimination , according to the human rights campaign , a civil rights group based in washington .
the revised law takes effect on april 1 .
“ charlotte has full authority to enact this ordinance , and we hope the general assembly will respect this local government ’ s decision to protect its residents and visitors from discrimination , ” said sarah preston , acting executive director of the american civil liberties union of north carolina .
voters in houston , the fourth most populous u.s. city , last fall rejected a similar measure that would have banned discrimination based on gender identity and sexual orientation and let transgender men and women use bathrooms that corresponded with their gender identity .