london ( reuters ) - britain and the european union struck a divorce deal on friday that paves the way for talks on trade , easing pressure on prime minister theresa may and boosting hopes of an orderly brexit .
british business groups broadly welcomed the progress and urged swift progress toward a formal transition agreement that would preserve existing trading relations until a new deal is struck .
british chambers of commerce director general adam marshall businesses will be breathing a sigh of relief that sufficient progress has been achieved .
after the noise and political brinksmanship of recent days , news of a breakthrough in the negotiations will be warmly welcomed by companies .
business will particularly cheer the mutual commitment to a transition period to support business confidence and trade , and will want the details confirmed swiftly in the new year .
for business , a swift start to trade talks is crucial to upcoming investment and growth decisions .
companies all across the uk want absolute clarity on the long-term deal being sought , and want government to work closely with business experts to ensure that the details are right .
confederation of british industry deputy director general josh hardie today s announcement will lift spirits in the run-up to christmas .
sufficient progress is a present ( businesses ) have spent months waiting for .
it s now time to focus on the true prize of a new relationship and a deal that starts from 40 years of economic integration .
there are two things that are top of the list .
first is the final step for those eu citizens working here , and uk citizens abroad .
it must be unequivocal that they are welcome , whatever the final deal .
this can not be their second christmas where their rights are dependent on negotiations .
next is transition .
concrete assurances will build confidence and help firms across the uk and europe to pause their contingency planning .
thecityuk financial services trade body ceo miles celic this agreement in principle between the uk and the eu to move beyond phase one is a positive and encouraging step .
for the financial and related professional services industry , our critical issues must now be progressed .
the sand in the timer is running out - leave it too late and damage will be done to both the uk and the eu .
european competitiveness will ultimately be weakened as functionality will likely leave europe for other international financial centers .
given the dominance of services to both the british and eu economies , it is essential that a free trade agreement covers goods and services , and is based on mutual recognition and regulatory cooperation .
this will be in the best interests of the uk , the eu27 and for global stability .
it is also vital that existing services contracts can be grandfathered post-brexit .
eef manufacturers association chief executive stephen phipson this is one step forward in a complex and long process .
so we need to pin down the transition arrangements , which will be in place after march 2019 , to ensure it s business as usual for companies for as long as it takes until a final deal is reached .
until we get to that point , many businesses will need to prepare for any and every eventuality .
many employers will be relieved that their eu employees have more certainty going forward , and government must now clarify the rights of eu citizens by christmas so that they are not concerned about their future .
federation of small businesses national chairman mike cherry the uk s millions of small businesses will be pleased to hear that finally it appears the brexit talks are about to move onto the second stage .
the focus must now shift to the uk s future trading relationship with the eu .
this should include by early next year a guarantee that there will be no cliff-edge moment on brexit day , but instead an orderly , time-limited transition period so that small firms only have one set of rule changes .
the final deal must have as few barriers to trade as possible .