( this november 1 story has been corrected to read 25,000 in paragraph 11 ) by karolina tagaris and deborah kyvrikosaios athens ( reuters ) - a group of mainly syrian women and children who have been stranded in greece pitched tents opposite parliament in athens on wednesday in a protest against delays in reuniting with relatives in germany .
some of the refugees , who say they have been in greece for over a year , said they had begun a hunger strike .
our family ties our stronger than your illegal agreements , read a banner held up by one woman , referring to deals on refugees between european union nations .
greek media have reported that greece and germany informally agreed in may to slow down refugee reunification , stranding families in greece for months after they fled syria s civil war .
greece denies this .
what we ve managed to do on family reunification is to have an increase of about 27 percent this year compared with last year , even though we re accused of cutting back family reunification and doing deals to cut back family reunification , migration minister yannis mouzalas told reporters .
mouzalas said greece had assurances from germany that refugees whose applications have been accepted will eventually go to germany even if there are delays .
he denied that refugees had to pay for their flights .
applications for asylum , reunification and relocation to other european countries can take months to be processed .
i have not seen my husband , my child , for more than one year and nine months , said 32-year-old syrian dalal rashou , who has five children , one of whom is in germany with her husband .
i miss him and every day i am here in greece i cry .
i don t want to stay here , i want to go to my husband she said .
about 60,000 refugees and migrants , mostly syrians , afghans and iraqis , have become stranded in greece after border closures in the balkans halted the onward journey many planned to take to central and western europe .
some 25,000 refugees and migrants have crossed to greece from turkey this year - a fraction of the nearly 1 million arrivals in 2015 - but arrivals have picked up in recent months .
an average of 214 people arrived each day in september , up from 156 in august , 87 in july and 56 in march , mouzalas said .
the rise has stretched greek island camps , which are struggling to cope with numbers two to three times their capacity .
most new arrivals are women and children , according to united nations data .
mouzalas said the government was in talks with local authorities to move refugees and migrants to local accommodation , including hotels , and it also planned to increase the capacity of some facilities .