beijing ( reuters ) - china s air force carried out another round of long-range drills on monday , flying into the sea of japan and prompting south korean and japanese jets to scramble , and again around self-ruled taiwan amid growing tension over china s assertiveness .
china has in recent months ramped up its long-range air force drills , particularly around taiwan , claimed by china as its own .
the air force said in a statement that fighter and bomber aircraft flew through the tsushima strait that separates south korea from japan and into international waters in the sea of japan .
the sea of japan is not japan s , and the drills were lawful and reasonable , air force spokesman shen jinke said in the statement , describing the exercises as routine and pre-planned .
the japanese defence ministry said in a statement that the aircraft - two su-30 fighters , two h-6 bombers and one tu-154 reconnaissance plane - had not violated japan s airspace .
in seoul , south korea s joint chiefs of staff said five chinese military planes were spotted entering the korean air defence identification zone , and fighter jets scrambled in response .
the chinese aircraft also flew through japan s air defence identification zone , they said .
our fighter planes took normal tactical measures , identifying the models of the chinese planes and flying aerial surveillance until they left , the south korean statement said .
chinese air force spokesman shen alluded to the scrambled aircraft , saying they responded to interference from foreign military aircraft but were able to achieve the aim of their drill .
taiwan s military said that china had staged a separate drill at the same time , flying a plane through the bashi channel between taiwan and the philippines and then returning to base through the strait of miyako , to taiwan s north and near japan s southern islands .
taiwan monitored japan sending f-15 fighters to intercept , taiwan s defence ministry added in its statement .
the japanese defence ministry identified the plane as y-8 electronic warfare aircraft .
there was no violation of japan s airspace in this instance either , the ministry said .
china s air force last week conducted island encirclement patrols near taiwan , after a senior chinese diplomat threatened that china would invade the self-ruled island if any u.s. warships made port visits there .
china suspects taiwan president tsai ing-wen , who leads the independence-leaning democratic progressive party , wants to declare the island s formal independence .
tsai says she wants to maintain peace with china but will defend taiwan s security .
china s air force exercises also come amid regional tensions over north korea s nuclear and missile programmes , with bellicose rhetoric from both north korea and u.s. president donald trump .