new york/singapore ( reuters ) - united airlines said it had resumed flights from newark , new jersey to new delhi , india on sunday , after suspending the service temporarily over concerns about poor air quality in the indian capital .
ua flight 82 had been canceled on friday and saturday , data from flight tracking website flightradar24 showed , while the airline s website said it had waiver policies in place for passengers traveling to , from or through delhi until monday .
ua flight 82 has resumed operations , but we will continue to monitor conditions over the next few days , a spokesman said .
the third-largest u.s carrier is monitoring advisories as the new delhi region remains under a public health emergency , and is coordinating with respective government agencies , the united airlines spokesman had earlier told reuters .
last week , new delhi declared a pollution emergency as toxic smog hung over the city for days , with tourism operators reporting cancellation of bookings for the christmas holidays .
u.s. rivals delta air lines inc and american airlines group inc said they do not operate flights to new delhi , while several asian airlines contacted by reuters said they had not canceled flights .
verisk maplecroft , a risk consultancy , says india has the worst air quality out of a list of 198 countries it measures , and that new delhi ranks among the world s top 10 most polluted cities with many urban areas around the capital also among those with the worst air quality .
at the national level , india tops the index rankings ( i.e .
the country with the worst air quality ) , followed by bangladesh and thailand , said richard hewston , verisk maplecroft s global head of environment and climate change .
the company s air quality index assesses the atmospheric concentrations of fine particulate matter smaller than 2.5 micrometers , known as pm 2.5 .
a u.s. embassy measure of pm 2.5 showed a reading of 481 in new delhi on monday morning , local time .
the outer limit of good air is 50 .