21st century wire says while the us media follows the red herring of this legislative drama which is saudi arabia , the real point of this bill and why president obama is so vehemently opposing it is going completely unnoticed .
if any case was brought to court by 9/11 families to sue saudi arabia for state-sponsored terror regarding the attacks in new york city on september 11 , 2001 , the court would find there is no real forensic case proving saudi involvement in this event .
other problems will crop up too .
for starters , at least 7 of alleged hijackers were actually found to be alive after their faces were plastered on us tv screens after 9/11 .
as it stands , the us government s official story of 9/11 is so flimsy and full of holes , including the complete omission or mention of the collapse of wtc building 7 ( which was hit by nothing , and yet collapsed into its own footprint in 7 seconds ) and the lack of any plane wreckage at the pentagon ( we re meant to believe that the passenger airliner evaporated into thin air on impact , and no real cctv footage has been provided to back the government s own wild explanation ) .
in actuality , the us government would love a dead-end lawsuit against saudi arabia which could only result in some out-of-court settlement anyway because this would supply a nice diversion away from any further scrutiny of the us government s bogus explanation of what really happened that day.more to the point , however , is the real potential story here .
if passed , this bill would allow a number people , particularly those in syria , to sue the us , british , french , dutch , norwegian , polish , turkish and saudi arabia and qatar too , all of who are actively involved in supplying money , equipment , arms and military training to a number of known salafist terrorists fighting groups in syria.key point : why is obama protecting saudi arabia ?
one of obama s top financial partners in the dirty war on syria is saudi arabia , who has also paid for off-the-books cia operations there .
unlike saudi and 9/11 , by definition , this is state-sponsored terrorism.the house is expected to hold a vote later this week .
it could be the first override of a presidential veto during the obama administration .
karoun demirjian washington postthe senate on wednesday voted to override president obama s veto of legislation that would allow 9/11 victims families to sue the saudi arabian government over its alleged support for the terrorists who carried out the attacks .
the vote was 97 to 1.the house is expected to vote later in the day and if successful , it will be the first time congress has overridden a veto during the obama administration .
overriding a presidential veto is something we don t take lightly , but it was important in this case that the families of the victims of 9/11 be allowed to pursue justice , even if that pursuit causes some diplomatic discomforts , sen. charles e. schumer ( d-n.y. ) , who co-authored the bill with sen. john cornyn ( r-tex .
) , said in a statement.senate minority leader harry reid ( d-nev. ) cast the lone vote to sustain the veto after receiving a letter from obama arguing the consequences could be devastating , and urging him to vote to sustain the veto .
reid voted against the override despite telling reporters earlier this month that i support that legislation and schumer s efforts .
he s always had the president s back , said reid spokesman adam jentleson.both chambers passed the legislation without dissent earlier this year , but now several lawmakers are echoing the white house s argument that the legislation could set a dangerous precedent , inviting other nations to respond by suing american diplomats , military personnel and other officials in foreign courts.critics of the bill are now focusing on how to scale back the measure once it becomes law .
approximately 20 senators have signed onto a letter expressing their intention to return to the issue during the lame duck if there are negative consequences once the 9/11 bill becomes law continue this article at the washington postread more 911 news at : 21st century wire 9/11 filessupport 21wire and its work by subscribing and becoming a member @ 21wire.tv