beirut ( reuters ) - iran put a ballistic missile on display as thousands marched on saturday to mark the anniversary of the 1979 seizure of the u.s. embassy , with a senior official accusing president donald trump of a crazy return to confrontation with tehran .
turnout for the annual iranian street rallies commemorating the embassy takeover , a pivotal event of the islamic revolution , appeared higher than in recent years when trump s predecessor barack obama pursued detente with tehran .
last month , trump broke ranks with european allies , russia and china by refusing to re-certify iran s compliance with its 2015 nuclear deal with world powers , reached during obama s tenure .
under that deal , most international sanctions on iran were lifted in exchange for tehran curbing nuclear activity seen to pose a risk of being put to developing atomic bombs .
iran has reaffirmed its commitment to the deal and u.n. inspectors have verified tehran is complying with its terms , but iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei has threatened to shred the pact if the united states pulls out .
all the governments confirm that the american president is a crazy individual who is taking others toward the direction of suicide , ali shamkhani , secretary of the supreme national security council , told a rally in tehran , state media reported .
trump s policies against the people of iran have brought them out into the streets today , shamkhani said .
he did not identify the governments he had in mind .
the other parties to the nuclear deal - russia , china , britain , france and germany - have voiced disquiet at trump s opposition to it , fearing this could stir new middle east instability .
but the europeans share u.s. concern over iran s ballistic missile program and destabilizing regional behavior .
senior iranian officials have repeatedly said that the islamic republic s missile program is solely defensive in nature and is not negotiable .
in a sign of defiance , a ghadr ballistic missile with a range of 2,000 km ( 1,240 miles ) was put on display near the ex-u.s. embassy in tehran , now a cultural center , during saturday s street demonstration , tasnim news agency said .
that america thinks iran is going to put aside its military power is a childish dream , said brigadier general hossein salami , deputy head of its elite revolutionary guards which oversees the missile development , according to tasnim .
fars news agency posted pictures of demonstrators nearby burning an effigy of trump and holding up signs saying death to america .
iran and the united states severed diplomatic relations soon after the 1979 revolution , during which hardline students seized the embassy and took 52 americans hostage for 444 days .
shamkhani spoke a few days after khamenei said the united states was the number one enemy of the islamic republic .
u.s.-iranian tensions have risen anew at a time when tehran has been improving political and military ties with russia .
russian president vladimir putin visited tehran on wednesday .
khamenei told him that tehran and moscow must step up cooperation to isolate the united states and help defuse conflict in the middle east .
iran and russia are both fighting on the side of syrian president bashar al assad against rebels , some of them u.s.-backed , and islamist militants trying to overthrow him .