moscow ( reuters ) - russian president vladimir putin hosted saudi arabia s king salman for talks at the kremlin on thursday , cementing a relationship that is pivotal for world oil prices and could decide the outcome of the conflict in syria .
king salman , the first sitting saudi monarch ever to visit russia , led a delegation to moscow that agreed joint investment deals worth several billion dollars , providing much-needed investment for a russian economy battered by low oil prices and western sanctions .
saudi arabia said it had signed a memorandum of understanding on the purchase from russia of s-400 air defense systems .
that marked a shift for the kingdom , which buys most of its military kit from the united states and britain .
on the political front , there was no sign of any substantial breakthrough on the issues that have long divided moscow and riyadh , including the fact that they back rival sides in syria s war .
however , any discord was eclipsed by mutual expressions of respect , and the pomp and ceremony laid on by russian officials to greet the saudi king .
on his journey into central moscow from vnukovo airport late on wednesday , king salman s limousine passed billboards bearing his photograph and messages in russian and arabic welcoming him .
on thursday , putin received the monarch in the gold-decorated st. andrew hall , one of the grandest spaces in the kremlin , attended by soldiers in ceremonial dress and with an orchestra playing their countries national anthems .
i am sure that your visit will provide a good impulse for the development of relations between our two states , putin told king salman later as they sat alongside each other in the kremlin s lavishly-decorated green parlour .
russia and saudi arabia , despite their differences , have been drawn together by a common interest in propping up flagging world oil prices , and by the fact that moscow , since its military intervention in syria , has clout in the middle east that other players in the region can not ignore .
the saudi king invited putin to visit his country - an offer the russian leader accepted - and said they planned to keep cooperating to keep world oil prices stable .
moscow and riyadh worked together to secure a deal between opec and other oil producers to cut output until the end of march 2018 , helping support prices .
energy minister khalid al-falih said saudi arabia was flexible regarding moscow s suggestion to extend the pact until the end of next year .
the message of further joint saudi-russia action on output helped push up oil prices on thursday .
brent crude was up more than 2 percent at $ 57.12 a barrel by 1615 gmt .
in syria , riyadh supports rebels fighting president bashar al-assad s army , while russian and iranian forces have sided with assad .
this leaves moscow aligned with saudi arabia s arch-rival iran , whose influence riyadh fears is growing in the region .
briefing the media after the talks , russian foreign minister sergei lavrov focused on the common ground , saying the two leaders had agreed on the importance of fighting terrorism , finding peaceful solutions to conflicts in the middle east , and on the principle of territorial integrity .
his saudi counterpart , adel al-jubeir , said new horizons had opened for russia-saudi ties that he could not previously have imagined .
relations between russia and saudi arabia have reached a historical moment , said jubeir , speaking through an interpreter .
we are certain that the further strengthening of russian-saudi relations will have a positive impact on strengthening stability and security in the region and the world .
a package of investments announced during the visit will go some way to plugging the vacuum left by sluggish western investment in russia that is , in part , a result of sanctions imposed after moscow annexed crimea in 2014 .
among the deals was an agreement between russian sovereign wealth fund rdif and saudi arabia s public investment fund to invest up to $ 100 million in transport projects in russia .
the two countries also signed a deal to set up a $ 1 billion joint investment fund .
another memorandum of understanding was signed under which russian petrochemicals firm sibur would explore cooperation with saudi arabia .
rdif head kirill dmitriev said his fund was interested in partnering with saudi investors to acquire a minority stake in russian oilfield services firm eurasia drilling .
absent from the slew of deals was any agreement on saudi aramco taking a stake in an arctic liquefied natural gas project run by russia s novatek .
russian energy minister alexander novak said earlier this month that saudi officials were studying joint gas projects with novatek .
however , aramco chief executive amin nasser said such a deal was not being discussed at this stage .