cairo ( reuters ) - swapping new cars for cheaper models , cutting back on pricy supermarket shopping and giving up holidays abroad , middle-class egyptians are finding strategies to stay afloat after a currency reform a year ago sent their living costs soaring .
egypt floated its pound in november 2016 as part of a $ 12 billion international monetary fund loan package , and the currency lost half its value , eroding spending power and pushing inflation to record highs over 30 percent this summer .
president abdel fattah al-sisi s government has been praised by imf and world bank economists for reform progress and for measures to shield the poorest from the fallout .
but middle-income egyptians say it has been a year of cutbacks , cost saving and crisis management .
presidential elections are due early next year and sisi is expected to seek another term .
but some egyptians are finding that their new economic reality is crowding out politics as they struggle to maintain standards .
others are digging deep and insist that despite the pain of austerity , sisi remains the only candidate to provide stability after the years of turmoil that followed the 2011 uprising that ousted hosni mubarak .
overcoming voter apathy may be a challenge if the former military commander decides to run when critics say he will face little competition after what rights groups describe as an unprecedented crackdown on opponents and dissidents .
low turnout was a worry in 2014 , when sisi won by a landslide , as a popular figure who had overthrown president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood after mass protests the previous year .
the rise in prices changed things , said ayman , a cairo bookstore owner .
we hoped for good things from president sisi ...
he is a good man and i voted for him , but we are not feeling the progress , all i care about is giving my son a good life , a good home .
economic reforms have come at a fast pace .
the imf deal called for broad adjustments to egypt s state subsidies to slash deficits as part of sisi s promise to revive an economy hit hard by unrest , protests and militant attacks in the last six years .
backed by the imf and the world bank , sisi s government says the overhaul will lead to long-term growth and the return of foreign investment .
officials have adopted programs to provide the poor and vulnerable with cash and other protections .
still , fuel costs have doubled with two increases in subsidized prices .
electricity prices are up and a new tax helped push inflation to more than 30 percent in july .
that has now eased to 25 percent and is expected to fall further soon .
but it has been a crushing struggle for some .
hisham azz al arab , chairman of egypt s largest private bank cib , said those on middle and upper incomes were the most affected by the economic reforms , but it would take time for their impact to balance out for those families .
we saw that clearly in their behavior of spending , it started to change , he told cnbc .
for the middle and upper class it is a matter of time before income and productivity start to catch up to pre-reform levels .
a 2016 world bank survey found the middle class represented around 10 percent of the country s population of about 90 million just before the arab spring protests .
middle-class activists were among the leaders of the 2011 uprising .
for professionals like karim , a cairo small business owner , it was a stark adjustment .
monthly food bills went from 1,200 pounds ( $ 67 ) to 3,200 pounds ( $ 179 ) .
that meant for the first time bargain-hunting for food , giving up luxury goods , and using the car less to cut back on fuel spending .
it also meant paying employees more to keep them , while at the same time making sacrifices to keep his children in school .
the middle class has only two options , fall into the lower class , which is hard for them to do , or get more enterprising , he said .
everyone is trying to show they are still in the middle class , people want to tell themselves that .
for others , maintaining a middle-class lifestyle has meant dipping into savings and giving up restaurants or even turning to relatives for help with the cost of family holidays .
it s extinct , said islam askar , a contracting company owner , of the country s middle class .
there isn t a household in egypt that hasn t been hit by the decrease in the pound and the rise in the prices .
economists say middle-class erosion had been reflected in figures for car sales , the weakness in some consumer stocks and in outbound tourism .
for some , like mahmoud al-abadaly , hunting for bargains among the crash-damaged vehicles at a second-hand car shop , politics comes second to cash considerations .
a car normally worth 300,000 pounds ( $ 17,000 ) can be fixed up and had for half that price , he said .
when a car has been in an accident , its price drops , he said .
everyone is trying to do this now because they need to save .
but egypt s inflation outlook is already improving a year after the float , falling to 26 percent in november .
finance minister amr el-garhy said that would fall to around 14 percent by august next year .
what impact a year of austerity will have on sisi s popularity is unclear .
he has yet to announce his intentions , though supporters have already started a petition campaign for him to run for a second term .
for his hardcore backers , it is time to rally behind him despite hard times .
i will be for sisi again for the presidency even with inflation , rising prices and the poor state of the economy , said ali abou al-saoud , a sales representative .
but some of the president s high-profile backers have turned against him , partly over the economy .
turnout may be key for credibility , analysts say , as the government rebrands egypt as a more stable bet for foreign investment after years of unrest .
in 2014 , turnout was about 47 percent , less than sisi had called for .
at the time , sisi was idolized by many , although his support base has since slipped , critics say .
however , protests are now restricted by law and secular activists have been rounded up .
other egyptians say political fatigue has set in .
there is still a strong sense of wanting to maintain and enjoy the relative security , said ziad bahaa eldin , a deputy former prime minister who now works as an economist .
people are suffering from inflation but they want stability .