dippoldiswalde , germany ( reuters ) - like a third of his neighbors in the east german town of dippoldiswalde , rene rothe voted for the far right in last sunday s election .
the biggest concern for the 57-year-old milk farmer was migrants - especially if they drain government funds .
there s loads of refugees here in the town and i m wondering what will happen to my pension , he said as he emerged from one of the renovated pastel-colored shops that line dippoldiswalde s clean cobbled streets .
the town of 14,500 people has taken in 132 asylum seekers , according to the town s official website .
i have to pay for what the refugees need , and then when their families follow i ll have to pay again won t i ?
he said .
campaigning on a platform to take your country back , the alternative for germany ( afd ) won 12.6 percent of the national vote , propelling it into parliament as the third largest party and making it the first far-right group to win seats in the lower house since the 1950s .
in the state of saxony , where dippoldiswalde lies , the afd was the overall winner , beating even chancellor angela merkel s christian democrats ( cdu ) , who won at the national level .
while the former communist east has taken in far fewer than the west of the more than a million migrants that have arrived in germany in the past several years , the afd won around one fifth of votes there compared to around one in ten in the west .
the afd spokesman in dippoldiswalde , rolf suessmann , said voters turned to his party because they were angry about the government s liberal migrant policy and some felt left behind .
problems in the town ranged from a patchy mobile network and small firms facing problems with digitalization to low pay , with some people earning less than 10 euros an hour , he said .
here especially most people don t agree with the idea of a multicultural society , suessmann , a bailiff , told reuters .
cultural differences between east and west , reunited less than 30 years ago , persist .
in the west a multicultural society of immigration is seen as a cultural achievement whereas in the east it s seen as a threat , said werner patzelt , political scientist at dresden s technical university .
protest groups find more fertile ground in east germany where party preferences are not set in stone and people tend to trust institutions less than in the west , he added .
the concern over pensions was an example of that .
germany s population is aging fast and people worry that there will not be enough young workers to fill the pension pots when they hit retirement age .
some are concerned that because many migrants are claiming benefits , it will detract from their own welfare .
germany s finance minister has insisted that the migrant issue had not left anyone in germany with even a euro less for their family or children .
the afd has said it has not finalised its position on pensions .
many rural areas in eastern germany suffered a brain drain after reunification as young , educated people moved to the west , said thomas krueger , head of the german government s bpb agency for civic education .
while some eastern industrial zones and university towns have flourished since - saxony itself has become known as silicon saxony due to its success as a high-tech hub - many people in rural areas , some of whom have to travel 40 km ( 25 miles ) to get to a local authority , feel forgotten , he said .
in many regions there was emigration , no businesses settled , there were no prospects for jobs and on top of that there was new competition for jobs even in small and medium-sized businesses , with workers from central and eastern europe suddenly there , krueger said .
polling institute infratest dimap said its exit polls on election day showed that while almost three-quarters of afd voters thought their personal economic situation was good , some 42 percent felt disadvantaged compared to others .
those who voted for the party were concerned about losing their german culture , refugees changing the country and islam getting too much influence , the survey of thousands of voters showed .
almost two-thirds voted for the afd in protest , it said .
the party fared better among men than women and most of its voters were of working age .
around one fifth were unemployed while another fifth were laborers .
white-collar workers and self-employed people also make up a sizeable part of their voters .
manfred guellner , head of forsa polling institute , said some of the afd s voters in the east saw themselves as the losers in reunification .
they feel left behind and they re looking for a scapegoat and now they ve found one in the refugees , who they think are getting all the money that they lack , he said .
the jobless rate in dippoldiswalde is only four percent , labor office data showed .
but gisela , 66 , lost her job at a restaurant shortly after reunification and was unemployed for 26 years before reaching pension age .
the foreigners are given everything and when we want something the answer is no , she said , sitting on a bench overlooking the spot where the restaurant once stood .
she said she could not remember who she voted for and asked that her surname not be used .
the foreigners need to go back home quickly and the young people need to get work , she said .