21st century wire says earlier this week the media lit up with reports of a political activist group that was advertising across the nation to pay protesters to come out and demonstrate against the inauguration of donald trump.it would come as no surprise to 21wire if there were cases of protestors being rallied and potentially compensated by george soros related foundations .
it would easily fall under the heading of professional activists and it is very real .
whether its the revolution business deployed for the arab spring , or ad busters marketing for occupy wall street , left-wing activism has become a bona fide global business.update : but is that what we are witnessing here with this washington times article that zero hedge analyzed ?
it appears not !
what we have here , exposed by tucker carlson , seems to be yet another example of the washington times being involved in posting what seems to be a report about a political entity that was not well vetted or even worse , possibly planted.watch tucker carlson dismantle the actor behind this ruse in the video below.zero hedge has reported on the ads that are running in multiple cities on backpage.com tyler durden zero hedgepresident-elect donald trump has complained about paid activists both before and after the 2016 presidential campaign , and as the washington times reports , he may have a point.job ads running in more than 20 cities offer $ 2,500 per month for agitators to demonstrate at this week s presidential inauguration events.demand protest , a san francisco company that bills itself as the largest private grassroots support organization in the united states , posted identical ads jan. 12 in multiple cities on backpage.com seeking operatives .
get paid fighting against trump !
says the ad .
we pay people already politically motivated to fight for the things they believe .
you were going to take action anyways , why not do so with us !
the ad continues .
we are currently seeking operatives to help send a strong message at upcoming inauguration protests .
the job offers a monthly retainer of $ 2,500 plus our standard per-event pay of $ 50/hr , as long as you participate in at least 6 events a year , as well as health , vision and dental insurance for full-time operatives.an example of one of the ads source : tulsa.backpage.comwhile there have been fake ads in the past , as the washington times notes , if the demand protest ads are ruses , however , someone has gone to a great deal of trouble to sell the scam.the classifieds are running in at least two dozen cities , including los angeles , new york , chicago , dallas and houston , and the company operates a slick website that includes contact information.a san francisco phone number listed on the website was answered with a voice-mail message identifying the company by name .
a request for comment left monday evening was not immediately returned.the website , which says that the company has provided 1,817 operatives for 48 campaigns , promises deniability , assuring clients that we can ensure that all actions will appear genuine to media and public observers .
we are strategists mobilizing millennials across the globe with seeded audiences and desirable messages , says the website .
with absolute discretion a top priority , our operatives create convincing scenes that become the building blocks of massive movements .
when you need the appearance of outrage , we are able to deliver it at scale while keeping your reputation intact continue this report at zero hedgeread more election news at : 21st century wire election coveragesupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv