new york/san juan ( reuters ) - u.s. treasury counselor antonio weiss said on thursday that without a proper restructuring regime , puerto rico will default and litigation will intensify , as he pushed congress to act with legislation to help the island fix its crisis .
weiss , speaking to the house natural resources committee in a hearing about the island ’ s fiscal crisis , outlined the scale of the problems the u.s. territory faces .
“ as the cascading defaults and litigation unfold , there is real risk of another lost decade , this one more damaging than the last , ” weiss said .
a legislative solution for puerto rico , battling with $ 70 billion debt , may be edging closer .
legislation to find a fix for the island is expected to be drawn up following two congressional hearings on thursday - one in front of the house natural resources committee at which weiss was the sole witness .
house speaker paul ryan has said he wants the republican-led house to develop a response to puerto rico ’ s fiscal crisis during the first quarter of 2016 , and republicans plan to bring a bill addressing the crisis to the house floor by the end of march .
puerto rico wants access to a bankruptcy-like mechanism to reduce debt - a view backed by president barack obama ’ s administration and some congressional democrats .
but majority republicans have not supported efforts to extend bankruptcy protection to the island , a strategy which could be detrimental to some creditors , and are keen to put puerto rico under strict fiscal oversight .
weiss , in questioning , said that treasury ’ s restructuring proposal was not envisioning the chapter 9 bankruptcy law u.s. states can access for their public agencies , but legislation “ customized to the unique conditions that face puerto rico. ” weiss said his team will have to work to convince island leaders of the need for an oversight board for the island .
“ i think the legislature doesn ’ t fully understand what this oversight authority would consist of , ” he said .
puerto rico , with a 45 percent poverty rate , has been in recession for nearly a decade and is losing population to the mainland .
it is suffering from a huge debt buildup and has already defaulted on some borrowings .
“ there is fear of the future , ” said weiss .
“ puerto ricans are leaving and are joining us on the mainland where they find access to jobs , a future for their children , better healthcare. ” weiss said that a failure to protect pension payments would “ irreparably harm retirees ” and add greater stress to puerto rico ’ s economy .
“ we are deeply concerned about the pensions in puerto rico , ” he said .
the treasury late last year envisioned giving puerto rico ’ s pensioners stronger legal protection than holders of its constitutionally backed bonds if it went bankrupt , according to a draft of a proposed plan seen by reuters .
a separate hearing before a subcommittee of the house committee on financial services focused on the impact to investors in the $ 3.7 trillion municipal bond market .
mark zandi , chief economist at moody ’ s analytics , said without a broad restructuring framework to include more of the debt than a chapter 9 framework would envision , the issue would not be solved and “ we will be back here again. ” legislation for puerto rico could potentially be written as a stand-alone law , which carries the risk of having little momentum to approve it , or attached to a bill related to the federal aviation administration ( faa ) , a congressional source previously said .
an faa authorization bill which authorizes funding for the agency could come up for a vote in the house of representatives as early as next month .
however , a legislative solution may be hard to achieve given the differing views and acrimonious relationship between republicans , which control congress , and democrats .
tom mcclintock , a republican of california , said instead of increasing regulation , puerto rico needs less red tape , less tax burden and could be turned into a “ hong kong of the caribbean. ” however , representative raul labrador of idaho said he appreciated that weiss was “ trying to find a solution. ” “ we don ’ t agree on every one of your solutions but i can tell that the administration is acting in good faith in finding a solution to the problem , ” labrador said .