lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - the backing of a candidate in a by-election last weekend in pakistan by a political party controlled by an islamist with a $ 10 million u.s. bounty on his head was in line with a plan put forward by the military last year to mainstream militant groups , according to sources familiar with the proposal .
the milli muslim league party loyal to hafiz saeed - who the united states and india accuse of masterminding the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people won 5 percent of the votes in the contest for the seat vacated when prime minister nawaz sharif was removed from office by the supreme court in july .
but the foray into politics by saeed s islamist charity appears to be following a blueprint that sharif himself rejected when the military proposed it in 2016 , according to three government officials and a retired former general briefed on the discussions .
none of the sources interviewed for this article could say for sure if the mml s founding was the direct result of the military s plan , which was not discussed in meetings after sharif put it on ice last year .
the mml denies its political ambitions were engineered by the military .
the official army spokesman did not comment after queries were sent to his office about the mainstreaming plan and what happened to it .
pakistan s powerful military has long been accused of fostering militant groups as proxy fighters opposing neighboring arch-enemy india , a charge the army denies .
three government officials and close sharif confidants with knowledge of the discussions said the military s powerful inter-services intelligence agency ( isi ) presented proposals for mainstreaming some militant groups in a meeting last year .
they said that sharif had opposed the mainstreaming plan , which senior military figures and some analysts see as a way of steering ultra-religious groups away from violent jihad .
we have to separate those elements who are peaceful from the elements who are picking up weapons , said retired lieutenant general amjad shuaib , adding that such groups should be helped out to create a political structure to come into the mainstream .
the plan which shuaib told reuters was shared with him by the then-head of the isi - said those who were willing should be encouraged to come into the mainstream politics of the country .
he added that in his capacity as a retired senior military officer he unofficially spoke to hafiz saaed and another alleged militant about the plan , and they were receptive .
shuaib later said his comments in the interview were taken out of context and were part of a broader discussion about deradicalization strategies .
writing in a local newspaper on wednesday he said the report maliciously attributed some statements to me totally out of context , just to suit its own narrative .
a spokesperson for reuters said : we stand by our reporting .
saeed s religious charity launched the milli muslim league party within two weeks of the court ousting sharif over corruption allegations .
yaqoob sheikh , the lahore candidate for milli muslim league , stood as an independent after the electoral commission said the party was not yet legally registered .
but saeed s lieutenants , jud workers and mml officials ran his campaign and portraits of saeed adorn every poster promoting sheikh , who came in fourth place on sunday with sharif s wife taking the seat as expected .
another islamist designated a terrorist by the united states , fazlur rehman khalil , has told reuters he too plans to soon form his own party to advocate strict islamic law .
god willing , we will come into the mainstream - our country right now needs patriotic people , khalil said , vowing to turn pakistan into a state government by strict islamic law .
saeed s charity and khalil s ansar ul-umma organization are both seen by the united states as fronts for militant groups the army has been accused of sponsoring .
the military denies any policy of encouraging radical groups .
still , hundreds of mml supporters , waving posters of saeed and demanding his release from house arrest , chanted long live hafiz saeed !
long live the pakistan army !
at political rallies during the run-up to the by-election .
anyone who is india s friend is a traitor , a traitor , went another campaign slogan , a reference to sharif s attempts to improve relations with long-time foe india that was a source of tension with the military .
both saeed and khalil are proponents of a strict interpretation of islam and have a history of supporting violence - each man was reportedly a signatory to al qaeda leader osama bin laden s 1998 fatwa declaring war on the united states .
they have since established religious groups that they say are unconnected to violence , though the united states maintains those groups are fronts for funneling money and fighters to militants targeting india .
analyst khaled ahmed , who has researched saeed s jamaat-ud-dawa charity and its connections to the military , says the new political party is clearly an attempt by the generals to pursue an alternative to dismantling its militant proxies .
one thing is the army wants these guys to survive , ahmed said .
the other thing is that they want to also balance the politicians who are more and more inclined to normalize relations with india .
the isi began pushing the political mainstreaming plan in 2016 , according to retired general shuaib , a former director of the army s military intelligence wing that is separate from the isi .
he said the proposal was shared with him in writing by the then-isi chief , adding that he himself had spoken with khalil as well as saeed in an unofficial capacity about the plan .
fazlur rehman khalil was very positive .
hafiz saeed was very positive , shuaib said .
my conversation with them was just to confirm those things which i had been told by the isi and other people .
the isi s main press liaison did not respond to written requests for comment .
saeed has been under house arrest since january at his house in the eastern city of lahore .
the united states has offered a $ 10 million reward for information leading to his conviction over the mumbai attacks .
then-prime minister sharif , however , was strongly against the military s mainstreaming plan , according to shuaib and the three members of sharif s inner circle , including one who was in some of the tense meetings over the issue .
sharif wanted to completely dismantle groups like jud .
disagreement on what to do about anti-india proxy fighters was a major source of rancor with the military , according to one of the close sharif confidants .
in recent weeks several senior figures from the ruling pml-n party have publicly implied that elements of the military - which has run pakistan for almost half its modern history and previously ousted sharif in a 1999 coup - had a hand in the court ouster of sharif , a charge both the army and the court reject .
a representative of the pml-n , which last month replaced him as prime minister with close ally shahid khaqi abbasi , said the party was not aware of any mainstreaming plan being brought to the table .