tallahassee , fla. ( reuters ) - florida legislators on wednesday approved abortion restrictions that include requirements for physicians similar to a texas law currently under review by the supreme court and prohibited state funding for routine care at abortion clinics .
the measure imposes regulations that could force clinics to close , provider planned parenthood said .
supporters argue it aims to protect women ’ s health , while opponents called it an attack on groups assisting women in terminating pregnancies .
“ let ’ s get florida out of the abortion business , ” said state senator aaron bean , a republican from jacksonville , during a heated debate .
“ that ’ s what this bill does. ” the legislation passed largely along party lines in the florida house and senate , both controlled by republicans .
republican governor rick scott did not immediately say if he will sign it .
florida is among many states adopting new abortion laws as conservatives seek to chip away at the u.s. supreme court ’ s landmark 1973 roe v. wade decision to legalize abortion .
another florida law passed last year requiring women to wait 24 hours before getting an abortion recently took effect .
the newly passed legislation requires doctors performing abortions to have admitting privileges at nearby hospitals , a type of formal affiliation that can be difficult to obtain , while tightening rules on disposal of aborted fetal tissue .
clinics would have to meet the more stringent safety standards of ambulatory surgery centers and also face annual inspections .
the legislation blocks state funding for low-income women receiving routine care , such as sexually transmitted disease screening and birth control , at clinics that perform abortions .
“ what we ’ re doing is pulling the rug out from under women who have enough problems in life , ” said state senator gwen margolis , a miami democrat .
the bill is similar to a 2013 texas law that included admitting privilege requirements for doctors and stringent regulations for clinic buildings .
it is under review by the supreme court , considering its first major abortion case in years .
a ruling is expected by late june .
“ florida would , in one bill , do the damage it took texas years to inflict on women , ” said cecile richards , president of planned parenthood federation of america , in a statement .
the high court has temporarily blocked a similar louisiana law that had closed clinics in the state .
the florida legislation would not stop anyone from ending a pregnancy , argued state senator kelli stargel , a republican from lakeland .
“ this legislation makes certain that our limited taxpayer dollars are not being used to support organizations that provide elective abortions , ” she said .