in september , president donald trump tweeted a new condition for a potential deal with democrats on immigration .
trump warned that he would not budge on allowing the failed chain migration program to continue in the united states .
chain migration can not be allowed to be part of any legislation on immigration !
he wrote.chain migration can not be allowed to be part of any legislation on immigration !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) september 15 , 2017 business insider attempted to paint a softer picture of the harsh realities ( like terrorism ) that chain migration brings with the unpopular program to the united states.chain migration is a term almost exclusively used by immigration hardliners when referring to the family-reunification-based component of the us immigration system , through which us citizens or lawful permanent residents may sponsor close family members to join them in the us.prominent anti-immigration groups like the federation for american immigration reform and numbersusa have frequently denounced chain migration , describing it as a process that admits indefinite numbers of unskilled immigrants based on family connections alone and that prompts foreigners to view us immigration as a right or entitlement .
immigration proponents , however , describe family-based immigration as essential in helping new immigrants assimilate into us society .
the american immigration council argues that newcomers who can bring family members with them when they immigrate to the us have stronger social and economic support that helps them navigate the system .
trump s tweet about chain migration on friday could signal a new bump in the road for any immigration deal with democrats .
the bipartisan dream act , recently reintroduced in congress by democratic sen. dick durbin and republican sen. lindsey graham , includes a pathway to citizenship for the so-called dreamers , whose protections under the daca program will be phased out over the next six months.fox news reports an attempted suicide bomber who set off a rush-hour explosion at the nation s busiest bus terminal is a bangladeshi national living in brooklyn who was inspired by isis , law enforcement officials said.the suspect in monday morning s blast at port authority in midtown manhattan was identified as akayed ullah , 27 .
ullah strapped a pipe bomb to his body with velcro and zip ties , and it detonated in a subway corridor , police said.from police sources : pic.twitter.com/xfnaggmoh6 joe borelli ( @ joeborellinyc ) december 11 , 2017ullah lived in brooklyn after he entered the u.s. in 2011 from bangladesh on a chain migration visa , department of homeland security press secretary tyler houlton said in a statement.the dhs said ullah came to the u.s. on an f43 visa , a preferential visa available for those with family in the u.s. who are citizens.he was considered a lawful permanent resident from bangladesh , houlton told fox news .