interesting isn t it ?
it s christmas eve and 16 pages of e-mails are released .
these are not just any old e-mails .
these e-mails are very important to finding out what happened the night of the benghazi attack .
here s the hill s take on why these were released today : the documents were released as part of a proactive disclosure under the freedom of information act .
the government and public relations firms have been known to release unflattering information around major holidays or weekends to blunt the news effect.the office of the director of national intelligence ( dni ) released a handful of sensitive documents thursday morning dealing with terrorism suspect anwar al-awlaki and the terrorist attacks in benghazi , libya.the christmas eve document dump includes 16 pages of heavily blacked-out emails about the events surrounding the 2012 terrorist attack on a u.s. diplomatic compound in benghazi that killed four americans.the dni emails about benghazi are heavily redacted and appear to contain little new information .
several of the emails discuss the drafting of an assessment of the threat level ahead of the attack , which was being prepared for congress in the months after four americans were killed in the attack .
other emails include periodic press clippings about the state of benghazi in the years after the incident , which were meant to give staffers situational awareness .
another document released thursday is a memo to the state department that shows the dni signed off on a proposal to revoke al-awlaki s u.s. passport about seven and a half months before he was killed by the u.s. in a 2011 drone strike in yemen.news that al-awlaki s passport was revoked by the state department before he was killed was reported back in 2012 .
in the 2011 memo , released thursday , the dni told the state department that it concurs with the proposal to revoke the u.s. passport of anwar nasser al-aulaqi .
a previously released justice department memo from that time found that the government did not see any constitutional problems with killing al-awlaki , a u.s. citizen , because of his alleged leadership roles with al qaeda.other documents released thursday are related a 2013 update about how to mark sensitive human intelligence that has been gathered .
another relates to the schedule of national counterintelligence executive william evanina in early 2015.the documents were released as part of a proactive disclosure under the freedom of information act .
the government and public relations firms have been known to release unflattering information around major holidays or weekends to blunt the news effect.via : the hill