strasbourg , france ( reuters ) - eu lawmakers urged the european commission on wednesday to investigate malta s adherence to the rule of law , in a move that could lead to sanctions following the murder of a campaigning journalist that has rocked the tiny mediterranean island .
the european parliament s non-binding resolution , backed by an overwhelming majority of deputies but criticised by the maltese government , also voiced serious concerns about police independence and international money-laundering on the island .
the move follows the murder on oct. 16 of daphne caruana galizia , a maltese investigative journalist who had accused senior figures in both the government and opposition of corruption and involvement in international money-laundering .
prime minister joseph muscat , leader of the ruling labour party , denies the allegations of corruption and says everything will be done to find the journalist s killers .
the european parliament calls on the commission to establish a dialogue with the maltese government regarding the functioning of the rule of law in malta and to ensure respect for european values , the text of the resolution said .
this would be the first step in an oversight procedure that could trigger sanctions , including the suspension of malta s voting rights in the eu , if systemic threats to the rule of law were confirmed and not addressed .
no eu member has been subject to these penalties , but poland is currently under supervision over the independence of its judiciary , and lawmakers have also called for the activation of the procedure for hungary .
the commission , which monitors member states application of eu rules , has so far avoided commenting on the state of the rule of law in malta , the eu s smallest member state with a population of just 420,000 people .
the eu executive s vice president frans timmermans told deputies on tuesday there were no general concerns at this stage on the application of anti-money laundering rules in malta .
but in their text adopted on wednesday the lawmakers cited several high-profile cases of alleged corruption and risks of money laundering involving government members , as well as the island s flourishing online gaming industry and a maltese scheme to sell citizenship to wealthy individuals .
the maltese government said in a statement the eu text contained factual inaccuracies and partisan political bias .
it is clear enough for the maltese government that most of this misinformation was led by highly politicised local actors , and can be read in a situation where some groups in the european parliament are trying to gain leverage in negotiations on situations in their member states , the maltese government said .
in the resolution , backed by 466 lawmakers and opposed by 49 while 167 abstained , the deputies also accused maltese police of failing to investigate several serious allegations of corruption and breach of anti-money laundering and banking supervision obligations .
the text also regretted that there has been no police investigation to date in malta of the revelations regarding the panama papers , despite the appearance of 714 companies linked to malta and high-ranking officials in the leaked documents about tax schemes in offshore jurisdictions .
sources familiar with the work of maltese authorities and a reuters review of maltese and eu data show possible shortcomings in malta s efforts to prevent money laundering .
muscat told reuters last month malta s financial services sector was as transparent , solid and compliant as any other european jurisdiction .