washington ( reuters ) - the obama administration released $ 65.8 million on thursday to help communities that are struggling from the decline of the coal industry and bankruptcies of major producers of the fuel .
the funds announced by the federal appalachian regional commission and the economic development administration will support projects that help coal-dependent communities in places like west virginia and kentucky diversify their economies , retrain the workforce and attract new investment .
the funds are coming through the obama administration ’ s partnerships for opportunity and workforce and economic revitalization initiative , which helps coal-reliant regions cope with market forces , air pollution regulations and other factors .
“ many communities across appalachia – from coal mines to main streets – are being impacted as the world changes the way it produces and consumes electricity , ” said arc chairman earl gohl .
the grant comes the day after peabody energy corp , the largest u.s. coal producer , said it might have to seek bankruptcy protection .
peabody would become the latest in a line of major coal miners , including arch coal inc , to file for bankruptcy as demand for coal plummets both domestically and in global markets like china and amid competition from natural gas .
the plight of coal communities , particularly in the appalachian region of the eastern united states , has gained importance in the 2016 presidential campaign , where economic frustration of white working-class voters has become a major theme .
last week , democratic front-runner hillary clinton triggered critical comments from republican lawmakers in kentucky when she told a cnn town hall meeting : “ we ’ re going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business ” when explaining her $ 30 billion economic transition plan for coal-dependent regions .
her plan expands on obama ’ s broader power+ plan , a set of investments in coal-dependent communities outlined in his 2017 budget .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell of kentucky , a republican , called clinton ’ s comments callous and said “ it underlines the need to stand up for hard-working , middle-class coal families. ” clinton campaign spokesman brian fallon said mcconnell and other critics “ twisted clinton ’ s words to suggest she showed a disregard for coal workers and their livelihoods. ” meanwhile , new york real estate mogul donald trump , the republican front-runner , said at a recent campaign stop in ohio : “ we have to protect your coal industry which is being decimated ” by the obama administration ’ s environmental regulations .