americans should pay close attention to this story , especially after loretta lynch announced the us government will punish anyone for anti-muslim speech.journalist and writer ric zemmour has once again been fined this time 3,000 euros for inciting to hate muslims .
le parisien reports : polemicist eric zemmour was sentenced on thursday to a fine of 3,000 euros for provoking hatred towards muslims , as a result of comments he made to the italian daily corriere della sera in october 2014 .
in particular , he declared that the muslims have their civil code , it s the koran , that they live among themselves in the suburbs .
the french are forced to leave .
the prosecution had asked for a fine of 10,000 euros .
i believe we re heading for chaos .
this situation of a people in the people , of muslims in the french people , will lead us to chaos and to civil war , he added .
millions of persons live here , in france , but refuse to live in the french manner .
ric zemmour was at the time promoting his book le suicide fran ais.note : first , the use of the term polemicist to describe zemmour is a deliberate attempt by the media to emphasize his warlike nature and his refusal to debate .
the word evokes hostility and single-mindedness .
second , zemmour s reference to a possible civil war preceded by fourteen months the statement by manuel valls , between the two rounds of the regional elections , that an fn victory would lead to civil war .
no one prosecuted valls .
third , there is an implication that zemmour s words were intended to provoke in order to sell more books , since he was on a book tour in italy.during the hearing in the paris criminal court , the polemicist had maintained that he was speaking of the muslims in the suburbs who organize and who are planning to secede .
prosecutor annabelle philippe deemed that his remarks that she regarded as stigmatizing and without nuance , were aimed at the totality of the muslim community .
the court agreed stating that at no point in the interview did he reduce his comments to just a fraction of muslims .
the whole of zemmour s remarks rests on an eminently divisive assumption : that the muslim community , in its essence and its culture , is in opposition to the french and to the french people , said the judges .
claiming to relate an ineluctable evolution , ric zemmour proposes to his readers the only option capable , in his eyes , of avoiding civil war : an organized and forced departure from france of the entire muslim community .
the court lambasted his warlike and catastrophe-prone semantics that denote the conceptual passage from a probable reality to a solution at once credible and desirable .
note : so it is a crime in france to express a credible solution to a probable reality ?
it s a crime to even envisage a chaotic situation caused by islamic doctrine ? his lawyer olivier pardo , who plans to appeal , reacted : the remarks made by ric zemmour before the november 13 attacks are today shared by a large part of those who voice their opinion .
i can not help but note the relentlessness to which he was subjected .
the polemicist was also condemned to pay one or one thousand euros , depending on the case , in damages to the associations comprising the plaintiffs .
to that will be added court costs , for a total of 13,003 euros.note : criminal and civil trials are combined here .
while we would have a separate civil suit , in france the damages are meted out in the criminal court.the judges decision again has recognized that ric zemmour is a propagator of hatred , deemed sabrina goldman , attorney for licra ( international league against racism and antisemitism ) .
his words are all the more dangerous because he presents himself as the apostle of truth ; he claims to tell the truth when in fact he only expresses hatred , she declared .
the president of sos racism , dominique sopo , expressed satisfaction that the justice system had reminded us that freedom of expression is not freedom to spread hatred .
he also said : it makes you wonder again how he can hold such a position of authority in the media .
via : leparisian