geneva ( reuters ) - an estimated 10 million people worldwide are stateless , including three million officially , a status that deprives them of an identity , rights , and often jobs , the united nations refugee agency said on friday .
muslim rohingyas in buddhist-majority myanmar form the world s biggest stateless minority , with some 600,000 having fled violence and repression since late august and taken refuge in bangladesh , it said .
in a report , this is our home - stateless minorities and their search for citizenship , the u.n. high commissioner for refugees ( unhcr ) called on governments to end the discriminatory practice by 2024 .
if you live in this world without a nationality , you are without an identity , you are without documentation , without the rights and entitlements that we take for granted ... having a job , having education , knowing that your child belongs somewhere , carol batchelor , director of unhcr s division of international protection , told a news briefing .
unhcr spokesman adrian edwards said 3.2 million people in 75 countries were known to be stateless , having been registered or counted by governments .
but the estimated total is 10 million , including large populations in countries including indonesia , ivory coast , lebanon and democratic republic of congo , he said .
governments should give nationality to people born on their territory if they would otherwise be stateless , and facilitate naturalization for longtime stateless residents , unhcr says .
other stateless groups many of whom have lived for generations in their homelands include many syrian kurds , the karana of madagascar , roma in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia , and the pemba of kenya , the report said .
we need to ensure that there is not a deliberate , arbitrary exclusion or deprivation of nationality , batchelor said .
asked whether rohingya fell into the category of those deliberately excluded and deprived of nationality , batchelor said : we can only look at the result ... myanmar has a nationality law .
it outlines categories of persons that are considered to be citizens of myanmar .
the rohingya are not on that list .
some 30,000 stateless people in thailand have acquired nationality since 2012 and the makonde , a community of 4,000 , became kenya s 43rd officially recognized tribe last year , the report said .
we are seeing reductions in thailand , in central asia , in russia , in western africa .
but the numbers are not nearly as substantial as they would need to be for us to end statelessness by 2024 , said melanie khanna , head of unhcr s statelessness section .