harare ( reuters ) - zimbabwe s top general warned on monday that the military would not hesitate to step in to end purges against former liberation war fighters in president robert mugabe s ruling party after emmerson mnangagwa was stripped of his vice president s post .
general constantino chiwenga , commander of zimbabwe defence forces and a political ally of mnangagwa who was also expelled from the ruling zanu-pf , said instability in the party was causing anxiety in zimbabwe .
chiwenga s statement , read out at a news conference packed with army top brass , comes at a time of a deepening rift within zanu-pf over who will eventually lead the party after the 93-year-old mugabe goes .
mnangagwa s removal provides a boost for grace mugabe , the wife of the president , who is supported by the largely youthful g40 faction of zanu-pf to succeed her husband .
chiwenga said zanu-pf had been hijacked by people who did not fight in the 1970s liberation war , a clear shot at g40 wing and grace mugabe who is a vocal critic of mnangagwa .
we must remind those behind the current treacherous shenanigans that , when it comes to matters of protecting our revolution , the military will not hesitate to step in , chiwenga said in a statement read to reporters at the news conference .
the current purging ... targeting members of the party with a liberation background must stop forthwith , he said .
mugabe s 37 years in power has been anchored by support from the military , which has always said it will not back anyone for president who did not fight in the liberation war .
but the aging leader has been accusing the generals of taking sides in the succession race .
it is rare for the defense forces to publicly take sides in the affairs of zanu-pf .
when joice mujuru , a war veteran and mugabe s deputy of 10 years , was sacked from the ruling party in 2014 , the military remained quiet .
political analysts however say the military stayed quiet then because the beneficiary of mujuru s downfall was the 75-year-old mnangagwa , a war veteran .
grace , now poised to become a vice president , did not fight in the liberation war .
the party appears split over the succession with the g40 faction supporting grace and another faction , that includes war veterans , rooting for the ousted mnangagwa .
chiwenga said zanu-pf had since 2015 been rocked by infighting , which had afflicted the economy , causing serious cash shortages and soaring prices of basic commodities - rare criticism of those in government by the military .
analysts said if mugabe responded to chiwenga s statement , he would be compelled to choose sides between war veterans and the young turks rallying behind his wife .
he is in a corner .
he has to declare his allegiance .
if he condemns that statement , then he is saying therefore i am for the young turks against the war veterans , said eldred masunugure , a political science lecturer at the university of zimbabwe .
what we are witnessing is the military saying : we are willing to intervene if the red line is crossed .
it is a warning that the political class in zanu-pf is about to cross that red line .