islamabad/lahore , pakistan ( reuters ) - pakistani police have arrested dozens of members of a hard-line islamist party that has blocked a main entrance to the capital since last week , a provincial spokesman said , in the latest confrontation between religious activists and authorities .
hundreds of supporters of the tehreek-e-labaik pakistan party have blocked a main road to islamabad since friday , threatening violence if their demand that the minister of law be sacked is not met .
the group blames the minister , zahid hamid , for changes to an electoral oath that it says amounts to blasphemy .
the government puts the issue down to a clerical error .
pakistan s blasphemy law has become a lightning rod for islamists , especially since 2011 when the liberal governor of punjab province , salman taseer , was murdered by a bodyguard for questioning the law that mandates the death penalty for insulting islam or the prophet mohammad .
a spokesman for the punjab provincial government , malik muhammad ahmed khan , told reuters the protests were a serious inconvenience for people and disturbing public life in the province that surrounds islamabad .
the punjab government has detained dozens of tehreek-e-labaik s activists from various districts , he said .
labaik spokesman ejaz ashrafi said in a statement police arrested hundreds of its workers in a countrywide swoop , mainly in the party s base in punjab .
interior minister ahsan iqbal late on monday urged the protesters to call off the sit-in , saying he hoped the government wouldn t be forced to take extreme steps .
one security source said the protesters detained several policemen , seized their weapons and mistreated them .
the abduction of the police is a heinous crime , iqbal said in a statement .
police have accused the protesters , who are occupying the main artery between the capital and the nearby city of rawalpindi , of throwing stones at them .
fearing violence , the government has blocked several roads with shipping containers to corral the protesters , but that has caused hours-long traffic jams .
minister of state for interior affairs talal chaudhry said the government had refused to accept the demand to sack the minister , and instead had ordered police to block any more labaik supporters or leaders from joining the protest .
in 2007 , a confrontation between authorities and supporters of radical preachers at an islamabad mosque led to the death of more than 100 people when commandos stormed the complex .
we re still trying to resolve this issue through dialogue but the situation is becoming intolerable , chaudhry , told reporters .
if this can not be resolved , the roads will have to be cleared .