xiamen , china ( reuters ) - russia reserves the right to cut further the number of u.s. diplomatic staff in moscow , russian president vladimir putin said on tuesday , in response to what he called washington s boorish treatment of russia s diplomatic mission on u.s. soil .
speaking after u.s. officials ordered russia to vacate diplomatic premises in several american cities , putin said he would order the russian foreign ministry to take legal action over alleged violations of russia s property rights .
that the americans reduced the number of our diplomatic facilities - this is their right , putin told a news conference in the chinese city of xiamen , where he was attending a summit of major emerging economies .
the only thing is that it was done in such a clearly boorish manner .
that does not reflect well on our american partners .
but it s difficult to conduct a dialogue with people who confuse austria and australia .
nothing can be done about it .
probably such is the level of political culture of a certain part of the u.s. establishment .
as for our buildings and facilities , this is an unprecedented thing , putin said .
this is a clear violation of russia s property rights .
therefore , for a start , i will order the foreign ministry to go to court - and let s see just how efficient the much-praised u.s. judiciary is .
a u.s. state department official , speaking on condition of anonymity , said washington hoped to avoid further retaliatory actions with moscow , but was confident in the legality of the consular closure and restrictions ordered last week .
u.s. president donald trump took office in january , saying he wanted to improve ties with russia .
putin also spoke favorably of trump .
but relations have been damaged by accusations from u.s. intelligence officials that russia sought to meddle in the presidential election .
russia has denied interfering in the vote .
asked by a reporter if he was disappointed with trump , putin said : whether i am disappointed or not , your question sounds very naive - he is not my bride and , likewise , i am neither his bride nor bridegroom .
we are both statesmen .
every nation has interests of its own .
in his activities , trump is guided by the national interests of his country , and i by the interests of mine .
i greatly hope that we will be able , just as the current u.s. president said , to find some compromises while resolving bilateral and international problems ... taking into account our joint responsibility for international security .
the u.s. order for russia to vacate some of its diplomatic properties was the latest in a series of tit-for-tat actions that began when former u.s. president barack obama , late last year , expelled 35 russian diplomats .
the obama administration said it was retaliating for russian meddling in the u.s. presidential election .
in july , moscow responded , ordering the united states to cut the number of its diplomatic and technical staff working in russia by around 60 percent , to 455 .
moscow said the move aimed to bring the number of u.s. and russian diplomats working on each other s soil to parity .
but putin said the latest expulsions ordered by washington brought the number of russian diplomats on u.s. soil to below parity .
he said the united states was erroneously counting 155 russian diplomats working at the united nations headquarters in new york as being russian diplomats on u.s. soil .
if they are removed from the equation , putin said , russia has fewer than 455 diplomats in the united states .
we reserve the right to take a decision on the number of u.s. diplomats in moscow .
but we won t do that for now .
let s wait and see how the situation develops further , he said .
the united states has ordered the closure of the russian consulate in san francisco and two buildings housing trade missions in washington and new york .
u.s.-russian relations have also been badly strained by moscow s annexation of crimea in 2014 and the subsequent separatist conflict in eastern ukraine , developments which led washington to impose economic sanctions on russia .
trump , himself battling allegations that his associates colluded with russia , grudgingly signed into law the new sanctions against moscow that had been drawn up by congress .