beijing ( reuters ) - the united states and germany called on china to immediately release a prominent human rights activist who was jailed for eight years on tuesday for subversion , the harshest sentence passed in a recent crackdown on activism .
wu gan , a blogger better known by his online name super vulgar butcher , regularly championed sensitive cases of government abuses of power , both online and in street protests .
he was detained in may 2015 and charged with subversion .
in a separate case , also on tuesday , rights lawyer xie yang avoided criminal punishment despite being found guilty of inciting subversion , because he admitted to his crimes .
we call on the chinese authorities to release wu immediately , the u.s. and germany embassies in china said in a joint statement .
as xie has been exempted from punishment , we urge china to allow xie to resume his professional activities without preconditions and be free of any restrictions .
china s foreign ministry did not immediately respond to a request for comment , but beijing frequently denounces foreign concern about rights cases as an interference in internal affairs and says china is a country with rule of law .
wu , in a statement released by his lawyers late on tuesday , said he considered the sentence an honor as it proved that he had not become a slave or accomplice to the china s autocracy .
i got eight years , but i feel no grief or despair .
this was my choice , because opposing autocracy means you are already on the road to jail , wu said in the statement .
i call on the international community to pay attention to china s deteriorating human rights situation , he added .
wu s sentence was the most severe in what rights groups have called an unprecedented attack on rights activists and lawyers , known as the 709 crackdown , which began in full force on july 9 , 2015 .
the hardline approach has shown no sign of softening as president xi jinping enters his second five-year term in office , and has drawn widespread concern in western capitals .
germany has been particularly outspoken , to china s irritation .
speaking at a daily news briefing on wednesday , foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying expressed displeasure at comments last week by the german ambassador on china s failure to set up a previously agreed upon cyber consultation mechanism .
china had , in fact , invited germany to send representatives to talks , but the germans kept putting china off , hua told reporters .
china hoped the ambassador stops saying such irresponsible remarks , she added .