oh nooooo !
this is not good and it s so true .
the replenishing the ammo part is so true because we ve honestly not recovered as much as the obama administration and the liberal spinners would have us believe .
hsbc chief economist stephen king is already thinking about the next recession.in a note to clients wednesday , he warns : the world economy is like an ocean liner without lifeboats .
if another recession hits , it could be a truly titanic struggle for policymakers .
here s king : whereas previous recoveries have enabled monetary and fiscal policymakers to replenish their ammunition , this recovery both in the us and elsewhere has been distinguished by a persistent munitions shortage .
this is a major problem .
in all recessions since the 1970s , the us fed funds rate has fallen by a minimum of 5 percentage points .
that kind of traditional stimulus is now completely ruled out.king notes that this far into the recovery , there s a lack of traditional policy ammunition .
for instance , treasury yields have not risen , the budget deficit is not falling , and welfare payments are still on the rise.as for what might trigger the next recession , king highlighted four things : -wage growth will hurt corporate earnings and reduce the share of corporate profit contributing to us gross domestic product ( it also doesn t help that worker productivity is low ) .
in turn , households and businesses will lose confidence in the economy , and the equity bubble will burst with collapsing stock prices.-nonbank financial systems such as insurance companies and pension funds will increasingly not be able to meet future obligations .
this will cause a huge demand for liquid assets , forcing people to rush to sell despite no matching demand , triggering a recession .
-forces beyond the federal reserve s control , including the possibility that china s economy and its currency could collapse .
weak commodity prices could also cause collapses in several emerging markets , as could continued strength in the us dollar.-the fed could cause the next recession by raising interest rates too soon , repeating the mistakes of the european central bank in 2011 and the bank of japan in 2000 .
read more : business insider