barcelona ( reuters ) - spain s king felipe vi on tuesday accused catalan secessionist leaders of shattering democratic principles and dividing catalan society , as thousands took to the streets to protest against a violent police crackdown against the banned independence referendum held on sunday .
the televised speech , a rare intervention by the 49-year-old monarch who is normally silent on politics , was a sign of how deeply spain has been shaken by the catalan vote and a police crackdown that injured 900 people .
on tuesday tens of thousands of catalans demonstrated in the streets of the northeastern region against action by the police who tried to disrupt sunday s vote by firing rubber bullets and charging into crowds with truncheons .
tuesday s protests shut down road traffic , public transport and businesses .
the referendum and its aftermath have plunged spain into its worst constitutional crisis in decades , and are a political test for prime minister mariano rajoy , a conservative who has taken a hard line stance on the issue .
late tuesday catalonia s leader , carles puigdemont , told the bbc that the region will declare independence in a matter of days .
pro-independence parties who control the regional government staged sunday s referendum in defiance of the constitutional court , which had ruled that the vote violated spain s 1978 constitution which states the country is indivisible .
catalonia , spain s richest region , has its own language and culture and a political movement for secession that has strengthened in recent years .
those who participated in sunday s ballot voted overwhelmingly for independence , a result that was expected since residents who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the referendum .
catalan leader carles puigdemont has said the result is valid and must be implemented .
outside of catalonia , spaniards mostly hold strong views against its independence drive .
in his televised address , the king said the irresponsible behavior of the catalan leaders had undermined social harmony in the region .
today catalan society is fractured and in conflict , he said .
they ( the catalan leaders ) have infringed the system of legally approved rules with their decisions , showing an unacceptable disloyalty towards the powers of the state .
the king said the crown was strongly committed to the spanish constitution and to democracy , and underlined his commitment to the unity and permanence of spain .
he had earlier met rajoy to discuss the situation in catalonia .
opinion polls conducted before the vote suggested a minority of around 40 percent of residents in the region backed independence .
but a majority wanted a referendum to be held , and the violent police crackdown angered catalans across the divide .
i m not in favor of independence , but i m against repression , said erwin , a 25-year-old pilot at one demonstration , wearing a spanish flag .
one of his companions was wearing the red-and-yellow striped catalan flag .
several demonstrations unfolded across catalonia on tuesday .
to the north of barcelona , a line of tractors moved down a road blocked to traffic , accompanied by protesters chanting independence !
and the streets will always be ours !
fc barcelona , the city s football club , joined the strike , saying it would close for the day and none of its teams would train .
carmaker seat ( vowg_p.de ) was forced temporarily to shut a production line when a road closure cut supplies .
crowds gathered outside the local headquarters of spain s ruling people s party ( pp ) and the spanish national police headquarters in barcelona , whistling and waving the red-and-yellow regional flag .
what happened on oct. 1 has fired up independence feeling that will never die , said 18-year-old student monica ventinc , who attended a protest on tuesday .
on financial markets , spain s 10-year borrowing costs hit their highest level in nearly three months as tensions between madrid and catalonia spilled on to the streets .