( reuters ) - republican presidential candidate marco rubio aimed to capitalize on rival ted cruz ’ s recent missteps leading up to tuesday ’ s nevada caucus , where a strong finish could bolster his position as the establishment favorite for his party ’ s nomination .
looming over the tight race between the two first-term cuban-american u.s. senators is republican front-runner donald trump , the billionaire businessman who has won two of the first three state nominating contests for the nov. 8 election and is expected to dominate the field in nevada .
with trump , a blunt-spoken political outsider , commanding a double-digit lead in a handful of nevada opinion polls , political strategists in the state said rubio and cruz had a more modest goal : a clear win over the other , which could propel them through the busy voting month of march .
“ they ’ re playing for second , ” said nevada political analyst jon ralston .
a recent cnn/orc poll put trump ahead by 26 percentage points in nevada , at 45 percent , followed by rubio , from florida , at 19 percent , and cruz , from texas , at 17 percent .
lagging behind were retired neurosurgeon ben carson , who stoked controversy on tuesday by suggesting that barack obama , the first african-american u.s. president , was “ raised white , ” and ohio governor john kasich .
carson was at 7 percent and kasich was at 5 percent .
kasich , who finished second to trump in the feb. 9 new hampshire primary , kept his focus on bigger states , including michigan and virginia .
trump took to twitter as polls opened on tuesday night to encourage voters to turn out and cast ballots for him , taking a jab at cruz , whom he has continually described as dishonest .
“ make sure you get on the trump line and are not misled by the cruz people , ” he wrote .
“ they are bad !
be careful. ” hoping to gain an edge in nevada , cruz spent time engaging rural voters and far-right conservatives .
rubio , the son of former casino workers who spent six years in nevada as an adolescent , played up his ties to the region .
“ he ’ s not pushing it hard , like , ‘ i ’ m really a nevadan ’ , ” said eric herzik , a political science professor at the university of nevada-reno .
“ but both he and his surrogates have highlighted he has the best understanding of nevada because he actually lived here. ” the rivalry between rubio and cruz , who won the first-in-the-nation iowa caucuses on feb. 1 , has intensified as both seek a boost going into the nominating contests in a dozen states on march 1 , known as super tuesday .
rubio beat cruz by fewer than 1,000 votes for second place in south carolina ’ s republican primary on saturday .
strategists said rubio was benefiting from the withdrawal of one-time establishment favorite jeb bush , some of whose donors were preparing to shift to rubio immediately after bush dropped out on saturday night .
rubio has picked up endorsements from several nevada party leaders since then , including u.s .
senator dean heller and nevada lieutenant governor mark hutchison .
he touted those gains at a campaign rally in michigan on tuesday , saying he was “ proud ” of supporters who had made the switch to him after bush ’ s exit .
the cruz campaign , meanwhile , lost a key staffer on monday when the candidate fired his main spokesman , rick tyler , for posting a video that falsely showed rubio dismissing the bible .
the firing came amid intense criticism of the cruz campaign for unethical behavior from both trump and rubio .
trump , known for his blistering attacks against his rivals , continued to focus his venom on cruz on tuesday , writing on twitter that he “ lies like a dog. ” cruz aimed to quiet one of trump ’ s most common attacks - that he isn ’ t eligible to run for president because he was born in canada - on tuesday when he asked a federal court in houston to throw out a class-action lawsuit questioning his eligibility .
( reporting by megan cassella in washington ; additional reporting by alana wise ; editing by peter cooney , jonathan oatis , leslie adler and paul tait ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .