sharm al-sheikh , egypt ( reuters ) - egyptian president abdel fattah al-sisi said on wednesday he was against military strikes on iran or the tehran-backed lebanese group hezbollah , saying there was enough turmoil in the middle east .
in a meeting with a group of journalists , sisi also pledged support for saudi arabia in its stand-off with iran .
asked about the prospect of attacks on iran and hezbollah - two days after saudi arabia had accused lebanon of declaring war because of hezbollah s aggressive actions , sisi stressed the importance of de-escalation .
i am always against war , sisi said , without spelling out who might be involved in military action .
sunni powerhouse saudi arabia called for sanctions against hezbollah this week and accused iran of supplying yemen s houthis with missiles used to target it .
i have said it once and i will say it again , gulf national security is egyptian national security .
i have faith in the wise and firm leadership of saudi arabia , sisi said .
sisi said the situation in the kingdom was reassuring and stable following last weekend s arrests of 11 princes , former and current ministers , and a group of elite businessmen on corruption allegations .
they face allegations of money laundering , bribery , extortion and exploiting public office for personal gain .
sisi stressed his backing of saudi arabia and other gulf arab states , which have showered egypt with aid ever since the general-turned-president led the military s ouster of former president mohamed mursi of the muslim brotherhood in 2013 following mass protests .
lebanon has been thrust to the center of regional rivalry between saudi arabia and iran since the saudi-allied lebanese politician saad al-hariri quit as prime minister on saturday , blaming iran and hezbollah in his resignation speech .
hezbollah is both a military and a political organization that is represented in the lebanese parliament and in the hariri-led coalition government formed last year .
its powerful guerrilla army is widely seen as stronger than the lebanese army , and has played a major role in the war in neighboring syria , another theater of saudi-iranian rivalry where hezbollah has fought in support of the syrian government .
sisi was elected a year after he ousted mursi and his first four-year term ends next year .
he would not be drawn on when he would announce a re-election bid , although he is widely expected to run and win .
he hinted at doing so by february .
i have to present achievements over the past four years to egyptians first , before saying whether i will run or not .
i will do this over the next two months , december and january , and based on their response i will reach a position on running .
one candidate has already declared his intention to challenge sisi .
rights lawyer khaled ali announced his 2018 bid on monday in a speech criticizing sisi s administration ; accusing it of suppressing freedoms and causing deteriorating economic and security conditions .
egypt s economy has been struggling to recover since a 2011 uprising scared away tourists and investors , two main sources of foreign currency , but a three-year international monetary fund program is expected to help restore confidence .
the imf program is tied to harsh reforms , chief of which was the central bank s decision to float the pound currency last year , which halved its value from 8.8 to the dollar to almost 18 .
sisi said on wednesday he expected the pound to rally in the near future .
i expect that the exchange rate will strengthen in the coming period , because all the problems that created the crisis over the past few years before the float , i believe , have been solved , he said .
tourism , a major source of hard currency , took a massive hit in 2015 when russia suspended flights to egypt , after islamic state blew a plane out of the air that took off from sharm al-sheikh , the red sea resort in which sisi was speaking on wednesday , killing all 224 people , mostly russians , on board .
sisi said he was not pressing the russian government to restore flights because he understood its need to protect its citizens .
i have never , and will never , insist on the restoration of flights , he said .
he said security forces were making significant gains against militants , however .
the military had captured a foreign fighter in a raid it carried out against militants responsible for a deadly attack on a police convoy in egypt s western desert last month , he said .
three security sources said at the time that at least 52 police officers and conscripts were killed on oct. 21 when their patrol came under attack , but the interior ministry rebutted the figure the next day and said only 16 policemen had been killed .
a new militant group with links to al qaeda claimed responsibility for attack last week .
the foreign militant is the sole survivor of the raid and his confession would be revealed to the public soon , sisi said .
the western desert , which spans egypt s more than 1,200 kilometre ( 745 miles ) border with libya , is a new battlefront for security forces , who have been fighting islamic state militants in the sinai peninsula since 2013 .
sisi did not specify the fighter s nationality but the porous border with libya has been used to smuggle people and weapons regularly .
when asked about his support for khalifa haftar , the eastern libyan commander whose libyan national army has been fighting islamist militant groups and other fighters in benghazi and derna for more than two years , sisi said it did not mean he opposed the u.n.-backed tripoli-based government , even though haftar and his supporters reject it .
our support for haftar is in line with the constants of egyptian policy ; we support a political solution and our backing of haftar is not at the expense of fayez seraj s government .