hmmm .if we didn t know better , we d almost think obama and valerie jarrett had a hand in writing this whacked out script .
don t let some hot-headed member of congress screw this up .
? ?
? this propaganda piece was clearly created for the low information voter a group of celebrities and public figures have come together in a new video to get behind the obama administration s nuclear deal with iran , urging the public not to let congress sabotage the agreement.actors morgan freeman and jack black joined forces with queen noor of jordan and former us ambassador to israel thomas pickering to suggest that the result of the iran deal falling through would have dangerous consequences.the video was produced by global zero , a non-profit organization with the stated mission of the elimination of all nuclear weapons .
it would be like a really dark unpleasant cloud of death , black says , referring to the possibility of a nuclear attack on the united states in a tongue-in-cheek manner.queen noor makes it clear that paranoia about armageddon isn t what they are selling , though .
we re not actually worried about iran dropping a nuclear weapon on the united states , she says .
it is true that if congress sabotages this deal , there would be nothing stopping iran from getting the bomb , pickering adds .
that would likely spark an arms race throughout the region .
ultimately , we could be forced into a war with iran , another dangerous , drawn-out and expensive conflict in the middle east with many lives lost , says freeman.meanwhile , natasha lyonne from the popular orange is the new black tv show chimes in with : don t let some hot-headed member of congress screw this up .
via : rt since they were nice enough to give you congress phone number , we re going to do the same : 877-630-4032 .
we re going to ask that you make the call and demand congress stops obama from making a reckless deal with iran , a country who is still chanting death to america !
there s a reason we don t negotiate with terrorists and it s not because we don t want peace it s because we understand that a peaceful resolution can never be reached with people who only want to see your country wiped off the map