the media is in an all out frenzy today , as they attempt to help pump up the sales of the horribly flawed presidential candidate and benghazi liar , crooked hillary , while attempting to trash our beloved president .
does the media , or hillary really believe we re going to buy into their latest attempt to prop up america s biggest loser s book sales , while trying to paint president trump as some sort of creeper ? here are just a few of the usual suspects who jumped in with this nothing burger story in an attempt to help hillary sell her book : cosmopolitan , the former fashion and beauty magazine , also chimed in on the nothing burger story to show their support for the crooked female who set the woman s movement back at least 50 years : hillary how quickly you forget about the creepy people you ve surrounded yourself with for most of your adult life .
do you seriously think any american will take you seriously when you call president trump a creep for standing to close to you , after your husband , who s been accused of rape and sexual assault by many women , had oral sex with a 19-year old intern in the oval office ?
what about serial creeper joe biden , who you just can t seem to get enough of ? from the trump-hating the hill : hillary clinton writes in her new book that donald trump s attempts to intimidate her during the presidential debates made her skin crawl and that she wanted to tell him to back up , you creep .
what would you do ?
do you stay calm , keep smiling and carry on as if he weren t repeatedly invading your space ?
the 2016 democratic nominee asks in her new book , what happened , excerpts of which were released by msnbc s morning joe early wednesday .
or do you turn , look him in the eye and say loudly and clearly back up , you creep .
get away from me .
i know you love to intimidate women , but you can t intimidate me , so back up .
listen to the phony hillary read an excerpt from her new book that will likely end up where the last book did , on a bargain basement shelf at walmart.coming up , we 'll have a morning joe exclusive on hillary clinton 's new book , and here is a first look of clinton discussing a debate .
pic.twitter.com/xrkgcotnkw morning joe ( @ morning_joe ) august 23 , 2017or this was hillary s poor health the reason for joe biden s awkward embrace while they campaigned together in pennsylvania , or was it simply just another perfectly acceptable creeper moment from the former vice president .