wednesday night was the final democratic debate before the march 15 primaries , and it was heated .
however , the biggest controversy of the night didn t come from the candidates sparring with each other .
it came when a mexican-american teenager sang the national anthem at the beginning of the debate .
apparently , white america believes only caucasians are allowed to sing that song.fifteen-year-old sebastien de la cruz took the stage before the debate and sang a beautiful rendition of our national song .
he has an amazing voice for someone so young and of course , given the fact that it was a univision debate , it made sense that a latino/a give the performance .
racists , however , weren t interested in praising the child for his vocal abilities or using common sense ; instead , they decided to spew hate all over twitter , because they are a $ $ holes.here are some of their responses : .cnn this is the dumbest thing i ve quite possibly ever saw .
for a minute i forgot i was in # america until they sang the national anthem .
millennial 2016 ( @ millennial2016 ) march 10 , 2016the only thing worse than this democratic debate national anthem is that morons mariachi outfit richard obama ( @ comebackteam12 ) march 10 , 2016 gawd the guy who sung the national anthem looked like the frito bandito ! !
bill maier ( @ billstl ) march 10 , 2016the dem debate hosted by mexico , the national anthem sung by little @ marcorubiohillary promises she won t lie bernie offers free churros loki anthony ( @ dankbeans ) march 10 , 2016 @ berniepride its our # nationalanthem and should be treated with respect how would you like it if i sing # lacucaracha in my unclesam suite truthsayer ( @ veterans4truth ) march 10 , 2016this isn t the first time this young man has been the target of racism .
in 2013 , the then 13-year-old sang the star-spangled banner before game 3 of the nba finals and the scummiest americans reacted in the same way .
they called him all sorts of names , but his response was perfect : my father was actually in the [ u.s. ] navy for a really long time , de la cruz told san antonio fox 29 in an interview about the backlash .
people don t know ; they just assume that i m just mexican .
but i m not from mexico .
i m from san antonio , born and raised , a true san antonio spurs fan .
fortunately , the positive comments far outweighed the negative this time around .
sadly , though , he will probably always be the target of scumbags who hate him just because his skin is tanner than theirs .
murica.watch his democratic debate opener : https : //www.facebook.com/univisionpolitica/videos/1723550777860081/featured image via video screenshot