berlin ( reuters ) - another german couple is believed to have been detained in turkey this weekend and one of the individuals remains in police custody , while the other has been barred from leaving the country , a german foreign ministry spokesman said on monday .
spokesman martin schaefer told a news conference that germany had no official information on the arrests that occurred on sunday in istanbul , but said the random nature of continued detentions by ankara was cause for the utmost concern .
the nightmare continues that is facing so many german citizens who wanted to do nothing but spend their vacation in turkey , said schaefer .
it can hit anyone who thinks about entering turkey .
one doesn t believe oneself to be in danger , but suddenly one is in a turkish prison .
schaefer said those traveling to turkey should be aware of the potential dangers , but said berlin had no immediate plans to issue a formal travel warning .
we will not be drawn into using travel guidance in a political manner , schaefer said , adding that continued random arrests by turkey of german citizens could force berlin to issue such a warning .
that would put turkey on a par with libya , yemen or syria , he added .
the foreign ministry has urged german citizens since july 26 to exercise caution when traveling to turkey .
before monday s news of additional arrests , 10 germans were in detention in turkey , including german-turkish journalist deniz yucel , who has been held for over 200 days .
schaefer downplayed the relevance of turkey s warning on saturday that its citizens should take care when traveling to germany , saying the warning had nothing to do with the reality of 80 million german citizens and ethnic turks living here .
eu commissioner guenther oettinger , in separate remarks , rejected calls for breaking off discussions with ankara about its accession to the european union , saying such a move would only strengthen president tayyip erdogan , who is under fire from brussels over his crackdown on opponents after a failed coup .
last week german chancellor angela merkel , expected to win a fourth term in the sept. 24 election , infuriated erdogan s government when she called for a formal halt to turkey s stalled eu accession talks .
later she conceded that such a move would have to be decided unanimously by the eu .
tensions between berlin and ankara have been running high for more than a year , fueled in part by conflicts over lawmaker visits to german troops stationed in turkey and ankara s crackdown on alleged supporters of last year s coup .