caracas ( reuters ) - venezuelan president nicolas maduro has invited bondholders to unspecified negotiations over the country s foreign debt in coming days , in response to recent u.s. financial sanctions .
with venezuela deep in recession and its currency reserves at their lowest in more than two decades , the maduro government and state oil company pdvsa have to pay about $ 4 billion in debt and interest during the rest of 2017 .
all bondholders are invited to various rounds of negotiations over the next few weeks , the president said in a speech late on thursday to the new constituent assembly .
he reiterated venezuela would keep honoring debt , but said he wanted to talk with bondholders affected by sanctions recently imposed by u.s. president donald trump .
maduro said vice president tareck el aissami , already under u.s. financial sanctions over drug trafficking allegations , and finance minister ramon lobo would coordinate talks and some bilateral conversations with bondholders had already begun .
in the same speech , maduro said venezuela would seek to free itself of the u.s. dollar and implement a new system of international payments using currencies such as the yuan , yen , rupee , euro and ruble .
the president did not , however , specify whether paying in a different currency was an option his government wanted to discuss with bondholders .
the washington-based institute of international finance , which represents large banks and financial institutions , said it was advising a group of holders of venezuelan bonds .
this informal group will take note of the venezuelan announcements and discuss how to proceed , iif executive managing director hung tran told reuters .
the group was made up of bondholders from the united states and elsewhere , he said .
tran said venezuela could not change the currency of bonds without agreement by all or a large majority of holders .
last month , trump , who brands maduro a dictator , signed an executive order that prohibits americans from dealing in new debt issued by the venezuelan government or pdvsa .
that could complicate any debt refinancing attempts .
washington has also sanctioned pdvsa s finance boss simon zerpa , meaning u.s. businesses are barred from dealing with him , and even maduro himself in measures intended to punish the venezuelan government for alleged corruption and rights abuses .
i will be announcing venezuela s definitive response to the financial aggression we - and the international investors - have suffered from donald trump and ( opposition leader ) julio borges , maduro added in the speech on thursday .
borges , the head of the opposition-led congress whose role has been overridden by the constituent assembly , has been spearheading an opposition campaign for foreign financial institutions to put the squeeze on venezuela s government .
venezuela will take a position to defend the judicial and financial security of the republic and its investors or holders of financial instruments , maduro added .
though maduro gave no further details of what his government wanted to discuss with bondholders or where talks would be held , he did say 74 percent were american or canadian .
three bondholders consulted by reuters said they had not received any formal approach to dialogue , though two said intermediaries for the government had been communicating with some investors informally .
we didn t receive an invitation or anything like that .
even if we had we don t think we would take it too seriously , said one portfolio manager at a large new york firm that owns venezuelan debt , asking not to be named .
in trading on friday , venezuelan government and pdvsa bonds were little changed in price .
the opec nation of 30 million people is in the fourth year of a recession , with its population grappling with triple-digit inflation and shortages of food and medicine .
critics say a long-failing socialist economic system is to blame for venezuela s financial troubles , while the government blames an alleged economic war by domestic foes and washington .
international reserves stood at $ 9.873 billion on wednesday , compared with nearly $ 30 billion five years ago , central bank data shows .
they are at their lowest level since 1995 .
most of the country s reserves are tied up in gold that can not be used in financial transactions without going through a certification process in another country .
in another speech on friday , maduro said that venezuela would begin selling its oil , gas , gold and all products in currencies other than the u.s. dollar , but gave no further details of the intended changes in export transactions .