the intellectual froglegs videos by joe dan gorman are truly a gift to conservatives in america .
joe dan uses hard-hitting , brutally honest and absolutely hysterical commentary to deliver an important , eye-opening message to the masses .
he has the ability to expose the left and the idiocy of those who support their policies like no other.his videos are usually 15 minutes or longer , but the two most common remarks we receive from viewers who have watched his videos on our 100 percent fed up facebook page are : every american needs to see this video and it was worth watching every minute of this video .
the lines have been drawn there is a segment of society that no matter what they hate donald trump , and the notion of him becoming president make them ill .. to them i dedicate this video .
heh , heh , heh.the number one , two and three issues are the border , the economy and immigration .
all three inextricably connected .
and america wants the damn wall that we ve been promised for 40 years .
trump will deliver.the haters continue to claim trump is no conservative but his policies are conservative as hell which leads me to the following conclusion .
considering trump s undeniably conservative policies in conjunction with his unparalleled business successes and add the fact that he has lived his life in a wildly liberal manhattan , i conclude that trump has always been a closet conservative.a businessman has to make friends to succeed.we d like to thank intellectual froglegs for the awesome mention in his latest video .
we are honored to be associated with this hard working , smart and conservative voice for conservatives across america.please go to the intellectual froglegs website to view more of joe dan s quality videos.joe dan gorman is the creator and producer of intellectual frog legs .
when he is not creating and producing stuff , he is busy eating meat , playing guitar and defending the constitution from liberal zombies .
joe dan is only able to continue doing what he does when you share his videos .
please help joe dan in his attempt to cure liberalism by donating to his production costs by clicking here .