an angry black , gay , racist , democrat victim the poster child for today s progressive in america gay black reporter vester flanagan was an angry barack obama democrat .
* * he was reprimanded for wearing a barack obama sticker at work .
* * he had his racial suits tossed from court * * he was a high paid companion * * he attempted to subpoena personnel records on both of his victimsthen he shot them dead killer vester flanagan was a big obama supporter.the huffington post reported : vester lee flanagan , the man suspected of killing two virginia television reporters wednesday morning , attempted to subpoena personnel records on both of those victims , as well as other staff members , as part of a lawsuit against the tv station.flanagan s lawsuit , filed in the roanoke city general district court in march 2014 , requested $ 25,000 from wdbj , the station , which had terminated his employment the previous year .
the suit cited wrongful termination , unpaid overtime wages , racial discrimination and sexual harassment for identifying as gay .
the case was dismissed due to lack of evidence , although it s unclear whether a settlement was reached.according to an internal memo included in the court documents , after flanagan was presented with a severance letter in february 2013 , he said , you better call police because i m going to make a big stink .
a newsroom employee called 911 , and police officers arrived to physically escort flanagan from the building.memos indicate that ward videotaped flanagan as he was escorted out .
flanagan told ward to lose your big gut , and flipped off the camera.wdbj objected to flanagan s request for employee documents , claiming the personnel records were proprietary information and irrelevant to his claims.the court filings also include flanagan s application for employment at wdbj and his resume , in which he reported graduating from san francisco state university with a 3.7 grade point average and his affiliation with the national association of black journalists.flanagan was offered a position with wdbj on march 6 , 2012 , as a multimedia journalist/general assignment reporter with an annual salary of $ 36,000 .
however , he quickly racked up a misconduct record during his year of employment.in a performance review in august 2012 , flanagan was given a 1 , the lowest rating , for being respectful to coworkers at all times , but a 4 for work diligence and attendance .
he was written up in november 2012 for wearing a barack obama sticker.by the end of that year , his supervisor was expressing dissatisfaction with the quality of flanagan s work , as well as his attitude towards his co-workers .
dan dennison , the station s news director at the time , cited a story in which flanagan reported on a local church s response to the mass shooting at newtown , connecticut .
via : gateway pundit