if the muslim terrorist who killed 49 people and wounded several others in a gay nightclub in orlando had been scouting out disneyworld and other possible soft targets in the orlando area , why is this the first time we are hearing about it ?
did his muslim wife have her mouth taped shut ?
if friends are now coming forward to tell authorities that the ft. pierce terrorist had expressed support for terror groups , why didn t they contact the fbi before he committed a horrific act of terror in america ?
and finally , if the ft. pierce terrorist , who was clearly making incendiary statements , was visiting nations who fund the campaigns of united states presidential candidates like hillary clinton , and have a history of supporting terror groups , should the fbi be held accountable , or should every us citizen demand the people who knew he posed a danger , but kept silent be held accountable ?
meanwhile , barack hussein obama blames america and uses this horrific tragedy to trash donald trump and to promote his final , ( and maybe most important ) action that would prove his disdain for america and our constitution gun control.orlando gunman omar mateen s two trips to saudi arabia , one of which was a pricey package that included four-star accommodations and fancy meals , were highly unusual and may have been cover for terror training , according to experts.the fbi is piecing together mateen s radical islam roots , and the trips to saudi arabia could be a sign of his growing religious devotion .
his stated reason for both the 2011 and 2012 trips was umrah , a muslim pilgrimage to the kingdom that is not as significant as the hajj , a trip all muslims must make to mecca at least once in their lives .
either or both of the trips could also have included a side trip .
it s very possible for someone to take a trip to a country like saudi arabia and declare it as their destination when it is in actuality just a pit stop to a different country like yemen , said ryan mauro , national security analyst for clarion project , a new york-based research institute that tracks global terrorism .
based on his blatant extremism and ties to a convicted orlando imam known for facilitating international jihadists traveling , the strong likelihood is that these trips were not benign .
mateen , 29 , killed 49 people and wounded 53 inside the gay nightclub pulse early sunday , holding dozens hostage for hours before a swat team stormed the building and killed him in a gun battle .
while holding captives , mateen made multiple calls to 911 , professing his allegiance to isis and support for the muslim brothers who bombed the 2013 boston marathon , police said.when mateen aligned himself with terrorists is not yet clear , but his trips to saudi arabia would have put him within a day s drive of yemen , where al qaeda on the arabian peninsula has long had a large presence , and where isis also has gained a foothold in recent years .
several radicalized americans have traveled to yemen to train in terror camps.mateen s first trip to saudi arabia was for 10 days , and the jaunt a year later was for eight .
the 2011 trip was arranged by u.s.-based islamic travel agency dar el salam and was a package the company calls the sacred caravan umrah .
the package costs up to $ 4,000 and is generally comprised of four nights at four-star accommodations in mecca and six nights in medina , complete with buffet meals , sightseeing and religious studies and lectures.the travel agency did not respond to a request for comment.the second trip included a stop in the united arab emirates , but the exact itinerary of either trip is not known .
the fbi , which searched mateen s condominium in fort pierce , fla. , overnight sunday and into monday morning , taking a computer and several other items , declined to comment on what investigators may have learned about mateen s travels.muslim leaders said it was unusual for mateen to have made two visits to saudi arabia in consecutive years the first when he was just 24.okay so why didn t anyone report his trips to the fbi ? ? ?
it s not cheap to do so and people that young usually don t go twice , said adnan khan , former leader of the council of pakistan-american affairs .
and especially considering he appeared not to have come from a staunchly religious background .
okay so why didn t anyone report his trips to the fbi ? ? ?
a single trip to saudi arabia could be attributed to the mandatory hajj or umrah , but the second trip and the visit to the uae suggest that his stated reason for traveling was a cover , he said .
even if the trip included legitimate religious travel , it does not mean the activity was limited to that .
one umrah is usually enough for a muslim , said timothy furnish , an expert in islamic history and consultant to the pentagon , the fact that mateen made two of those would suggest that he felt he had many sins needing rectifying and/or he was not engaged solely in religious activity but meeting with someone in saudi arabia , furnish said.mateen was born in new york to afghan immigrants .
people that knew him have said he was not overtly religious , but often expressed anger and a deep hatred of minorities .
he had once aspired to be a police officer , was trained with weapons and worked for an international security firm after being fired from a job as a prison guard.the saudi embassy in washington did not immediately respond to a request for comment.those saudi s are quick to react when it comes to writing a check to the clinton crime syndicate/hillary for president fund though ! neighbors in the quiet condominium complex where mateen lived with his 3-year-old son and wife , noor zahi salman , said the couple kept to themselves and did not wear religious garb .
we were all shocked when we found out , one neighbor told foxnews.com .
the most activity i ever saw from the apartment was his girlfriend or wife walking to the mailbox and back with their child .
however , sources say mateen had a large collection of islamic literature in his home , and people who knew him said he had expressed support for various terrorist groups.- fox newswouldn t any sane person knew someone who expressed support for terrorist groups report them to the proper authorities ?