juchitan , mexico ( reuters ) - destruction wrought by mexico s massive earthquake has put a spotlight on the quasi-matriarchal indigenous traditions of the worst affected town , with women and third-gender muxes playing a leading role in the aftermath of the disaster .
located in mexico s narrow isthmus region , about 400 miles ( 644 km ) southeast of capital mexico city , juchitan bore the brunt of the 8.1 magnitude earthquake that flattened thousands of buildings in the humid market town in a matter of seconds and took at least 98 lives nationwide .
in vivid contrast to mexico s macho , male-dominated society , travelers have noted since at least the 1800s the relative equality of juchitan s mainly zapotec men and women , as well as the prominence of muxes , zapotecs born biologically male who mix gay and feminine identity .
after the earth shook violently just before midnight on thursday , women , muxes and men all leapt into action , in many cases pulling away rubble with their bare hands .
i carried my mother out as i left the house , and then my brother and i went to rescue my aunt who was trapped , peregrina vera , a tall , 26-year-old muxe , said in a sing-song voice , her long hair tied in a bun .
she then helped pull up rubble to free her grandmother after hearing shouts for help , vera said , sitting in an outdoor patio just beyond the collapsed walls of her house , where two aggressive pet ducks snapped brightly colored bills at visitors .
locals say there is a muxe in every juchitan family .
they are widely accepted despite an ingrained roman catholic heritage and known for dedication to family , especially for taking care of mothers as other siblings move out .
among the severely damaged buildings was the downtown market , the most important for miles around and the heart of zapotec women s economic power for more than a century .
slated for demolition due to the quake damage , its loss is a blow to juchitan s women .
irma lopez , 44 , who sold traditional indigenous clothing , was proud that 80 percent of market vendors were women but said it meant they were particularly hard hit by the destruction .
we are the ones who have lost the most , lopez said , standing just outside the market as a light rain fell .
she was waiting for relatives to help remove her last boxes of merchandise , as trucks pulled up to haul away her and other women s goods .
in an 1859 account , french traveler and historian brasseur de bourbourg appreciatively described the sprawling marketplace as run by strong , unrestrained women who openly made fun of their men ... with a shamelessness hardly equaled .
roughly eight in 10 residents of juchitan are indigenous , mostly zapotec .
women are typically also in charge of family finances , said felina santiago , a muxe and beauty shop owner , speaking outside her badly damaged home .
many say juchitan is the ultimate matriarchy .
it s a city of women who fight , who work hard , santiago said .
now more than ever , we re going to work to get back on our feet , she said , just as a structure on her block loudly collapsed , causing a sudden stir as neighbors rushed to the spot .
no one was hurt .
in juchitan s seventh division residential neighborhood , margarita lopez , a 56-year-old domestic worker , craned her head as she stood in a crowd of women waiting for a promised delivery of government aid , which turned out to be mostly canned food .
yes , we have our husbands , and we don t leave them behind .
but we women matter more .
we take decisions , more than the men do , she said , as others nearby nodded in agreement .
lopez spoke of how it is common in the city of about 100,000 people for husbands to help with household chores like cooking and washing dishes , in a country where such tasks are traditionally seen as the preserve of women .
men find the division of labor in the area natural , said male juchitan surgeon ovidio pineda .
women and men share the decisions , share the responsibilities , he added .
martha toledo , whose bar housed in a 200-year-old building collapsed in the quake , killing three clients , said the disaster would not crush juchitan s spirit , as another aftershock sent her and others running to safety .
women stand out here , in terms of work and intelligence and experience , she said , wearing a traditional huipil top and standing near the pile of rubble that was once the bar .
we have to rebuild and rise like the phoenix , she said , breaking out into a song in the zapotec language with the chorus i want to shout , i am alive !