ankara ( reuters ) - a strong earthquake of magnitude 6.0 struck southeastern iran on friday , injuring at least 42 people and destroying several homes in an area where most people live in villages of mud-walled homes .
state media said no deaths had been reported .
rescue workers , special teams with sniffer dogs and units of iran s revolutionary guards and basij militia forces were sent to the quake-hit areas in kerman province , iran s semi-official fars news agency said .
state tv said many residents rushed out of houses in kerman city and nearby villages and towns , fearing more tremors after some 51 aftershocks following the 6:32 a.m. ( 0232 gmt ) quake .
the quake destroyed some houses in 14 villages but so far there has been no fatalities , a local official told state tv .
fortunately no deaths have been reported so far .
the quake struck less than three weeks after a magnitude 7.3 earthquake hit villages and towns in iran s western kermansheh province along the mountainous border with iraq , killing 530 people and injuring thousands of others .
the u.s. geological survey said friday s quake , at first reported as magnitude 6.3 , was centered 36 miles ( 58 km ) northeast of kerman city , which has a population of more than 821,000 .
the quake was very shallow , at a depth of 6.2 miles ( 10 km ) , which would have amplified the shaking in the poor , sparsely populated area .
head of relief and rescue organization of iran s red crescent morteza salimi told state television that at least 42 people were injured .
iran s state news agency irna said most of those hurt had minor injuries .
assessment teams are surveying the earthquake-stricken areas and villages in kerman province , irna quoted local official mohammadreza mirsadeqi as saying .
iran s semi-official tasnim news agency said the quake had caused heavy damage in hojedk town and some villages were hit by power and water cuts .
state tv aired footage of damaged buildings in remote mountainous villages near hojedk town , the epicenter of the earthquake with a population of 3,000 people .
tv said coal mines in the area had been closed because of aftershocks .
iran s red crescent said emergency shelter , food and water had been sent to the quake-hit areas .
criss-crossed by several major fault lines , iran is one of the most earthquake-prone countries in the world .
in 2003 , a magnitude 6.6 quake in kerman province killed 31,000 people and flattened the ancient city of bam .