london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may will set out plans to build a road to a better future for britain at her conservative party conference next week , hoping to head off a rebellion over her handling of brexit and the june election .
weakened by the loss of the conservatives parliamentary majority in that election , which prompted some members to call for her to go , may will try to show she is still the right person to lead the party and britain .
she will set out her vision of a country that works for everyone , not just the privileged few .
may first made that promise on the steps of her downing street office when she became prime minister just over a year ago after britain voted to leave the european union and her predecessor david cameron stepped down .
she will be keen to play down divisions in her cabinet of ministers over the brexit divorce talks with the eu , which has given the opposition labour party ammunition to criticize a squabbling government .
instead , she will go on the offensive against labour , which has won over voters by making a similar promise to govern for the many , not the few .
labour came second in the election , but did far better than mainstream expectations .
the standing of it leader , leftist jeremy corbyn , was raised considerably .
our party meets in manchester this week , and our message to you is simple .
as conservatives , we have a vision of a country that works for everyone , not just the privileged few precisely the direction i set when i became prime minister last year , may said in a statement before the conference begins on sunday .
i understand the concerns raised , particularly by young people , during what was a disappointing election for my party .
so my determination to act on those concerns , and crucially , to fulfill the promise of my first speech on the steps of downing street , is greater than ever .
after labour staged a conference this week at which it sounded triumphant , may hopes to fire up thousands of members who feel let down by what some describe as an awful election campaign , when their leader was dubbed the maybot for her repetition of catchphrases .
may is now dependent on a small northern irish party to be sure of passing legislation in parliament , and opinion polls indicate that labour is a growing threat , persuading rivals in the party not to try to topple her quite yet .
may will also be careful in manchester to present a united front and keep a lid on divisions in her cabinet after arguments over her brexit strategy and vision of future ties with the eu , and over austerity , broke out into the open .
so this week we ll be setting out our road to a better future for you ( voters ) and your family .
yes , we have to get the best brexit deal but we must also take action here at home to make this a fairer place to live for ordinary working people , she said .
and for people considering the alternative , we have a clear message too .
the labour party is simply not fit to govern and have already gone back on their promises about things like student debt .
she offered no details of her plan to take the initiative in a domestic debate that has been dominated by labour s criticism of economic austerity .
its criticism of public sector cuts and pay caps for nurses , police and firefighters has caught the mood of the public .
many people have seen wages stagnate for nearly a decade as prices rise , and this has helped labour close the gap in the opinion polls .
conservative members say may must try to re-engage voters and modernize a party that some say has been overly dependent on older voters and swathes of southern england , which are now being targeted by labour .
this week in manchester you ll see more of our plan for a country that truly works for everyone , she said .