kuala lumpur ( reuters ) - malaysian prime minister najib razak called on muslims worldwide to strongly oppose any recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital , as he rallied his party ahead of a tough election due next year .
muslim majority malaysia , a significant u.s. ally in southeast asia , warned of grave repercussions as it joined other countries condemning president donald trump s decision on wednesday to reverse decades of u.s. policy and recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel .
how can we accept that ?
najib said in his speech at an annual gathering of the ruling united malay national organisation ( umno ) party in kuala lumpur .
i call on all muslims across the world to let your voices be heard , make it clear that we strongly oppose any recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital for all time .
the opposition pan-malaysian islamic party ( pas ) said it would hold a protest outside the u.s. embassy on friday to condemn the decision .
dogged by a long-running multi-billion dollar scandal at state fund that he founded , najib is expected to court muslim sensibilities as he seeks a third term in next year s election , though the strategy could lose votes for his coalition partners from malaysia s sizable chinese and indian minorities .
at this father of all elections , we will fight to the end , najib said , leading three cheers of god is great from the thousands of umno delegates in the conference hall .
najib s greatest challenge is expected to come from an opposition alliance that has re-grouped under 93-year-old mahathir mohamad - who led malaysia for 22 years - and charismatic leader anwar ibrahim , rather than from the islamists .
observers still expect najib to steer umno and the multi-racial barisan nasional ( bn ) coalition to victory despite the controversy over state fund 1malaysia development berhad ( 1mdb ) .
najib has denied any wrongdoing in a scandal that is being investigated in at least six countries including switzerland , singapore and the united states .
on monday , u.s. attorney-general jeff sessions described the malaysian graft case as the worst form of kleptocracy , and said the u.s. department of justice ( doj ) was working to provide justice to the victims .
holding onto power , najib has purged dissent among the 3.4 million members of umno , clamped down on media and civil society , and blocked a damaging internal probe on him related to graft at 1mdb .