scumbag senator harry reid ( d-nv ) lays bare how democrats handle anyone who opposes them in his arrogant , threatening letter to fbi director james comey .
funny , i don t remember comey getting a public admonishment from harry reid when he essentially let hillary off the hook .
hillary should ve been taken away in handcuffs , but she walked right back onto the campaign trail without missing a beat .
where was harry s outrage then ?
why wasn t he reminding comey who put him in his powerful position several months ago ?
the crooked democrats house of cards is falling and its almost funny ( almost ) how they re blaming the russians , donald j. trump and now james comey for their inability to keep their crookedness hidden from the public .
the top democrat in the senate on sunday accused fbi director james comey of violating federal law by showing favoritism to one political party over another by publicly stating that he had been made aware of new evidence in the clinton email investigation .
i am writing to inform you that my office has determined that these actions may violate the hatch act , senator minority leader harry reid s ( d-nevada ) letter to comey reads .
through your partisan actions , you may have broken the law , reid said.the democrat also accuses comey of suppressing negative information related to the republican presidential candidate donald trump .
in my communications with you and other top officials in the national security community , it has become clear that you possess explosive information about close ties and coordination between donald trump , his top advisors , and the russian government , the letter reads .
the public has a right to know this information and yet , you continue to resist calls to inform the public of this critical information , he said , referring to the explosive ties he accuses trump having with russia.reid goes on to accuse comey of tarring secretary clinton with thin innuendo by writing his letter to congress informing the lawmakers of new evidence in the clinton investigation .
you rushed to take this step eleven days before a presidential election , despite the fact that for all you know , the information you possess could be entirely duplicative of the information you already examined which exonerated secretary clinton , he wrote.- nyphere is the last paragraph of reid s letter to comey .
in a typical chicago-like thug tactic , harry reid reminds comey how he got to be the director of the fbi and how he owed reid more for sticking his wretched old neck out for him : here is reid s letter in its entirety to james comey :