beijing ( reuters ) - a beijing court on tuesday sentenced the architect of the $ 9 billion ezubao online financial scam to life imprisonment , and handed down jail time to 26 others , marking the close to one of the biggest ponzi schemes in modern chinese history .
the ruling comes at a time when the government is stepping up efforts to crack down on risky and illicit behavior in the country s financial sector , including the unruly peer-to-peer industry that continues to attract high volumes .
beijing first intermediate people s court sentenced ding ning - chairman of anhui yucheng holdings group that launched ezubao in 2014 - to life in prison and fined him 100 million yuan ( $ 15.29 million ) for crimes including illegal fundraising , illegal gun possession and smuggling precious metals .
ding dian , the chairman s brother , was also sentenced to life , while zhang min , yucheng s president , and 24 others were sentenced to imprisonment for 3 to 15 years , according to an article on the beijing courts social media account .
ezubao , once china s biggest p2p lending platform , folded last year after it turned out to be a ponzi scheme that collected 59.8 billion yuan ( $ 9.14 billion ) from more than 900,000 investors through savvy marketing .
by the time police made arrests in early 2016 , the company had failed to repay 38 billion yuan .
the incident sparked a crackdown on the freewheeling online financial services market and led to new regulations to control china s p2p industry - where monthly volumes are above $ 50 billion , statistics published by industry portal p2p001 show .
ezubao s excesses also became a cautionary tale following its collapse .
ding collected a monthly salary of 1 million yuan , and admitted on state television to spending an estimated 1.5 billion yuan in ezubao funds on himself .
we fabricated projects to raise money , ding said , according to a xinhua report published last year , and then used fabricated project companies to re-circulate cash back into accounts linked to his companies .
ding also asked dozens of his secretaries to dress only in chanel , gucci and other luxury branded clothing to make the company appear highly successful .
he told zhang , the group president , to buy up everything from every louis vuitton and herm s store in china .
( reut.rs/2xsfahh )