harare ( reuters ) - robert mugabe would have rejected the role of world health organization goodwill envoy had he been formally asked , his spokesman said on tuesday , days after state media cheered the zimbabwean president s appointment .
who director-general tedros adhanom ghebreyesus named mugabe as a goodwill ambassador on wednesday at a conference in uruguay that both men were attending .
but the appointment was rescinded on sunday following a backlash from western donors , rights groups and opposition parties .
last friday , the state-owned herald celebrated the largely ceremonial appointment as a new feather in president s cap , adding that mugabe , 93 , had accepted the role .
his spokesman told the same newspaper on tuesday that zimbabwe s sole leader since independence from britain in 1980 had only heard about the appointment via the media .
had anything been put to the president ... ( he ) would have found such a request to be an awkward one , charamba was quoted as saying , citing zimbabwe s role as a tobacco producer .
the who can not take back what it never gave in the first place , and as far as he is concerned , all this hullabaloo over a non-appointment is in fact a non-event .
charamba did not respond to calls seeking further comment .
mugabe s critics were outraged by tedros announcement , saying he was rewarding a man whose government had presided over the collapse of zimbabwe s health system .
in geneva , who spokesman christian lindmeier told a u.n. briefing that there were no fixed guidelines for appointing a who goodwill ambassador , but that the director-general or his deputies had the power to select them .
on tedros decision to rescind mugabe s appointment , he said : i think in terms of transparency we were pretty good .
a , it was tweeted and b it appeared on the website with the statements immediately .
charamba said the fact that zimbabwe was a producer and exporter of tobacco , mostly to china , would have meant mugabe campaigning against a crop that underpins the economy .
tobacco is zimbabwe s single largest foreign currency earner , bringing in an average $ 800 million annually in the last four years , according to official data .
to be seen to be playing goodwill ambassador in respect of an agency which has a well-defined stance on tobacco growing and tobacco selling , that would have been a contradiction , charamba said .
in other words , he was not going to oblige the invitation had it come his way anyway .
a western diplomat in geneva told reuters : it was a mistake , apparently there were no preparations or consultations .
it seems the idea was cooked up in a small group in uruguay .
he acted quickly to rescind it , some would have waited .
but it will be interesting to see what the damage is , the diplomat said , speaking on condition of anonymity .