moscow ( reuters ) - russia will keep a naval and an air base in syria capable of carrying out strikes against insurgents if required after a partial military pull-out announced by president vladimir putin , the kremlin said on tuesday .
putin on monday ordered a significant part of moscow s military contingent to start pulling out of syria , declaring their work largely done .
putin made the announcement during a surprise visit to the russian hmeymim air base , where he met president bashar al-assad and addressed russian forces .
thanks to the fact that the operation to save syria and the liberation of syrian land from terrorists have been completed , there is no longer a need for broad-scale combat strength , kremlin spokesman dmitry peskov said .
but he added that russia would keep the hmeymim air base in syria s latakia province and its naval facility in the port of tartous .
the president stressed that the terrorists might try to walk tall again in syria .
if that happens , crushing blows will be carried out , peskov said .
russia s military operation in syria , which began in september 2015 , turned the tide of the conflict in favor of moscow s ally , assad .
it also established russia as a power broker in the middle east , regaining a role it had relinquished after the collapse of the soviet union .
assad s opponents , western governments and some human rights organizations alleged that russian air strikes on syria had killed large numbers of civilians .
moscow has denied the allegation .
the kremlin has presented the partial withdrawal of its forces as evidence that its mission in syria has been largely accomplished .
that gives a boost to putin as he launches his campaign for re-election .
opinion polls show that he will comfortably win the presidential election , scheduled for march .
but the kremlin fears that , since some voters see the election as a foregone conclusion , they may not turn out , weakening putin s mandate .
russia had previously announced a partial drawdown of its forces in syria , in march last year .
however , a powerful russian contingent remained in place and there was little sign of operations being scaled back .
back home in russia , many people consider the syrian mission a successful operation to restore peace - as well as an opportunity for moscow to flex its military muscles .
the official death for russian forces killed in combat is 38 , according to a reuters tally .
that is far below the level of losses sustained when the soviet union invaded afghanistan in the 1980s , the last time moscow waged a major campaign far beyond its borders .
however , many of the losses in syria were borne by private military contractors working with the russian military whose deaths have not been officially acknowledged , according to friends , relatives and colleagues of the contractors .
the russian defense ministry denies that there are any russian contractors in syria .