buenos aires ( reuters ) - amado boudou , who had been former argentine president cristina fernandez s economy minister and vice president , was arrested on corruption charges on friday , becoming the second major official in her government to face detention .
police arrested boudou and an alleged associate , jose maria nunez carmona , in an upscale neighborhood of buenos aires for racketeering and money laundering .
local television showed boudou , grim-faced and wearing a plain black t-shirt , as he stood beside two bearded security officers .
in other photographs broadcast on television , he was in handcuffs , standing in what appeared to be his home .
boudou s lawyer denounced the arrest on friday , calling it arbitrary .
we never had any problems , and overnight , just in the week that there is a complaint to the magistrates council , the arrest was ordered , attorney eduardo duranona said on local television .
the 55-year-old economist faces three counts of illicit enrichment dating back to 2009 , the year he was promoted from heading argentina s social security administration to become fernandez s economy minister .
he became vice president in 2011 , when fernandez won reelection .
but he was largely absent from public view during that four-year term as accusations of corruption mounted against him .
he and carmona developed their criminal schemes at least since the start of august 2009 , when amado boudou took charge of the ministry of economy and finance , until the month of december 2015 , when he finished his term as vice president , according to the arrest warrant .
fernandez s former planning minister , julio de vido , was arrested on oct. 25 , just three days after current president mauricio macri s cambiemos , or let s change , coalition swept argentina s oct. 22 midterm elections .
fernandez herself is facing corruption allegations stemming from her eight years as president .
she will , however , be immune from arrest after being elected to the senate under argentina s list system despite coming in second to macri s candidate .
fernandez was indicted last year on charges that she and her public works secretary , jose lopez , embezzled money meant for road projects .
lopez was arrested in june 2016 while trying to stash bags of cash in a catholic convent .
in a statement on friday afternoon , fernandez s citizens unity party accused macri of using the judicial system to persecute political opponents , putting argentine democracy at risk .
the deprivation of the former vice president s freedom has nothing to do with the case being investigated .
it is a clear maneuver to intimidate , extort , and discipline union leaders and the political opposition , the party wrote .