erbil , iraq ( reuters ) - an ban on international flights to iraqi kurdistan , imposed by iraq s central government in retaliation for the region s vote for independence , went into effect at 6:00 pm ( 1500 gmt ) on friday , iraqi state tv said .
baghdad had given the kurdistan regional government ( krg ) until 6:00 p.m. to hand over control of its international airports in erbil and sulaimaniya to avoid the ban .
the krg said it would not comply .
the last international flight from erbil , the seat of the krg , took off at about 5:00 pm ( 1400 gmt ) , an airport official said .
the zagrosjet flight was heading to istanbul .
only passengers traveling domestically were still trickling into erbil airport after 4 p.m. as the flight ban does not affect flights between iraq and the kurdish region .
one of the last planes to arrive on friday before the international flight ban took effect came from turkey , carrying the bodies of kurdish migrants who drowned last week off turkey s black sea coast while trying to reach europe .
dozens of men and women dressed in black showed up to receive the bodies of their relatives .
hassan mohammad , from rania province near sulaimaniya , came for his 19-year-old nephew , alan ahmed .
he wanted to get to europe to have a better life , mohammad said , adding that despite the flight ban the iraqi federal government had helped to repatriate his nephew s body .
a group of about 200 young people gathered nearby with kurdish flags and colorful balloons which read yes for kurdistan in both english and arabic .
rally organizers said they had come to show support for kurdistan in the face of iraq s measures .
a small group of travelers complained that they had not been notified early enough of the cancellation of a pegasus flight to ankara that had been due to take off 10 minutes before the ban took effect .
i called the airline office in ankara , and they swore that the flight was taking off , said salma , who had planned to travel to the turkish capital with her three sisters and three children .
now what are we supposed to do ?
the family were given the option of flying to ankara from baghdad on saturday , but it would cost $ 1,000 per ticket which salma , who declined to give her last name , said the family could not afford .
i guess this is independence , she said .