beijing/new delhi ( reuters ) - as u.s. president donald trump and some of america s democratic allies talk up a vision of indo-pacific cooperation , china is determined to ensure that the future belongs to asia .
the increasing use of the phrase indo-pacific by trump and his team during their marathon asian jaunt this week , instead of the asia-pacific term that has long been common in business and diplomacy , is being greeted with thinly-veiled sneers in beijing .
trump choosing to use the term and actually making it happen are two totally different things , diao daming , an american studies expert at renmin university in beijing , told a forum on friday .
the region is leading global development and trump wants america to be first , so he could not ignore its existence .
he had to say something to the region , so we have indo-pacific .
but as yet it s just a concept and we don t know what it means .
beyond the wordplay lies both concern and scepticism in beijing at u.s. attempts to complicate china s strategic domain , particularly by encouraging rival power india to work more closely militarily with japan .
tokyo recently backed new delhi during india s border stand-off with china .
chinese foreign ministry spokeswoman hua chunying did not dignify indo-pacific by name in a statement this week , but noted that this concept has been mentioned many times .
we hope that the asia-pacific region can become a stable , prosperous and orderly region .... where we are capable of managing differences and have the wisdom to resolve the disputes , she said .
indo-pacific has grown in usage across diplomatic and security circles in australia , india and japan in recent years , shorthand for a broader and democratic-led region in place of the asia-pacific , which to some places an authoritarian china too firmly at the center .
trump and his team have given it fresh currency in recent days , starting in seoul and tokyo , building on the rhetoric of his secretary of state rex tillerson , who last month talked of the need to support a free , open and thriving indo-pacific .
describing the indian and pacific oceans as a single strategic arena , tillerson went further as he described india and the united states as bookends within that region .
in concrete terms , it will lead to great co-ordination between the indian , japanese and american militaries including maritime domain awareness , anti-submarine warfare , amphibious warfare , and humanitarian assistance , disaster relief , and search and rescue , he said .
not all allies are convinced , however .
when trump s white house issued a statement after the u.s.-south korea summit on wednesday describing the alliance as a linchpin for stability , security and prosperity in the indo-pacific , south korea s presidential blue house issued a note of caution .
while the phrase indo-pacific matched some of south korea s policies aimed at diversification , we felt there was more discussion necessary to see whether it is an appropriate term to be used in our efforts toward ... joint strategic goals , the blue house statement said .
welcoming the trend is indian navy captain gurpreet khurana , who was among the first to coin the indo-pacific concept in an academic paper back in 2007 .
the rise of india as an economic power following its free market reforms and then its gradual military build-up was itself a key factor in the increasing significance of the indian ocean , he said .
india could no longer be excluded from any over-arching reckoning in the asia-pacific , be it economic or security related , said khurana , of the military-funded national maritime foundation .
chinese officials and experts have long bristled at any perceived attempt to contain a rising china .
but trump s indo-pacific policy should not be underestimated by china , because india , japan and australia are united by being on the wrong side of china s development strategy for the region , according to jia wenshan , an expert on china s foreign policy at the beijing-based center for china and globalization .
china needs to as soon as possible deal with the indo-pacific alliance , as it is absolutely in conflict with belt and road , jia said , referring to the chinese president s signature initiative to re-establish trade and infrastructure ties between china and nations throughout central and southeast asia .
behind indo-pacific you have japan s economic support , india s development speed and australia s fears of china , these are all strategic realities .