donald trump thinks if he rage-tweets about nfl players who choose to kneel instead of stand during the national anthem as a form of silent protest against racial injustice and police brutality , it will all go away but by doing that , he inadvertently highlights that there is a problem .
the former reality show star dropped a racial slur yesterday in front of native american heroes , then today , he jumped on twitter to yell at black people .
we see a pattern here .
at least 24 players kneeling this weekend at nfl stadiums that are now having a very hard time filling up , trump screamed at the world .
the american public is fed up with the disrespect the nfl is paying to our country , our flag and our national anthem .
weak and out of control !
at least 24 players kneeling this weekend at nfl stadiums that are now having a very hard time filling up .
the american public is fed up with the disrespect the nfl is paying to our country , our flag and our national anthem .
weak and out of control !
donald j. trump ( @ realdonaldtrump ) november 28 , 2017this didn t go down well on the internet.hey mr .
clumsy , now that you have added the native americans to the long list of americans you insulted , can you make life easier on us and just tell us when and where you ll be using the n word ?
the suspense is killing us .
# disgrace ( @ ronenbergen ) november 28 , 2017collin kapernick was named time person of the year .
way to go collin # time # takeaknee winning mn ( @ winningmn ) november 28 , 2017let it go .
your just mad because they aren t doing what you want them to do .
rick laferriere ( @ ricklaf2 ) november 28 , 2017the american public is fed up with the disrespect the president is paying to blacks , browns , mexicans , gays and all women since he entered office .
hafiz shariff ( @ hafizdoc ) november 28 , 2017mr .
trump , you are fake news .
https : //t.co/7la9exak3b leanne ( @ msteacher80 ) november 28 , 2017 '' weak and out of control ! ''
pot calling the kettle black .
pic.twitter.com/6ovsnvbstm dan ( qwertygeo ) ( @ the_qwertygeo ) november 28 , 2017disrespect is being an a-hole while trying to honor code talkers while standing in front of andrew jackson .
kimberly ( @ kdd75 ) november 28 , 2017according to numbers compiled by the associated press from its reporters at stadiums around the country on sunday , it was 23 not 24 players who participated in the protests.as for trump s claim about a lack of attendance , attendance through week 12 was listed at nearly 12 million fans for the league s 32 teams by pro football reference , with week 12 drawing just over 1 million , according to the washington post.the average attendance at nfl games was actually up slightly , from 68,914 per game in 2016 to 69,264 per game , so president liar pants lied again .
if he wants to talk about attendance , we can discuss his unenthusiastic inauguration crowd size .
as for his ratings , he ranks as the least popular president in the history of polling.donald trump is actively trying to divide our country even more than it already is .
trump s obsession with nfl athletes protesting against racial injustice is obvious , and yet , he didn t seem to be concerned about the tiki-torch carrying nazis who marched in his name in charlottesville this year.trump s outrageous attacks during the past two days mean that some big news is about to drop .
wait for it.photo by chip somodevilla/getty images .