ottawa ( reuters ) - canadian prime minister justin trudeau on monday reshuffled his cabinet to put more emphasis on helping aboriginal people , who complain he has broken repeated promises to improve their lives .
trudeau is splitting the federal indigenous and northern affairs ministry in two , with the most important role given to jane philpott , who has been praised across the political spectrum in her previous job as health minister .
trudeau , who took office in 2015 promising to repair ties with canada s 1.4 million aboriginals , said the former ministry had been designed in an earlier colonial era when governments dictated to indigenous peoples rather than talking to them .
there s a sense we have pushed the creaky old structures around ( the ministry ) about as far as they can go ... it could not deliver the reconciliation that we need , trudeau told reporters after the reshuffle .
philpott will become the minister of indigenous services , in charge of overseeing steps to boost living standards .
carolyn bennett , who headed the old ministry , will be responsible for ties between ottawa and aboriginal groups .
aboriginals make up about four percent of the population .
many are mired in poverty and crime and suffer from bad health , exacerbated by widespread lack of access to safe drinking water .
suicides have plagued several isolated towns .
indigenous activists say despite trudeau s pledges , which include billions of dollars in new spending , they have seen little improvement on the ground .
a group of aboriginals mounted a high-profile protest to disrupt the july 1 canada day festivities , erecting a tent on parliament hill .
the association of first nations umbrella organization for aboriginals said the changes announced by trudeau were a significant step .
despite the negative publicity , public opinion polls show trudeau s liberals still command a healthy lead .
the next election is scheduled for october 2019 .
in all , the shuffle involved six ministers .
political insiders told reuters in late may that trudeau would change his cabinet to revive a flagging agenda .
in another significant move , trudeau promoted sports minister carla qualtrough to be the new public works and procurement minister .
she replaces judy foote , who quit last week for personal reasons .
qualtrough s biggest task will be to sort out a trouble-plagued bid to buy a new fleet of fighter jets .