the left has locked onto a stat that 18 school shootings have happened this year .
this is fake news that needs to be shut down .
bernie sanders and others referred to this statistic right after the parkland mass shooting.anti-gun groups included in the statistics a suicide at a school in michigan that had been closed .
this fake statistic trivializes the horrific crime that happened at parkland or any other true school shooting .
everytown for gun safety tries to hijack the narrative : everytown for gun safety , the michael bloomberg backed anti-gun group founded after the 2012 school shooting in newtown , connecticut , was the original source for that particular statistic .
the group s initial tweet claiming that the attack at marjory stoneman douglas high school was the 18th school shooting in 2018 has now been retweeted more than 1,200 times : our hearts are with all those impacted by the shooting at marjory stoneman douglas high school in parkland , florida today.this is the 18th school shooting in the u.s. in 2018. https : //t.co/ydplz4zuos everytown ( @ everytown ) february 14 , 2018the group defines a school shooting is any time a firearm discharges a live round inside a school building or on a school campus or grounds .
accidental gun discharges and suicides aren t school shootings it turns out that everytown s database turns up ridiculous examples that are not school shootings : on january 10 , gunshots , which most likely originated off-campus , hit a window of the visual arts building at california state university , san bernardino .
classes were immediately canceled as the university went into lockdown , though a police search failed to turn up any shooter on campus .
on february 5 , in a suburb of minneapolis , a school liaison officer was sitting on a bench talking with some students when a third-grader pressed the trigger on the officer s holstered weapon , causing it to fire and strike the floor .
those were no doubt terrifying incidents for the people involved , and they may even have policy implications , but they are not what anyone thinks of when they hear the phrase school shootings .
but the media and several prominent politicians , such as sen. bernie sanders ( i-vt. ) , eagerly regurgitated the context-free statistic in the aftermath of the shooting in florida , apparently without stopping to wonder why they hadn t heard about the other 17 school shootings that supposedly had happened since january 1.this isn t just an embarrassing case of confirmation bias .
spreading such misleading statistics affects how americans from ordinary working people to elected officials understand and cope with these terrible incidents .