now , it may not have been the intent of cnn to clearly make fun of speaker paul ryan ( r-wi ) and his pathetic attempt at describing the american health care act ( ahca ) , better known as trumpcare , but they definitely succeeded in doing so brilliantly.ryan really seemed to want to impress people , so instead of doing a traditional q & a , or laying things out pretty simply , he decided to do a skit .
he literally rolled up his sleeves and did his best steve jobs impression with a low-tech powerpoint presentation and began to perform.cnn , clearly seeing this , and not letting the moment escape them , writes an onion-style headline absolutely making fun of ryan .
they called his presentation a ted talk which , if you know what a ted talk is , makes the headline hilarious.here s cnn s amazing shade thrown directly at speaker ryan s face : twitterthen , to top off the amazing shade of the title with even more shade , this is the description of ryan s shenanigans as written in the article : forgoing the traditional give-and-take with reporters , ryan launched at ted talk-style presentation .
with his shirtsleeves rolled up and wearing a wireless microphone that allowed him to move around , the speaker rattled off a stream of facts and figures and clicked through powerpoint slides .
then later : ryan sprinkled his lecture with personal anecdotes about his three children all needing tonsillectomies and how his family dealt with multiple doctors and insurance companies .
the speaker revealed he had lasik surgery to improve his vision .
if paul ryan wants us to take him seriously , then he should start by actually putting together something that we can take seriously , and this sure as hell wasn t it.here s how everyone else is also making proper fun of ryan : '' and while the software library is somewhat limited , the new zelda alone makes nintendo switch a must-have .
mom , dad , thanks for listening '' pic.twitter.com/shqslzrpsx dave itzkoff ( @ ditzkoff ) march 9 , 2017paul ryan 's healthcare ted talk really went off the rails .
pic.twitter.com/h3yn4t8zco ? maggie serota ?
( @ maggieserota ) march 9 , 2017paul ryan is really getting into this ted talk for healthcare .
# americanhealthcareact pic.twitter.com/faczxtnes3 brandon ( @ brandojerg ) march 9 , 2017pic.twitter.com/i0arym09t2 sarah wood ( @ sarahwoodwriter ) march 9 , 2017caught the tail end of @ speakerryan s powerpoint presentation , and i have to say , i m a little concerned .
pic.twitter.com/vscayt2los rep. keith ellison ( @ keithellison ) march 9 , 2017i think what paul ryan 's powerpoint was saying : a comparative to trumpcare would be if the gop just gave everybody a bottle of coconut oil .
pic.twitter.com/ehqo2q9gl3 alt fed employee ( @ alt_fedemployee ) march 9 , 2017paul ryan explaining trumpcare .
pic.twitter.com/x4w9jwegww cycle ( @ bycycle ) march 9 , 2017 '' it would be very meta of me to place one of my old paul ryan memes inside this new paul ryan meme '' -me , ten minutes ago pic.twitter.com/bfuhjgsgto haley byrd ( @ byrdinator ) march 9 , 2017this paul ryan talk seems to at least be honest .
good for him .
pic.twitter.com/zxsffo7sow elon james white ( @ elonjames ) march 9 , 2017 featured photo by win mcnamee/getty images