baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi forces on friday captured the border town of rawa , the last remaining town under islamic state control , signaling the collapse of the group s self-proclaimed caliphate .
rawa s capture marks the end of islamic state s era of territorial rule over a so-called caliphate that it proclaimed in 2014 across vast swathes of iraq and syria .
iraqi forces liberated rawa entirely , and raised the iraqi flag over its buildings , lieutenant general abdul ameer rasheed yarallah said in a statement from the joint operations command .
syria s army has also declared victory against islamic state , but last week militants re-infiltrated albu kamal , near the border from iraq , and are still fighting there , as well as in some villages and desert areas nearby .
all the forces fighting islamic state in both countries expect a new phase of guerrilla warfare , a tactic the militants have already shown themselves capable of .
prime minister haider al-abadi congratulated iraq s armed forces and people , saying rawa was retaken in record time and that iraq would soon completely defeat islamic state .
i congratulate our heroic forces and the iraqi people on the liberation of rawa .
the success of our forces , in record time and with excellent planning , shows their strength .
our armed forces continue to secure the jazira and desert area and the iraqi border .
total victory is near , he said .
a map published by the military showed zero areas under islamic state control and a spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition fighting the group in both iraq and syria said on twitter it had crumbled .
a video issued by the military showed iraqi forces sending a message to rawa s residents via radio which said : daesh has ended for good , and now the age of iraq begins , referring to the sunni militant group by an arabic acronym .
another showed a convoy of military vehicles sporting iraqi flags and blasting out the national anthem .
state television played patriotic songs and aired footage of troops in rawa .
with the liberation of rawa we can say all the areas in which daesh is present have been liberated , a military spokesman said .
iraqi forces will now focus on routing the militants who fled into the desert and exert control over iraq s borders , the spokesman said .
rawa borders syria , whose army seized the last substantial town on the border with iraq , albu kamal .
albu kamal shares a border crossing with al-qaim in iraq .
the militants lost control of the border crossing earlier this month , dealing a critical blow to the organization , which had long relied on the route to move its fighters and equipment .
the group s leader , abu bakr al-baghdadi , is believed to be hiding in the stretch of desert which runs along the border of both countries .
driven this year from its two de facto capitals iraq s mosul and syria s raqqa islamic state was progressively squeezed into an ever-shrinking pocket of desert , straddling the frontier between the two countries , by enemies that include most regional states and global powers .
in iraq , islamic state faced the army and the shi ite paramilitary groups , backed both by the u.s.-led international coalition and by iran .
iraq has been carrying out its final campaign to crush the islamic state caliphate while also mounting a military offensive in the north against the kurds who held an independence referendum in september .
however , islamic state s defeat does not mean civilians are now safe , the international rescue committee said .
nearly 3.2 million people are unable or unwilling to return home after years of displacement and over 11 million are in need of vital humanitarian assistance , it said .
today marks a historic day for the people of iraq .
it is , however , vital that the international community does not view the end of ( islamic state ) territorial control as the end of their responsibility to the iraqi people who have endured years of conflict and face a long , difficult recovery , the group s iraq country director wendy taeuber said in a statement .