prague ( reuters ) - the czech parliament revoked an election of a communist-era policeman to a police oversight job on tuesday after some lawmakers claimed the vote was manipulated .
earlier , the lower chamber entrusted oversight of the police force to zdenek ondracek , former member of a communist-era special unit which tried to crush the peaceful 1989 uprising that helped to bring down communist rule .
the unprecedented appointment of a communist lawmaker as chairman of parliament s general inspection of security forces commission appeared to be part of complex maneuvering by the new prime minister , billionaire businessman andrej babis , and his ano party to get backing for a minority government .
after the secret ballot , some lawmakers challenged the result with claims that it was unclear how many in the 200-seat lower chamber actually participated in the election .
ondracek received 95 votes , but due to the uncertainty it was impossible to determine whether he got the required majority .
speaker of the house , ano s radek vondracek , then declared the vote confused and said that it would be repeated in january .
the ano has 78 seats in the new 200-seat lower house .
babis is seeking support or at least acquiescence from lawmakers of the other eight parties in parliament .
the far-left communists with 15 seats , and far-right , anti-european union spd party with 22 , have lent support in initial parliamentary votes in return for committee posts , but no deal has been announced on their backing for an ano cabinet .
the secret ballot vote on tuesday to appoint ondracek was the first time the communist party has gained such a post in nearly three decades since the fall of communism .
in 1989 his police unit used water cannon , clubs and dogs to disperse anti-regime protests .
the demonstrations eventually led to the peaceful overthrow of communist dictatorship in what became known as the velvet revolution .
a video from 1989 , posted on youtube , shows ondracek defending police actions in an interview with state television .
it is sad that it happened only one day after we remembered the anniversary of ( late president and leading anti-communist dissident ) vaclav havel s passing .
the times have changed , said vit rakusan , deputy chairman of the mayors and independents party .
communist party deputy chairman jiri dolejs , however , defended the appointment .
police work should be scrutinized by those who understand it , he told reporters .
in october , the communist party suffered the worst election result in its nearly 100-year history .
still , it is the only faction so far to say it could back the ano government .
direct or indirect support might also come from the spd party of czech-japanese businessman tomio okamura .
other parties have shunned babis , mainly due to pending police charges against him over allegations he concealed his company s ownership of a farm and conference center a decade ago to illegally obtain a 2 million-euro european union subsidy .
babis denies wrongdoing .
babis , who was appointed prime minister this month and whose cabinet took power last week , has until mid-january to win a confidence vote .
president milos zeman has said babis will get a second try if his first attempt to form a government fails .