nairobi ( reuters ) - observers found some technical problems but no evidence of vote-rigging in kenya s presidential election last month , the european union said on thursday , based on random checks of tallies from polling stations .
the finding was announced as kenya gears up for a re-run of the contest between president uhuru kenyatta and challenger raila odinga on oct. 17 , after the supreme court nullified kenyatta s victory citing irregularities in the tallying process .
credible elections would boost kenya s role as east africa s richest economy and a stable western ally in a region roiled by conflict .
but problems with the vote could spark unrest : 1,200 people died in violence after a disputed 2007 election .
bolstering the supreme court s findings of technical irregularities , the eu said in a statement it had examined 1,558 randomly selected scanned polling station results forms from 82 constituencies .
a small percentage were unreadable , others had mathematical mistakes , and others were missing data or signatures .
the country had nearly 41,000 polling stations and 290 constituencies .
odinga alleged that the original vote was marred by fraud and is threatening to boycott the re-run unless some demands are met , including the resignation of key election board officials .
but the eu said it did not find anything indicating deliberate manipulation of the vote in the forms it examined .
there was little variation in the patterns of anomalies ... and no obvious advantage to one camp or another .
however , the observers noted that more than a quarter of polling stations were severely late in posting their manually completed tallying sheets online .
in some cases they only did so after the legal deadline for the opposition to mount court challenges to the results had passed , they noted .
the eu urged the election commission to use standardized forms with security features like serial numbers to reduce the opportunities for confusion in the upcoming polls .
it said the electoral board must do a better job of publicly explaining the processes it would follow in tallying the vote .
in a separate development on thursday , ruling party lawmaker ngunjiri wambugu filed a court petition seeking to have chief justice david maraga removed for gross misconduct in connection with the annulment of the election .
chief justice maraga needs to be censured , i believe he has participated in gross misconduct , which is unprofessional .
i believe that gross misconduct is trying to influence a presidential election , wambugu told reporters .