nairobi ( reuters ) - at least five people were killed on friday as kenyan police tried to disperse supporters accompanying opposition leader raila odinga from the airport to central nairobi , police said .
police fired tear gas at the convoy in which odinga was traveling and used water cannon as they tried to stop it reaching the capital s main business district .
some protesters threw stones at police .
two vehicles , including a police truck , were set on fire .
a reuters photographer saw two bodies with gunshot wounds as police and protesters fought on one of the main roads leading to the business district .
police said five people were stoned to death by angry mobs after they were caught stealing and denied they had used excessive force against the opposition supporters .
these incidences occurred before the police arrived at the various scenes , the police service said in a statement .
police retreated several times along the route after the protesters were unmoved by the teargas and water cannon spray .
they finally held their ground near the city s main park , where odinga , just returned from the united states , intended to address a rally that had been banned .
he blamed president uhuru kenyatta for the violence .
my anger is with that guy called uhuru kenyatta .
i went abroad ... after you welcomed me well , he sent policemen to teargas you , to beat my people , to fire bullets at them .
isn t this barbaric ? , he told his supporters after driving to safety .
odinga has called for a national resistance movement to protest against the outcome of a repeat presidential election last month which saw kenyatta win a second , five-year term with 98 percent of the vote after odinga boycotted the contest .
only 39 percent of registered voters took part .
the repeat poll was ordered by the supreme court after it annulled the results of the august election , won by kenyatta , over procedural irregularities .
the court will rule on monday on cases that seek to nullify the rerun election .
the political crisis has stirred fears for the stability of kenya , a regional hub for trade , diplomacy and security .
earlier on friday , demonstrators threw up burning barricades on mombasa road , the highway that links nairobi s downtown business district and the airport .
despite a partial police ban on protests in the capital , hundreds of people had gathered in the morning near jomo kenyatta international airport to await odinga s return .
police fired into the air to disperse them .
once odinga landed , motorcycle taxi drivers and people on foot shouted their support as the motorcade , which included lawmakers from odinga s opposition coalition , began moving toward central nairobi .
dozens of international flights depart and arrive daily at nairobi s main airport .
the national airport authority said on twitter just before midday that operations were running normally .
kenya airways said it had been impacted by the disruptions around the airport and offered to book travelers who missed their flights on subsequent ones .
kenya s prolonged election season has disrupted its economy .
human rights groups say at least 66 people have died in bloodshed surrounding the two elections .
ahead of monday s supreme court ruling , kenya airways chairman told an investor briefing on friday : hopefully we don t have another presidential election so we can get on with life .