gaza ( reuters ) - israeli troops shot dead four palestinians and wounded 150 others with live fire on friday , medical officials said , as protests over u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital entered a second week .
most of the casualties were on the gaza strip border , where thousands of palestinians gathered to hurl rocks at israeli soldiers beyond the fortified fence .
medics said two protesters , one of them wheelchair-bound , were killed and 150 wounded .
in the occupied west bank , another area where palestinians are seeking statehood along with adjacent east jerusalem , medics said two protesters were killed and 10 wounded by israeli gunfire .
one of the dead was a man who israeli police troopers said was shot after he stabbed a member of their unit .
reuters witnesses said the palestinian held a knife and wore what looked like a bomb belt .
a palestinian medic who helped evacuate the man for treatment said the belt was fake .
palestinians and the wider arab and muslim world were incensed at trump s dec. 6 announcement , which reversed decades of u.s. policy reticence on jerusalem , a city where both israel and the palestinians want sovereignty .
washington s european allies and russia have also voiced worries about trump s decision .
gaza s dominant hamas islamists , which reject coexistence with israel , called last week for a new palestinian uprising , but any such mass-mobilisation has yet to be seen in the west bank or east jerusalem .
there have been almost nightly gazan rocket launches into israel , so far without casualties .
israel has responded with air strikes on hamas facilities , one of which killed two gunmen .
the israeli military said that , on friday , about 3,500 palestinians demonstrated near the gaza border fence .
during the violent riots idf ( israel defence force ) soldiers fired selectively towards main instigators , the military said in a statement .
a military spokeswoman had no immediate comment on the wheelchair-bound protestor , ibrahim abu thuraya .
abu thuraya , 29 , was a regular at such demonstrations .
in media interviews , he said he had lost both his legs in a 2008 israeli missile strike in gaza .
in the west bank , the israeli military said that about 2,500 palestinians took part in riots , rolling flaming tires and throwing fire bombs and rocks at soldiers and border police .
israel captured east jerusalem , an area laden with jewish , muslim and christian shrines , from jordan in the 1967 war and later annexed it in a move not recognized internationally .
palestinians hope that part of the city will be the capital of a future independent state and palestinian leaders say trump s move is a serious blow to a moribund peace process .
israel has welcomed trump s announcement as recognizing political reality and biblical jewish roots in jerusalem .
u.s. vice president mike pence is scheduled to visit israel , as well as egypt , next week .