tokyo ( reuters ) - japanese prime minister shinzo abe s ruling bloc scored a big win in sunday s election , bolstering his chance of becoming the nation s longest-serving premier and re-energizing his push to revise the pacifist constitution .
abe s liberal democratic party-led ( ldp ) coalition won a combined 312 seats , keeping its two-thirds super majority in the 465-member lower house , local media said .
a hefty win raises the likelihood that abe , who took office in december 2012 , will secure a third three-year term as ldp leader next september and go on to become japan s longest-serving premier .
it also means his abenomics growth strategy centered on the hyper-easy monetary policy will likely continue .
final official results from the election , which coincided with an approaching typhoon , are expected early on monday .
the u.s.-drafted constitution s article 9 , if taken literally , bans the maintenance of armed forces .
but japanese governments have interpreted it to allow a military exclusively for self-defense .
backers of abe s proposal to clarify the military s ambiguous status say it would codify the status quo .
critics fear it would allow an expanded role overseas for the military .
abe said he would not stick to a target he had floated of making the changes by 2020 .
first , i want to deepen debate and have as many people as possible agree , he told a tv broadcaster .
we should put priority on that .
the ldp s junior partner , the komeito , is cautious about changing the constitution , drawn up after japan s defeat in world war two .
several opposition parties favor changes , but do not necessarily agree on details .
amendments must be approved by two-thirds of each chamber of parliament and then by a majority in a public referendum .
now that pro-constitutional change parties occupy more than two-thirds of the parliament , the constitution will be the most important political issue next year , said hidenori suezawa , a financial market and fiscal analyst at smbc nikko securities .
and as we saw in the u.k. ... a referendum could be tricky .
so while abe is likely to be prime minister for the time being , it is too early to say whether he can stay in power until 2021 .
abe declined to say if he would run for a third term .
abe had said he needed a new mandate to tackle a `` national crisis '' from north korea 's missile and nuclear threats and a fast-aging population , and to approve his idea of diverting revenue from a planned sales tax hike to education and child care from public debt repayment [ reut.rs/2yc0pma ] .
he called the poll amid confusion in the opposition camp and an uptick in his ratings , dented earlier in the year by scandals over suspected cronyism and a perception he had grown arrogant after nearly five years in office .
abe has backed u.s. president donald trump s tough stance towards north korea , which has test-fired missiles over japan , that all options , including military action , are on the table .
trump is to visit japan nov. 5-7 to reaffirm the leaders tight ties .
abe s snap poll gamble had seemed risky - some early forecasts saw the ldp losing a significant chunk of seats - after tokyo governor yuriko koike , often floated as possibly japan s first female premier , launched her conservative party of hope .
that party absorbed a big chunk of the failed main opposition democratic party , which abruptly decided to run no candidates of its own .
but voter enthusiasm soon waned despite its calls for popular policies such as an exit from nuclear power and a freeze on the planned sales tax rise .
koike did not run for a lower house seat herself - she was in paris for a climate change event on sunday - and failed to say whom her party would back for prime minister .
we had sought to put policies first .
but we ended up with a very tough outcome , so i deeply apologize for that , koike told nhk .
a new constitutional democratic party of japan ( cdpj ) , formed by liberal former dp members , got 54 seats , beating the 49 seats of koike s party to become the biggest opposition group , although both have just a fraction of the ldp s presence .
day by day , we felt we were getting more voter support for our call to revive more decent politics , and not fret about whether it s right or left wing , said cdpj lawmaker tetsuro fukuyama .
several experts noted the ruling bloc s win was less a victory for the conservative , long-ruling ldp than a defeat for a divided opposition .
simply put , this was the self-destruction of the opposition , said zentaro kamei , a senior research fellow at think tank php institute and former ldp lawmaker .
shinjiro koizumi , the ldp lawmaker son of popular former premier junichiro koizumi , warned against ldp complacency .
it s not just that our party has become arrogant and complacent .
people are also getting increasingly fed up with us , he told nhk .
abe , 63 , has already led the ldp and its partner , the komeito , to four landslide wins since he took the helm of the party .
but turnout has been low and the ldp has typically won with about 25 percent of eligible votes .
others either stayed home or backed opposition parties .
kyodo news agency estimated turnout on sunday - when heavy rain from powerful typhoon lan lashed much of japan - at 53.7 percent , 1 point above the record low in the last lower house election in 2014 .