21st century wire says after a long drawn out round of bilateral peace talks in geneva switzerland this week , russia and the united states announced a plan for a 48 hour ceasefire in syria , scheduled to take effect at sundown monday.incredibly , the cornerstone of this agreement rests on russian foreign minister sergey lavrov and us secretary of state john kerry , both agreeing ( for now anyway ) that they would both be targeting the terrorist opposition force , al nusra front ( al qaeda in syria , supported covertly by both the saudi arabia and the us/cia ) who recently rebranded themselves to jabhat fateh al-sham in cynical desperate move to avoid being targeted by military airstrikes.back in may , when another ceasefire was proposed , 21wire warned that it was only a ploy by the us to buy more time for rebels to re-arm and repair broken rat lines from turkey into northern syria .
that turned out to be 100 % correct , despite the fact the western media outlets were duped by washington s desperate diplomatic ploy reinforced by a multi-million dollar , new york city-based pr campaign targeting social media and funded by george soros and others , which was marketed using the tagline # aleppoisburning.are we seeing more of the same this week in geneva ? for a comprehensive analysis on what this latest temporary ceasefire agree really means , and where it could be heading , watch his excellent segment featuring political analyst ammar waqqaf .
watch : according to kerry , the plan is to ensure that syrian government forces will not carry out combat missions where the so-called moderate opposition is present.speaking of fight against al-nusra and its efforts to blend with moderate rebels , kerry stressed going on al-nusra is not a concession to anybody but is profoundly in the interests of the us .
'going on al-nusra is profoundly in the interests of the us ' # kerry https : //t.co/1mecynave5 # lavrovkerry # syria pic.twitter.com/fjvctbzjfa rt ( @ rt_com ) september 9 , 2016kerry also outlined an establishment of the russian-us joint implementation centre ( jig ) that would serve the purpose of delineation of territories controlled by al-nusra and opposition groups in the area of active hostilities .
taking the floor , the russian fm confirmed that russia and us had agreed to coordinate airstrikes in syria , provided there is a sustained period of reduced violence .
the first step toward the implementation of this clause will be a 48-hour ceasefire in syria , lavrov said.lavrov elaborated that the ceasefire comes into effect on september 12 and should last for at least seven days .
( ) despite the mistrust and attempt to disrupt what we have agreed upon , we managed to work out a package of documents , there are five of them .
it allows us to set an effective coordination in the fight against terrorism , to expand the humanitarian access to distressed population , first and foremost in aleppo , lavrov said.due to the sensitive nature of the information contained in the agreements , they will not be made available to general public , lavrov said .
we can not make these documents public .
they contain rather serious , sensitive information .
we don t want it to fall into hands of those who would surely try to disrupt the implementation of the measures stipulated within in the framework of humanitarian delivery supplies and in other parts of our agreements .
continue this article at rtread more syria news at : 21st century wire syria files