istanbul ( reuters ) - muslim leaders on wednesday condemned u.s. president donald trump s recognition of jerusalem as the capital of israel and called on the world to respond by recognizing east jerusalem as the capital of palestine .
turkish president tayyip erdogan , who hosted the summit of more than 50 muslim countries in istanbul , said the u.s. move meant washington had forfeited its role as broker in efforts to end israeli-palestinian conflict .
from now on , it is out of the question for a biased united states to be a mediator between israel and palestine , that period is over , erdogan said at the end of the meeting of the organization of islamic cooperation member states .
we need to discuss who will be a mediator from now on .
this needs to be tackled in the u.n. too , erdogan said .
a communique posted on the turkish foreign ministry website said the emirs , presidents and ministers gathered in istanbul regarded trump s move as an announcement of the u.s. administration s withdrawal from its role as sponsor of peace .
it described the decision as a deliberate undermining of all peace efforts , an impetus ( for ) extremism and terrorism , and a threat to international peace and security .
leaders including palestinian president mahmoud abbas , iran s president hassan rouhani and jordan s king abdullah , a close u.s. ally , all criticized washington s move .
jerusalem is and always will be the capital of palestine , abbas said , adding trump s decision was the greatest crime and a violation of international law .
asked about the criticism at a state department briefing in washington , spokeswoman heather nauert said that despite the inflammatory rhetoric from the region , trump is committed to this peace process .
that type of rhetoric that we heard has prevented peace in the past , she said , urging people to ignore some of the distortions and focus on what trump actually said .
she said his decision did not affect the city s final borders , which were dependent upon negotiation between israel and the palestinians .
but when asked whether east jerusalem could similarly be recognized as the capital of a future palestinian state , nauert said that determination should be left to final status negotiations between israelis and palestinians .
we re taking a position on how we view jerusalem , she said .
i think it s up to the israelis and palestinians to decide how they want to view the borders - again final status negotiations .
abbas told oic leaders in istanbul that washington had shown it could no longer be an honest broker .
it will be unacceptable for it to have a role in the political process any longer since it is biased in favor of israel , he said .
this is our position and we hope you support us in this .
jerusalem , revered by jews , christians and muslims alike , is home to islam s third holiest site and has been at the heart of the israeli-palestinian conflict for decades .
israel captured arab east jerusalem in 1967 and later annexed it in an action not recognized internationally .
the communique on the turkish ministry website and a separate istanbul declaration distributed to journalists after the meeting said the leaders called on all countries to recognize east jerusalem as the capital of palestine .
we invite the trump administration to reconsider its unlawful decision that might trigger ... chaos in the region , and to rescind its mistaken step , the declaration said .
iran , locked in a regional rivalry with saudi arabia , said the muslim world should overcome internal problems through dialogue so it could unite against israel .
tehran has repeatedly called for the destruction of the israeli state and backs several militant groups in their fight against it .
america is only seeking to secure the maximum interests of the zionists and it has no respect for the legitimate rights of palestinians , rouhani told the summit .
king abdullah , whose country signed a peace treaty with israel more than 20 years ago , said he rejected any attempt to alter the status quo of jerusalem and its holy sites .
abdullah s hashemite dynasty is custodian of jerusalem s muslim sites , making amman sensitive to any changes in the city .
not all countries were represented by heads of government .
some sent ministers and saudi arabia , another close ally of washington s , sent a junior foreign minister .
summit host turkey has warned that trump s decision would plunge the world into a fire with no end in sight .
erdogan described it as reward for israeli actions including occupation , settlement construction , land seizure and disproportionate violence and murder .
israel is an occupying state ( and ) israel is a terror state , he told the summit .
i invite all countries supporting international law to recognize jerusalem as the occupied capital of palestine , erdogan told oic leaders and officials .
trump s declaration has been applauded by israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu , who said washington had an irreplaceable part to play in the region .