berlin ( reuters ) - nominally , they are at odds on europe .
but germany s greens and liberal free democrats ( fdp ) gave remarkably similar messages on european reform on monday as they began exploring a coalition alliance with chancellor angela merkel s humbled conservatives .
after her conservative bloc hemorrhaged support to the far-right in sunday s election , merkel has little choice but to try to work out a three-way coalition with the greens and fdp - an tie-up untested at national level and widely seen as risky .
if their party programs are taken at face value , the greens want to press ahead with deeper european integration and the fdp wants to hold it back - a conflict that could frustrate coalition talks with merkel , who wants a stronger europe .
but at back-to-back news conferences on monday , the fdp and greens both made conciliatory noises toward french president emmanuel macron , who ran for the french presidency on a pledge to relaunch the european union in tandem with germany .
macron is due to set out his proposals for eu reform and strengthening monetary union on tuesday .
we have a great interest in the success of the french republic and in its strength , fdp leader christian lindner told a news conference .
germany will not become stronger if france becomes weaker , but europe will profit as a whole if all its members return to a path of economic success .
that is why we wish mr. macron all the best .
less than an hour later , greens co-leader cem ozdemir delivered almost exactly the same message .
it is clear that we have a vital interest in france being successful , he said .
the headline comments glossed over deeper differences between the two parties on europe , but indicated a glass half full attitude suggesting both want to find common ground on europe that will help them forge a ruling coalition with merkel .
both the fdp and greens played down the prospect of such a three-way bloc during the election campaign , but as they have been out of government for four and 12 years respectively , they may be lured into an alliance by the prospect of power .
pledging to form a stable government , merkel herself said she would not set out red lines on europe policy for now - an open-minded approach that gives the three parliamentary groups wiggle room to work out a compromise .
my view is that we can use more europe but this has to lead to more competitiveness , more jobs and more clout for the european union , she said in a message that could appeal to the pro-business fdp and the greens , who are keener on regulation .
merkel also urged the center-left social democrats not to shut the door on a re-run of their grand coalition .
the greens and free democrats are from opposition ends of the political spectrum and must navigate differences on tax policy and immigration , as well as europe , before they team up .
in their party program the greens say they reject a division of europe .
the fdp , by contrast , favors a multi-speed europe - differentiating a northern core of fiscally disciplined , wealthy member states from the rest .
the fdp wants euro zone countries to be able to leave the bloc rather than stay under an interminable rescue policy , and favors winding down the lending capacity of the euro zone s esm rescue fund - unlike merkel s finance minister , who has proposed developing it into a european monetary fund .
lindner , who said during the election campaign that greece should leave the euro , said on monday his party could not agree to a common euro zone budget that would help redress economic imbalances within the bloc .
that position seems to be at odds with the vision presented by macron , who wants to overhaul the euro zone and introduce a budget and finance minister for the single-currency region .
the euro eur= snapped a two-day rising streak on monday after a surge in support for the far right in the election prompted investors to lock in gains in one of the most profitable currency trades of the year .
but investors remained sanguine about the prospects for european reform under a three-way coalition of conservatives , fdp and greens - known as a jamaica alliance after their respective party colors : black , yellow and green .
where the fdp might push back on the next potential government s european policies , expect the greens to pull forward , enabling chancellor merkel s middle-ground to prevail , said andrew bosomworth , a senior portfolio manager at pimco , one of the world s largest bond funds .