( reuters ) - the campaign group human rights watch on friday condemned the arrest by saudi authorities of some 30 clerics , intellectuals and activists this week as a coordinated crackdown on dissent , and amnesty international echoed the sentiment .
the arrests were made after exiled opposition figures called for demonstrations following friday s afternoon prayers , which did not appear to attract much support amid a heavy security deployment .
activists this week circulated on social media lists of people detained .
they included prominent islamist preacher salman al-awdah , as well as some people with no clear links to islamist activity or obvious history of opposition .
the detentions come amid widespread speculation , denied by officials , that king salman , 81 , intends to abdicate in favor of his son , crown prince mohammed , who dominates economic , foreign and domestic policy .
there are also growing tensions with qatar over its alleged support of islamists , including the muslim brotherhood , which is listed by riyadh as a terrorist organization .
these apparently politically motivated arrests are another sign that mohammed bin salman has no real interest in improving his country s record on free speech and the rule of law , said sarah leah whitson , middle east director at human rights watch .
the new york-based group said the arrests fitted a pattern of human rights violations against peaceful activists and dissidents , including harassment , intimidation , smear campaigns , travel bans , detention and prosecution .
crown prince mohammed has rocketed to the pinnacle of power in the kingdom , pushing a reform agenda called vision 2030 aimed at weaning the country off oil and introducing social reforms .
critics say he is not doing enough to liberalize politics in a country where the king enjoys absolute authority .
amnesty international also denounced the crackdown , urging the authorities to reveal the whereabouts of the detainees and give them access to families and lawyers .
in recent years we can not recall a week in which so many prominent saudi arabian figures have been targeted in such a short space of time , said samah hadid , the group s director of campaigns in the middle east .
it is clear that the new leadership under crown prince mohammed bin salman is sending a chilling message : freedom of expression will not be tolerated , we are coming after you .
a government spokesman did not immediately respond to a request for comment .
all public protests are banned in saudi arabia , as are political parties .
labor unions are illegal , the media are controlled and criticism of the royal family can lead to prison .
riyadh says it does not have political prisoners , but senior officials have said monitoring of activists is needed to maintain social stability .
the al-saud family has always regarded islamist groups as the biggest internal threat to its rule over a country in which appeals to religious sentiment can not be lightly dismissed and an al qaeda campaign a decade ago killed hundreds .
islamist movements such as the muslim brotherhood , which originated in egypt and briefly held power there after the 2011 arab spring , represent an ideological threat to saudi arabia s dynastic system of rule .
the brotherhood-inspired sahwa movement agitated in the 1990s to bring democracy to saudi arabia and criticized the ruling family for corruption , social liberalization and working with the west , including allowing u.s. troops into the kingdom during the 1991 iraq war .
the sahwa were weakened by a mixture of repression and co-optation , but remain active .
saudi arabia , the united arab emirates , bahrain and egypt cut diplomatic and transport links with qatar in june over its alleged support for islamists including the brotherhood a charge doha denies .
at a mosque in central riyadh that protest organizers had identified as one of several potential gathering spots , the imam warned worshippers against demonstrating .
all the groups that exist today and call for political action or aspire to rule they are all misguided , deviant groups headed by the muslim brotherhood , he said .
most people seemed to heed that message , with no demonstrations reported across the kingdom .