washington ( reuters ) - republican leaders in the u.s. congress condemned white supremacist groups on tuesday after their party ’ s front-runner in the presidential contest , donald trump , failed to disavow support for an ex-ku klux klan leader , but the leaders declined further comment on trump ’ s controversial white house bid .
the comments from the two top republicans in the u.s. congress , house of representatives speaker paul ryan and senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , came as many of the party ’ s lawmakers struggle to come to terms with the growing possibility that trump will be their nominee .
trump ’ s policies are often at odds with those of conservatives , and his comments on the campaign trail have often been both incendiary and crude .
he has racked up victories in three of the four states that have already held their nominating contests .
the comments from ryan and mcconnell coincided with “ super tuesday , ” the biggest voting day in the race to pick the 2016 presidential nominees for the november election .
ryan said any republican nominee must reject any group “ built on bigotry ” while mcconnell said senate republicans condemned groups such as the klan and “ everything they stand for. ” the klan , whose roots reach back to the civil war , is known for its segregationist , racist views .
in an interview with cnn on sunday , trump did not immediately repudiate support from david duke , a former klan leader who is also a former louisiana state representative .
trump later said he had not heard the questions well because of a bad earpiece .
both ryan and mcconnell said they did not want to weigh in further on the presidential race , something they have declined to do for months .
ryan , a former vice presidential candidate who will chair the republicans ’ national convention in july , reiterated on tuesday he would support whomever is his party ’ s nominee .
a number of southern states are among the 11 states holding republican nominating contests on tuesday , including virginia , and opinion polls show trump is likely to consolidate his status as the favorite to win the nomination .
senate democratic leader harry reid scoffed at ryan ’ s remark a few hours later .
reid said republicans were afraid to withdraw their support publicly because the trump “ millions ” might turn on them .
“ republicans say they ’ ll support a man who refuses to denounce the ku klux klan .
so until they withdraw their support , talk is really cheap , ” reid said .
mcconnell sidestepped a question on whether it was true , as reported over the weekend by the new york times , that he had told fellow republicans in private that they could drop trump “ like a hot rock ” if he becomes the party ’ s presidential nominee .
mcconnell said he did not recall saying anything like that to reporters .
in recent days other lawmakers on capitol hill have become more outspoken on trump .
a handful of lawmakers have endorsed him , including senator jeff sessions of alabama , a conservative .
on sunday evening , senator ben sasse , a conservative republican from nebraska , announced on facebook that he could not support trump because his “ relentless focus is on dividing americans and on tearing down rather than building back up this glorious nation .
“ if donald trump ends up as the gop nominee , conservatives will need to find a third option , ” sasse wrote .
but in the halls of congress on tuesday , there appeared to be few lawmakers prepared to distance themselves from trump who had not done so already .
republican senator lindsey graham , who gave up his own presidential quest in december , said , “ the party ’ s been burned and the country ’ s going to get burned ” by trump .
to avoid this , he said , the party should consolidate around an opponent to trump instead of diffusing the opposition among so many candidates .
trump is now one of five remaining republican contenders .
the others are senator ted cruz of texas , senator marco rubio of florida , ohio governor john kasich and retired neurosurgeon ben carson .
senator susan collins , a maine republican who had endorsed jeb bush before he dropped out , said lawmakers have not shied away from criticizing trump .
“ that has happened continually .
many of us did it when he made comments about john mccain many months ago , ” she said , referring to how trump had mocked the military record of mccain , a republican senator from arizona .
as a navy pilot , mccain was shot down over vietnam .
trump said he liked people who weren ’ t captured .