with this presidential election being as absolutely bizarre as it is , sometimes it s incredibly important to keep our sense of humor about us .
one person who seems to being doing this very well is none other than dixie chicks natalie maines.as a woman who s never shied away from letting her opinion be known about politicians , maines began by taking to twitter to make a joke about her apparent issues with airline travel saying that she ll vote for whoever makes the airline industry decent again .
although , she had one quick addendum to that statement : but only if it s a clinton .
at this point i might vote for whichever candidate promises to make the airline industry decent again.but only if it 's clinton ? .
natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016then maines went on to joke about the fact that not even george h.w .
bush can vote for trump for president .
which for a bush not to vote for a bad president to be in office is just utter irony.even bush wo n't vote for trump ! which honestly has kind of turned my world around and forced me to rethink everything. # skiddin natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016she didn t stop there , however , in reply after reply , the jokes kept coming : @ giannal oh no !
not at all !
it 's totally natural.for an umpa lumpa .
natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016 @ dcxn24fan omg !
that 's even a better visual than him in a tanning bed .
so presidential !
natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016 @ mysheltieestate @ hochalicious actually it 's also hands .
and he has little ones .
natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016 @ darthpug let 's hope they forget to register .
natalie maines ( @ 1nataliemaines ) september 22 , 2016and those are just a few of the replies.maines was clearly on twitter and ready to strike back at anyone or anything ( if we re talking about trump supporters ) that decided to reply to her tweets against him .
and honestly , we re all a little better for her wit and wisdom during this most troubling time.featured image via mike windle/getty images for siriusxm