toronto ( reuters ) - canada s indigenous population is growing four times faster than the rest the country , census data showed on wednesday , marking a dramatic increase in the ranks of people who have long struggled with poverty and marginalization .
a growing number of canadians identifying themselves as indigenous , a higher fertility rate and a higher life expectancy for indigenous people than in the past help explain the rapid growth rate , statistics canada said .
canada s indigenous population grew 42.5 percent in the 10 years to 2016 to 1.7 million people , compared to 11 percent growth for canada as a whole , statistics canada said , in data released from the 2016 census .
the findings show a young population , with an average age of 32.1 years , compared with 40.9 for the non-aboriginal population .
the census , which showed indigenous people accounting for nearly 5 percent of the population overall , also found a younger generation significantly more likely to be raised in foster care .
indigenous children made up 7.7 percent of all canadians under 5 but more than half of the children were in foster homes , according to the census data .
the census also found that one fifth of the indigenous population lives in over-crowded housing , and 44 percent of indigenous people on reserves were living in homes that needed major repairs .
last month , canadian prime minister justin trudeau said canada had failed its indigenous people .
in a speech to the united nations general assembly , trudeau acknowledged the dark history of canada s colonization as one of humiliation , neglect and abuse and promised to do more .
statistics canada estimated that by 2036 , indigenous people will comprise one-fifth of the populations of the prairie provinces of manitoba and saskatchewan - potentially giving them greater political clout .
canada s indigenous people come from hundreds of nations and bands , with more than 70 distinct languages .
they include first nations , m tis , people of mixed indigenous and european background , and inuit , who largely inhabit canada s north .
population growth between 2006 and 2016 was highest for m tis , at 51.2 percent .
that appeared to result , at least in part , from more people calling themselves m tis rather than from a mushrooming m tis birth rate , statistics canada figures suggest .
in 2011 , m tis women s birth rate was just 12.5 percent higher than that of non-indigenous women .
i think these are people who are kind of dipping their toe into these identity waters , said chris andersen , a professor and dean of native studies at the university of alberta .