21st century wire says after president donald j. trump s previous visa suspension was blocked by federal courts , he has fulfilled his vow to overturn this by introducing a new executive order temporarily blocking travel to the us for residents of six muslim-majority countries pending revision of visa procedures .
the order halts the issuance of new us visas to citizens of iran , libya , syria , somalia , sudan and yemen for the next 90 days.the new executive order was revealed to reporters today by secretary of state rex tillerson , homeland security secretary john kelly , and attorney general jeff sessions .
due to increased co-operation between the baghdad and us governments on background checks of applicants , iraq is excluded from the order.more on this report from russia today rt president donald trump has issued a new executive order , temporarily blocking travel to the us for residents of six muslim-majority countries pending revision of visa procedures .
the previous travel ban , issued in january , was blocked in federal courts.secretary of state rex tillerson , homeland security secretary john kelly , and attorney general jeff sessions announced the new executive order to reporters on monday.the order halts the issuance of new us visas to citizens of iran , libya , syria , somalia , sudan and yemen for the next 90 days.iraq , which was included in the january ban , was left off the list this time after the government in baghdad agreed to increase cooperation with the us on background checks for its citizens applying for visas , ap reported.iraqi foreign ministry spokesman ahmed jamal called the decision an important step in the right direction that consolidates the strategic alliance between baghdad and washington in many fields , and at their forefront the war on terrorism .
tillerson thanked the government in baghdad for working with the state department on improving vetting , and called the order a vital measure for protecting our national security .
the new order also imposes a 120-day halt on refugee admissions from the six countries .
legal permanent residents ( green card holders ) from the countries will not be affected , however , reuters reported citing a fact sheet supplied by the administration .
nothing in this executive order affects existing lawful permanent residents , kelly said , adding that homeland security will enforce it humanely , respectfully and with professionalism .
trump s senior aide kellyanne conway provided confirmation in an interview with fox news on monday .
if you have travel docs , if you actually have a visa , if you are a legal permanent resident , you are not covered under this particular executive action , conway said , adding that the new order will go into effect on march 16 continue this report at rt read more trump at : 21st century wire trump filessupport our work by subscribing & becoming a member @ 21wire.tv