gaza ( reuters ) - israeli troops shot dead at least two palestinians and wounded about 60 with live fire on friday , the health ministry in gaza said , as protests intensified against washington s recognition of jerusalem as israel s capital .
a u.n. general assembly resolution passed on thursday , rejecting u.s. president donald trump s dec. 6 jerusalem declaration , did little to calm palestinian anger over his reversal of decades-old u.s. policy on the contested holy city .
instead , thousands of palestinian protesters , many of them throwing rocks , confronted israeli security forces along the gaza border fence , in all of occupied west bank s seven cities and in east jerusalem .
in bethlehem , the traditional birthplace of jesus , smoke from burning tires billowed in the street , just two days before christmas celebrations .
israeli gunfire killed two palestinians in a confrontation in the southern gaza strip , a spokesman for the palestinian health ministry said , putting the number of wounded at 120 , half of them shot with live ammunition and the rest struck by rubber bullets or hit by tear gas canisters .
in a statement , the israeli military said some 2,000 palestinians had faced off against the troops at the gaza border fence .
it said the crowd threw stones and rolled burning tires at soldiers , who responded with riot dispersal measures and fired live rounds selectively towards main instigators .
protesters chanted trump is a coward .
trump is a fool .
among the wounded was a man dressed as santa claus .
palestinian health officials said at least one palestinian suffered a live bullet wound in the west bank and some 30 protesters were hit by rubber bullets .
the military , putting the number of demonstrators at about 1,700 and the injured at six , said troops faced firebombs , rocks and burning tires .
the protests died down after sunset .
demonstrations have been held daily since trump s announcement .
palestinian president mahmoud abbas , in a christmas message , called the u.s. leader s move an insult to millions of people worldwide , and also to the city of jerusalem .
israel considers jerusalem its eternal and indivisible capital .
palestinians want the capital of an independent palestinian state to be in the city s eastern sector , which israel captured in the 1967 middle east war and annexed in a move never recognized internationally .
most countries regard the status of jerusalem as a matter to be settled in an eventual israeli-palestinian peace agreement , although that process is now stalled .
a total of 128 countries voted for the u.n. resolution .
nine opposed it and 35 abstained .
twenty-one countries did not cast a vote .
sami abu zuhri , a spokesman for gaza s dominant hamas islamists , called the u.n. vote a defeat for trump , while israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu rejected the resolution as preposterous and branded the u.n. a house of lies .
but michael oren , israel s deputy minister for diplomacy , seemed to play down the support for the resolution shown by many countries israel considers friends .
we have an interest in tightening our bilateral relations with a long list of countries in the world , and expect and hope that one day , they will vote with us , or for us in the united nations , oren said on tel aviv radio station 102 fm .
but i am not prepared to suspend all cooperation with important countries , such as india , he said .
netanyahu , who hosted indian prime minister narendra modi in july , is due to visit new delhi next month .
friday s deaths in gaza raised to 10 the number of palestinians killed by israeli gunfire since dec. 6 , palestinian health officials said .
gaza militants have also fired rockets into israel , and two gunmen were killed in an israeli air strike after one such attack .
there have been no israeli fatalities or significant injuries .
amnesty international on friday called on israeli authorities to stop using excessive force .
the fact that live ammunition has been used during protests in gaza and the west bank is particularly shocking , it said .
in the run-up to the u.n. vote , trump threatened to cut off financial aid to countries that supported the resolution .
his warning appeared to have some impact , with more countries abstaining and rejecting the document than usually associated with palestinian-related resolutions .
but most of the european union , israel s biggest trading partner , and countries such as greece , cyprus and india , with which netanyahu has pursued closer relations and economic ties , backed the resolution .
i prefer we have tight bilateral relations over a situation in which we don t have close bilateral relations , and they vote in our favor in the united nations , oren said , describing india s vote as certainly disappointing .