almost as scary as the idea that hillary would lie about a major health concern , is the fact that we have no idea who hillary will choose as her running mate democrat frontrunner hillary clinton s disappearance from the debate stage last month left people speculating that the former first lady took a long bathroom break , but now a law-enforcement source with inside connections is alleging that clinton was missing from the stage due to health issues stemming from a previous brain injury.these long-lasting symptoms stemming from a concussion and blood clot , according to a neurologist , suggest clinton is suffering from post-concussion syndrome , which can severely impact her cognitive abilities.all that said , however , clinton s campaign maintained to breitbart news that she is in good health and can serve as president of the united states .
strong source just told me something i suspected .
hillary s debate bathroom break wasn t that , but flare up of problems from brain injury , wrote john cardillo on twitter.cardillo , who previously worked as an officer who provided vip security details for the new york police department ( nypd ) , told breitbart news that he knows of two additional sources who have commented about clinton s health problems , which have even impacted her ability to walk to her car after delivering a speech .
i got this from both a [ federal agent ] and i also got it from a new york [ nypd ] guy who worked security at a hillary event in new york city , cardillo told breitbart news , adding : these are two people that aren t just personal friends .
i worked with one and then post law-enforcement worked with another on some related things .
so , these aren t anonymous people .
these are good friends .
both of them told me the same thing , that after her speeches , whether she did a talk or a policy speech , she had to sit behind she would come off the podium backstage and have to sit and rest before making it back to the car because she was so fatigued , dizzy and disoriented.cardillo said these two security officials don t know each other and do not live in the same state , but their stories were almost identical .
one of the men told him that clinton was very pale , kind of disoriented .
he said she looked like she was about to faint .
she was very pale , almost sweaty .
cardillo said one of the incidents occurred while she was secretary of state .
the event worked by the nypd official was roughly a year ago.veteran republican strategist roger stone , who previously worked with gop frontrunner donald trump , told breitbart news that he has also heard about clinton s long-term health problems .
a number of new york democrats , very prominent , well-known , wealthy new york democrats , told me last year that hillary had very significant health issues and that they were surprised that she was running in view of her health problems and her lack of stamina , stone told breitbart news .
so far , she s run a very controlled campaign , i don t think she has the physical stamina to be president , he stated .
i have no doubt that sen. marco rubio ( r-fl ) won t call her on it , but trump certainly would .
we also know that in the emails , of course , huma abedin says that she is easily confused , stone added , referencing clinton s close confidant abedin comment in an email , she s often confused , referring to clinton.trump , stone s former boss , certainly hasn t been shy in questioning whether clinton has the stamina to be president .
she goes out and she sees you guys for about 10 minutes , she sees you for a little while , it s all rehearsed and staged , trump said in a recent interview on fox news media buzz .
they ll pick a couple of people out of the audience that are like , you know , 100 percent .
she ll sit around a little plastic table , they ll talk to the people for a while .
it s ridiculous , trump added .
and then she goes away for five or six days and you don t see her .
she goes to sleep .
neurologist dr. daniel kassicieh , d.o. , reviewed news reports of clinton s head injury in light of the recent information revealed from the security sources that are raising questions about her current health status.kassicieh , who has run his own sarasota , florida , practice for 20 years , is a board-certified neurologist and the medical director of the florida headache and movement disorder center .
he is a doctor of osteopathic medicine , which is similar to a medical doctor but can involve at a minimum of 100 more classroom hours of specific training .
that additional training is focused on the osteopathic or the musculoskeletal system aspects of medicine .
he is a fellow of the american academy of neurology ( faan ) and a fellow of the american college of neuro-psychiatrists ( facn ) .
kassicieh is a registered republican in sarasota , but his purely medical analysis is troubling for clinton .
they were trying to poo-poo this off as a minor concussion , but i would just say that reading it and trying to take all the politics out of it , and just read it purely from a medical standpoint , kassicieh explained : considering the point of what happened with hillary over this time period the timeline and then what has happened here more recently the break at the debate , i saw that and even the commentators that were sitting there made a comment that , gee , that seems awful long for a break .
just looking at it from a neurological standpoint , the risk factors for developing post-concussion syndrome , one of them is age , and she was 65 when this happened just from a physiologic standpoint that s an older individual .
being female is a risk factor for post-concussion syndrome as well .
for someone who has treated many post-concussion syndrome patients and that s what i really believe she s suffering from based on reading these reports and reading what s happened , kassicieh said .
i think she has latent post-concussion syndrome , and i can understand that as a politician they would want to be covering that up .
he stated : i would say as a neurologist having seen many post-concussion syndrome patients that i would not want a president who i knew had post-concussion syndrome being president because their super high-level cognitive abilities are clearly impaired and even their routine multitasking high-stress abilities are affected because post-concussion syndrome patients in general don t tolerate even moderate work , stress-related environments.kassicieh added that if suffering from post concussion syndrome , clinton s symptoms could appear well beyond a year after her concussion .
a transverse sinus thrombosis [ blood clot ] is a rare condition of a clot forming in the venous sinus cavities surrounding the brain , kassicieh told breitbart news , referencing an abc news report from 2012 that detailed clinton s head injury and blood clot following a fall .
he explained : these venous sinuses drain blood out of the brain .
the [ injury ] incidence is only about 3 per 1,000,000 adults .
the transverse sinus is less commonly affected than the main sagittal venous sinus .
the cause of transverse sinus clots is not well understood although trauma and dehydration have been described as risk factors .
mrs. clinton suffered from both.dr .
nicholas c. bambakidis also analyzed the facts for breitbart news .
he is the director of cerebrovascular and skull base surgery , and the program director of neurological surgery at university hospitals case medical center in cleveland , ohio , and a professor of neurosurgery and radiology at the cwru school of medicine in cleveland , these types of clots are usually formed spontaneously without an obvious cause , bambakidis said in an email : they can be associated with dehydration , a predisposition to blood clotting disorders , are more common in women and may be associated with oral contraceptive medication , severe head trauma , brain surgery , or infection .
if untreated , they can progress and lead to bleeding in the brain or swelling , and a stroke or even death .
the treatment is generally anticoagulation and treatment of any underlying cause.bambakidis said that if treated early and quickly , there are no longstanding issues with a person s health .
typically , if caught early and treated adequately ( as seems to have been done in this incident ) there is a full recovery without any consequences ( normal cognition , memory , etc ) , he said.dr .
jane orient , the executive director of the politically conservative association of american physicians and surgeons also reviewed the 2012 abc news report about clinton s concussion and blood clot .
she said she thought the abc report appeared medically accurate .
factors predisposing to clots include air travel , dehydration , hormones , immobilization as during surgery , blood abnormalities , cancer , orient said .
concussions can cause long-term damage including cognitive problems , even when standard studies including ct or mri look normal .
not saying mrs. clinton has any of the above just speaking generally and hypothetically , she clarified.for entire story : breitbart news