seoul ( reuters ) - parasitic worms found in a north korean soldier , critically injured during a desperate defection , highlight nutrition and hygiene problems that experts say have plagued the isolated country for decades .
at a briefing on wednesday , lead surgeon lee cook-jong displayed photos showing dozens of flesh-colored parasites - including one 27 cm ( 10.6 in ) long - removed from the wounded soldier s digestive tract during a series of surgeries to save his life .
in my over 20 year-long career as a surgeon , i have only seen something like this in a textbook , lee said .
the parasites , along with kernels of corn in his stomach , may confirm what many experts and previous defectors have described about the food and hygiene situation for many north koreans .
although we do not have solid figures showing health conditions of north korea , medical experts assume that parasite infection problems and serious health issues have been prevalent in the country , said choi min-ho , a professor at seoul national university college of medicine who specializes in parasites .
the soldier s condition was not surprising at all considering the north s hygiene and parasite problems , he said .
the soldier was flown by helicopter to hospital on monday after his dramatic escape to south korea in a hail of bullets fired by north korean soldiers .
he is believed to be an army staff sergeant in his mid-20s who was stationed in the joint security area in the united nations truce village of panmunjom , according to kim byung-kee , a lawmaker of south korea s ruling party , briefed by the national intelligence service .
north korea has not commented on the defection .
while the contents of the soldier s stomach don t necessarily reflect the population as a whole , his status as a soldier with an elite assignment - would indicate he would at least be as well nourished as an average north korean .
he was shot in his buttocks , armpit , back shoulder and knee among other wounds , according to the hospital where the soldier is being treated .
parasitic worms were also once common in south korea 40 to 50 years ago , lee noted during his briefing , but have all but disappeared as economic conditions greatly improved .
other doctors have also described removing various types of worms and parasites from north korean defectors .
their continued prevalence north of the heavily fortified border that divides the two koreas could be in part tied to the use of human excrement , often called night soil .
chemical fertilizer was supplied by the state until the 1970s , but from the early 1980s , production started to decrease , said lee min-bok , a north korean agriculture expert who defected to south korea in 1995 .
by the 1990s , the state could not supply it anymore , so farmers started to use a lot of night soil instead .
in 2014 , supreme leader kim jong un personally urged farmers to use human faeces , along with animal waste and organic compost , to fertilize their fields .
a lack of livestock , however , made it difficult to find animal waste , said lee , the agriculture expert .
even harder to overcome , he said , is the view of night soil as the best fertilizer in north korea , despite the risk of worms and parasites .
vegetables grown in it are considered more delicious than others , lee said .
the medical briefing described the wounded soldier as being 170 cm ( 5 feet 5 inches ) and 60 kg ( 132 pounds ) with his stomach containing corn .
it s a staple grain that more north koreans may be relying on in the wake of what the united nations has called the worst drought since 2001 .
imported corn , which is less preferred but cheaper to obtain than rice , has tended to increase in years when north koreans are more worried about their seasonal harvests .
between january and september this year , china exported nearly 49,000 tonnes of corn to north korea , compared to only 3,125 tonnes in all of 2016 , according to data released by beijing .
despite the drought and international sanctions over pyongyang s nuclear program , the cost of corn and rice has remained relatively stable , according to a reuters analysis of market data collected by the defector-run daily nk website .
since the 1990s , when government rations failed to prevent a famine hitting the country , north koreans have gradually turned to markets and other private means to feed themselves .
the world food programme says a quarter of north korean children 6-59 months old , who attend nurseries that the organization assists , suffer from chronic malnutrition .
on average north koreans are less nourished than their southern neighbors .
the wfp says around one in four children have grown less tall than their south korean counterparts .
a study from 2009 said pre-school children in the north were up to 13 cm ( 5 inches ) shorter and up to 7 kg ( 15 pounds ) lighter than those brought up in the south .
the main issue in dprk is a monotonous diet mainly rice/maize , kimchi and bean paste lacking in essential fats and protein , the wfp told reuters in a statement last month .