london ( reuters ) - an activist in britain s opposition labour party has said she was raped at a party event when she was 19 , and that a party official discouraged her from reporting the attack to avoid damaging her career .
the disclosure by bex bailey , 25 , is the most serious to emerge from a wave of allegations of sexual misconduct by powerful men that have swept through british politics in the wake of the harvey weinstein scandal .
labour leader jeremy corbyn , who has ordered an investigation into the allegation , said bailey was not given support from the party when she reported what had happened .
bex bailey has shown incredible bravery by talking publicly about what has happened to her and has my full support and solidarity , he said in a statement on his facebook page .
there will be no tolerance in the labour party for sexism , harassment or abuse .
whatever it takes , we are absolutely committed to rooting it out .
a party spokesman said : we would strongly recommend that the police investigate the allegations of criminal actions that bex bailey has made .
bailey told bbc radio on tuesday that she was raped in 2011 by someone in the party who was senior to her .
she said she had tried to pretend it hadn t happened and had not reported it to police at the time .
i was scared .
i felt ashamed .
i know that the labour party , like any family , loves a good gossip , and i didn t want people to know and i also was worried that i wouldn t be believed if i did , she said .
two years later , she told a senior party staff member , and it was suggested to her that she should not report it as it might damage her if she did .
she was given no advice on what she should do next .
that might be their genuine view , it might be that that was the case , in which case that shows that we have a serious problem in politics with this issue anyway , said bailey , a former member of labour s national executive committee .
she called for an independent agency such as a charity to deal with allegations rather than someone within the party who is inclined to be loyal to the labour party .
prime minister theresa may has ordered investigations into two of her ministers after allegations were made against them .
her deputy damian green denies making an advance on a woman three decades his junior , while junior trade minister mark garnier has said he was being humorous when he asked his assistant to buy sex toys for him .