london ( reuters ) - british police arrested a second man over the bombing of a london commuter train on friday that injured 30 people and the security services lowered the threat level for an attack from its highest setting .
the 21-year-old man was detained under britain s terrorism laws in the west london suburb of hounslow just before midnight on saturday , london police said in a statement .
police earlier arrested an 18-year-old man in the departure lounge of dover port in what they called a significant step and then raided a property in sunbury-on-thames , a town near london and about four miles ( six km ) from hounslow .
the home-made bomb shot flames through a packed carriage at west london s parsons green tube station during the friday morning rush hour but apparently failed to detonate fully .
islamic state claimed responsibility , as it has for other attacks in britain this year , including two in london and one at a concert by american singer ariana grande in manchester in may .
interior minister amber rudd said on sunday the second arrest showed it was not a lone-wolf attack but there was no evidence islamic state was involved .
she said the threat level had been lowered to severe from critical , meaning another attack was highly likely rather than expected imminently .
it is inevitable that so-called islamic state , or daesh , will reach in and try to claim responsibility .
we have no evidence to suggest that yet , rudd told the bbc .
but as this unfolds , and as the police do their investigations , we will make sure that we find out exactly how he was radicalized , if we can .
police said on sunday they were searching a home in stanwell in the county of surrey near the perimeter of london s heathrow airport , in connection with the hounslow arrest .
police continued to search the house in sunbury nearby but said there were no safety risks to local residents .
local media said the home belongs to a couple who have fostered hundreds of children , including refugees .
the bbc said the couple , 88-year-old ronald jones and penelope jones , 71 , had been honored by queen elizabeth for their work with children .
the bomb struck as passengers were traveling toward the center of the british capital .
some suffered burns and others were hurt in a stampede to escape .
health officials said none was thought to be in a serious condition .
prime minister theresa may put britain on its highest security level late on friday and soldiers and armed police were deployed to strategic locations such as nuclear power plants .
on saturday , armed police patrolled the streets near government departments in westminster and guarded premier league soccer grounds hosting matches .
the last time britain was put on critical alert was after a suicide bomber killed 22 people at the ariana grande concert .
on that occasion , the threat level remained at critical for four days while police established whether the bomber had worked alone or with others .
prior to that it had not been triggered since 2007 .