harrisburg , pa. ( reuters ) - pennsylvania governor tom wolf raised the minimum wage for state workers and employees of some contractors by 40 percent to $ 10.15 an hour on monday , a gesture aimed in part at putting pressure on republican lawmakers .
wolf , a democrat , who signed an executive order to make the change , acknowledged that only 450 of the state ’ s 79,000 employees , mainly temporary workers hired during tax season , are currently paid less than $ 10.15 an hour .
he said he hoped to send a message to the republican-dominated legislature to enact a similar increase for all pennsylvania residents .
“ an increase in the minimum wage will lead to increases in employee morale , productivity , and quality of work and decreases in turnover and the cost of training and supervision , ” said wolf , who lacks the power to order the statewide increase .
at a press conference , wolf said a statewide increase would benefit business in the long run .
fourteen states have a minimum wage of at least $ 10 .
the governor said inflation had pushed the value of the state ’ s current $ 7.25 minimum wage below the poverty line .
going forward , the state would adjust the minimum wage for government workers to keep up with inflation , he said .
wolf did not specify where the money would come from when questioned during the news conference .
pennsylvania has been without a state budget since july 1 because of republican resistance to raising taxes and wolf ’ s refusal to sign a budget that he said would lead to a gaping structural deficit .
the wage increase announced for state employees would cost the state $ 1.5 million and will take effect immediately .
it would apply to many but not all contractors doing business with the state , costing the state an extra $ 2.6 million .
about 60 percent of that will go to contract employees at the state ’ s photo license bureaus , but only when those contracts are renewed .
the minimum wage increase will not apply for now to human service agencies funded by the state , wolf said , because they are already “ stressed ” by delayed funding caused by the budget stand-off .
senate majority leader jake corman accused wolf of acting like president barack obama by seeking to implement policy changes through executive orders .
“ choosing to take symbolic executive action on this issue instead of working with the legislature underscores his failures to collaborate , ” corman said in a statement .