white house deputy press secretary sarah huckabee-sanders was the perfect choice to take on the media today following the release of a bombshell video by project veritas showing an undercover reporter capturing cnn s supervising producer admitting that most of the news they put out about the trump-russia collusion is bullish * t !
early this morning , james o keefe released the project veritas video where reporters went undercover at cnn to investigate the # veryfakenews network .
o keefe said their intent in making the video was to determine the motivation behind cnn s trump-russia collusion obsession .
since the inauguration , cnn has mentioned russian story nearly 16,000 times.during her press conference today , sarah huckabee-sanders encouraged the room full of reporters to watch the project veritas video that exposes cnn as fake news for ratings .
she even took it a step further and noted that while she couldn t confirm the accuracy of the tape , that every american should watch the video .
sanders appeared to be disgusted as she remarked that if the tape is accurate , then it is a disgrace to all of media to all of journalism .
and furthermore , if the media can t be trusted to report the news , then that is a danger to all of america .
booom sarah huckabee sanders advises all to watch veritas video where cnn producer admits they realize trump/russia is a hoax but dont care !
pic.twitter.com/tng5dumkq3 stock monster ( @ stockmonsterusa ) june 27 , 2017although panicked fake network hosts like msnbc s joy reid were praising reporter brian karem for attempting to stand up to huckabee-sanders , in reality , he was no match for the sharp-witted huckabee-sanders who claimed that media has gone into a dark place .
one of the democrat party s top cheerleaders joy reid is no exception .
here s her tweet : now following @ briankarem who was every political reporter today .
https : //t.co/yjc2ixdki4 joy reid ( @ joyannreid ) june 27 , 2017the video below shows karem s attempt to defend his fellow journalist s use of unnamed sources and fake news for ratings .
karem argued that huckabee-sanders was inflaming the cnn undercover video story , saying : everybody in this room is only trying to do their job .
sarah huckabee-sanders blasted karem as she shot back : i disagree completely .
first of all , i think if anything has been inflamed , it s the dishonesty that often takes place by the news media .
and i think it s outrageous for you to accuse me of inflaming a story when i was simply trying to respond to his question .
: here s the exchange between brian karem and sarah huckabee-sanders : must watch : white house reporter @ briankarem pushing back against sarah huckabee sanders and saying what many people have been thinking .
pic.twitter.com/hw49e0tdwy yashar ali ( @ yashar ) june 27 , 2017