tegucigalpa ( reuters ) - the honduran presidential candidate leading after a partial count of votes said he would review whether to keep a base stationed with u.s. troops if he wins the election , but also promised to deepen security co-operation .
honduras has been slow to release the results of sunday s election .
although u.s.-friendly president juan orlando hernandez had been tipped to win , partial results show an upset , with gregarious television star salvador nasralla leading .
one of the poorest nations in the americas with one of the world s highest murder rates , honduras has been blighted with years of gang violence .
nasralla has tapped into widespread disillusionment about the country s future , particularly among young voters .
but his win is not yet certain .
as results started flowing on tuesday evening , nasralla s original five-point lead had narrowed to just over 1.5 percentage points , with about 72 percent of ballot boxes counted .
in a television interview on tuesday evening , an angry nasralla said the election was being stolen from him and urged his supporters to flock to the capital , tegucigalpa , to protest .
in an earlier interview with reuters on tuesday , the 64-year-old nasralla said , if he did triumph , he would talk to the united states about 500 u.s. troops stationed at the soto cano air base , also known as palmerola , two hours drive from tegucigalpa .
i need to see what benefit there is for honduras from having a base like palmerola , nasralla said .
the u.s. presence was established in the 1980s to help the united states in its fight against left-wing insurgencies in central america .
in 2008 , former president manuel zelaya said he would turn the base into a civilian airport to serve the coffee-exporting country of 9 million people .
a year later , zelaya was ousted in a coup that his ally , former venezuelan president hugo chavez , said was orchestrated from the base .
u.s. officials denied any involvement in the coup .
nasralla , a self-described centrist , said he would deepen security ties with the administration of u.s. president donald trump , and that honduras would remain the united states best ally in central america .
when the united states passes me its list of people it wants to extradite ...
i m not even going to look at it .
i m simply going to sign it and give the order , he said .
i m willing to extradite ex-presidents , lawmakers , ministers .
honduras is riddled with corruption that breeds on rampant impunity , drug trafficking and gang violence .
u.s. officials were aware of his economic and social policy positions , he added .
i m certain that i won t have any problems with the united states , he said .
the united states has longstanding military ties to honduras and few ideological allies among the current crop of central american presidents .
in mexico , leftist andres manuel lopez obrador leads opinion polls for next year s presidential election .
nasralla said that zelaya would be an influential person in his government and that the former president s wife , xiomara castro , would serve as his vice-president .
zelaya , widely viewed as a traditional latin american leftist due to his previous friendship with chavez , commands considerable concern in washington .
many observers believe him to be the true power behind nasralla s coalition .
nasralla said the concerns were unfounded , and that he would not pursue a close relationship with venezuela .
but he also hinted that zelaya could return to the presidency in the future .
he said he did not want to change new rules allowing presidential re-election , apparently contradicting his previous opposition .
his alliance was formed specifically to block hernandez s bid for a second term .
nasralla said that he would not run for a second term , but that zelaya could choose to run in 2022 and benefit from the lack of term limits .
ironically , zelaya was ousted in 2009 after he proposed a referendum on those re-election rules .
earlier on tuesday , hernandez told supporters he still expected to win the election , but urged people to wait for the official results to come through .
given the nearly two-day lag in releasing results , a hernandez victory would be certain to enrage the opposition , and could spark tensions .
they re doing everything they can to take away our triumph , nasralla wrote on twitter on tuesday afternoon , as the lead started narrowing .