athens ( reuters ) - a leading member of greece s most deadly guerrilla group , november 17 , began a two-day leave from prison on thursday under a parole board ruling that triggered a storm of protest and expressions of regret from britain and the united states .
dimitris koufodinas is serving several life terms for his role in the marxist group that operated for almost three decades until greek authorities arrested its leaders in 2002 .
its targets ranged from businessmen to diplomats .
its first victim was a cia station chief in 1975 , and its last a british embassy defense attache in 2000 .
prison authorities granted his request for temporary leave from jail on condition he report to a police station twice a day .
it is his first such leave since he was jailed in 2003 and authorities said it was in compliance with regulations applying to all inmates .
but the release comes at a sensitive time for the government , which is frequently accused by opposition parties of being soft on anti-establishment groups with roots in leftist radicalism and anarchy .
conservative lawmaker dora bakoyannis , whose husband pavlos bakoyannis was gunned down by november 17 in 1989 , was visibly angry during a live broadcast after his release from jail .
he isn t just any terrorist .
he was a leader , the ideological guide , the guy who wrote a book who said that after the murder ( of bakoyannis ) he went to a tavern and celebrated .
while my children were crying , she told skai tv .
geoffrey pyatt , the u.s. ambassador to greece , said in a tweet the decision was a dishonor to the memory of victims and their families .
british ambassador smith said she was deeply disappointed and shared the victims pain .
both envoys carried photos of plaques at their respective embassies commemorating november 17 victims .
members of november 17 eluded capture for years .
the country has a history of political violence and still has urban guerrilla groups , though none as deadly as november 17 .
koufodinas , an amateur beekeeper known as poison hand for the precision of his aim , has been kept at a high-security jail in athens for 15 years .
there , he wrote two books , one called i was born november 17 , and the second 13 answers .
in a high profile trial in 2003 , 15 people , including koufodinas , were found guilty over the 23 killings and dozens of bomb attacks claimed by the guerrilla group .
a government official said authorities followed procedure .
i am not going to defend the practice , the deeds , nor the ideology of mr koufodinas , he told real fm radio .
what i can say as a comment is that in this specific case the law was applied to the letter , and the preconditions were met for granting leave .
the group took its name from the date of a 1973 student uprising against the military dictatorship .
it is normally marked every nov. 17 with street protests in athens .