istanbul ( reuters ) - a turkish court on tuesday adjourned for four months the trial of 10 academics who signed a letter to the turkish government last year calling for violence against turkey s kurds to end .
the academics are the first group from 148 who are being prosecuted for signing the open letter .
they are accused of insulting the turkish government and carrying out propaganda for a terrorist group .
in total , 1,128 academics from turkey and abroad , including philosopher and activist noam chomsky , signed the january 2016 letter , titled we will not a be party to this crime !
it called for an end to violence in kurdish-majority towns in eastern turkey , which escalated after the collapse in 2015 of a ceasefire between the turkish government and the militant kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) .
in the letter , published a few months after the violence erupted , they said the turkish state was condemning residents in the mainly kurdish southeastern provinces to hunger through its use of curfews that have been ongoing for weeks .
it also accused authorities of deploying heavy weapons that should only be used in war .
we demand the government to prepare the conditions for negotiations and create a road map that would lead to a lasting peace which includes the demands of the kurdish political movement , it said .
tuesday s hearing , against six academics from galatasaray university and four from istanbul university , was adjourned to april 12 after the court rejected the lawyers submission that the letter was a criticism of the government , not an insult .
criticizing the government is not punishable under turkey s penal code , while insulting it is .
it is obvious , from a legal standpoint , that there is no crime here , but , politically , ( the authorities ) want to turn it into something else , a defense lawyer for three academics from istanbul university told reuters .
the pkk took up arms in 1984 and more than 40,000 people have died in the conflict since then .
the group is considered a terrorist organization by turkey , the united states and the european union .
the academics published their letter six months before last year s failed military coup .
since then , thousands of academics have been fired for alleged links to terrorist organizations .
some academics say turkey s progress in academia in recent years is now in jeopardy .
rights groups accuse president tayyip erdogan of using a state of emergency declared after the coup to quash political dissent .