newport , wales ( reuters ) - british police arrested three men in south wales over last week s bombing of a busy commuter train in west london , meaning five people are now being questioned by detectives over the attack which injured 30 people .
a 25-year-old man was arrested on tuesday evening in newport , while two others , aged 48 and 30 , were detained at another address in the welsh town in the early hours of wednesday , london police said .
this continues to be a fast-moving investigation .
a significant amount of activity has taken place since the attack on friday , said commander dean haydon , head of london police s counter terrorism command .
we now have five men in custody and searches are continuing at four addresses .
detectives are carrying out extensive inquiries to determine the full facts behind the attack .
the home-made bomb went off on friday during the morning rush hour on a packed train at parsons green underground station , engulfing the carriage in flames , although it appeared that the device did not fully explode .
in the aftermath , the authorities raised britain s threat level to its highest rank of critical , meaning an attack was considered imminent , but lowered this after arresting two men on saturday .
an 18-year-old was arrested in the departure lounge at the port of dover on saturday and another suspect , 21 , was detained hours later in the west london suburb of hounslow .
both were said by local media to have links to a property in sunbury-on-thames , a town just outside london , where police were carrying out a major search .
the house belongs to a couple who have fostered hundreds of children , including refugees .
the leader of the local authority was quoted as saying the 18-year-old was an iraqi who had come to britain as an orphan .
islamic state militants said they were responsible for the attack although both british and u.s. officials have cast doubt on the claim , saying there was no evidence any recognized militant group had ordered or organized the bombing .
friday s bombing was the fifth major attack regarded by authorities as a terrorist incident in britain this year which have claimed the lives of 36 people .