macomb county , mi executive mark hackel released audio recordings to local detroit tv stations in which he claims the voice of warren , mi mayor jim fouts can be heard saying mentally disabled people are retards and not even human beings .
hackel claimed the tapes were given to him by someone who is or was a member of fouts staff.channel 4 wdiv-tv reports that reporter mara mcdonald spoke with the person who made the tape , an employee who recorded fouts in his office .
the context was a discussion of fouts plans to attend an event regarding the special olympics , according to the tv station.lepine said special olympics , sports training and competition for children and adults with intellectual disabilities , are a very big deal for the community .
in one of the recordings , the man s voice said mean things about the way mentally disabled people use bathrooms .
what good are they ?
they re dysfunctional human beings .
they re not even human beings .
i don t want any part of this .
this is one of the worse things about being mayor .
this is the bottom of the barrel .
i don t want to be around them , and i wish them well in a cage , the voice said in the recording .
fouts has a controversial history with the democratic party .
he ran for state representative in the 1970s as a republican , but in warren , the city offices are nonpartisan .
fouts , however , has attended many democratic events over the years , but endorsed u.s. sen. john mccain , an arizona republican , for president in 2008 before switching his allegiance to then-sen. barack obama.in this year s election cycle , he was an enthusiastic supporter of vermont sen. bernie sanders , but later complained about how the party treated him at a democratic debate in flint in february and that he didn t get to introduce clinton when she gave a speech in warren in august.bouts , who avoided reporters calls on friday , in a thursday night facebook post denied it was him , and said that hackel had experts available to electronically engineer it .
detroit fp