bangkok ( reuters ) - under growing pressure from thailand s military government , and their own religious bodies , buddhist monks have launched a fresh round of reforms in recent weeks to clean up temples and overhaul a religion stalked by scandal .
buddhism , thailand s dominant religion , is followed by more than 90 percent of the population .
but its image has suffered over sex scandals involving monks and allegations of money laundering by a former abbot of thailand s biggest temple .
the scandals have prompted calls for tighter checks on the finances of thousands of temples across the country that are among thailand s popular tourist attractions .
since september , senior monks have issued orders to enforce stronger discipline for thailand s more than 300,000 monks and some 40,000 temples .
the orders come at a sensitive time as thailand prepares to cremate the late king bhumibol adulyadej next week and the formal coronation of his only son , king maha vajiralongkorn , likely taking place at the end of the year .
the written instructions , seen by reuters , tell monks to stop asking for donations and temples to stop selling holy objects inside temple grounds .
the instructions appear to be aimed at making temple finances more transparent and to counter criticism about the commercialization of religion in the southeast asian nation .
other orders instruct senior monks to tightly control inappropriate use of social media by monks to prevent criticism from the public .
the orders were endorsed by the sangha supreme council , the body that governs buddhist monks in thailand and performs a similar role to the roman catholic church s college of cardinals .
these rules already existed for monks but their implementation may have been lax , phra phrom moli , a member of the sangha supreme council told reuters .
many thais believe generous donations to temples can bring good karma - the principle that good deeds will lead to a good future - something temples and monks have exploited , groups lobbying for reform say .
phra phrom moli welcomed the new orders .
we must examine ourselves , listen to the people and see what is and is not appropriate for the sake of the public s faith in the religion , he said .
one order given in september by a group of temples in thailand s northeast region asked monks to police each other and report any behavior that might go against buddhist teachings .
please take care of any monks who are not practicing discipline , the order read .
the junta has been trying to reform thai buddhism since it came to power in a 2014 coup .
last month , it reinstated a former senior police official , pongporn pramsaneh , as head of the national buddhism office , who soon afterward asked police to investigate temples where state funds were allegedly misappropriated .
reuters was unable to reach pongporn for comment .
police say they are focusing on 35 temples and 29 individuals , including five abbots and a former buddhism chief , who were allegedly involved in misappropriating funds .
all five abbots have been formally charged for abusing state authority and colluding to do wrong , among other charges .
the government allocated 5.32 billion baht ( $ 160.77 million ) to support buddhism last year , 4.67 billion baht of which was earmarked for temples and monks across the country .
some analysts see the latest reform push as part of a power tussle between monks and the state ahead of the royal transition .
what the monkhood is doing is tightening control for the sake of their own legitimacy , somrit luechai a buddhism scholar somrit luechai told reuters .
thai buddhism also needs to make itself relevant again , he added .
by failing to adapt and find new ways to make people understand the teachings of the buddha ... they are gradually loosing relevance for new generations of thais , somrit said .
sulak sivaraksa , a pre-eminent buddhist scholar , agrees .
for centuries , buddhist temples were centers of education in thailand but sulak said theoretical teachings were no longer enough .
the education of monks needed modernization , sulak told reuters .
the existing system is creating monks that do not fully understand the real world .
( $ 1 = 33.0900 baht )