flag day was established in 1916 by president woodrow wilson and in 1949 congress declared june 14 a national holiday : let us on that day rededicate ourselves to the nation , he wrote in his proclamation , one and inseparable from which every thought that is not worthy of our fathers first vows in independence , liberty , and right shall be excluded and in which we shall stand with united hearts , for an america which no man can corrupt , no influence draw away from its ideals , no force divide against itself a nation signally distinguished among all the nations of mankind for its clear , individual conception alike of its duties and its privileges , its obligations and its rights .
1 .
bernard j. cigrand is considered the father of flag day .
in 1885 , as a young teacher at a high school in waubeka , wisconsin , cigrand put a small flag on his desk and told his students to write essays about it .
he fought for the rest of his life to formally establish the holiday , according to the national flag day foundation .
2 .
the flag has been changed 27 times .
the final star , for hawaii , was added in 1960 .
3 .
the first time the flag was flown after being adopted was on aug. 3 , 1777 in rome , new york .
4 .
the flag s colors have become significant over time .
the white is for purity , the red is for valor and the blue is for justice , according to usflag.org .
5 .
president george washington described the design like this : we take the stars from heaven , the red from our mother country , separating it by white stripes , thus showing that we have separated from her , and the white stripes shall go down to posterity representing liberty .
6 .
the first flag was probably created by francis hopkinson , who signed the declaration of independence .
he requested a quarter cask of the public wine as payment for his design .
he was rejected .
7 .
betsy ross sewed the first american flag according to a pattern , which was likely hopkinson s. legend has it she changed the six-point stars he d drawn to five-point ones because they were easier to stitch .
8 .
sea captain william driver gave the flag its old glory nickname in 1831 , according to usacitylink.com .
9 .
the current design of the u.s. flag was created by robert g. heft , who made the pattern for a high school project .
he earned a b- at first , but when the government chose it , his teacher raised the grade to an a .
10 .
there are six american flags on the moon .
five are standing , but neil armstrong s fell over.via : ibtimes