moscow/washington ( reuters ) - the united states provided intelligence to russia that helped thwart a potentially deadly bomb attack in st. petersburg , u.s. and russian officials said on sunday , in a rare public show of cooperation despite deep strains between the two countries .
russian president vladimir putin telephoned u.s. president donald trump on sunday to thank him for the tip-off , which the kremlin said helped prevent a militant bomb attack on a cathedral in the russian city , as well as other sites .
the white house did not disclose details about the plot itself , but said the attack could have killed large numbers of people .
neither the kremlin nor the white house identified the would-be attackers .
the u.s. warning allowed russian law enforcement agencies to arrest the suspects before they could carry out their plans , the white house and kremlin said .
relations between washington and moscow have been damaged by disagreements over the wars in ukraine and syria , although trump pledged during his election campaign to pursue better ties with moscow .
that has been complicated by u.s. allegations - denied by russia - that the kremlin meddled in last year s u.s. presidential election to help trump win .
russian officials say putin believes trump is not to blame for the tensions .
the phone call on sunday between trump and putin was at least the second such call in the past week .
on thursday , putin and trump discussed the crisis in north korea .
the foiled attack was to have been carried out on kazansky cathedral , in russia s second city of st. petersburg , and on other locations in the city where large numbers of people gather , the kremlin statement said .
the cathedral is a popular tourist site .
the white house seized on the foiled plot in st. petersburg as a sign of what moscow and washington could do if they cooperate .
both leaders agreed that this serves as an example of the positive things that can occur when our countries work together , the white house said , adding trump appreciated the call from putin .
russian media reported last week that the federal security service had detained followers of the islamic state group who had been planning a suicide bomb attack on kazansky cathedral on saturday .
the u.s. central intelligence agency and the office of the director of national intelligence did not immediately respond to requests for additional details on the foiled plot .
putin said russia would alert u.s. authorities if it received information about any attack being planned on the united states , the kremlin said .
russia has repeatedly been the target of attacks by islamist militant groups , including an attack in april that killed 14 people when an explosion tore through a train carriage in a metro tunnel in st. petersburg .
russian police detained several suspects in that attack from mainly muslim states in ex-soviet central asia .