washington ( reuters ) - marco rubio emerged from a razor-thin second-place finish in south carolina ’ s presidential primary on sunday with the republican field narrowed and his target clear : donald trump .
rubio squeaked by rival and u.s. senate colleague ted cruz in a vote on saturday that cemented the appeal of firebrand outsider trump as well as the failure of a candidate from one of america ’ s political dynasties : jeb bush .
the five remaining republican candidates are now scrambling for voters in 12 states that hold nominating contests on march 1 , also known as super tuesday , the next milestone on the road to the nov. 8 presidential election .
rubio , a first-term senator from florida who himself has come under attack for lacking governing experience , turned that criticism on trump , a billionaire businessman and former reality tv star who has never held elective office .
trump is long on rhetoric but short on specifics , rubio said on cbs ’ s “ face the nation , ” challenging the front-runner , who finished 10 points ahead in south carolina , to provide them .
“ if you ’ re running to be president of the united states , you can ’ t just tell people you ’ re going to make america great again - i think you need to begin to explain exactly how you ’ re going to do it , policy-wise , ” rubio said , referring to the trump campaign slogan “ make america great again ! ” rubio criticized trump on healthcare policy and said he found his view of russian leader vladimir putin troubling .
“ i don ’ t think he fundamentally understands exactly who vladimir putin is and or exactly what he ’ s trying to do , ” rubio said , quickly adding , “ this is not an attack or anything of that nature. ” in several television appearances , rubio stressed his intention was not to “ go after ” trump but to discuss issues .
rubio has reason to be skittish .
a hallmark of trump ’ s campaign has been consistent and highly personal savaging of his political rivals - or anyone else he perceives has attacked him , including a milder rebuke of pope francis .
his most notable target was bush , whom he began characterizing early on as a “ low-energy ” loser .
in television appearances on sunday , trump appeared uncharacteristically modest and took pains to lower expectations that his path to the republican nomination was now clear .
he responded to rubio ’ s criticism without attacking rubio himself , saying on cbs that he had “ great knowledge ” of foreign policy .
cruz , who had expected his appeal to conservative and evangelical voters to give him an edge in south carolina , said he was the only candidate who has beaten and could beat trump .
cruz told nbc ’ s “ meet the press ” he expects conservatives to rally behind him in his home state of texas and other contests on super tuesday , which include virginia , tennessee , alabama , georgia , arkansas and oklahoma .
the next republican contest is on tuesday in nevada , where trump is the runaway favorite .
cruz said trump has embraced liberal ideas , including abortion rights and requiring healthcare coverage , as well as liberal politicians , including democratic presidential front-runner hillary clinton .
“ republicans want a real conservative , ” cruz said on abc ’ s “ this week. ” cruz and rubio tried to draw voters away from trump , a political outsider who has bucked the republican party establishment and caught its leaders off guard .
republican national committee chairman reince priebus struggled to explain trump ’ s appeal when asked on abc ’ s “ this week , ” if the south carolina result was a rebuke to the party .
“ no , i don ’ t think so , ” preibus replied , saying he believed voters are sick and tired of politics in general .
“ but who the nominee is going to be is not my choice and - and obviously , uh , we ’ re going to support whoever that is. ” trump on sunday looked to just that possibility .
he said he believed clinton , who is competing with senator bernie sanders of vermont , would be the eventual democratic nominee and said he was the only republican who could win states like new york and michigan , which lean democratic .
“ i will win states that aren ’ t in play .
i will win states that the republicans don ’ t even think of , ” he said on cnn ’ s “ state of the union. ” those sweeping predictions aside , trump tried to contain expectations in several television appearances .
he called both rubio and cruz talented men who could conceivably beat him for the nomination , along with the remaining republican candidates : ohio governor john kasich and retired neurosurgeon ben carson .
he then quipped , “ you know , crazy things happen in the world of politics. ” ( reporting by doina chiacu ; additional reporting by megan cassella ; editing by jonathan oatis ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .