wow !
if i were hillary , i d stop sending people to her website during the debates as a way to deflect from actual issues .
they may find out something pretty horrifying like maybe a trillion dollar tax hike !
trillion dollar tax hike hillary s tax hike proposals will raise taxes on the american people by over $ 1,000,000,000,000 over the next ten years , based on her campaign s own numbers.payroll tax hike hillary said she would not veto a payroll tax increase on all americans should such a bill reach her desk .
she said she would set her middle class tax pledge aside .
this took place jan. 12 in iowa , and it s on video : moderator : democrats have introduced a plan that senator sanders supports that you ve come out against because it is funded by a payroll tax .
if that were to reach your desk as president , would you veto it in order to make good on your tax pledge ?
hillary clinton : no .
no .
soda tax hike hillary endorsed a steep new soda pop tax in philadelphia .
this will cost soda purchasers an extra $ 2.16 per 12-pack .
bernie sanders called out hillary s violation of her middle class tax pledge : frankly , i am very surprised that secretary clinton would support this regressive tax after pledging not to raise taxes on anyone making less than $ 250,000 .
this proposal clearly violates her pledge , he said.sanders also said : the mechanism here is fairly regressive .
and that is , it will be increasing taxes on low-income and working people .
25 % national gun tax hillary endorsed a new national 25 % retail sales tax on guns .
i am all for that , she told the senate in 1993 .
on june 5 , 2016 she was asked about her gun tax endorsement by george stephanopoulos on abc s this week .
she acknowledged her gun tax endorsement and did not disavow it , saying she wanted the gun tax money to pay for hillarycare .
if you have any doubts about her strong desire to impose a new gun tax , watch her face in the video.doubling of federal excise tax on guns hillary also endorsed a doubling of the existing federal excise tax on guns.65 % death tax hillary is now pushing a 65 % death tax .
and her own finances are arranged to shield herself from death taxes.capital gains tax hike hillary has proposed the most complex and byzantine capital gains tax regime in american history , with ten different rates .
she raises the top capital gains tax rate from 23.8 % to 43.4 % .no corporate income tax rate relief for anyone hillary offers no income tax rate reduction for any business .
the usa has the highest corporate income tax in the world , which kills jobs and makes us less competitive .
even bill clinton understands the need to cut the corporate rate.no personal income tax rate relief for anyone hillary offers no income tax rate reduction for any american.carbon tax hillary s campaign has opened the door to a carbon tax if she wins the white house .
democrat senate leader chuck schumer is also fantasizing about a carbon tax under hillary , and a carbon tax is part of the official 2016 democrat party platform.to learn more about hillary s tax hike plan , visit atr s dedicated website : www.hightaxhillary.com