patrick henningsen 21st century wireif this latest proposal from the us becomes policy , it could be a major watershed point for the globalized police state , allowing governments to not only to profile you , but also to target and even exclude individuals based on their online speech and activity .
this week we learned that us border control have been running a shadow test program behind the scenes , where travelers into the us are asked to declare their online presence , including any social media accounts and associated blogs.the us federal register states , collecting social media data will enhance the existing investigative process and provide department of homeland security ( dhs ) greater clarity and visibility to possible nefarious activity and connections by providing an additional tool set which analysts and investigators may use to better analyze and investigate the case .
in the hive mind of the state , the term nefarious is proven to be a flexible one , and could encompass persons of any political or intellectual persuasion who travel internationally .
where does it end ? so who are these arbiters of political thought and social discourse ? according to this recent report by the guardian , the deciders are likely to be hourly wage earners working for the tsa , or contractors working under the banner of the department of homeland security ( dhs ) .
initially , these workers would be tasked with analyzing your online presence : us customs and border protection s proposed change would add a line on both the online and paper forms of the visa application form that visitors to the us must fill out if they do not have a visa and are planning on staying for up to 90 days.the following question would be added to both the electronic system for travel authorization ( esta ) and i-94w forms : please enter information associated with your online presence provider/platform social media identifier .
thus far , the dhs claim they are only running a limited pilot program , one which the agency is keeping confidential and out of the public eye .
officials claim that the secrecy surrounding this controversial program is because they don t want to reveal their methods for identifying a potential terror threat .
millions of visitors disembark in us each week ( photo : flickr user tom may via fast company ) in practical terms , with 10 million visa applications and over 77 million visitors annually what we are really seeing here is a giant big data capturing exercise that will quickly generate an additional column on your personal database sitting alongside your standard personal , facial recognition and other biometric id information , as well as your travel history , and anchored by the rfid chip already embedded in most international passports.how the dhs expects its border control staff to properly vet and verify the information in question before a traveler passes through border security is hard to ascertain .
the potential for misinformation is ever present.eventually , processing this amount of data will probably be farmed out to high speed intelligent , or a.i .
computer systems .
similar high-end , algorithm-based analytical surveillance programs like prism is already being used by us and uk government agencies to trawl through masses of public online activity , so it only stands to reason that a.i .
will eventually perform the job of flagging-up any undesirables.if you went by the us media rhetoric you d think that facebook and twitter were the number one causes of global terrorism .
no surprise then , that the battle cry for this latest dhs program has to be last december s apparent isis-inspired terrorist event in san bernardino , and the subsequent controversy over the fbi s ability access to one of the suspect s encrypted iphone 5c.what s more likely to be driving this grand security directive is not necessarily some effective plan to keep people safe , but rather , highly lucrative commercial interests.cia is investing in firms that specialize in sifting through social media postshttps : //t.co/ndvbvkt0bz pic.twitter.com/jiwzgqhydx rt america ( @ rt_america ) april 15 , 2016no private spacesperhaps the most troubling aspect of this story has to do with assessing the relationship between the individual and the government and the expectation of privacy in a so-called democratic or free society.in this instance , the government is adopting a blanket policy of judging a person as guilty until proven innocent .
by ceding this expectation to the government , an individual consenting to this arrangement by forgoing his or her right to privacy and due process .
as history shows us time and time again , once you give this away , it s very difficult to get back.in a bbc interview this week , joseph lorenzo hall , chief technologist at the centre for democracy and technology points out one of the fundamental flaws in the government s new regime , as he explains : it s very hard to see travellers not filling out this item even though it s optional as they may fear not getting entry into the country .
democracy in general requires having spaces free from government scrutiny and increasingly social life happens online .
we would have a poor society if people were chilled from participating in social activity online so i really hope they rethink this .
now many americans might look at this story and think , this doesn t affect me , it s only for foreigners .
while that may seem true on the surface , the reality is that this dhs system is designed for americans too .
consider it phase one .
besides this , do not be surprised if whatever rights you deny your neighbor , will eventually be denied of you too.this is what technocracy looks like it s brutal , unforgiving , and ultimately unresponsive to common sense and reason .
worst of all , it pretends to be driven by a perceived public interest in safety and security , but in reality the only security that s ever achieved through such measures are secure profits for a select number of corporate firms fortunate enough to win corporate contracts in the ever-expanding security theatre that is homeland security .
author patrick henningsen is also founder and editor at 21st century wire , and an independent foreign and political affairs analyst for rt news international .
he is also the host of the sunday wire talk radio program which airs live every sunday on the alternate current radio network .
support our work and become a member at 21wire.tvread more war on terror news at : 21st century wire war on terror files