tampa , fla. ( reuters ) - a serious snowmobile accident involving sarah palin ’ s husband forced the former vice presidential nominee to curtail a florida campaign trip on monday for republican presidential front-runner donald trump .
todd palin was in intensive care at an alaska hospital after the accident on sunday , an aide to the former alaska governor said , adding she had been on the phone with doctors and family members all morning .
palin , who has endorsed trump , had been scheduled to campaign for him later on monday in the villages , florida .
florida is one of five states holding nominating contests on tuesday for the nov. 8 election .
trump campaign officials said palin was returning to alaska to be with her husband .
they said they looked forward to her being back on the campaign trail soon and that trump ’ s thoughts and prayers were with the palin family .
before being able to catch a flight to alaska , palin stopped at a town hall-style event for trump in tampa , telling the crowd : “ thank you guys for your prayers for my husband who is recovering right now in icu after a little wreck on a snow machine. ” trump , taking the stage after palin , said : “ her husband is a tough cookie but when you ’ re too tough , you break ribs every once in a while. ” palin , republican senator john mccain ’ s running-mate in the 2008 presidential election won by democrat barack obama , held a separate campaign rally for trump in florida on sunday .
todd palin , 51 , is a veteran participant in alaska ’ s 2,000-mile ( 3,200-km ) iron dog race involving snowmobiles that takes place each february , according to the race ’ s website .
the contest features about 40 two-man teams .
palin has been on a winning tandem three times , most recently in 2007 , race organizers said .
while competing in 2008 , palin was injured when his vehicle struck a snow-hidden barrel and he was thrown some 70 feet ( 20 meters ) , the alaska dispatch news reported , adding he was not seriously injured .