amman ( reuters ) - the top adviser to iran s supreme leader said he expects the syrian army to soon recapture rebel-held idlib province , as well as eastern syria , an area where u.s.-backed militias hold swathes of territory .
iran is a close ally of syrian president bashar al-assad and the iranian official , ali akbar velayati , was speaking in aleppo , from which the syrian army drove rebels after a siege last year with help from tehran .
the military alliance backing assad , which also includes russia and shi ite muslim militias , has this year focused on the war in central and eastern syria against islamic state ( is ) militants .
but damascus is now setting its sights on territory held by kurdish-led forces backed by a u.s.-led coalition that has also been fighting the sunni muslim is in northern and eastern syria .
soon we will see the eastern syria cleared , and then the idlib area in west , said velayati , the top aide to iranian supreme leader ayatollah ali khamenei , in comments reported by mehr news agency .
he also hailed the success of iranian allies across the region , including lebanon s hezbollah , in remarks likely to infuriate tehran s main regional foe saudi arabia , lauding a resistance line from tehran to beirut .
assad s forces have also made some advances into rebel-held areas in northwest syria adjacent to idlib , a region that represents the insurgents biggest remaining stronghold .
visiting aleppo , velayati was quoted by a military news outlet run by hezbollah as saying tehran s involvement in the syrian civil war had averted wider violence .
the resistance line starts from tehran and passes through baghdad , damascus and beirut to reach palestine , he was quoted as telling a group of shi ite militia volunteers by a military news outlet run by hezbollah .
iran s role , first by providing military advisers and then by training and arming shi ite militia in support of assad , has not only helped shape the syrian conflict , it has strengthened tehran s own hand across the region .
for the first time , iran s revolutionary theocracy is exerting decisive authority in an arc of influence that sunni arab powers , particularly saudi arabia , have been warning about for years .
the hezbollah news outlet said the fighters velayati was addressing had come to defend the sayeda zeinab shrine in damascus , a magnet for thousands of iraqi and afghan shi ite militia recruits who go there before being assigned to front lines to fight sunni rebel groups opposed to assad .
almost every shi ite militiaman bears insignia on his combat fatigues with the words for your sake , sayeda zeinab .
velayati s visit was the second by a senior iranian official to the war-torn country in nearly two weeks , showing how tehran is openly raising its support for the syrian government .
iran s military chief of staff paid a rare visit to syria last month in which he warned israel against breaching syrian air space and territory a day before he visited a frontline position near aleppo .
saudi arabia , its arab allies and regional powerhouse israel accuse iran of seeking to expand its influence in the arab world with the goal of carving out a land route through iraq and syria to the mediterranean .
the syrian opposition also say shi ite iran s military presence in syria stokes sectarian conflict and blames its militias for demographic changes that have uprooted sunnis .