washington ( reuters ) - the u.s. presidential race is tied going into the major parties ’ national conventions and democrat hillary clinton has been damaged by the fbi investigation into her email use while secretary of state , a new opinion poll showed on thursday .
the new york times/cbs news poll showed 67 percent of voters surveyed said clinton was not honest and trustworthy , up 5 percentage points from a cbs poll conducted last month before the fbi made its findings public .
as donald trump prepares to accept the republican presidential nomination next week , the poll showed him in a dead heat with clinton in a general election matchup .
each candidate drew 40 percent of the vote , compared with the 6 percentage point lead enjoyed by clinton in last month ’ s survey , the poll showed .
the margin of error was 3 percentage points in the cbs news/new york times poll , which was conducted by telephone july 8-12 among a random sample of 1,600 adults nationwide , including 1,358 registered voters .
the survey showed 62 percent of voters surveyed distrust trump as well .
“ but mrs. clinton ’ s shifting and inaccurate explanations of her email practices at the state department appear to have resonated more deeply with the electorate , ” the times wrote .
fbi director james comey said last week clinton was “ extremely careless ” in the handling of classified information but the investigation found no evidence she or her colleagues intended to violate laws .
the times/cbs poll echoes the finding of a quinnipiac poll released on wednesday that showed trump pulling just ahead of clinton in the so-called swing states of florida and pennsylvania as the former u.s. senator and first lady lost ground on honesty and moral standards .
in contrast to the new york times/cbs news poll , a reuters/ipsos online opinion poll released on tuesday showed clinton leading trump by 13 points at a national level , with 46 percent to trump ’ s 33 percent support among likely voters .
the election is on nov. 8 .