henniker , n.h. ( reuters ) - campaigning for the republican presidential nomination took a nasty turn on wednesday with billionaire businessman donald trump accusing rival ted cruz of fraud as the field of candidates narrowed ahead of next week ’ s new hampshire primary .
rand paul , a u.s. senator from kentucky with a libertarian philosophy , pulled out of the republican race .
conservative rick santorum also exited the race on wednesday and endorsed u.s .
senator marco rubio of florida .
both paul and santorum , a former senator from pennsylvania , did poorly in monday ’ s iowa caucuses , which were won by cruz , with trump and rubio finishing second and third .
the caucuses were the first of the state-by-state nominating contests ahead of the nov. 8 election to replace democratic president barack obama .
trump , a real estate mogul and former reality tv star , went on twitter on wednesday to accuse the conservative u.s. senator from texas of stealing his victory in iowa .
cruz ’ s team hit back by telling trump to seek help for addiction to the social media site .
the two men are going head-to-head for voters in new hampshire , where cruz ’ s evangelical christian credentials will not likely be as helpful as they were in iowa .
opinion polls show trump with a roughly 20-point lead in new hampshire before next tuesday ’ s primary .
as the new hampshire race heats up , the democratic presidential contenders will face off later on wednesday in a town hall-style event hosted by cnn .
former secretary of state hillary clinton narrowly beat bernie sanders , a u.s. senator from vermont , in iowa .
trump called for the nullification of cruz ’ s iowa victory or a new vote in the state .
“ ted cruz didn ’ t win iowa , he stole it , ” trump said in a series of tweets .
“ that is why all of the polls were so wrong and why he got far more votes than anticipated .
bad ! ” “ oh that voter fraud , you know , these politicians are brutal , ” trump said later at a rally in little rock , arkansas .
“ they are a bunch of dishonest cookies , i want to tell you. ” trump referred to an email that cruz ’ s campaign sent on monday that implied another republican candidate , ben carson , was about to drop out of the race and that his iowa backers should be urged to vote for the texan instead .
cruz later apologized for the email .
trump also accused cruz ’ s team of sending out a mailer designed to look like an official electoral document to scare iowa voters into turning out at the caucuses .
the accusations were the latest aggressive tactic from trump , who has courted controversy with attacks on other candidates and by urging a temporary ban on muslims entering the united states and branding mexican immigrants as criminals .
obama visited a mosque near baltimore on wednesday , declaring that attacks on islam were an attack on all faiths , in a move to counter rhetoric from trump and other republican candidates that have alienated muslims .
the cruz campaign said trump ’ s complaint was a cry for attention after the senator came from behind in the polls to win on monday .
a cruz spokesman suggested he seek help for “ twitter addiction. ” “ it is no surprise that donald is throwing yet another temper-tantrum , or if you like , yet another trumpertantrum , ” cruz said .
“ i understand that donald finds it very hard to lose … but at the end of the day , the iowa people spoke. ” cruz won support in iowa from much of the same conservative christian constituency that helped santorum to victory in the iowa caucuses during the 2012 presidential campaign .
but santorum failed to take off in the 2016 race .
he said on fox news he was suspending his run and called rubio a “ born leader. ” the endorsement came as rubio came under attack by rivals seeking to curry favor in new hampshire .
rubio said he looked forward to teaming up with santorum .
“ we want to use him as often as he ’ s willing to work for us , ” rubio said .
earlier on wednesday , paul became the second republican to drop out of the race since the iowa caucuses , after former arkansas governor mike huckabee .
( additional reporting by amy tennery in new york , doina chiacu , susan heavey and eric beech in washington and roberta rampton in maryland ; writing by alistair bell ; editing by bill trott and peter cooney ) sap is the sponsor of this content .
it was independently created by reuters ’ editorial staff and funded in part by sap , which otherwise has no role in this coverage .