brussels ( reuters ) - europe ’ s emerging migration policy is looking increasingly like donald trump without the hair .
except that , unlike the republican presidential frontrunner , who wants to make mexico pay for a wall to keep migrants out of the united states , the europeans are willing to pay their neighbor turkey to do the job for them .
seven months and a million migrants after chancellor angela merkel declared a “ welcome culture ” for syrian refugees in germany , the european union is rushing to erect “ no vacancy ” signs along its internal and external borders .
under fierce political pressure in her own conservative camp and from an insurgent right-wing populist party , the alliance for germany ( afd ) , merkel ’ s mantra of “ we can do this ” is morphing into “ the turks can do this for us ” .
in a surprise overnight deal she negotiated with turkish prime minister ahmet davutoglu last week , ankara offered to take back all migrants , including syrian refugees , who cross from its shores into europe from now on or are intercepted off its coast .
having thus sealed its most porous border to irregular migrants , the eu would admit a limited number of carefully vetted syrian refugees directly from turkey - one for each syrian asylum seeker ankara took back from greek aegean islands .
the lucky few would be chosen with the help of the u.n. refugee agency from among those who had waited patiently in camps in syria ’ s neighbors , not those who had paid smugglers thousands of euros for a risky sea crossing .
they would be sent to those eu countries that agreed last year to take in a quota , although some states are resisting that .
stifling doubts about the legality of such a blanket return policy , discomfort at outsourcing it to a partner many of them see as worryingly authoritarian , and irritation at the price turkey is demanding , stunned eu leaders gave their provisional assent .
european public opinion is so petrified by images of tens of thousands of bedraggled migrants trekking across muddy fields and highways towards western and northern europe - and populists have made such capital out of those fears - that governments are desperate to halt the flow .
another summit in brussels this week is due to conclude the faustian bargain , granting turkey 6 billion euros ( $ 6.7 billion ) in aid to keep refugees on its soil , an accelerated path to visa-free travel for turks and faster eu membership talks in return for its agreement to act as europe ’ s gatekeeper .
european council president donald tusk says regaining control of europe ’ s external borders is a condition for gaining public acceptance to take in refugees .
in practice , it looks more like a way of keeping them out , if it can be implemented .
human rights groups and volunteers who work with refugees are outraged to see europe slamming shut its open door for victims of war and persecution .
eu lawyers are working overtime to try to make it legal .
the geneva convention on refugees requires signatories to examine individually each claim for protection submitted by an asylum seeker on their soil .
the german-turkish deal would get around that provision by declaring turkey a “ safe ” third country to which irregular migrants could be returned under a bilateral greek-turkish readmission agreement .
the united nations ’ top human rights official has said that could entail illegal “ collective and arbitrary expulsions ” .
apart from the moral issues raised by this dodge , there are several legal problems .
turkey restricts its application of the geneva convention to refugees from europe .
people fleeing war or persecution in the middle east and asia will not be covered unless ankara amends its laws .
turkish officials say they will ensure turkey complies with international law to fulfill its part of the potential eu deal .
even so , lawyers say asylum seekers who reach greece have a right to appeal against being sent back to turkey if they fear for their personal safety there .
a greek court would have to hear each appeal before a person could be removed .
there is no appropriate court on the greek islands , and greek justice is notoriously slow .
at the same time , the rush to declare turkey “ safe ” could hardly have come at a more embarrassing time for the eu .
president tayyip erdogan has stepped up a military crackdown on kurdish militants , the government has seized turkey ’ s best-selling newspaper , critical journalists face prosecution and jail , and businessmen and public officials close to a dissident muslim cleric have been purged .
unlike trump , most eu leaders do not declare they want to prevent more muslims settling in their country , with the exception of hungary ’ s viktor orban and slovakia ’ s robert fico , who have stressed preserving their countries ’ christian identity .
however , anti-immigration campaigners like marine le pen in france and geert wilders in the netherlands openly cite islam as a reason for rejecting refugees , and they are increasingly setting the agenda for mainstream politicians .
they oppose visa-free travel for turks in europe for the same reason .
france , which has a tradition of political asylum and took in tens of thousands of vietnamese “ boat people ” in the 1970s , is limiting its intake of syrian refugees now , citing security concerns following last year ’ s islamist attacks in paris .
like other west european countries , france has struggled to integrate second and third generation young people of muslim or north african origin .
the place of islam in public life is fiercely contested in these secular societies , and resentments from algeria ’ s war of independence still simmer .
european politicians may be aghast at the rhetoric of trump , who has said he wants a database to register and track muslims in the united states and would bar any muslim entering the country until congress could act .
but if the pact with turkey goes through as conceived , the eu will be retreating into a “ fortress europe ” policy for fear of its own trumps .
( $ 1 = 0.8968 euros ) ( writing by paul taylor ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .