berlin ( reuters ) - a 32-year-old german man admitted in court on monday that he sold the weapon used by a teenage gunman who killed nine people in munich last year , a court spokesman said , adding that the defendant told relatives he felt sorry for his actions .
david ali sonboly , 18 , killed nine people before shooting himself dead .
another 27 people were injured .
police concluded the german-born sonboly was a deranged lone gunman obsessed with mass killings who drew no inspiration from islamist militancy .
the munich public prosecutor s office has charged the accused , identified only as philipp k. , as is customary in german law , with selling weapons illegally and nine counts of negligent homicide as well as five counts of negligently causing grievous bodily harm .
a written statement was read , acknowledging that the accused had traded with weapons .
the defendant expressed his regret that one of these firearms was used in the rampage here in munich , court spokesman florian gliwitzky said .
he offered his apologies to the relatives and with this , he also expressed that he was regretting his actions .
a spokeswoman for the public prosecutor said the suspect so far only had admitted to the charge of selling weapons illegally .
she added that evidence revealed during the hearing showed that the suspect had far-right attitudes .
a defense lawyer said his client would not give any more statements in the course of the trial .
authorities arrested the man in marburg , about 100 km ( 65 miles ) north of frankfurt a year ago , after contacting him on the so-called dark net and posing as buyers for an automatic weapon and a glock 17 pistol for 8,000 euros ( $ 9,550 ) .
during a sting operation , the suspected arms dealer said he had sold the 18-year-old iranian-german another glock 17 pistol during a meeting in marburg , followed by 350 rounds of ammunition during a second meeting .
authorities around europe are concerned that secretive marketplaces make it too easy for criminals and militants to obtain weaponry that has traditionally been highly regulated across europe .