the unaccomplished chelsea clinton , wife of unemployed and perpetually vacationing husband marc mezvinsky , and daughter of america s most famous grifters , bill and hillary clinton , took to twitter to criticize president trump s ban on transgenders in the military .
it s worth noting that the woman whose wedding was paid for by the charitable clinton foundation , has assumed a new role , as the self-assigned new democrat leader .
there s only one problem with chelsea s criticism she neglected to mention her father s ban on any military member who dared to be honest about being gay.apparently in a hypocritical liberal s world , it s okay to ban openly gay military members , but it s hateful and a violation of human rights to ban openly transexual members of our military .
who better to make a policy that forces thousands of troops to keep secrets about their sexual lifestyle than the impeached former president bill clinton right chelsea ? yesterday , the washington post tweeted about the hit piece they did on trump s transgender ban : analysis : trump s stance on lgbt rights has always been confusing https : //t.co/tnaskj082u washington post ( @ washingtonpost ) july 26 , 2017chelsea replied : no .
president trump has consistently failed to support lgbt equal rights , dignity & safety in the u.s. & around world ( e.g .
chechnya/russia ) https : //t.co/nxy5uyjz4s chelsea clinton ( @ chelseaclinton ) july 26 , 2017don t ask , don t tell ( dadt ) , byname for the former official u.s. policy ( 1993 2011 ) regarding the service of homosexuals in the military .
the term was coined after pres .
bill clinton in 1993 signed a law ( consisting of statute , regulations , and policy memoranda ) directing that military personnel don t ask , don t tell , don t pursue , and don t harass .
when it went into effect on october 1 , 1993 , the policy theoretically lifted a ban on homosexual service that had been instituted during world war ii , though in effect it continued a statutory ban .