washington ( reuters ) - a cia operative told a jury on tuesday about the terror he experienced in 2012 when militants attacked the u.s. diplomatic compound in benghazi , libya , and described how he recovered the body of u.s .
ambassador to libya christopher stevens .
the operative , who testified in what the judge described as light disguise under the pseudonym alexander charles , was the latest witness to appear in the trial of ahmed abu khatallah , who is accused of orchestrating the sept. 11 , 2012 , attack that killed stevens and three other americans .
charles said all hell broke loose shortly after he arrived at the cia annex in benghazi , which came under mortar fire .
the mortars killed glen doherty and tyrone woods , and gravely injured two other americans .
you could feel the whole ground shaking , charles said , describing the attack .
big blocks of cement ( were ) falling .
he added that he thought it would be his last night on this earth .
had the attacks continued , he said , he and the others would have been buried alive .
khatallah was captured in 2014 in libya by a team of u.s. military and fbi officials and taken to the united states aboard a navy vessel .
the charges he faces include murder and providing material support to terrorists .
prosecutors say he helped organize the attacks , though he did not physically participate himself .
he has pleaded not guilty .
since the trial opened last week , jurors have heard emotional testimony from state department and cia officials , offering a detailed behind-the-scenes look at what happened that night .
a bureau of diplomatic security agent last week told a harrowing story of how he tried to save stevens and state department staffer sean smith as they crawled on their bellies through thick black smoke .
on tuesday , charles talked about how he helped put doherty and woods bodies onto a truck waiting outside the annex , and how they worked to save state department staffer david ubben , whose leg was nearly blown off .
because he spoke arabic , charles was also able to recover another american s body , after he said that by divine intervention , he overheard a libyan security official who was standing nearby ask other revolutionaries : should we tell him about the dead american in the hospital ?
charles said he approached the man and asked who he was referring to .
about 15 minutes later , a body was delivered via ambulance in a body bag .
charles said he unzipped the bag , looked down and saw the ambassador s face .