new york ( reuters ) - a u.s. judge on monday ordered the unsealing of the application used to obtain a search warrant that allowed the fbi to gain access to emails related to democratic presidential nominee hillary clinton ’ s private server before the nov. 8 election .
u.s. district judge kevin castel in manhattan directed the release by tuesday of redacted materials used to obtain a search warrant after federal bureau of investigation director james comey informed congress of newly discovered emails on oct. 28 .
comey ’ s letter drew new attention to a damaging issue for clinton , the democratic presidential nominee , and roiled the campaign 11 days before the nov. 8 election , won by republican donald trump .
the search warrant materials ’ release sought by randol schoenberg , a los angeles-based lawyer , who in court papers said transparency was crucial given the potential influence the probe had on the election ’ s outcome .
sources close to the investigation have said the emails were discovered during an unrelated probe into former democratic u.s. representative anthony weiner , the estranged husband of top clinton aide huma abedin .
in his order , castel said he would allow the redaction of the identities of two unnamed individuals , one of whom is subject to an “ ongoing criminal investigation. ” but he said the “ strong presumption of access attached to the search warrant and related materials is not overcome by any remaining privacy interest of secretary clinton. ” lawyers for clinton and abedin did not immediately respond to requests for comment , nor did the u.s. justice department .
a lawyer for weiner had no immediate comment .
clinton used the server while she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013 .
in july , comey recommended no criminal charges be brought over clinton ’ s handing of classified information in the emails , although he said she and her colleagues were “ extremely careless ” in handling such information .
in his oct. 28 letter to congress , comey said emails potentially related to the clinton server probe had been discovered in an “ unrelated case. ” sources close to the investigation have said the emails were discovered during an unrelated probe into weiner following a media report that he engaged in sexually explicit cellphone and online messaging with a 15-year-old girl .
federal investigators got a warrant to examine the emails to see if they were related to the probe into clinton ’ s private server .
only two days before the election , comey disclosed that the emails did nothing to change his earlier recommendation .