beijing ( reuters ) - chinese president xi jinping on wednesday tapped a low-profile official to lead his signature war on corruption , replacing the retiring wang qishan , whose sweeping anti-graft campaign had made him china s second most-powerful politician .
zhao leji was appointed to the new seven-member politburo standing committee and will take up wang s role as head of the central commission for discipline inspection ( ccdi ) from his position as head of the communist party s powerful organisation department , which is in charge of personnel .
zhao s appointment is likely to spur efforts to turn the fight against graft from a campaign into a structured feature of china s political system , analysts said .
xi s corruption fight has ensnared more than 1.3 million officials , and he said during the twice-a-decade party congress that wrapped up this week that the battle to take down both tigers and flies will continue , a reference to elite officials and ordinary bureaucrats .
zhao s job appears to be less about taking down tigers and swatting flies but more about effectively institutionalizing the anti-corruption system and getting the ccdi mechanisms implemented at all levels , said damien ma , associate director at the paulson institute , a u.s. think tank .
it s going to be challenging , but he does have everyone s files as former head of the organisation department .
speaking to reporters after unveiling his seven-member politburo standing committee , xi said that the party s battle to rid itself of corruption , written into its constitution on tuesday , is a journey without an end .
there can not be any virus in the party structure , he said .
wang , sometimes called the communist party s fireman for his skill in resolving crises , has widely been credited with the success and vigor of the graft fight , which has been highly popular with the public while rattling the party elite .
wang , who was previously vice governor of the central bank and helped oversee china s recovery from the 2008 global financial crisis , built the once toothless and obscure ccdi into a feared watchdog that felled party heavyweights , including the former domestic security chief , zhou yongkang .
the campaign has also taken down many of xi s rivals and helped to tighten his grip on power .
zhao , at 60 the youngest member of the standing committee , has been steadily promoted through his career , which has included long stints in poor rural areas , giving him a comparatively low profile among chinese leaders .
xi and zhao have a shaanxi connection , according to cheng li , a u.s.-based expert on chinese politics at the brookings institution .
they are among a group of politicians with personal and political ties to northwest china s shaanxi province , xi s ancestral home , who have moved up the party ranks in recent years .
zhao spent much of his early career in the shaanxi countryside , leaving him with a strong regional accent .
institutionalizing anti-corruption xi plans to overhaul china s anti-corruption architecture to create a powerful super-ministry , the national supervision commission , that will combine work by a number agencies , not including the ccdi , although the two will share offices and personnel .
the commission will also have the power to investigate civil servants , even if they are not party members , and will be backed by law , giving legal authority to many of the measures currently used by the party to investigate officials .
xi also said last week that a secret party interrogation system , known as shuanggui , would be replaced with new detention measures , although rights groups say that it is unclear whether suspects will have access to lawyers under the new system .
some experts have questioned how much power the new body will have without wang at the helm .
it is not clear who will head the new commission or exactly what its relationship will be with the ccdi .