paris ( reuters ) - the united states and israel announced on thursday they were quitting the u.n. s cultural agency unesco , after washington accused it of anti-israeli bias .
the withdrawal of the united states , which is meant to provide a fifth of unesco s funding , is a major blow for the paris-based organization , founded after world war two to help protect cultural and natural heritage around the world .
unesco is best known for designating world heritage sites such as the ancient city of palmyra in syria and the grand canyon national park .
this decision was not taken lightly , and reflects u.s. concerns with mounting arrears at unesco , the need for fundamental reform in the organization , and continuing anti-israel bias , state department spokeswoman heather nauert said in a statement .
hours later , prime minister benjamin netanyahu said israel would quit too , calling the u.s. decision brave and moral .
unesco director-general irina bokova expressed her disappointment : at the time when conflicts continue to tear apart societies across the world , it is deeply regrettable for the united states to withdraw from the united nations agency promoting education for peace and protecting culture under attack , she said .
this is a loss to the united nations family .
this is a loss for multilateralism .
washington has already withheld its funding for unesco since 2011 , when the body admitted palestine as a full member .
the united states and israel were among just 14 of 194 members that voted against admitting the palestinians .
washington s arrears on its $ 80 million annual dues since then are now over $ 500 million .
although washington supports a future independent palestinian state , it says this should emerge out of peace talks and it considers it unhelpful for international organizations to admit palestine until negotiations are complete .
in recent years , israel has repeatedly complained about what it says is the body taking sides in disputes over cultural heritage sites in jerusalem and the palestinian territories .
today is a new day at the u.n. , where there is price to pay for discrimination against israel , israel s ambassador to the united nations danny danon said .
netanyahu told world leaders at the u.n. general assembly last month that unesco was promoting fake history after it designated hebron and the two adjoined shrines at its heart - the jewish tomb of the patriarchs and the muslim ibrahimi mosque - as a palestinian world heritage site in danger .
an arab-backed unesco resolution last year condemned israeli s policies at religious sites in east jerusalem and the west bank .
under unesco rules , the u.s. withdrawal will become effective as of the end of december 2018 .
three diplomats had told reuters earlier on thursday of the impending decision .
the organization , which employs around 2,000 people worldwide , most of them based in paris , has struggled for relevance as it becomes increasingly hobbled by regional rivalries and a lack of money .
unesco , whose full name is the united nations educational , scientific and cultural organization , is in the process of selecting a new chief , whose priority will be to revive its fortunes .
the u.s. move underscores the scepticism expressed by president donald trump about the need for the u.s. to remain engaged in multi-lateral bodies .
the president has touted an america first policy , which puts u.s. economic and national interests ahead of international commitments .
since trump took office , the united states has abandoned the trans-pacific partnership trade talks and withdrawn from the paris climate deal .
washington is also reviewing its membership of the geneva-based u.n. human rights council , which it also accuses of being anti-israel .
the absence of the united states or any large country with a lot of power is a loss .
it s not just about money , it s promoting ideals that are vital to countries like the united states , such as education and culture , a unesco-based diplomat said , warning that others could follow .
for differing reasons , britain , japan and brazil are among states that have yet to pay their dues for 2017 .
russia s former envoy to unesco told ria news agency the agency was better off without the americans .
in recent years , they ve been of no use for this organization , eleanora mitrofanova said .
since 2011 they have practically not been paying to the budget of this organization ...
they decided to exit - this is absolutely in line with trump s general logic today .
after four days of secret balloting to pick a new unesco chief , qatar s hamad bin abdulaziz al-kawari qualified for the friday runoff .
france s audrey azoulay and egypt s moushira khattab were tied in second .
one will be eliminated after another vote by 58-member executive council on friday .
if the two finalists end level , they draw lots .
the election has exposed deep rivalries between qatar and egypt that has its roots in the crisis engulfing qatar and its gulf arab neighbors which have severed diplomatic , trade and travel ties with doha after accusing it of sponsoring hardline islamist groups , a charge qatar denies .