washington ( reuters ) - the head of the u.s. senate armed services committee on wednesday increased pressure on the pentagon and the air force , demanding answers over the continued use of russian rocket engines for u.s. satellite launches .
senator john mccain , in a letter dated feb. 10 seen by reuters , asked air force secretary deborah james and pentagon chief arms buyer frank kendall to explain why the u.s. government is continuing to deal with npo energomash , the russian firm that builds russian rd-180 rocket engines .
mccain pressed the officials on the legality of doing business with npo energomash given sanctions in place against russian deputy prime minister dmitry rogozin and others , who now have control over the company after a recent reorganization .
mccain also questioned the air force ’ s continued payment of a large launch support contract to united launch alliance ( ula ) , a joint venture of lockheed martin corp and boeing co , despite the presence of a certified competitor , space exploration technologies , or spacex .
mccain said he wants answers to these questions by february 22 .
james pledged to respond to the questions during a january hearing , but mccain said he followed up in writing to underscore his concerns about what he has described as subsidies to russian leader “ vladimir putin and his gang of corrupt cronies. ” congress banned use of the russian rd-180 rocket engines for military use after russia annexed ukraine ’ s crimea region in 2014 .
but u.s. lawmakers weakened the ban late last year , worried that it could drive ula out of business and leave just privately-held spacex , to lift satellites into space .
james and other officials have urged congress to allow use of the russian engines that power ula ’ s atlas 5 rocket for several years until alternatives are available in several years .
in his letter , mccain asked the u.s. and air force to explain what options they had to penalize ula for not bidding in a recent launch competition despite receiving launch support of $ 800 million to $ 1 billion a year since 2006 .
he also asked the department to examine what percentage of that annual support contract was associated with ula ’ s other family of rockets , the delta 4 , which the company plans to retire since it is more costly than the atlas 5 .
mccain and other senators argue that it would be worth the extra cost to end u.s. reliance on the russian engines .