paris ( reuters ) - saad al-hariri , who resigned as lebanon s prime minister this month while in saudi arabia , said on saturday he would clarify his position when he returns to beirut next week .
hariri s resignation on nov. 4 threw lebanon into political crisis and put it center-stage in the middle east s overarching rivalry between sunni saudi arabia and its allies and a bloc led by shi ite iran .
with regard to the political situation in lebanon , i will go to beirut in the coming days , i will participate in the independence celebrations , and it is there that i will make known my position on these subjects after meeting president ( michel ) aoun , hariri said after holding talks with french president emmanuel macron in paris .
hariri declined to take questions , but is set to return to beirut by wednesday when lebanon celebrates its independence day .
he thanked macron , who has been mediating as part of french efforts to try to ease tensions across the region , for his help .
macron had leveraged france s close relations with both lebanon and saudi arabia to secure a deal that saw hariri travel to paris and open the door to a resolution of the crisis .
hariri , who arrived at his residence in paris in the early hours of the morning , told aoun in a phone call from paris that he would be in lebanon on wednesday for the celebrations , the lebanese president said on twitter .
lebanon is being shaken so it s important hariri comes to paris for us to work with him on the best way out of the crisis , said a senior french diplomat .
we re trying to create the conditions for a de-escalation in the region .
we want to avoid a proliferation of crises that could get out of control .
hariri s abrupt resignation and continued stay in saudi arabia has caused fears for lebanon s stability .
okab saqr , a member of parliament for hariri s future movement , said after hariri s visit to france he would have a small arab tour before traveling to beirut .
a french presidential source said macron had reiterated that paris wanted hariri to return to lebanon to ensure the country s political system continued to function and that it was imperative it remained disassociated from regional crises .
the source said macron would continue to be active on the dossier in the coming days and that france was considering whether to host a meeting of the international lebanon support group to discuss the political crisis .
the crisis has thrust lebanon into the regional rivalry pitting saudi arabia and its allies against a bloc led by iran , which includes the heavily armed lebanese shi ite hezbollah group .
aoun has called hariri a saudi hostage and refused to accept his resignation unless he returns to lebanon .
saudi arabia and hariri say his movements are not restricted .
lebanon maintains a delicate sectarian balance after sunnis , shi ites , christians and druze fought a civil war between 1975 and 1990 , with factions often backed by regional rivals .
hariri , a sunni muslim , is a long-time ally of saudi arabia .
aoun , a christian , is a political ally of hezbollah .
hariri s government , a power-sharing coalition formed last year , includes hezbollah .
france , which controlled lebanon between the world wars , has sought to play a key role in defusing tension with macron personally getting involved and putting him at the heart of a regional power struggle that will test his diplomatic skills .
that was evident since the outbreak of the lebanese crisis over the last week with a surprise visit to saudi crown prince mohammed bin salman in riyadh , followed by a flurry of calls , sending his foreign minister to saudi arabia and then the invitation to hariri , which caught many diplomats unawares .
while undoubtedly a diplomatic coup for macron , some regional and french diplomats have cautioned that his strategy to try to appease all sides in the region may backfire .
on saturday , u.s. president donald trump spoke with macron about the situation in lebanon and syria .
the white house said the leaders agreed on the need to work with allies to counter hezbollah s and iran s destabilizing activities in the region .
paris has intensified its rhetoric over iran s regional activities .
on thursday , foreign minister jean-yves le drian , speaking alongside his saudi counterpart , denounced tehran s hegemonic temptations .
iran responded by accusing france of taking sides and macron on friday said iran should clarify its ballistic missile program .
that was met by a rebuke in tehran .
on saturday , ali akbar velayati , a senior adviser to iran s supreme leader , said macron should stay out of its affairs .