ouagadougou ( reuters ) - two paramilitary police officers were killed and two others wounded in burkina faso when a convoy carrying fuel to the inata gold mine hit a landmine , avocet mining plc and the government said on wednesday .
nobody immediately claimed responsibility for the incident although security analysts have attributed other recent attacks in gold-rich northern burkina faso to a new local jihadist group known as ansaroul islam .
the explosion destroyed the leading vehicle , killing two gendarmes and seriously wounding two others , the defense ministry said in a statement .
the explosion was caused by an improvised explosive device on the road from the town of djibo , about 150 kilometers ( 90 miles ) north of the capital ouagadougou , it added .
the mining firm said it would review security measures and take measures to ensure the safety of the mine and its employees .
burkina faso , like other countries in west africa , has been targeted sporadically by jihadist groups , including one founded by a local radical preacher , ibrahim dicko , who was released from prison in mali in 2015 .
most attacks have been along its remote northern border with mali , which has seen activity by islamist militants for more than a decade .
a security source said that short bursts of gunfire rang out briefly overnight near the inata mine as an anti-terror unit of the paramilitary police pursued the suspected attackers .
suspected islamist militants killed at least 18 people and wounded several during a raid on a restaurant in burkina faso s capital in august .
shares in avocet closed down 4.9 percent after initially falling some 10 percent on the london stock exchange .
avocet had said earlier this month that its unit , societe des mines de belahouro ( smb ) , which operates the inata gold mine , may file for insolvency after a loan repayment freeze with its creditors expired .
the company owns 90 percent of the inata gold mine that produced 72,485 ounces of gold in 2016 .
avocet is struggling to keep the mine operating after former workers seized a shipment of gold last year .
its shares have dropped nearly 60 percent this year .