lima ( reuters ) - the government of peruvian president pedro pablo kuczynski will likely object to a bill passed by congress that aims to expand new anti-graft restrictions to grana y montero and other local partners of brazilian builder odebrecht [ odbes.ul ] , the prime minister said thursday .
odebrecht has admitted to paying millions of dollars in bribes to officials in peru over a decade-long period , and lawmakers want the financial constraints written to keep odebrecht from evading payment of fines for bribery to apply to the companies it partnered with .
but prime minister mercedes araoz said a new bill that sailed through the opposition-ruled congress two weeks ago threatens to paralyze construction projects and likely violates due process .
i m not a lawyer but i do think that you always have to respect the presumption of innocence , araoz told foreign media in the capital lima .
there are parts of it that we would have to take issue with .
araoz said congress has not yet sent the bill to the executive branch for passage and that the justice and economy ministries would study it thoroughly before taking any action .
the legislation would restrict international asset transfers and the right to seize ill gotten gains of grana and other odebrecht partners .
however , none of odebrecht s local partners have been convicted of any crimes and deny taking part in odebrecht s bribes .
grana , peru s biggest construction group and odebrecht s most important local partner , saw its shares drop nearly 23 percent to 2.4 soles ( 0.5573 ) after passage of the legislation .
grana did not immediately respond to requests for comment but has criticized the bill as unconstitutional and promised to take legal action if it becomes law .
lawmakers who back the legislation have said odebrecht s partners likely had a hand in odebrecht s kickback schemes and that prosecutors were working too slowly in finding other guilty parties .
grana is under investigation in the attorney general s office but has not been charged with any crime and has repeatedly denied wrongdoing .
araoz added that the government is planning to ask congress for special legislative powers to make tax collection more efficient .
however , she said the changes would be minor and ruled out any changes to tax rates .