richmond , va. ( reuters ) - virginia lawmakers reached a bipartisan deal on friday that would rescind the attorney general ’ s decision to stop honoring permits for concealed weapons issued by 25 states in exchange for concessions from republican supporters of gun ownership rights .
the move last month to undo reciprocity agreements with more than two dozen states with requirements that fall short of virginia ’ s infuriated many gun-rights advocates , who argued it infringed the constitutional rights of gun owners .
in return for reinstating the agreements , democratic gov .
terry mcauliffe said the leaders of the republican-dominated legislature had agreed to a requirement to make state police available for voluntary background checks for private sales at all gun shows .
the issue of gun control has become heated in recent years after a series of mass shootings at schools , shopping malls and other public venues across the country .
advocates of tighter controls say the government must do more to keep weapons out of the hands of criminals and the mentally ill , while opponents say new restrictions would violate the second amendment of the u.s. constitution .
of 77 firearms shows in virginia last year , state police were present to run voluntary checks at only 42 , the governor said .
mcauliffe , who supports tighter gun control , pledged to make more money available to expand police background check efforts .
he said expanding background checks had always been his primary issue in gun control legislation .
the bipartisan compromise would also prohibit individuals with permanent protective orders from possessing a firearm .
mcauliffe said it was an effort to remove guns from domestic violence situations .
the proposal had previously been a non-starter among republicans .
“ the measures we announce here today will save lives , ” mcauliffe said , emphasizing that the compromise struck a balance between public safety and individual rights .
in a prepared statement , democratic attorney general mark r. herring expressed approval but he did not attend the press conference at the state capitol announcing the deal .
“ i ’ m encouraged to finally see a bipartisan conversation about how we can reduce gun violence and keep guns away from dangerous individuals , ” herring said .
he added that the measure of success for the agreement , when it finally emerges from the legislative process , is whether it makes virginians safer .
william j. howell , the powerful republican speaker of the house of delegates , said the agreement was not about who won and who lost .
“ virginia won , and that ’ s all there is to it , ” howell said , standing behind a podium flanked by republican and democratic lawmakers as well as representatives from domestic violence groups .