ouagadougou ( reuters ) - france s president emmanuel macron told african youths on tuesday that he belonged to a new generation of french leaders who would build partnerships with the continent rather than tell it what to do .
but a youth protest against him , stones pelting one of his delegation s vehicles and a botched grenade attack on french troops hours before his arrival in burkina faso s capital ouagadougou showed the hostility that still lingers after decades of an often tense france-africa relationship .
macron was also subjected to rowdy student questions at the university after his speech in ouagadougou , and was sometimes left fruitlessly hushing as he struggled to get his answers heard above the crowd .
in his speech , peppered with references to african nationalists such as nelson mandela and burkina s revolutionary leader thomas sankara , macron promised a break with a past in which france often seemed to call the shots to former colonies .
i am from a generation that doesn t come to tell africans what to do , macron said , prompting applause .
i am from a generation for whom nelson mandela s victory is one of the best political memories .
the 39-year-old is on a three-day visit to burkina faso , ghana and ivory coast aimed at boosting cooperation in education , the digital economy and migration .
i will be alongside those who believe that africa is neither a lost continent or one that needs to be saved , he said .
the grenade attack missed the french soldiers but wounded three civilians hours before macron arrived .
no group claimed responsibility .
stones were thrown at a delegation convoy , however macron was far away from it at a meeting with his burkina counterpart , roch marc kabore in the presidential palace .
dozens of local youths clashed with security forces in the center of the capital throwing stones .
police responded with teargas .
protesters burnt t-shirts with images of macron and carried slogans including down with new-colonialism and french military out of burkina .
it was not the first time a french president has promised to break with past french politics on the continent .
macron s predecessor francois hollande declared while visiting senegal in 2012 that the time of la francafrique is over , referring to a shadowy network of diplomats , soldiers and businessmen who manipulated african leaders for decades after independence .
but it comes at a tense time , when french troops are being sucked deeper into a years-long battle to quell islamist militancy in the sahel region .
france has 4,000 troops deployed there , and there are mixed feelings about their presence - highlighted in a bitter row between france and mali over the deaths of 11 malian troops being held captive by islamist militants in a french air strike .
the french are pinning their hopes on the so-called g5 sahel force being set up by regional country s with french and american backing .
it launched a campaign on oct. 28 amid growing unrest in the desert reaches of the region , where jihadists allied to al qaeda or inspired by islamic state roam undetected .
macron earlier told journalists g5 had been too slow to get established .
he said he would call for greater co-operation between europe and africa to tackle human trafficking and he touted a european initiative to rescue african migrants from being enslaved in libya .
the exchange with heckling students was typical macron , who during his presidential campaign often managed to turn initially hostile crowds in his favor by answering questions head on .
you speak to me like i m a colonial power , but i don t want to look after electricity in burkina faso .
that s the work of your president , he retorted to one hostile questioner .
( refiles to remove extraneous repeated references to capital )