this week , liberals have been repeating their frequent claim that voter fraud doesn t exist .
a recent salon article argues that voter fraud just isn t a problem in pennsylvania , despite evidence to the contrary .
another article argues that voter fraud is entirely in the imagination of those who use voter id laws to deny minorities the right to vote.yet as the election approaches , more and more cases of voter fraud are beginning to surface .
in colorado , multiple instances were found of dead people attempting to vote .
stunningly , a woman named sara sosa who died in 2009 cast ballots in 2010 , 2011 , 2012 and 2013 .
in virginia , it was found that nearly 20 voter applications were turned in under the names of dead people.in texas , authorities are investigating criminals who are using the technique of vote harvesting to illegally procure votes for their candidates .
harvesting is the practice of illegally obtaining the signatures of valid voters in order to vote in their name without their consent for the candidate ( s ) the criminal supports.these are just some instances of voter fraud we know about .
it would be silly to assume cases that have been discovered are the only cases of fraud .
indeed according to a pew research report from february 2012 , one in eight voter registrations are significantly inaccurate or no longer valid .
since there are 146 million americans registered to vote , this translates to a stunning 18 million invalid voter registrations on the books .
further , more than 1.8 million deceased individuals are listed as voters , and approximately 2.75 million people have registrations in more than one state .
numbers of this scale obviously provide ripe opportunity for fraud.don t let data contradict my narrative yet in spite of all this , a report by the brennan center at new york university claims voter fraud is a myth .
it argues that north carolina , which passed comprehensive measures to prevent voter fraud , failed to identify even a single individual who has ever been charged with committing in-person voter fraud in north carolina .
however , this faulty reasoning does not point to the lack of in-person voter fraud , but rather to lack of enforcement mechanisms to identify and prosecute in-person voter fraud.the science of criminal justice tells us that many crimes go unreported , and the more victimless the crime , the more this happens .
the fact is , a person attempting to commit voter fraud is very unlikely to be caught , which increases the incentive to commit the crime.the national crime victimization survey ( ncvs ) is a sophisticated , comprehensive effort to catalog the number and types of crimes not reported to law enforcement authorities .
however , it tends to deal mostly in violent crimes .
as complex as the ncvs is , gathering accurate data for unreported victimless crimes such as voter fraud is even harder , since 1 ) outside of the criminal , no one may know a crime has taken place , and 2 ) there is no direct victim to report the crime in the first place .
yet we are expected to believe that , unlike violent crime , voter fraud is limited only to the cases that are actually reported and prosecuted ?
this is a senseless position .
further , the brennan center report argues that because prosecutor kris kobach s review of 84 million votes cast in 22 states found only 14 instances of fraud referred for prosecution ( which amounts to a 0.00000017 percent fraud rate ) , voter fraud is so statistically small that it s a non-issue .
let s follow this logic .
does the fact that 109 people were cited for jaywalking in seattle in 2009 mean that only 109 people jaywalked in seattle that year ?
does the fact that 103,733 people were cited for driving without a seatbelt in tennessee in 2015 mean that only that many people were driving without seatbelt in tennessee in 2015 ? absolutely not .
this can be proven easily because in 2014 , the previous year , only 29,470 people were cited .
the disparity is largely due to increased enforcement efforts in 2015 .
in other words , increasing enforcement of the crime revealed a much larger number of people committing the crime.the exact same is true for voter fraud .
we have no reason to believe that the low number of prosecutions means only that exact amount of voter fraud is happening .
rather , it could mean a lack of enforcement is failing to reveal the bulk of the violations that are occurring .
thus , as with many types of crimes , especially victimless crimes , the real number of cases is likely significantly higher than the number reported.how to effectively target voter fraud so now that we know voter fraud is a serious issue , what are some solutions to this problem ?
states like michigan have poll challenger programs , where observers from both parties may be present at voter check-in tables at precincts .
they check each voter s id against a database of registered voters for that precinct to ensure the person attempting to vote is actually legally qualified to vote in that precinct .
if there s a discrepancy , the poll challenger may officially challenge the ballot .
other states should implement similar programs.read more : fox