juba ( reuters ) - war-ravaged south sudan is considering scrapping state subsidies on oil because it hasn t been able to pay civil servants for four months and diplomatic staff abroad are being evicted over unpaid rent , the deputy finance minister said .
ending the subsidies would free up desperately needed cash , mou ambrose thiik told reuters in an interview .
nearly four years of civil war have destroyed south sudan s economy .
inflation was at 165 percent in august , the 21st consecutive month of triple-digit growth .
the government depends on oil revenues , but attacks have slashed production to less than a third of pre-war levels .
the government expects to receive $ 820 million from oil this year .
out of that , $ 453 million will go to neighboring sudan as payment for using its infrastructure for export ; $ 183 million on the oil subsidy ; and $ 166 million is allocated to the budget , which has a gaping deficit .
we were thinking that we would lift subsidies on the oil and will be able to cover this ( deficit ) and pay our salaries more easily , said thiik .
but we have some resistance from the parliament .
lawmaker nailo mayo , the chair of the finance committee , said parliamentarians just wanted more information on who might be affected by ending the subsidies .
the committee ... is concerned about the social cost , i mean the suffering that could accrue to the poorer section of the community , and also we are afraid of the political cost , that is stability , arising from lack of transport , he said .
state-subsidized oil sells at 22 south sudanese pounds ( ssp ) per liter , but severe shortages mean many people buy it on the black market for 300 ssp per liter .
the ssp trades at about 17.5 to the dollar on the black market and 17.68 at the central bank .
the process for allocating subsidized fuel , which is purchased with government-issued coupons , is unclear .
south sudan s conflict began in 2013 after president salva kiir , an ethnic dinka , fired his deputy , riek machar , a nuer .
the conflict degenerated into ethnic fighting marked by widespread sexual violence .
out of an original population of 12 million , 4 million have fled their homes .
more than half of those who remain in south sudan need food aid and nearly three-quarters of children are out of school .
thiik acknowledged social services were dire and said the finance ministry was trying to save money .
it wants to reduce the number of embassies by a third , he said , because it is unable to fund them .
they ( embassy staff ) didn t get their salary for seven months and also they have arrears in their premises , he said .
asked about civil servants who had not been paid for four months , he said : it is true that we have not secured money to pay salaries .