madrid ( reuters ) - dismissed catalan leader carles puigdemont said on wednesday he would ignore a court order to return to spain to answer charges over the region s push for independence , but he could testify from belgium .
if puigdemont fails to answer thursday s high court summons , an arrest warrant could be issued that would make it virtually impossible for him to stand in a snap regional election called by the spanish government for dec. 21 .
prime minister mariano rajoy sacked puigdemont and his government on friday , hours after the catalan parliament made a unilateral declaration of independence in a vote boycotted by the opposition and declared illegal by spanish courts .
on monday , spain s state prosecutor filed charges of rebellion , sedition and misuse of public funds against puigdemont for defying the central government by holding an referendum on secession on oct. 1 and proclaiming independence .
puigdemont traveled to belgium at the weekend with other members of the dismissed catalan administration and hired a lawyer .
those summonses are part of proceedings that lack any legal basis and only seek to punish ideas .
this is a political trial , puigdemont said in a statement signed by the legitimate government of catalonia .
the high court summoned puigdemont and 13 other former members of the catalan government to testify in madrid on thursday and friday on the prosecutor s charges .
a judge will then decide whether those called to testify should go to jail pending an investigation that could take several years and potentially lead to a trial .
the judge might also grant them conditional bail or order them to surrender their passports .
if puigdemont and his associates did not turn up , the judge would be more likely to order them jailed as a flight risk .
the courts have also told the catalan secessionist leaders to deposit 6.2 million euros ( $ 7.2 million ) by friday to cover potential liabilities .
three former catalan government advisors returned to spain from belgium late on tuesday and were greeted at barcelona s international airport by a small crowd chanting off to prison .
puigdemont said on tuesday he would only go back to spain when given unspecified guarantees by the spanish government .
he said he accepted the election called by rajoy for december and madrid said he was welcome to stand , though the legal proceedings might prevent that .
uncertainty over how the crisis will play out has prompted more than 1,800 catalonia-based companies to move their legal headquarters out of the region and the government to lower its national economic forecasts for next year .
on wednesday , rating agency moody s said the declaration of independence and the suspension of self rule were credit negative for the region and the country , and that associated uncertainty would damage sentiment and consumer spending .
moody s raised spain s credit rating to baa2 in 2014 as the country emerged from a prolonged economic slump .
on tuesday , moody s affirmed catalonia s long-term issuer and debt ratings of ba3 , saying the government s reinforced control compensated for the increased risks , in particular the region s rapidly deteriorating business climate .