islamabad ( reuters ) - the pakistani army on thursday said the government was discussing ways to try to integrate militant-linked groups into the mainstream of the country s politics .
milli muslim league ( mml ) , a new militant party controlled by islamist hafiz saeed , backed a candidate in the september by-election for a seat vacated by ousted prime minister nawaz sharif in the eastern city of lahore .
the united states has offered a $ 10 million bounty for saeed s capture .
reuters reported last month that the foray into politics by mml and other islamists groups followed the integration plan .
three of sharif s confidants and a retired army general said it had been presented by inter services intelligence to sharif last year , but the then premier had rejected it .
army spokesman major-general asif ghafoor did not comment on the military s role in any such strategy but told a news conference in islamabad the plan was aimed at developing a constructive role for them .
asked about the mml party loyal to hafiz saeed , whom the united states and india accuse of masterminding the 2008 mumbai attacks that killed 166 people , the army spokesman said it was part of a process that has started .
it is in my knowledge that the government has started some discussion over it , that , how do we mainstream them , so that they could do constructive contribution , ghafoor said .
a government spokesman did not respond to calls .
pakistan s interior ministry has asked the country s electoral commission not to register saeed s party , but hasn t taken any other steps to stop it .
another militant party is campaigning for a by-election later in october .
it remains unclear whether the army or the isi went ahead with its plan despite sharif s rejection , or if the military and the civilian government have recently agreed on the idea .
another islamist designated a terrorist by the united states , fazlur rehman khalil , told reuters he too planned to form his own party soon .
within two weeks of sharif s ouster , the mml party was announced .
it later got the backing of saeed and his lieutenants in the by-election to secure five per cent of the vote .
the other hardline party , tehrik-e-labaik pakistan , gained over six per cent of votes by riding on the back of a blasphemy killer mumtaz qadri whom it called a hero and a martyr .
saeed has been under house arrest since january in the eastern city of lahore .
mml is the political wing of saeed s charity jamaat-ud-dawa , jud .
jud and khalil s ansar ul-umma organization are both seen by the united states as fronts for militant groups the army has been accused of sponsoring against neighbors , arch-foe india and afghanistan - a charge the army denies .
reports of the plan to bring militant-linked groups into the political mainstream have stirred debate at home and abroad .
now , how to take it further - that , the time to come will tell , ghafoor , the army spokesman said , for that , the government will take a decision .