phnom penh ( reuters ) - the european union has suspended funding for cambodia s 2018 general election because the vote can not be credible after the dissolution of the main opposition party , according to a letter sent to the national election committee on tuesday .
the cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) was dissolved by the country s highest court last month at the request of the government of prime minister hun sen after the arrest of opposition leader kem sokha for alleged treason .
an electoral process from which the main opposition party has been arbitrarily excluded can not be seen as legitimate , the letter said .
under these circumstances , the european union does not believe there is a possibility of a credible electoral process .
some western donors have condemned the cnrp dissolution as the most serious blow to democracy since an international peace deal and u.n.-run elections in the early 1990s ended decades of war and the khmer rouge genocide that killed at least 1.8 million cambodians in the 1970s .
a government spokesman said the eu decision would not affect the election , in which hun sen is expected to extend more than three decades in office that make him the world s longest serving prime minister .
this is their will , spokesman phay siphan told reuters on tuesday .
we have our own money .
the european union and japan are the biggest donors to cambodia s election commission , which is in theory independent .
asked if japan would also suspend aid for the election , the japanese embassy said it would continue to give assistance for electoral reform and would monitor the situation closely .
it is of utmost importance to have next year s national election reflect the will of the cambodian people , hironori suzuki , a counselor at the embassy , told reuters by email .
the united states last month said it would suspend funding for the election .
it later said it would impose visa sanctions on those involved in the government s actions to undermine democracy .
kem sokha , leader of the cnrp , was arrested for allegedly plotting to overthrow the government with u.s. help .
he has rejected the accusation as a political ploy .
the european union in october warned cambodia it could face eu action over duty-free access it enjoys under a deal for some of the world s poorest countries if the nation s human rights situation deteriorates further .
cambodia s biggest donor and investor is now china , which has voiced support for the opposition crackdown , saying it supports government efforts to ensure stability and economic development .