monrovia ( reuters ) - liberian president ellen johnson sirleaf s spokesman on monday denied allegations from her own party that she meddled in this month s presidential election .
the dispute has cemented a falling out between johnson sirleaf , a nobel peace prize laureate , and her party s leadership after 12 years in power that saw the country consolidate a post-war peace but draw sharp criticism over alleged corruption and underdevelopment .
at a news conference on sunday , leaders from johnson sirleaf s unity party accused the president of holding inappropriate private meetings with election magistrates before the oct. 10 vote .
they accused her of showing greed in its most callous form with the intent of disrupting the fragile peace of liberia , and backed a challenge to the first round results brought by other parties before the country s election commission .
unity party s candidate , vice president joseph boakai , placed runner-up in the first-round with 28.8 percent of the vote to front-runner george weah s 38.4 percent , setting up a second round run-off scheduled for nov. 7 .
the office of the president wishes to state unequivocally that these allegations are completely baseless and an unfortunate attempts by agents provocateurs to undermine liberia s democratic process , johnson sirleaf s spokesman , jerolinmek piah , told reporters .
he said that all of the president s meetings with election officials were consistent with her constitutional role to ensure that the process was supported .
these allegations fall in the category of hate speech and inciting language which should be condemned by all peace loving liberians , piah added .
liberia s economy has quadrupled under sirleaf s watch , but the forested country remains impoverished and many have no access to reliable drinking water and electricity .
tired of the monied elite that they say johnson sirleaf represents , many voters see weah as the candidate for change .
boakai has served as johnson sirleaf s vice president since her inauguration in 2006 but johnson sirleaf declined to endorse him and he distanced himself from the last administration .
the election commission was expected on monday to hear the challenge to the first round results brought by the liberty party of third-place candidate charles brumskine with the backing of unity party and the all liberian party of businessman benoni urey .