vienna ( reuters ) - austria s anti-immigration freedom party ( fpo ) , seeking to soften its image before austrians go to the polls next month , offered only lukewarm praise on monday for a record election showing by its sister party in neighboring germany .
the alternative for germany ( afd ) , which says immigration threatens german culture , shocked the establishment by winning 12.6 percent in sunday s national ballot , becoming the first far-right party to enter parliament in more than half a century .
its close austrian equivalent , the fpo , has lost its lead in opinion polls to the conservative people s party , led by 31-year-old foreign minister sebastian kurz , who has made a hard line on immigration one of his hallmarks .
but tensions between the conservatives and their coalition partners , the social democrats , before austria s oct. 15 parliamentary election mean the fpo has arguably its best chance of entering national government since its leader heinz-christian strache took over the reins 12 years ago .
strache said on monday the afd s showing was a huge success , but added a note of caution .
we agree ( with the afd ) when it comes to analyzing the problems but not necessarily regarding the solutions .
there are differences indeed , strache told broadcaster orf , without elaborating .
the afd is a very young party which is , if you like , still in its infancy .
the freedom party was founded in the 1950s by former nazis , an aspect of its history the party argues is no longer relevant to its policies .
it has positioned itself as staunchly anti-islam but now courts jewish voters , with apparently limited success .
strache has called anti-semitism a crime against humanity , but austria s main jewish group says the fpo is xenophobic and divisive .
while the afd also denies being a nazi party , one of its leading candidates , alexander gauland , said this month that germans should take pride in what their soldiers achieved during world wars one and two .
they ( the fpo ) are clearly setting themselves apart from gauland s rhetoric , political analyst peter hajek said of strache s remarks .
the afd leadership cracked within hours of its electoral success on monday when frauke petry , the highest-profile figure in its more moderate wing , stormed out of its victory news conference and abandoned its parliamentary group .