johannesburg ( reuters ) - south africa and morocco will resume diplomatic ties more than a decade after morocco withdrew its ambassador from pretoria , south african president jacob zuma said in a newspaper interview published on sunday .
morocco recalled its ambassador from south africa in 2004 after former south african president thabo mbeki recognized a breakaway region in the western sahara which morocco claims as part of its territory .
morocco is an african nation and we need to have relations with them , zuma told city press in the interview .
we never had problems with them anyway ; they were the first to withdraw diplomatic relations .
zuma met morocco s king mohammed last week on the sidelines of an african union-european union summit .
they felt that even if we differ on the western sahara issues , the two countries should have a relationship , zuma said about moroccan officials position at the meeting .
south africa s official government position - as re-affirmed by zuma in one of his state of the nation addresses - is to support self determination and decolonization for the western sahara .
the decision to re-establish ties with morocco is likely to go down badly with some members of south africa s ruling african national congress ( anc ) , of which zuma is leader .
the anc - as one of africa s oldest liberation movements - has long backed those seeking independence in the western sahara and has accused morocco of occupying the region .
the ruling party said in a statement it had unequivocal support for western sahara but that this did not mean it harbored enmity toward morocco .
there is also no anc policy that says south africa should isolate morocco , the statement said .
a spokesman for south africa s foreign ministry could not be reached for comment on sunday .
morocco has controlled most of the western sahara , which is rich in phosphates and has seen some initial oil exploration efforts , since 1975 .
a ceasefire in 1991 called for a referendum on self-determination for western sahara , but the vote has never taken place .