who knew ?
tiffany & co. just decided to show its hand when it comes to politics .
we re not happy to tell you that the luxury retail jeweler just bought into the global warming scam hook , line and sinker the american jeweler is asking the president to keep the u.s. in the paris climate agreement.the american jeweler took to social media to send a message to president donald trump .
dear president trump , read the instagram and twitter posts .
we re still in for bold climate action .
please keep the u.s. in the paris climate agreement .
the disaster of climate change is too real , and the threat to our planet and to our children is too great .
the move comes on the same day that the president postponed his decision on whether or not to withdraw the u.s. from the paris climate agreement , reports cnn .
the goal of the agreement is to create a global action plan to put the world on track to avoid dangerous climate change by limiting global warming to well below 2 c , according to european commission s website.trump intended on making an announcement before attending the group of seven nations summit in sicily , italy , on may 26-27 , but now , he s going to make a decision after the g7 , explained white house press secretary sean spicer.trump has a long history with tiffany & co ; he named his youngest daughter after the iconic jeweler and the brand s flagship store is connected to trump tower in new york .
following the election , sales at the flagship store tumbled 14 percent in november and december , compared with the same period last year .
tiffany & co. even canceled its holiday window unveiling event due to post-election protests around the area.read more : hollywood reporterwhat they re not telling you is this agreement is a huge redistribution of american tax dollars to other countries !
so if we are to address the climate crisis we need to challenge the structural causes of the crisis which lies on unequal distribution of wealth , of carbon , and of power .
whether it s political power , economic power , or even military power .
-camille risler for many years the public at large has been spoonfed the idea that global warming climate change , is caused by man s excessive release of carbon into the atmosphere .
and that the solution to the climate crisis was to decrease the production of said gas.over the past several years the global warming fanatics have changed their tune .
many of us in the new media have been warning about their true motives for year.now , instead of the climate crisis being caused by carbon emissions , it is being caused by inequality.on monday , during a press conference at the united nations conference on climate change in paris , ms. camille risler , a representative of the asia pacific forum on women , law and development ( apwld ) which is an organization listed as an official consultant to the united nations economic and social council , stated that the cause of climate change is the unequal distribution of wealth , carbon , and power : this is the press conference of the women and constituency .
it is one of the nine official constituencies of the unfccc , and we are composed of 15 women s rights and feminist organizations from all around the world .
so i m going to begin with kind of an overview of our positions and then i will give the floor over to my colleagues that will go more into details of each section of negotiations.i m camille risler .
i m from france but i m living in thailand .
i m working for a feminist network that is called asia pacific forum on women , law and development and i m working for the climate justice program.so what we want to highlight here is that climate change is a clear symptom of an unequal and unjust world .
via : gp