raqqa , syria ( reuters ) - the battle to oust islamic state from its stronghold in the syrian city of raqqa should end within two months , a top-ranking kurdish commander told reuters , but said she expects the fighting to intensify .
nowruz ahmed sits on the military council of the u.s.-backed syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) and as one of a small number of members of its raqqa general command is one of the most senior commanders in the offensive .
islamic state has lost swathes of territory since 2015 in both syria and iraq , including the iraqi city of mosul .
in syria , under separate attacks from a u.s.-led coalition and from the russian-backed syrian army , it is falling back on its strongholds along the euphrates valley east of raqqa , the de facto capital of the caliphate it declared in 2014 .
we can not determine the time period in which the battle of raqqa will end precisely because war has its conditions .
but we do not expect it to last long , and according to our plans the battle will not take longer than two months from now , ahmed said .
the sdf alliance of kurdish and arab militias is fighting inside raqqa s city center , with the help of air strikes and special forces from the u.s.-led coalition .
they pushed into the city in june after battling for months to encircle it .
ahmed said the sdf was focused on the raqqa battle for now and had not yet set plans to launch an assault in deir al-zor province , which is further down the euphrates towards the iraqi frontier and remains almost entirely under is control .
ahmed , a women s rights activist before syria s civil war began in 2011 , heads the all female counterpart to the kurdish ypg militia .
the ypg is the most powerful component of the sdf , and the female unit has played a leading frontline role on the battlefield during the raqqa campaign .
she spoke to reuters in raqqa in what she said was her first interview with the media .
she estimated islamic state had between 700 and 1,000 fighters left in raqqa , mainly at the center of the city .
the sdf has encircled the militants and captured around 60 percent of the city .
the sdf had a solid core of about 15,000 fighters in the raqqa offensive , ahmed said .
before the fighting began late last year , it had over 50,000 forces and has continuously enrolled new ones , she added .
the presence of an estimated 5,000 to 10,000 civilians besieged in raqqa , including families of is fighters from outside the city , has hampered the advance , said ahmed .
during our incursions , we try to open safe passages for them so they would not be a target of our attacks , but there are also many mines that led to the deaths of civilians , she said .
islamic state will fight until the end , and many of its remaining militants in raqqa are foreign fighters who will carry out suicide attacks , ahmed said .
the sdf and its allies have set up a civilian council to run raqqa after islamic state is defeated in the city .
ahmed said the sdf has no plans to stay inside raqqa after it is freed unless we are asked .
the major role of the kurdish ypg in the battle for raqqa , a mostly arab city , is a point of sensitivity for many of the city s former residents , according to activists from raqqa .
it is also sensitive for turkey , a u.s. ally which fears expanded kurdish influence along its border with syria .
ahmed said 60 percent of the sdf s 50,000 fighters were arab , 30 percent kurdish , and 10 percent from other ethnic groups .
the spokesman for the u.s.-led coalition backing the sdf said earlier this month that there are 24,000 arabs and 31,000 kurds in the alliance .
last week , the head of the deir al-zor military council , a part of the sdf , said an offensive to capture the eastern province of deir al-zor from islamic state would start soon .
however , ahmed said the sdf has no plans now to advance into the province because of the focus on raqqa , and that a deir al-zor campaign had not been discussed with the u.s.-led coalition .
there are demands for us to free deir al-zor and we are currently studying this , she said , adding that the sdf had enough forces to capture the province .
the syrian army and its allies are advancing eastwards through central syria along several fronts in their own offensive towards deir al-zor , where a government enclave has been besieged by islamic state for years .
if the regime doesn t attack us and make a target of us , we will not attack it , ahmed said .