berlin ( reuters ) - the leading candidates of germany s smaller parties locked horns over migration , security and foreign policy in a television debate on monday .
it came less than three weeks before the federal election in which the third-placed party could turn out to be the kingmaker .
the clash followed a debate between centre-right chancellor angela merkel and her social democrat ( spd ) challenger martin schulz on sunday in which hardly any differences emerged .
this stirred speculation that a re-run of the current grand coalition between the conservative cdu/csu bloc and the spd is the most likely outcome of the sept. 24 vote .
merkel and schulz both have stressed they want to avoid such a scenario .
but polls suggest that the next government would have a stable majority only with another grand coalition or with a tricky three-way coalition between the conservatives , the greens and the business-friendly free democrats ( fdp ) .
in the debate of the smaller parties , cem ozdemir from the greens attacked die linke ( left ) candidate sahra wagenknecht and afd politician alice weidel for their euroceptic rhetoric .
this anti-european populism is simply wrong no matter if it comes from far-left or far-right , ozdemir said , adding that germany was benefiting immensely from the european union and that it was easy to always blame brussels for national problems in member states .
weidel from the rightist anti-immigrant afd blamed the european central bank s ultra-loose monetary policy for soaring rents and property prices in german cities and accused the ecb of violating european treaties with its bond-buying program .
fdp candidate christian lindner tried to corner ozdemir by accusing him of applying double standards in foreign policy and having an inconsistent approach toward russia .
lindner raised eyebrows last month when he suggested that germany might have to accept russia s 2014 annexation of the crimea region of ukraine as a permanent provisional arrangement .
merkel has condemned russia s annexation of crimea and its support for anti-government separatists in eastern ukraine , leading europe in maintaining economic sanctions against moscow .
linder himself said germany should not mix refugee and asylum policies with the need for a modern and well-directed immigration law to attract more highly educated workers from abroad to avert a shortage of skilled labor in germany .
turning to the threat of islamist attacks , lindner said there was no need for tougher security laws , adding that last year s christmas market attack in berlin by a failed asylum seeker could probably have been averted if authorities had only implemented existing laws more strictly .
afd s weidel called for tougher border controls to improve security and suggested there should be an upper limit of 10,000 refugees per year .
the bavarian csu conservatives want an official cap of 200,000 refugees per year a proposal opposed by merkel and the co-governing social democrats .
the spd is trailing merkel s conservative cdu/csu bloc by double digits in polls .
the latest survey by emnid showed on sunday that the spd gained one percentage point to 24 percent and merkel s conservatives remained unchanged at 38 percent .
the leftist die linke came in at 9 percent , making it the third-strongest political force .
the greens , fdp and afd stood at 8 percent each .
this means that six parties are expected to enter the bundestag lower house of parliament , up from the current four .
the fractured political landscape could make it hard to form another viable alliance than the current grand coalition .