nbc reports : the fbi is reviewing a new batch of hillary clinton emails , bureau director james comey said in a letter to the senate judiciary committee on friday : in connection with an unrelated case , the fbi has learned of the existence of emails that appear to be pertinent to the investigation i agreed that the fbi should take appropriate investigative steps designed to allow investigators to review these emails to determine whether they contain classified information , as well as to assess their importance to our investigation , he wrote.the very first thing to note is that comey made no mention of a grand jury .
the emails whose existence he learned of may have been the result of a subpoena in another investigation ( anthony weiner ) .
it was announced ten days ago that grand jury would be convened to investigate weiner s sexting by the end of the month .
the timing of comey s letter strongly suggests that the devices containing new emails were obtained through a grand jury subpoena , with no immunity deals or evidence destruction needed .
if that is the case , further subpoenas are quite possible , a tool that was left unused in the investigation to date.there are 3 competing theories as to why he might be doing this now that come to mind .
he might be seeking to restore his badly damaged reputation , recognizing that the damage he has inflicted on the fbi is substantial .
three days ago , american thinker published an open letter from a retired fbi agent , hugh galyean , that laid out some of the damage comey has inflicted on the institution he leads .
there is little doubt that this reached many in the fbi family , putting in print what people have only whispered about .
if those silenced voices start speaking out , comey could face a serious loss of face .
in this scenario , he is heading off a staff rebellion , possibly including mass resignations .
rush limbaugh today discussed an alternative theory , that by announcing an fbi investigation resuming , comey is putting a lid on further attention to wikileaks .
i guess this means that clinton forces will argue we must wait for the investigation to be complete ( after the election ) before speaking about what the evil russians are planting into our politics .
it is possible that something so dramatic came up in the pertinent emails that postponing a public reaction by not announcing the reopening of the investigation would , be regarded as political interference by covering up a smoking gun until after the election .
in this scenario , comey is assuming the evidence can not be suppressed , and that he would be held accountable after it comes out.this scenario also indicates that we could be headed for a constitutional crisis , involving the possible indictment of a president-elect before an election .
or the evidence being turned over to the house of representatives for impeachment hearings .
read more : american thinker