moscow ( reuters ) - president vladimir putin inaugurated a monument to the victims of stalinist purges on monday , but soviet-era dissidents accused him of cynicism at a time when they say authorities are riding roughshod over civil freedoms .
the wall of grief occupies a space on the edge of moscow s busy 10-lane ring road and depicts a mass of faceless victims , many of whom were sent to prison camps or executed on josef stalin s watch after falsely being accused of being enemies of the people .
nearly 700,000 people were executed during the great terror of 1937-38 , according to conservative official estimates .
an unequivocal and clear assessment of the repression will help to prevent it being repeated , putin said at the opening ceremony .
this terrible past must not be erased from our national memory and can not be justified by anything .
his words and the ceremony amounted to one of his strongest condemnations of the soviet union s dark side in the 18 years he has dominated russia s political landscape .
putin has in the past called stalin a complex figure and said attempts to demonise him were a ploy to attack russia .
but at monday s ceremony , he said there were lessons for russia .
it doesn t mean demanding accounts be settled , said putin , who stressed a need for stability .
we must never again push society to the dangerous precipice of division .
putin s carefully balanced words reflect kremlin unease over this year s centenary of the 1917 bolshevik revolution , which paved the way for stalin s rise .
uncomfortable about promoting discussion of the idea of governments being overthrown by force , the kremlin is not organizing any commemorative events .
putin , who is expected to run for and win the presidency again in march , told human rights activists earlier on monday that he hoped the centenary would allow society to draw a line under the tumultuous events of 1917 and to accept russia s history - with great victories and tragic pages .
yet some historians fret that what they say is putin s ambiguity about stalin along with russia s 2014 annexation of ukraine s crimea have emboldened stalin s admirers .
monuments and memorial plaques honoring stalin have sprung up in different russian regions .
state-approved textbooks have softened his image , and an opinion poll in june crowned him the country s most outstanding historical figure .
by contrast , those who have helped document stalin s crimes , from the memorial human rights group to individual historians and journalists , have sometimes felt themselves under pressure from the authorities .
a group of soviet-era dissidents published a letter on monday , accusing putin of cynicism .
we ... consider the opening in moscow of a monument to victims of political repression untimely and cynical , they said in the letter , published on the kasparov.ru news portal .
it s impossible to take part in memorial events organized by the authorities who say they are sorry about victims of the soviet regime , but in practice continue political repression and crush civil freedoms .