no evidence no worries obama s got this one .
meanwhile , the democrat party s presidential nominee would already be in jail if king obama wasn t stalling the investigation in case you needed more evidence that obama s justice department is more interested in proving white people are racists than actually fighting crime , here it is : the fbi is offering a huge reward for anyone that can help them frame a white police officer who killed an armed black criminal in a completely justified shooting.last week , a white mobile , al police officer shot and killed michael moore during a traffic stop .
i know what you are thinking , no , not fat white liberal gasbag michael moore , this was black criminal michael moore.on june 13th , officer harold hurst with the mobile pd was on his way to work when he observed a white lexus make a dangerous left turn into traffic , almost causing an accident .
the officer pulled the vehicle over that was being driven by michael moore , with two additional passengers .
the id moore gave was fake and the car was stolen.officer hurst called for back up and asked moore to step out of the car .
the officer observed a .40 caliber handgun in moore s waistband and ordered him to put his hands up .
instead , moore reached for the gun so hurst had no choice but to shoot .
on the ground , moore was still trying to get to the gun in his pants and the officer fired another round .
moore was taken to the hospital where he died.police recovered a gun from moore s body and one of the passengers in the car confirmed that he had a gun on him at the time of the shooting .
this is as cut-and-dry of a justifiable police shooting as you will ever find , but not everyone sees it that way .
moore s family and local black activists insist this was a murder and accuse the police of a cover up.because any time black people complain about something , no matter how little evidence there is to support their claims , the feds come running .
the fbi and the us attorney s office have launched an investigation based on one little weird thing.officer hurst was on his way to work and had yet to report for duty .
as such , he didn t have his body cam on and didn t capture the deadly confrontation .
the feds figure this must be evidence that the officer is lying , even though all evidence points to the events unfolding the way hurst said they did.with no actual evidence , the fbi is offering a $ 10,000 reward to anyone who may have recorded the shooting on a cell phone according to al.com .
seriously ?
there isn t any real crime going on so the feds want to spend a big wad of cash to help them build a case against a police officer who was just doing his duty ?
this is pathetic.obama s justice department has wasted millions upon millions of dollars trying to prove how racist america is and come up with nothing .
with expensive investigations into the trayvon martin , michael brown , eric , garner , tamir rice , and dozens of other black deaths yielding no fruit , the administration seems hell bent on spending as much money as possible to prove al sharpton is right about something.michael moore was driving a stolen car filled with stolen goods .
he had a fake id and a handgun , which was also stolen .
a passenger in his car said moore had the gun and made a move for it before being shot .
why are the feds even looking at this case ? and let s keep in mind that this is the same fbi that didn t see a problem with omar mateen , the radical islamic terrorist who killed 49 people in orlando .
via : downtrend