london ( reuters ) - outside london s piccadilly theater where tickets cost up to 110 pounds and a banner advertising the musical annie reads it s a hard knock life , bryan and kevin sleep in small tents on the street .
they are among almost 1,000 people who sleep rough in the british capital , according to official figures , while more than 4,000 are on the streets across the country every night .
bryan , 51 , who last year nearly died from pneumonia , became homeless after personal problems led him to drink and drugs .
it s worse than it used to be right now , but i think it s down to a lot of things , he says .
the way people are now - everything is going up and costing more and then the other stuff , services and care , humanity , it s going down .
there is wide agreement that the problem has become worse in the last seven years , leading to criticism of the conservative government s approach and accusations that its austerity policies , including changes to welfare payments for housing , are partly to blame .
in a report this week , parliament s public accounts committee ( pac ) called the extent of homelessness across england a national crisis .
the latest official figures hammer home the shameful state of homelessness in england and the abject failure of the government s approach to addressing the misery suffered by many thousands of families and individuals , pac chairman meg hillier said .
the charity shelter estimates more than 300,000 people in britain are homeless , a figure which has risen by 13,000 in a year .
it says one in every 200 people in england are homeless and 128,000 children will be without a home this christmas .
official figures show that there were 4,134 rough sleepers counted on a single night in autumn 2016 , an increase of 134 percent since 2010 when there were fewer than 1,800 .
all you really want is a gaff ( place ) of your own , says jimmy , who beds down in a subway near waterloo station .
people come from out of town into the city at christmas - you make more money - so it s harder for us who are here all the time , said jimmy , 51 , who originally hails from glasgow in scotland .
there is both a human and financial cost to the problem .
the average age of death of someone who is rough-sleeping is 47 and people living on the street are 17 times more likely to be the victims of violence than those in settled accommodation .
i m getting to a point where i can t do it anymore , i m trying to save my money but it s hard , said john , 19 , one of a small group of men living under waterloo bridge .
andrew , who now has a place to live but returns to hang out with his homeless friends under the bridge , recalls how he was offered drugs on his first night on the streets : i said no mate , i m not into that and he said it s a free trial , no strings .
while he has escaped the streets , andrew is pessimistic about john s future .
he won t get himself off the streets , it s almost impossible without help , he said .
as to the financial impact , the national audit office , parliament s spending watchdog , said local authorities had spent 1.15 billion pounds ( $ 1.54 billion ) on homelessness services in 2015-16 .
nao head amyas morse said in september the government s recent performance in reducing homelessness therefore can not be considered value for money .
the government has set a target of halving rough sleeping by 2022 and abolishing it by 2027 .
last week , prime minister theresa may told lawmakers the government would spend 500 million pounds on tackling homelessness and was putting in projects to tackle rough sleeping .
we do not want to see anybody who is homeless or anybody who is sleeping rough on our streets , may said .
but critics say the conservatives , who have been in power since 2010 , have done little to find solutions and warn that the problem could get even worse .
we heard that over the next 10 years , if the current trajectory stays as it is , the 160,000 people who are homeless in a year could increase by 25 percent and the 9,100 people sleeping rough could rise by 76 percent , the pac report said .
meanwhile for some of those who have been homeless for a number of years , getting off the streets can be difficult , especially for those battling drug additions .
one of those is bryan outside the piccadilly theatre .
despite his problems , he says he refuses to take any money from children , recalling how one girl recently tried to give him her pocket money .
afterwards i sat and i cried , he said .