james pearce , an anti-gun adjunct professor at southern state community college in ohio , made an outrageous , threatening facebook post on june 13 , 2016 , that is reportedly under investigation by the proper authorities .
by the way , the post still remains on his facebook page .
apparently , making a threat about shooting people up on facebook is not offensive to the paid censors as long as it s directed at the pro-gun crowd .
a look at his facebook page will prove that he is unapologetic after making the disgusting remarks and in fact , is calling it a joke .
funny we re not seeing the humor in these sick remarks : a bunch of us anti-gun types are going to have to arm ourselves , storm the nra headquarters in fairfax , va , and make sure there are no survivors .
here is the actual post : the highland county press reported that pearce s comments were sent to authorities and sscc on june 15.kris cross , director of public relations for sscc , told campus reform that it is the college s policy not to comment on individual personnel matters , but did offer some general observations of potential relevance to the case .
in general , the college would alert local authorities about any threats that were made known to the college , especially any threats made to students , faculty or staff , she explained .
we have a good working relationship with the police jurisdictions covering each of our four campuses , and trust they would follow their protocols for reporting to other agencies .
as i understand it , a report does not necessarily mean an investigation .
campus reformpearce s facebook post from yesterday leads us to believe no action has yet been taken by the community college : when asked if pearce would continue to teach during the investigation , cross stated , certainly any criminal prosecution and findings could be a consideration for employment decisions in any matter of criminal conduct .
on june 17 , sscc security and emergency response coordinator gary heaton noted that the information had been reported to the fbi and the department of homeland security .
the attorney general advised [ sscc vice president ] dr. roades to take no action until the feds had completed an investigation , heaton told the highland county press .