soros is a hungarian immigrant who s doing his best to turn america into a weak third world failed country .
he s behind obama and behind so many of the bad things that have happened to america in the past 7 years .
he s as dirty as it gets so it s no surprise that he s behind the effort to bring down donald trump .
if you live in ohio , please make an effort to not vote for kasich tomorrow because it s a vote for far left open border policies .
as new reports break that a george soros-linked group is taking credit for efforts to violently disrupt gop frontrunner donald trump s campaign rallies , the center for responsive politics reveals that another george soros-linked group is coordinating another furtive operation to stop trump by financing the campaign of john kasich.according to the center for responsive politics , soros fund management is one of john kasich s top financial contributors.george soros a liberal progressive donor has been a top funder of the push to open america s borders .
according to a 2013 cns news report , soros s open society foundation proudly claimed to have given $ 100 million dollars to immigrant rights projects in the united states .
according to the report , those that have been the beneficiaries of that $ 100 million include la raza ( soros funding $ 2.4 million ) , the immigrant legal resource center ( soros funding $ 1.6 million ) , as well as amnesty international ( soros funding $ 844,088 ) and immigration equality ( soros funding : $ 301,667 ) .in addition , soros has been financially linked to the national immigration forum the group behind the evangelical immigration table ( eit ) .
as breitbart reported in 2013 , the evangelical immigration table is actually a front group for players on the institutional left including billionaire george soros eit is running a $ 250,000 advertising campaign in favor of the senate s gang of eight immigration bill .
soros money is frequently tied to groups with innocuous sounding names that promote radical agendas such as the evangelical immigration table.interestingly , as breitbart news has previously reported , john kasich has made a series of extreme statements on immigration that place him to the furthest leftward reaches of not just the gop presidential field , but the democratic presidential field as well .
for instance , kasich has said that enforcing our immigration laws and deporting the illegal immigrants is not humane .
kasich likened deportations to the japanese internment camps of world war ii .
kasich has also pledged that he will enact amnesty within the first 100 days of his hoped-for presidency in effect , meaning that those who support john kasich s presidential campaign are voting to enact the largest amnesty in u.s. history by april 30 , 2017.the washington times reported in january of 2015 , george soros was also behind the funding of the ferguson protests , mr. soros gave at least $ 33 million in one year to support already-established groups that emboldened the grass-roots , on-the-ground activists in ferguson , according to the most recent tax filings of his nonprofit open society foundations .
as the 2013 cns report documents , soros has aided hundreds of left-wing groups in america since 2000 under the auspices of his open society foundations .
in just 10 years , he gave more than $ 550 million to liberal organizations in the united states.read more : breitbart