aboard uss ronald reagan , sea of japan ( reuters ) - the uss ronald reagan , a 100,000-ton nuclear powered aircraft carrier , patrolled in waters east of the korean peninsula on thursday , in a show of sea and air power designed to warn off north korea from any military action .
the u.s. navy s biggest warship in asia , with a crew of 5,000 sailors , sailed around 100 miles ( 160.93 km ) , launching almost 90 f-18 super hornet sorties from its deck , in sight of south korean islands .
it is conducting drills with the south korean navy involving 40 warships deployed in a line stretching from the yellow sea west of the peninsula into the sea of japan .
the dangerous and aggressive behavior by north korea concerns everybody in the world , rear admiral marc dalton , commander of the reagan s strike group , said in the carrier s hangar as war planes taxied on the flight deck above .
we have made it clear with this exercise , and many others , that we are ready to defend the republic of korea .
the reagan s presence in the region , coupled with recent military pressure by washington on pyongyang , including b1-b strategic bomber flights over the korean peninsula , comes ahead of president donald trump s first official visit to asia , set to start in japan on nov. 5 , with south korea to follow .
north korea has slammed the warship gathering as a rehearsal for war .
it comes as senior japanese , south korean and u.s. diplomats meet in seoul to discuss a diplomatic way forward backed up by u.n. sanctions .
the u.n. security council has unanimously ratcheted up sanctions on north korea over its nuclear and ballistic missile programmes since 2006 .
the most stringent include a ban on coal , iron ore and seafood exports that aim at halting a third of north korea s $ 3 billion of annual exports .
on monday , kim in ryong , north korea s deputy u.n. envoy , told a u.n. general assembly committee the korean peninsula situation had reached a touch-and-go point and a nuclear war could break out at any moment .
a series of weapons tests by pyongyang , including its sixth and most powerful nuclear test on sept. 3 and two missile launches over japan , has stoked tension in east asia .
a russian who returned from a visit to pyongyang has said the regime is preparing to test a missile it believes can reach the u.s. west coast .
on sunday , secretary of state rex tillerson said president donald trump had instructed him to continue diplomatic efforts to defuse tension with north korea .
washington has not ruled out the eventual possibility of direct talks with the north to resolve the stand-off , u.s. deputy secretary of state john j. sullivan said on tuesday .