berlin ( reuters ) - germany s angela merkel began the tough task of trying to build a coalition government on monday after securing a fourth term as chancellor in an election which saw her support slide and the far right making significant gains .
with the social democrats insisting they will go into opposition and all parties shunning the anti-immigrant alternative for germany ( afd ) , parliamentary arithmetic favors a jamaica coalition of her conservatives ( black ) , the pro-business free democrats ( yellow ) , and the greens - so named because their party colors reflect the jamaican flag .
merkel s party remains the biggest parliamentary bloc and she has said she is sure a coalition can be agreed by christmas .
but patching together a coalition deal with three wildly differing parties of the right , left and center , will be no easy task , and some investors are unsettled by the prospect of a weaker merkel at the head of a potentially unstable coalition .
the following is a list of areas in which the three parties are at odds with each other .
merkel s conservatives ( cdu/csu ) and the liberal free democrats ( fdp ) agree on the primacy of fiscal discipline , but may diverge on the details .
the fdp s ambition for a working middle class tax cut of 30 billion euros may clash with the cdu s pledge to prioritize investment , though investment in higher education is a shared priority .
the conservatives and fdu may accept the greens ambition to shutter polluting coal-fired plants and promote green energy , but at a slower pace .
however , the greens hostility to the terms of major trade deals will be a much more serious sticking point .
the fdp s tougher line on immigration is likely to be more of a sticking point for the greens than for the cdu .
the pro-business fdp wants immigration to serve the needs of the economy but , like the other two parties , is committed to the right to asylum for war refugees .
the fdp will likely be able to sign up to the cdu s plan to remove the right to remain from those who fail to integrate or break the law .
both parties , traditionally stricter on citizenship policy , are likely to resist the greens wish to let anyone born in germany become a citizen .
however , the liberals and the greens may be able to make common cause on civil liberties : the fdp opposes widespread data retention for security agencies , while the greens want a security policy that is more responsive to civil rights concerns and opposes mass surveillance .
the fdp will be resistant to cdu plans to deepen the euro zone .
a coalition incorporating the fdp would also ramp up the pressure on merkel to agree to a suspension of turkey s eu accession talks , a key policy demand of the liberals that merkel has always resisted .
the greens , who traditionally enjoy strong support from germans of turkish ethnic background but are sharply critical of the government of president tayyip erdogan , are likely to side with merkel in her attempts to avoid a serious rupture with turkey .
the greens share the cdu s belief in deepening the eu , but also favor the kind of intra-eu transfers of funds and financial solidarity that raise hackles in the fiscally conservative cdu and fdp .
the greens favor maintaining a tough line against russia over its annexation of crimea and its support for separatists in the donbass region of eastern ukraine .
fdp officials have expressed divergent views on the issue , but several key members of the party distanced themselves from a call by fdp leader christian lindner to set aside the issue of crimea .
there are fissures within the conservative bloc on the issue , with bavaria s csu - sister party of merkel s cdu - more concerned about maintaining economic ties with russia and probably more open to some easing of sanctions .
ultimately much will depend on whether the foreign ministry post goes to the fdp or the greens .
regardless of how a coalition is formed , the german government has a longstanding interest in implementing the minsk ceasefire accord and is looking carefully at a proposal by russian president vladimir putin to put u.n. peacekeepers into ukraine , a stance facing opposition from the united states and kiev .
the greens oppose large increases in military spending , but may find a compromise that allows small increases paired with increases in development spending .
merkel has said she intends to fulfill a promise to increase military spending to 2 percent of gdp from around 1.2 percent now , in line with a pledge to nato , but experts and government insiders say germany will come nowhere near the 2 percent mark over the next four years , so the new coalition government could defer conflicts about the issue .
the cdu and the greens share a belief in investing in housing : the cdu wants financial aid to boost home ownership , while the greens want to build a million new affordable homes .
but the fdp , one of whose slogans is people can do great things if you let them , is generally opposed to state intervention in the free market .
that view could also be a stumbling block when it comes to the cdu s plan to help germany s automotive sector shift toward electric cars and to support other strategic sectors such as microelectronics .
the fdp may also resist the greens goal of introducing quotas for woman managers at senior levels in the private sector .
the greens and the fdp are both strong supporters of education reform and investment in digital technologies , such as by building fiber optic networks .