pocheon , south korea ( reuters ) - the screech of incoming fire followed by an explosion resounds across forested hillsides near the border between north and south korea .
battalion commander rob kimmel of the u.s. 2nd armored brigade combat team , scanned the village at the base of a mountain for the tell-tale smoke .
that s enemy fire trying to attack r.o.k .
forces located there , says kimmel - referring to south korea by its official name , the republic of korea .
this is a drill .
it is just one of several that major world powers are engaged in on , over and near the korean peninsula , amid heightened tension in the wake of north korea s increasingly frequent missile tests and its sixth nuclear test this month .
the u.s. soldiers are conducting a joint exercise with their south korean allies , and the mission for the day is to recapture a village in enemy hands .
there is an occasional crack of gunfire from soldiers in combat gear , hiding in the buildings , and prowling round corners of the village , which has been specially created for military training .
about 700 troops are engaged in the four-day drill , called warrior strike 8 , near the demilitarized zone ( dmz ) - the world s most heavily defended frontier .
south korea and the united states are technically still at war with north korea after the 1950-53 korean conflict ended with a truce , not a peace treaty .
such drills are held regularly , but the military has invited media to observe one for the first time in two years , said kim hyon-sok , public affairs specialist of the u.s. 2nd infantry division .
the u.s. military has described the exercises as training for readiness to fight tonight against north korea if needed .
based in fort hood , texas , kimmel s team is on a nine-month deployment in south korea .
we are continuing to train for situations that may arise , said kimmel .
it s a big milestone type of exercise ... we ll do two to three of these while we re here .
north korea has repeatedly demanded that the united states and south korea call off joint exercises , which pyongyang view as provocative .
a day earlier , u.s. and south korean warplanes ran bombing drills over the peninsula .
at the same , china s official xinhua news agency reported that china and russia began naval drills off the russian far eastern port of vladivostok , not far from the russia-north korea border .
the xinhua report did not link the exercises to the ongoing tensions over north korea , which are expected to dominate the united nations general assembly in new york later on tuesday .
china and russia have repeatedly called for a peaceful solution and talks to resolve a brewing crisis over north korea .
asked whether the drill near the border would make the north korean side fearful of the allies military capabilities , kimmel replied : i m not sure , but i would hope they are .