beirut/jerusalem ( reuters ) - israel attacked a military site in syria s hama province early on thursday , the syrian army said , and a war monitoring group said the target could be linked to chemical weapons production .
the air strike killed two soldiers and caused damage near the town of masyaf , an army statement said .
it warned of the dangerous repercussions of this aggressive action to the security and stability of the region .
the syrian observatory for human rights , which monitors the war , said the attack was on a facility of the scientific studies and research centre , an agency which the united states describes as syria s chemical weapons manufacturer .
it came the morning after u.n. investigators said the syrian government was responsible for a sarin poison gas attack in april .
syria s government denies using chemical arms .
in 2013 it promised to surrender its chemical weapons , which it says it has done .
the observatory said strikes also hit a military camp next to the center that was used to store ground-to-ground rockets and where personnel of iran and its ally , the lebanese hezbollah group , had been seen more than once .
an israeli army spokeswoman declined to discuss reports of a strike in syria .
syria s foreign ministry has sent letters to the u.n. security council protesting against israel s aggression and saying anyone who attacked syrian military sites was supporting terrorism , syrian state tv reported .
in an interview in israel s haaretz daily last month on his retirement , former israeli air force chief amir eshel said israel had hit arms convoys of the syrian military and its hezbollah allies nearly 100 times in the past five years .
israel sees red lines in the shipment to hezbollah of anti-aircraft missiles , precision ground-to-ground missiles and chemical weapons .
the reported attack took place on the 10th anniversary of israel s destruction of a nuclear reactor in syria .
prime minister benjamin netanyahu is due to address the u.n. general assembly on sept. 19 , and is widely expected to voice israel s concern over what it sees as attempts by iran to broaden its military foothold in syria and threats posed by hezbollah israeli officials have said that russia , another ally of syrian president bashar al-assad , and israel maintain regular contacts to coordinate military action in syria .
some israeli commentators saw the latest strike - a departure from the previous pattern of attacks on weapons convoys - as a show of israeli dissatisfaction with the united states and russia .
last month , netanyahu met russian president vladimir putin , but came away without any public statement from moscow that it would curb iranian influence .
hezbollah and israel fought a brief war in 2006 in which more than 1,300 people died .
both have suggested that any new conflict between them could be on a larger scale than that one .
hezbollah has been one of syrian president bashar al-assad s most important allies in the war and last month its leader sayyed hassan nasrallah said he had recently traveled to damascus to meet the syrian president .
israel is conducting military exercises in the north of the country near the border with lebanon .
yaakov amidror , a retired israeli general and former national security adviser , told reporters he assumed thursday s strike was linked to nasrallah s visit to damascus .
weapons systems have been transferred from this organization ( the scientific studies and research centre ) into the hands of hezbollah during the years , he said .
in may , an official in the military alliance backing assad said that hezbollah drew a distinction between israel striking its positions in syria and at home in lebanon .
if israel strikes hezbollah in lebanon , definitely it will respond , the official said .
the syrian army statement said the israeli strike came at 2:42 a.m. ( 2342 gmt ) from inside lebanese airspace .
it said it had been launched in support of islamic state .
jets flying over lebanon overnight broke the sound barrier and lebanese media reported that israeli warplanes had breached lebanese airspace .
the observatory reported that seven people were killed or wounded in the strike .
the factory that was targeted in masyaf produces the chemical weapons and barrel bombs that have killed thousands of syrian civilians , amos yadlin , a former head of israeli military intelligence , said in a tweet .
the strike sent a message that israel would not let syria produce strategic weapons , would enforce its own red lines , and would not be hampered by russian air defense systems in syria , he added .
the u.n. commission of inquiry on syria said on wednesday a government jet dropped sarin on khan sheikhoun in idlib province in april , killing more than 80 civilians , and that government forces were behind at least 27 chemical attacks .
u.s. president donald trump said he had not heard a report that syria had used chemical weapons again .
but nothing would change .
we would be extremely upset if he was using chemical weapons , he said in response to a question at a news conference in washington .
as far as syria is concerned , we have very little to do with syria other than killing isis .
what we do is we kill isis .