washington ( reuters ) - president barack obama on thursday said he plans to tap a law professor and a former congressional staffer to serve on the commodity futures trading commission , the agency that polices the derivatives marketplace .
the white house said it plans to nominate chris brummer , a law professor at georgetown university and brian quintenz , an investment firm founder who previously worked for former ohio republican congresswoman deborah pryce .
if brummer and quintenz are eventually confirmed by the u.s. senate , it will finally allow the cftc to fill its two vacant seats on the five-member panel .
democratic cftc commissioner mark wetjen left the agency in august 2015 , while republican cftc commissioner scott o ’ malia resigned in july 2014 .
the cftc won broad new powers to police the over-the-counter derivatives market in the 2010 dodd-frank wall street reform law .
the agency has largely completed writing the new regulations , and in the coming years much of the focus is expected to shift toward enforcing the rules .
debate over how the new derivatives rules will impact farmers and companies that use swaps to hedge their risks , however , has still remained a hot topic .
senate agriculture committee chairman pat roberts , whose panel will eventually vote on the two cftc nominees , said thursday he wants to make sure that both brummer and quintenz are sensitive to these so-called “ end-users ” who rely on derivatives to hedge against price fluctuations that impact their businesses .
“ for the cftc to effectively function for all stakeholders , we must make sure nominees have a solid understanding of agriculture and prioritize the folks who use the futures and derivatives markets to manage risk , ” he said in a statement .
brummer has previously worked in a variety of different roles , including some in the regulatory arena .
in 2015 , he completed a three-year stint serving on the financial industry regulatory authority ’ s national adjudicatory council , a body that reviews disciplinary proceedings of brokers and brokerage firms .
he also served as an academic fellow in the international affairs office of the securities and exchange commission and has taught at a variety of universities .
quintenz , meanwhile , has worked as an analyst and senior associate with hill-townsend capital llc .
he also served as the director of travel and as assistant to the treasurer for the presidential exploratory committee of former congressman john kasich .