we ve made it very easy for you to pick up the phone , or go to their facebook pages to let these senators hear your voice .
obama will undoubtedly choose a radical to replace one of the most conservative voices on the us supreme court .
this would be the final nail in america s coffin , as obama s fundamental transformation of america would be complete .
this nomination is every bit as serious as the person we nominate for president of the united states .
when you have a court loaded with justices who have no regard for our us constitution and choose to instead , legislate from the bench , our freedoms will no longer be protected and our nation will be doomed watch obama publicly bully and attempt to embarrass anyone who stands in his way : https : //youtu.be/1itqxyyno1wpresident obama called on senate republicans tuesday to give his eventual supreme court nominee a fair hearing in his bid to replace the late justice antonin scalia , as cracks emerged in the republican leadership s position of automatically blocking any nominee .
i expect them to hold hearings .
i expect them to hold a vote , mr. obama said at a press conference .
there s no unwritten law that says it can only be done on off years .
senate majority leader mitch mcconnell , kentucky republican , and others including presidential candidates sens .
ted cruz of texas and marco rubio of florida have vowed to block any obama nominee , saying the next president should select justice scalia s replacement.mr .
obama blasted that rationale .
this is the supreme court , the highest court in the land , the president said .
it s the one court where we would expect elected officials to rise above day-to-day politics .
i understand the stakes .
i understand the pressure that republican senators are undoubtedly under .
this would be a deciding vote .
but that s not how the system is supposed to work .
even before mr. obama stated his case , there were signs that republican unity was wavering on the notion of blocking any nominee out of hand.senate judiciary committee chairman chuck grassley , iowa republican [ phone : ( 202 ) 224 3744 ] , didn t rule out confirmation hearings and a vote by his panel on an obama selection.you can voice your opinion on senator chuck grassley s facebook page by clicking here .
i would wait until the nominee is made before i would make any decision , mr. grassley said tuesday in a conference call with iowa radio reporters .
in other words , take it a step at a time .
asked whether he thought the controversy over filling the court vacancy might endanger his re-election chances this fall , mr. grassley said , i think i have a responsibility to perform , and i can t worry about the election .
i ve got to do my job as a senator , whatever it is .
and there will be a lot of tough votes between now and the next election .
his comments appeared to be a softening from a statement shortly after justice scalia s death , when mr. grassley said it was standard practice not to nominate or confirm candidates for the supreme court in an election year .
it only makes sense that we defer to the american people who will elect a new president to select the next supreme court justice , mr. grassley said in a statement saturday.sen .
thom tillis , north carolina republican [ phone : ( 202 ) 224-6342 ] , voiced caution about blocking any obama nominee automatically.you can voice your opinion on senator thom tillis facebook page by clicking here .
i think we fall into the trap if [ we ] just simply say , sight unseen , we fall into the trap of being obstructionists , mr. tillis said on tyler cralle s radio show.but mr. tillis added of the president , if he puts forth someone that we think is in the mold of president obama s vision for america , then we ll use every device available to block that nomination .
a top aide to senate minority leader harry reid , nevada democrat , responding to mr. tillis comments , predicted that mr. mcconnell will eventually retreat from his stance of blocking any obama nominee without a hearing .
via : washington times