( reuters ) - the 10-year-old daughter of a jailed vietnamese blogger , mother mushroom , has appealed to u.s. first lady melania trump to help win her mother s release ahead of president donald trump s visit to vietnam next month .
the handwritten letter , posted on facebook on thursday , drew attention to vietnam s biggest crackdown on dissidents in years before the asia-pacific economic cooperation ( apec ) summit in november .
nguyen ngoc nhu quynh , 37 , known as me nam ( mother mushroom ) , is one of vietnam s most prominent activists .
she was jailed for 10 years in june for publishing anti-state reports , including one about deaths in police custody .
her daughter nguyen bao nguyen , nicknamed mushroom , referred to trump s upcoming visit to vietnam and the international women of courage award awarded by the first lady to quynh in march , which drew an angry response from hanoi .
please help my family re-unite because i know my mother did nothing wrong , nguyen wrote in the letter , published on quynh s mother s facebook page .
we love our mother so much and just want her to come back to us , said nguyen , who turns 11 on saturday .
vietnam s government did not immediately respond to a request to comment .
the united states has advocated for ms. quynh s release , and the release of all prisoners of conscience , multiple times with high-level vietnamese officials in the run-up to the president s visit to vietnam including in recent days and weeks , u.s .
ambassador ted osius told reuters .
despite sweeping economic reform and increasing openness to social change , media censorship remains tight in vietnam and criticism of the communist state is not tolerated .
at least 17 dissidents have been arrested this year in a crackdown that followed changes within the ruling party hierarchy and a growing number of environmental protests .
vietnam has carried out a simultaneous crackdown on corruption .
trump is set to attend the apec forum in the seaside resort of danang , besides making an official visit to vietnam .
international donors and trade partners need to step up pressure on the country s leaders to improve its abysmal rights record , and the apec summit is a good moment to start , said brad adams , asia director of human rights watch .
quynh s mother , nguyen tuyet lan , is now looking after nguyen and her four-year-old brother bear .
she told reuters : my daughter did nothing wrong ; just consider what she did as constructive criticism for society .