budapest ( reuters ) - hungary s main opposition jobbik party has launched a crowd funding campaign to raise money for a state audit authority fine that it said could cripple it in the run-up to 2018 elections .
hungarians will vote for a new parliament in april and prime minister viktor orban s populist fidesz party is far ahead in the polls , with jobbik its nearest rival .
jobbik , once on the far right , has turned toward the center and in the past year campaigned nationwide against orban , whom they depicted as the leader of a criminal gang on thousands of billboard ads .
orban has rejected corruption charges , saying he has spent his entire life in politics and his financial standing was an open book .
the state audit office ( asz ) earlier this week ruled that the party had purchased the posters far below market prices , breaching rules on political funding .
the asz slapped jobbik with a 663 million forint ( $ 2.5 million ) penalty .
jobbik said it has no money to pay the fine .
it has 15 days to respond before the asz ruling , which can not be appealed in court , becomes final .
the asz , acting as a court-martial in the manner of the darkest dictatorships , levied on jobbik a fine whose only real aim is to block the party from running at the elections , jobbik said in a statement on its website .
this is the first step in the final eradication of what is left of hungarian democracy .
asz chairman laszlo domokos is a former fidesz lawmaker , while chief prosecutor peter polt , whose office worked with asz on the jobbik case , is a former fidesz member twice appointed to his post by fidesz-dominated parliaments .
the asz was an independent and non-political body , its spokesman balint nemeth said .
the prosecution does its job independently , in accordance with the laws , prosecution spokesman geza fazekas said .
the prosecution did not participate in the asz probe in any way , he said .
he added that the asz asked the prosecutors to investigate whether jobbik blocked auditors from reviewing its files .
that investigation has a march 6 deadline .
laws apply to everyone , and jobbik is no exception , fidesz spokesman balazs hidvegi said .
jobbik must obey the law , and if they do they will have no problems .
the audit crackdown triggered broad criticism .
miklos ligeti , a director at anti-corruption watchdog transparency international , said fidesz has been by far the largest beneficiary of undue price advantages on services that was the basis of jobbik s fine .
2014 election ads cost fidesz at least 4 billion forints at list prices , about four times the legal limit , ligeti said based on their own calculations .
fidesz said on its disclosures it had spent 984 million forints .
other parties , including jobbik , overshot their 2014 limit by 40-50 percent at most , he estimated .
the auditors have clearly got on jobbik s case , as they should , ligeti said .
they should do the same with every other party but clearly don t. which one they strike down and which they spare seems to be a party political decision .
fidesz was not immediately available to comment on the transparency international calculations .
for the campaign jobbik used billboards owned by a tycoon named lajos simicska , once a key ally of orban who fell out with the premier in 2015 .
orban says simicska hijacked jobbik .
both the party and the tycoon deny this .
( $ 1 = 267.83 forints )