madrid ( reuters ) - spanish prime minister mariano rajoy is struggling to secure support from across the traditional political divide in his battle to stop catalonia breaking away - a lack of consensus that could compound spain s worst political crisis for decades .
rajoy is mulling the unprecedented step of invoking the constitution to dissolve the catalan parliament and trigger regional elections , ruling party lawmakers say , after catalonia held an independence vote on sunday despite violent attempts to stop it .
sacking the catalan government is known in madrid as the nuclear option , given it is considered likely to foment unrest in barcelona and through the rest of the heavily industrialized , affluent region that accounts for a fifth of spain s economy .
however , rajoy s people s party ( pp ) governs in minority and before playing this trump card , it has been in talks with the main opposition party , the socialists , to seek their explicit support for such a move , a leading pp lawmaker said .
article 155 of the 1978 constitution has never been used in a country where fascist dictatorship is a living memory .
the conservative pp is seen by catalans as historically connected to the era of late dictator francisco franco , so experts say rajoy must have the socialists , also strong unionists , on board .
the 155 needs wide-ranging backing because we don t know whether it will resolve problems , and if it s only backed by one party in congress then it will be difficult to obtain the backing of a majority of catalans , said rafael hernando , who serves as a parliamentary organizer for the pp .
without that backing , rajoy s hand could be weakened and , according to political sources and analysts , he might ultimately call a snap national election to win a mandate to take on the catalan separatists .
the prime minister s office declined to comment .
participants in the referendum opted overwhelmingly for independence , but turnout was only about 43 percent given that catalans who favor remaining part of spain mainly boycotted the ballot .
the socialists , who had been open to the article 155 option before the referendum , appeared to shift position this week after police used batons and rubber bullets to stop catalans from voting - scenes that drew international condemnation .
instead , they said this week they would move a parliamentary motion criticizing rajoy s deputy , soraya saenz de santamaria , who they blame for the police violence on sunday .
the motion , a symbolic reprimand , does not oblige a minister to step down .
there are some influential members of the party , such as former socialist deputy prime minister alfonso guerra , who want rajoy to take a hard line on catalan separatism .
the socialists should vote in favor ( of article 155 ) , guerra said on tuesday .
his party , he added , should reprimand catalan leader carles puigdemont , not saenz de santamaria .
invoking article 155 only needs approval of spain s senate , which the pp controls , but majority political support for such a bold step in the lower house would help protect rajoy against any no-confidence motions from his other political opponents .
the left-wing podemos party opposes using the article and wants rajoy to negotiate a new referendum on independence , this time with his blessing .
madrid had banned last sunday s referendum as unconstitutional , deploying police to disrupt it in what even some of his allies regard as a political mistake .
the basque national party , formed to campaign for greater autonomy for the northern basque region , is also against sacking the catalan government .
last week , it withdrew support for rajoy s 2018 budget until the catalan question is resolved .
antonio barroso , deputy director of london-based research firm teneo intelligence , said the socialists position on using article 155 could be critical to rajoy s future .
basically he is taking the country into uncharted waters and for that he wants maximum support from as many parties as he can get on board , but also for wider acceptance of the course of action that the government will pursue , barroso said .
rajoy has offered to open multi-party talks that could cut a better tax and constitutional deal for catalonia in return for the region giving up on independence .
but sunday s violence has hardened many catalans against any such compromise .
so far , only center-right ciudadanos said this week it was in favor of sacking the catalan government , dissolving the parliament and holding regional elections .
reflecting his struggle to find broader support , rajoy has postponed until at least next week an expected parliamentary debate on catalonia .
by then , though , it might be too late .
a member of catalonia s pro-independence popular unity candidacy party , a member of the region s governing coalition , said on wednesday catalonia would move in the regional parliament on monday to declare independence .