moscow ( reuters ) - russian opposition leader alexei navalny on sunday cleared the first hurdle towards taking part in next year s presidential election , even though the central election commission has previously ruled him ineligible to run .
navalny , 41 , is a fierce opponent of president vladimir putin , who is widely expected to win re-election in march , extending 17 years in power .
a veteran campaigner against corruption among russia s elite , he won the initial support of 742 people at a gathering in a district of moscow - above the minimum 500 required to initiate a presidential bid .
there is no large-scale support for putin and his rule in this country , navalny told the meeting , describing himself as a real candidate for election and threatening a boycott of the vote by his supporters if he is barred from running .
on sunday evening , navalny submitted the documents to the central election commission needed to be registered as a candidate .
the commission , which extended its working hours on sunday to take the documents , has five days in which to decide whether navalny will be registered .
the commission has previously said he is ineligible due to a suspended prison sentence that he says was politically motivated .
we are capable of opposing the current authorities .
our key demand is to be allowed to take part in the elections , navalny told reporters as he was leaving the election commission building in the central moscow .
navalny has been jailed three times this year on charges of repeatedly organizing public meetings and rallies in violation of existing laws .
the european court of human rights ruled in october that navalny s conviction for fraud in 2014 was arbitrary and ordered moscow to pay him compensation .
the ruling party united russia meeting on saturday pledged all possible support to the 65-year-old putin in his bid to win a further six years in power in the march election .
the communist party , which came second after united russia in a parliamentary election last year , named pavel grudinin , 57 , as its candidate , dropping veteran party leader gennady zyuganov .
another politician who has run before , sergei mironov from a just russia party , said his party had decided to support putin instead and not propose its own candidate .
property developer sergei polonsky , who has been convicted of defrauding investors , also secured enough initial backing to seek clearance from the election commission to take part in the presidential race .
others planning to run include television personality ksenia sobchak , whose late father was putin s boss in the early 1990s , journalist ekaterina gordon .