beijing ( reuters ) - chinese distributors of overseas publications must verify that the content is legal in china , beijing said late on sunday , after a major western publisher blocked access to some content in the country citing local regulations .
springer nature , which publishes science magazines nature and scientific american , said last week that it had pulled access to less than 1 percent of its articles in china , which it said was regrettable but necessary to avoid all content being blocked .
all publications imported into the chinese market must accord with chinese laws and regulations .
the publications import management company is responsible for carrying out content checks on publications , the state council information office , the chinese government s information and propaganda arm , said in a faxed response to a request for comment sent by reuters last wednesday .
the chinese government made a similar statement after britain s cambridge university press ( cup ) in august removed and then reposted about 300 papers and book reviews published by the china quarterly journal from its chinese website .
under president xi jinping , beijing has heightened censorship , tightened controls on the internet , and strengthened communist party authority over academia and other institutions .
cup s decision was originally taken at the request of the chinese government , the publisher said at the time .
cup later reversed its decision after an outcry from academics who said the decision impinged upon academic freedom .
springer nature in a statement last week denied that its decision to limit some content was a form of editorial censorship , saying that the move was local to china and was taken to comply with specific regulations as enforced by distributors .
the publisher said that not complying would mean it ran the risk of being banned from distributing all content in china , which it said was not in the interests of its authors and customers or the wider scientific or academic communities .
at least 1,000 springer nature articles had been blocked in china , containing sensitive key words like taiwan , tibet and cultural revolution , the financial times reported .
one of springer nature s china distributors , the state-run china national publications import and export ( group ) corp , did not immediately respond to a request for comment when contacted by reuters on monday .
it was unclear if the decision by springer nature to block content followed a request by just one of its china distributors or a number of different distributors .
it was also unclear whether the distributor request was made at the behest of the chinese government .