first it was the decision by target to make their toy aisles non-gender specific .
now , in their latest decision to appease the lgbtq-rstuvwxyz ( please excuse me , but i ve lost track of the rapidly expanding acronym ) community , they ve stripped women and our daughters ( and even our young boys ) of the ability to use a gender specific bathroom .
mega-retailer target corp. has opened the door today , literally , to the endangerment of children in service of a fake cause .
they have a newly restated policy that says you can basically go into whatever bathroom you want , for whatever reason you want , because inclusivity.from the minneapolis star tribune : target corp. made it clear tuesday that transgender people who visit its stores are welcome to use the bathroom that aligns with their gender identity.the statement by the minneapolis-based retailer comes amid debates in many state legislatures over restricting public restroom use to the sex listed on a person s birth certificate.while many of those conversations have centered around restrooms in public schools and government buildings , target appears to be one of the first big-box retailers to take a proactive stance in declaring its position on the matter when it comes to its own restrooms.while they may not be technically public , restrooms in stores are often the most easily accessible and widely available options outside of people s homes and workplaces.target s position also extends to its fitting rooms .
inclusivity is a core belief at target , the company said in a statement on its corporate website .
it s something we celebrate .
we stand for equality and equity , and strive to make our guests and team members feel accepted , respected and welcomed in our stores and workplaces every day .
like other do-good liberal idiots , target honchos suffer from the delusion that are making some bold step toward tolerance of an oppressed minority by removing rules dividing the bathrooms by gender .
but make no mistake , it is a delusion , and a perfectly silly one .
it is the same liberal-minded pseudo-hippie social justice warrior philosophy casting aside barriers to entry for bathrooms that simultaneously demand written letters of consent be in the possession of any man seen standing close to a woman .
the same movement that rails against manspreading is perfectly fine with manpeeing , it seems , in a virtually perfect display of the nutbaggery of their entire pretend , college-hobby-turned-pain-in-the-ass-for-normal-people movement .
and yes i said normal , please find a safe space and wet yourself .
but use whatever safe space corresponds with your self-wetting gender identity.via : red state