washington ( reuters ) - anticipating that hurricane irma will devastate part of the united states , u.s. officials were preparing a massive response to the storm , the head of the federal emergency management agency ( fema ) said on friday .
with irma set to hit florida as early as saturday night , parts of florida was expected to lose electricity for days , if not longer , and more than 100,000 people may need shelter , fema administrator brock long warned at a news conference .
hurricane irma continues to be a threat that is going to devastate the united states in either florida or some of the southeastern states , long said .
irma was a category 5 hurricane , the most dangerous measure by the national hurricane center , before being downgraded to category 4 early friday after pummeling islands in the caribbean .
the united states has experienced only three category 5 storms since 1851 and irma is far larger than the last one to hit the united states in 1992 , hurricane andrew , according to long .
he warned people not to ignore evacuation orders .
they need to get out and listen and heed the warnings , long said .
officials have thousands of personnel ready to respond and millions of meals and liters of water in place nearby , long said .
the national weather service said that friday was the last day to evacuate before winds would start to reach unsafe speeds in florida .
airlines added extra flights from florida on thursday before announcing plans to halt service from some southern florida airports starting friday afternoon .
u.s. health and human services secretary tom price called irma a remarkably dangerous storm and the window to get yourself in the right spot ... is closing rapidly .
price said the main hospital in st. thomas in the u.s. virgin islands was closed after being damaged by irma , and critically ill patients were being evacuated to puerto rico or other islands .
on friday , the u.s. house of representatives voted 316-90 to approve a measure to more than double funding to $ 15.25 billion for fema and local block grants to handle natural disasters after the senate passed the measure thursday , 80-17 .
fema s disaster assistance fund could have run out of money friday without action .
president donald trump is expected to sign the measure friday .
the measure also extends the life of the national flood insurance program through dec. 5 .
it had been set to expire sept. 30 .