pristina ( reuters ) - kosovo s center-right coalition led by the democratic party of kosovo signed a deal on monday with the small new alliance for kosovo party to form a government , ending nearly three months of political deadlock after an election on june 11 .
finally kosovo has started to move ... we had some big delays and our institutions now will be formed , said ramush haradinaj , from the center-right coalition of parties made up of former guerrillas who fought the 1998-99 war against serb forces .
under the deal , the parties along with ethnic minorities will secure 63 seats in the 120-seat parliament .
president hashim thaci is expected to give haradinaj a mandate to form the government within days .
a source who asked not to be named told reuters the parliament session to elect the parliament speaker would be held this week .
haradinaj , who twice stood trial before the united nations war crimes court for war crimes and was acquitted , briefly held the post of prime minister in 2005 .
the smaller new alliance for kosovo party is led by behgjet pacolli , who is dubbed by media the richest kosovar .
pacolli , who also holds a swiss passport , won many contracts from the russian government to rebuild state buildings in moscow in the 90s but a decade ago he moved his business from moscow to kazakhstan .
it is unclear what post pacolli will hold in the new government .
the new government will have to tackle unemployment running at 30 percent and improve relations with kosovo s neighbors , especially serbia , a precondition for both countries to move forward in the european union accession process .
it must also reform health and education and the tax administration system as well as include representatives of some 120,000 kosovo serbs who do not recognize independence .
kosovo declared independence from serbia in 2008 , almost a decade after nato air strikes drove out serbian forces accused of expelling and killing ethnic albanian civilians in a two-year counter-insurgency .