chicago ( reuters ) - illinois governor bruce rauner and republican legislative leaders said on thursday they will endorse what they called a senate democratic approach to curbing the state ’ s $ 111 billion unfunded pension liability .
but senate president john cullerton , a chicago democrat , said the plan promoted by the republican governor goes beyond what he supports because of curbs on collective bargaining .
rauner said the initiative would give workers a choice between having future salary increases count toward their pensions or continuing to receive 3 percent compounded annual cost-of-living increases upon retirement .
“ this does not go as far as we need to ...
but it ’ s a step in the right direction , ” rauner told reporters at a news conference .
he added it would save the state $ 1 billion annually and affect four of the state ’ s five pension funds .
illinois has the worst-funded pensions and lowest credit ratings among the 50 states .
an impasse between rauner and democrats who control the legislature has left the fifth-largest state without a budget seven months into fiscal 2016 .
rauner said the so-called consideration approach will be constitutional as long as salary increases are removed from collective bargaining with labor unions .
“ we apparently still have a fundamental disagreement over the role of collective bargaining in this process , in the sense that i think collective bargaining should continue to exist and the governor does not , ” cullerton said in a statement .
an aide to house speaker michael madigan characterized the governor ’ s track record on pensions as anti-working family .
“ what he wants to do is destroy middle-class families whether it ’ s over pensions or wages or injuries on the job site , ” said steve brown , a spokesman for madigan .
easing pension costs was made harder after the illinois supreme court last may tossed out a 2013 state law that would have saved as much as $ 145 billion over 30 years , ruling that public sector workers have iron-clad protection in the state constitution against cuts to retirement benefits .
the high court could rule as soon as friday on a union challenge to a 2014 state law to shore up two of chicago ’ s financially struggling pension funds .
the city used a consideration argument to defend the law , claiming that pension benefit cuts and higher pension contributions will save the funds from insolvency .
union coalition we are one illinois contended the governor ’ s plan was unconstitutional .
“ a forced choice between two diminished options is no choice at all and forbidden by the court , ” it said .