wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s small nationalist party , which holds the balance of power after last month s inconclusive elections , will make an announcement on thursday on the result of talks with the two major parties to form the next government .
the move should put an end to weeks of political uncertainty in the small pacific island nation , after neither major party won enough seats on sept. 23 to form a government , leaving both courting the leader of new zealand first , winston peters .
new zealand first will be in a position tomorrow afternoon to make an announcement on the result of negotiations following the 2017 general election , the party said in a statement .
thursday s event could also shed light on the economic direction for new zealand , since both the national party and the labour party differ on immigration and trade , key sources of the country s robust growth in recent years .
peters has held lengthy talks with both national , which has been in power for nearly a decade , and opposition labour , but has kept his cards close to his chest regarding coalition prospects .
peters has notified the leaders of both parties about thursday s announcement , the statement added .
the new zealand dollar , already under pressure earlier on wednesday , briefly fell to the day s low of $ 0.7153 after the statement .
if it goes down the path of a labour-green coalition , we can expect the kiwi will probably come under far greater pressure , purely on the basis that that is a complete unknown , said stuart ive , a dealer at om financial .
if it s announced that a national coalition is being formed , we can probably see the kiwi pick back up again , in a short relief rally before markets return to focusing on economic fundamentals , he added , using the currency s nickname .
nz first has more in common with labour on the policy front , as both want to rein in immigrants and foreign ownership , change certain trade deals and adjust the central bank s mandate .
but some analysts say a two-way coalition with national would be more straightforward than a three-way coalition with labour and the greens .
labour needs the seats of both the greens and new zealand first to reach a majority in parliament .