phnom penh ( reuters ) - cambodia s supreme court on thursday began its final session to decide whether to dissolve the main opposition cambodia national rescue party ( cnrp ) , thus ensuring victory for prime minister hun sen s ruling party in next year s general election .
a verdict is expected later in the day , amid an increasingly tense political situation and a campaign by the ruling cambodian people s party ( cpp ) to crush the opposition ahead of the vote .
if the court rules for dissolution , 118 members of the opposition party will also be banned from politics .
more than half its members of parliament have already fled cambodia , fearing a crackdown by hun sen .
such a ruling would leave no credible political opposition in cambodia for the first time since 1993 , one senior diplomat based in the cambodian capital told reuters .
in that year a u.n.-run election produced a shaky coalition between prince norodom ranariddh and hun sen , a former khmer rouge guerrilla installed as prime minister in the mid-1980s by the vietnamese .
the processes in the early nineties left cambodia with a lively civil society and the freest press in southeast asia and there is a possibility of a lot of that going , said the diplomat , who declined to be identified because he was not authorized to comment .
dozens of police guarded the court , its exterior painted yellow with gold accents , along with some officers from hun sen s personal bodyguard unit , although there has been no indication of any planned protest .
traffic flow was normal .
on wednesday , cambodia s opposition said it did not think it could escape dissolution .
the judge who heads the supreme court , dith munty , is a member of the permanent committee of the ruling party and a longtime hun sen loyalist .
the 2018 election had been shaping as possibly the biggest challenge to hun sen s leadership , after his opponents unified behind the cnrp .
hun sen has stepped up measures against the opposition .
in september , cnrp leader kem sokha was arrested in phnom penh and charged with treason .