on november eighth , americans will be voting for this 100-day plan to restore prosperity to our country , secure our communities , and honesty to our government , trump says .
this is my pledge to you and if we follow these steps we will once more have a government of , by and for the people and importantly we will make america great again .
believe me .
here is the list of the contract with the american voter policies detailed by trump : propose a constitutional amendment to impose term limits on all members of congress institute a hiring freeze on all federal employees to reduce federal workforce through attrition ( exempting military , public safety , and public health ) require for every new federal regulation , two existing regulations must be eliminated .
institute a five year-ban on white house and congressional officials becoming lobbyists after they leave government service create a lifetime ban on white house officials lobbying on behalf of a foreign government .
institute a complete ban on foreign lobbyists raising money for american elections .
announce intention to renegotiate nafta or withdraw from the deal under article 2205 .
announce withdrawal from the trans-pacific partnership .
direct secretary of the treasury to label china a currency manipulator .
direct the secretary of commerce and u.s. trade representative to identify all foreign trading abuses that unfairly impact american workers and direct them to use every tool under american and international law to end those abuses immediately .
lift the restrictions on the production of $ 50 trillion dollars worth of job-producing american energy reserves , including shale , oil , natural gas and clean coal .
lift the obama-clinton roadblocks and allow vital energy infrastructure projects , like the keystone pipeline , to move forward .
cancel billions in payments to u.n. climate change programs and use the money to fix america s water and environmental infrastructure .
cancel every unconstitutional executive action , memorandum and order issued by president obama .
begin the process of selecting a replacement for justice scalia from one of the 20 judges on my list , who will uphold and defend the constitution of the united states .
cancel all federal funding to sanctuary cities .
begin removing the more than 2 million criminal illegal immigrants from the country and cancel visas to foreign countries that won t take them back .
suspend immigration from terror-prone regions where vetting can not safely occur .
all vetting of people coming into our country will be considered extreme vetting .
work with congress on a middle class tax relief and simplification act.an economic plan designed to grow the economy 4 % per year and create at least 25 million new jobs through massive tax reduction and simplification , in combination with trade reform , regulatory relief , and lifting the restrictions on american energy .
the largest tax reductions are for the middle class .
a middle-class family with 2 children will get a 35 % tax cut .
the current number of brackets will be reduced from 7 to 3 , and tax forms will likewise be greatly simplified .
the business rate will be lowered from 35 to 15 percent , and the trillions of dollars of american corporate money overseas can now be brought back at a 10 percent rate .
work with congress on a end the offshoring actestablishes tariffs to discourage companies from laying off their workers in order to relocate in other countries and ship their products back to the u.s. tax-free .
work with congress on a american energy & infrastructure actleverages public-private partnerships , and private investments through tax incentives , to spur $ 1 trillion in infrastructure investment over 10 years .
it is revenue neutral .
work with congress on a school choice and education opportunity actredirects education dollars to gives parents the right to send their kid to the public , private , charter , magnet , religious or home school of their choice .
ends common core , brings education supervision to local communities .
it expands vocational and technical education , and make 2 and 4-year college more affordable .
work with congress on a repeal and replace obamacare actfully repeals obamacare and replaces it with health savings accounts , the ability to purchase health insurance across state lines , and lets states manage medicaid funds .
reforms will also include cutting the red tape at the fda : there are over 4,000 drugs awaiting approval , and we especially want to speed the approval of life-saving medications .
work with congress on a affordable childcare and eldercare act.allows americans to deduct childcare and elder care from their taxes , incentivizes employers to provide on-side childcare services , and creates tax-free dependent care savings accounts for both young and elderly dependents , with matching contributions for low-income families .
work with congress on an end illegal immigration actfully-funds the construction of a wall on our southern border with the full understanding that the country mexico will be reimbursing the united states for the full cost of such wall ; establishes a 2-year mandatory minimum federal prison sentence for illegally re-entering the u.s. after a previous deportation , and a 5-year mandatory minimum for illegally re-entering for those with felony convictions , multiple misdemeanor convictions or two or more prior deportations ; also reforms visa rules to enhance penalties for overstaying and to ensure open jobs are offered to american workers first .
work with congress on a restoring community safety act.reduces surging crime , drugs and violence by creating a task force on violent crime and increasing funding for programs that train and assist local police ; increases resources for federal law enforcement agencies and federal prosecutors to dismantle criminal gangs and put violent offenders behind bars .
work with congress on a restoring national security act.rebuilds our military by eliminating the defense sequester and expanding military investment ; provides veterans with the ability to receive public va treatment or attend the private doctor of their choice ; protects our vital infrastructure from cyber-attack ; establishes new screening procedures for immigration to ensure those who are admitted to our country support our people and our values work with congress on a clean up corruption in washington act.enacts new ethics reforms to drain the swamp and reduce the corrupting influence of special interests on our politics.via : breitbart