beijing ( reuters ) - chinese importers of foreign publications must verify the products are legal , china said on friday , weeks after a british academic publisher which blocked access to hundreds of scholarly articles in the country reposted the material .
cambridge university press ( cup ) said in august that it had removed some 300 papers and book reviews published in the china quarterly journal from its website in china following a request from the chinese government .
it said it had blocked the articles , which covered sensitive topics , including the 1989 tiananmen square democracy protests , the 1960s cultural revolution and tibet , in order to keep its other academic and educational materials available in the country .
the move sparked an outcry from academics , who attacked the decision as an affront to academic freedom .
cup , the publishing arm of britain s elite cambridge university , later reversed its decision and reposted the articles .
china s state council information office , responding by fax two weeks after a reuters request for comment , said that publishers choose for themselves to import materials based on market demand and the law .
all publications imported into china s market must adhere to chinese laws and regulations .
publication importers are responsible for checking the content of their imported publications , it said without elaborating .
it did not mention cup .
at the time , china s education ministry , foreign ministry , cyberspace administration and state publishing authority all declined to comment .
the ruling communist party s efforts to censor news and information have sometimes backfired or left outsiders perplexed .
in 2009 , software designed to check pornographic and violent images on pcs blocked images of a movie poster for cartoon cat garfield , dishes of flesh-colour cooked pork and on one search engine a close-up of film star johnny depp s face .
but under president xi jinping , beijing has stepped up censorship , tightened controls on the internet and various aspects of civil society , and reasserted party authority over academia and other institutions .