lima ( reuters ) - a ballet dancer in peru who was caught hiding the leader of the shining path in her apartment in 1992 was freed from prison after finishing her 25-year sentence on monday .
maritza garrido lecca , 52 , emerged from a prison on the dusty outskirts of lima smiling .
as she stepped in a car , journalists shouted : do you regret it ?
garrido lecca is the latest in a wave of former militants to be freed , and their release has stirred fears of unrest .
raised in an affluent catholic home in peru s capital lima , garrido lecca stunned peru when authorities discovered the country s most wanted man , abimael guzman , had been secretly living in the second story of her apartment above the studio where she taught ballet and modern dance .
her story inspired the 2002 john malkovich-directed film the dancer upstairs that depicted the kind of patient detectivework that led to guzman s capture .
guzman launched the shining path s attempt to overthrow the state in 1980 in what would become one of latin america s deadliest internal conflicts .
an estimated 69,000 people were killed in the two-decade battle between state security forces and leftist insurgents .
the majority of victims were the poor indigenous peasants whom guzman hoped would embrace his plans for an armed rebellion .
residents of lima s upscale neighborhood miraflores waved peruvian flags in protest as they waited for garrido lecca to arrive at her elderly mother s apartment building .
the shining path and terrorism are our enemy and we ll be vigilant about combating them , justice minister marisol perez told journalists ahead of garrido lecca s release .
while the shining path is no longer a threat to the peruvian state and the group s political arm , movadef , has been blocked from forming a party , authorities say former members are fanning conflicts and winning support among young people .
peru s interior minister carlos basombrio accused former shining path inmates of infiltrating a teachers strike that dragged on for more than two months with frequent clashes between police and protesters .
out of some 6,000 inmates who had been convicted of terrorism , the vast majority are now free , peruvian security analyst pedro yaranga said .
while no former shining path member has asked for forgiveness for the group s violent past , movadef says it is no longer seeking to obtain power with an armed rebellion .
after her arrest , garrido lecca denied being part of shining path s leadership but acknowledged having links to the group and shouted her allegiance to it before news cameras .
peru s former prime minister pedro cateriano , who lives in the building where garrido lecca is expected to stay , said peru has no choice but live with the former rebels .
i don t like being garrido lecca s neighbor , either , but , that s how a state based on the rule of law works , cateriano told reporters .