london ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may on friday hailed the return of britain s classic blue passport as a benefit of leaving the eu , pleasing brexit campaigners for whom it is a symbol of national sovereignty but attracting derision from many remainers .
the government said a version of the old passport , issued to britons from 1920 to 1988 , when it was replaced by the burgundy jacket of the european union , will be reintroduced after the country leaves the bloc in march 2019 .
the uk passport is an expression of our independence and sovereignty - symbolizing our citizenship of a proud , great nation , may said on twitter .
that s why we have announced that the iconic blue passport will return after we leave the european union in 2019 .
during often bitter campaigning for the june 2016 referendum on whether to leave the eu , which britain joined in 1973 , some brexit supporters seized on the color of the passport as a symbol of the country s lost independence .
opponents meanwhile mocked their attachment to something superficial while arguing that brexit would diminish britain s real standing in the world .
former united kingdom independence party leader nigel farage , a leading supporter of brexit , responded to friday s news by tweeting : happy brexmas !
a return to british passports means we are becoming a proper country again , he wrote .
we are getting our individuality and national identity back .
but anna soubry , a lawmaker from may s conservative party who opposes brexit , tweeted : stand by for street parties as blue passports return .
not sure they ll make up for broken # leave promise of extra 350m a week for ( british public health service ) nhs .
a brexit campaign slogan suggesting that britain s financial contributions to the eu could be diverted to the national health service has been credited with swinging voters toward leave .
the new document , which will be issued from october 2019 , will come with enhanced security features , immigration minister brandon lewis said , and will be introduced as old passports expire and at no extra cost to the taxpayer .
speaking to the bbc , lewis said even people who voted remain still had an attachment to the dark blue passport .
responses to may s tweet were overwhelmingly negative , however , with many twitter users pointing out that britain could have kept the old color under eu rules .
others bemoaned the fact that britons would lose the right to live and work in 27 other eu countries as a result of brexit .
wow this passport s fancy .
must have some kickass features , read one tweet accompanied by a picture of a smiling family collecting their new passports .
how many countries do you have the right to work in on this bad boy ?
one huh .
still , blue though ...