this news is heartbreaking because it s the unnecessary delay in treatment that ultimately determined the fate of this little baby : the window of opportunity has been lost chris gard and connie yates announced their decision as a high court judge was preparing to oversee the latest round of a five-month legal battle.the parents have said they want to withdraw their application for him to receive experimental treatment in the us because it was too late for it to work.in a move that would appear to bring an end to a protracted , emotional legal case in which great ormond street hospital ( gosh ) argued his life support should be switched off to prevent him suffering further , their lawyer said on monday that delays meant it was no longer in charlie s interests to keep him on a ventilator.mr justice francis had been scheduled to analyse what the couple said was fresh evidence at a hearing in the family division of the high court in london.grant armstrong , representing charlie s parents , told the high court in london : for charlie , it s too late , time has run out , irreversible muscular damage has been done and the treatment can no longer be a success .
he said the parents had made the most painful of decisions , that only parents can make .
armstrong said : charlie has waited patiently for treatment .
due to delay , that window of opportunity has been lost .
baby charlie gard was born has a rare genetic condition from his parents and is blind , deaf and can only breathe through a ventilator.our previous report on baby charlie gard : the horrible result of socialized medicine may be seen in the plight of charlie gard .
the brain-damaged british baby whose parents recently lost a legal battle to keep him on life support has now tugged at heart strings as far away as the oval office.president trump tweeted out his willingness to lend a hand and in doing so exposed the debate over who should make life-and-death decisions for charlie to a massive audience .
if we can help little # charliegard , as per our friends in the u.k. and the pope , we would be delighted to do so , trump wrote.the tweet , which noted a similar call for compassion from pope francis on sunday night , comes just ahead of trump s second international trip later this week , during which he ll meet with world leaders at the g-20 summit it germany a conference at which trump could cross paths with british prime minister theresa may.trump s tweet also implicitly highlights perceived pitfalls in the british health care system a publicly funded system at a time the u.s. is undergoing yet another debate about medical coverage.gard s parents have fought the courts to keep their son on life support .
chris gard and connie yates want to bring charlie to the u.s. for experimental therapy .
but doctors at the great ormond street hospital for children in london , who have been caring for charlie , were granted permission by a court to turn off his life support .
though it was expected charlie could be removed from the essential devices as soon as friday , the hospital said in a statement it was putting together unspecified plans to give the 11 month old and his parents more time together as a family .
read more : the guardian