baghdad ( reuters ) - an iraqi military parade in baghdad s heavily fortified green zone celebrated final victory over islamic state on sunday , with prime minister haider al-abadi looking on as troops marched in formation , their bodies spelling victory day in arabic .
abadi , who is also commander-in-chief of the armed forces , listened solemnly to quranic verses from a chapter titled al-nasr , meaning victory .
iraqi forces recaptured the last areas still under islamic state control along the border with syria on saturday and secured the western desert , marking the end of the war against the militants three years after they had captured about a third of iraq s territory .
the forces fighting islamic state in iraq and syria now expect a new phase of guerrilla warfare .
watching the parade on sunday , state television showed abadi sat on a throne-like chair placed between two iraqi flags with the country s official seal behind him , and with all other officials sat at a distance from him .
abadi declared dec. 10 would be an annual national holiday .
fighter jets were seen and heard flying over baghdad s skies .
an announcer introduced various factions who took on islamic state as troops marched , tanks rolled by and helicopters hovered , all brandishing iraqi flags as abadi stood up and waved .
those who fought were drawn from the army , air force , federal and local police , elite counter-terrorism forces , as well as shi ite and sunni paramilitaries and kurdish peshmerga fighters .
they received key air support from a u.s.-led global coalition .
in his victory speech , delivered on saturday , abadi did not mention the peshmerga , who played a big part in the fight against islamic state .
the central government in baghdad is in conflict with the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government after the latter unilaterally held an independence referendum in september .
instead abadi hailed the iranian-trained and backed popular mobilisation forces ( pmf ) , a group of shi ite militias , many of whom are loyal to iran .
he also said that the state should have a legitimate monopoly on arms , however .
disarming the pmf is seen as abadi s greatest challenge after islamic state s defeat .
the man who many saw as weak and ineffectual when he took over in 2014 from a predecessor who was blamed for the islamic state takeover now heads towards an election next year as the commander who freed iraqi lands .
or as one western diplomat described him - the most popular man in iraq .