cairo ( reuters ) - iraqi kurdish leaders must be prepared to face the consequences if they unilaterally declare independence and find implementation more difficult than they expected , iraqi foreign minister ibrahim al-jaafari said on wednesday .
jaafari was in cairo for an arab league summit where the closing statement included a resolution calling a kurdish independence referendum this month unconstitutional , mirroring the stance of iraq s central government and national parliament .
jaafari told reuters in an interview kurdish leaders should think carefully before going ahead with any independence move .
those who make such a declaration should bear the responsibility for it .
it is easy to declare whatever you want but it is not that easy to actualize it , he said in his cairo hotel room .
we are depending on dialogue and also arab , and non-arab advocacy .
as we saw yesterday , the arab diplomatic mobilization was attained by arab foreign ministers , he said .
the kurdish area of northern iraq has enjoyed broad autonomy since the first gulf war in 1991 .
since the 2003 u.s-led invasion and the overthrow of saddam hussein , it has been largely stable while the rest of iraq has suffered insurgency .
kurds are set to hold the referendum on sept. 25 but baghdad opposes it , with lawmakers voting to reject it .
iraq s neighbors turkey , iran and syria also oppose the referendum , fearing it could fan separatism among their own ethnic kurdish populations .
western powers are concerned a plebiscite in iraq s semi-autonomous kurdish region - including the oil-rich city of kirkuk - could divert attention from the war against islamic state militants .
kurds have sought an independent state since at least the end of world war one , when colonial powers divided up the middle east after the collapse of the multi-ethnic ottoman empire .
iraq is in the final throws of a u.s.-backed campaign to oust the sunni militant groups which seized vast swathes of the country back in 2014 .
iraqi forces took back its second largest city , mosul in july , and tal afar last month .
jaafari said the international community must offer financial and other support to iraq for the rebuilding of mosul and other cities retaken from islamic state .
it is well known that nations who have emerged from war and destruction suffer great losses especially if the opposing party is implementing a scorched earth policy .
( they ) never surrendered land except after destroying it , he said .
homes , institutions , hospitals mosques , markets and worship places , all were destroyed .
the money needed is not little , a great sum is required .