our racist first lady made an impact on the graduates of jackson state by turning her commencement speech into a political rant way to go michelle !
everything is about the shtruggle with this radical ideologue .
she s probably the worst person to pick for anything uplifting because in her eyes it s all about being a victim .
can t wait to see her leave the white house ! in a rare entrance into a politically charged controversy , first lady michelle obama used a commencement speech saturday at jackson state university in mississipppi to directly target the state s recently-passed religious freedom bill .
we see it right here in mississippi just two weeks ago - how swiftly progress can hurtle backward , obama said .
how easy it is to single out a small group and marginalize them because of who they are or who they love .
obama made the comment following an impassioned revival of the state and university s stained history with regard to civil rights .
so we ve got to stand side by side with all our neighbors - straight , gay , lesbian , bisexual , transgender ; muslim , jew , christian , hindu immigrant , native american because the march for civil rights isn t just about african americans , it s about all americans , she said .
it s about making things more just , more equal , more free for all our kids and grandkids .
that s the story you all have the opportunity to write .
that s what this historic university has prepared you to do .
the state has received growing criticism from human rights organizations and businesses over the controversial law , saying it restricts the rights of the lgbt community .
in a press conference friday in the united kingdom , president obama was asked about a recent travel advisory to british lgbt citizens cautioning them of the newly passed law , he said it should be overturned .
in her speech , the first lady also reflected on the heated political battles her husband has endured as president , and urged students not to fall into disarray over the anger and vitriol in the political environment .
we pay endless attention to folks who are blocking action , blocking judges , blocking immigration , blocking a raise in the minimum wage .
just blocking , obama said .
we are consumed with the anger and vitriol that are bubbling up , with folks shouting at each other , using hateful and divisive language .
obama then revisited some of the vitriol directed towards her husband over his eight years as president , including the birther conspiracy theory widely promoted by gop frontrunner donald trump just five years ago .
and then there s the countless times when that language gets personal and is directed at my husband - charges that he doesn t love our country , obama said .
the time he was called a liar in front of a joint session of congress .
the nonstop questions about his birth certificate and his belief in god .
via : abc