cair s zahra billoo is so hateful !
she tweets out a nasty message every year about our troops on memorial day weekend .
the council for islamic relations ( cair ) has had a bigger and bigger presence and influence on communities across america .
don t dare criticize islam or you get hammered by cair .
they re counting on people to fear being called islamophobic or other things for this reason , they usually bully their way to victory .
americans aren t used to this boldness so we cower and let them shame us .
it s way past time to stand your ground and call things what they are .
just say no to bullying from cair ! cair s zahra billoo tweeted in 2014 : a top council on american-islamic relations ( cair ) official took time out of her memorial day weekend to stand by her opposition to honoring fallen u.s. soldiers on the holiday and specifically took aim at muslim-americans who serve in the u.s. military.for the third year in a row , the executive director of cair s san francisco bay area chapter , zahra billoo , bashed the u.s. military on the holiday in which we are supposed to thank them for their sacrifices.cair is a u.s. muslim brotherhood entity that was designated as a terrorist group by the united arab emirates in november .
fbi wiretaps in 1993 reveal that cair was established to deceptively push the islamist agenda .
you can read more about cair s background here.billoo stepped in hot water in 2014 when the clarion project broke the story about how she and other cair officials were suggesting that fallen u.s. soldiers shouldn t be honored on memorial day .
the result was major media attention and outrage from muslims honoring memorial day.she responded by retweeting a comment about supporting u.s. troops who refuse service , tweeting about u.s. genocide , rape within the military and accusing critics of sexism , racism and anti-muslim bigotry.on memorial weekend last year , billoo again slandered the u.s. military and said servicemen often murder innocent civilians .
she also equated israel with isis .