( reuters ) - a business group said on monday it was asking the u.s. supreme court to hear its appeal of a lower-court ruling tossing out its challenge of part of seattle ’ s law to increase the minimum wage .
the international franchise association , which brought its lawsuit against the city in june 2014 , says the law favors independent businesses because it requires franchises like mcdonald ’ s and burger king to phase in the new $ 15 minimum wage more quickly .
“ our appeal has never sought to prevent the city of seattle ’ s wage law from going into effect , ” association president robert cresanti said in a statement .
“ our appeal to the supreme court will be focused solely on the discriminatory treatment of franchisees under seattle ’ s wage law and the motivation to discriminate against interstate commerce , ” he said .
the association ’ s lawsuit challenges the law ’ s treatment of franchises as subsidiaries of parent companies , rather than completely separate businesses .
representatives for the city could not be immediately reached for comment .
commenting on the lawsuit last year , seattle mayor ed murray , a democrat who championed the wage hike , said : “ rather than investing in lawyers to prevent workers from earning higher wages , it is time for these large businesses to begin investing in a higher minimum wage for their employees. ” a federal judge last march denied the group ’ s lawsuit , saying it failed to back up its discrimination claims .
the 9th u.s .
circuit court of appeals upheld that decision in september .
the law , which took effect on april 1 last year , requires businesses in seattle with more than 500 employees nationwide to raise their minimum wage to $ 15 by 2018 .
smaller companies have until 2021 .
seattle is among a number of large u.s. cities to pass laws raising the minimum wage above $ 10 an hour .
the franchise association ’ s lawsuit could have an impact in cities like chicago and san francisco .
the association said it expected the supreme court to say in the spring whether it would take the case .