manila ( reuters ) - philippine security forces have arrested a mobile phone trader suspected of collecting funds to help finance pro-islamic state militants who took over a southern city for five months , police said on friday .
rasdi malawani , 42 , was paraded in front of the press a day after security forces raided his home in manila s northern suburbs , where a rocket-propelled grenade and a pistol were seized , manila police chief oscar albayalde said .
malawani was not allowed to speak to reporters and no defense lawyer was present .
the military on monday declared victory over the maute group , which seized control in marawi city on may 23 , after killing the last 40 remaining militants .
more than 1,100 people , including 165 soldiers , were killed in the conflict .
malawani is the brother-in-law of maddie maute , one of the maute brothers who planned and carried out the marawi attacks , according to police .
they said he had given about 300,000 pesos ( $ 5,800 ) a month for four months to his sister , lily .
the funds were collected from dozens of tenants of salaam bazaar , a mobile phone , accessories and electronic market owned by farhana maute , the jailed family matriarch , in a shopping mall in quezon city , police said .
malawani had been running the business for her .
he is facilitating terrorist financing , albayalde said .
he is based here in manila and is not involved in the fighting .
he is considered a supporter and sympathizer .
president rodrigo duterte , in a speech before an association of professionals late on thursday , warned of possible retaliation from militants after the military s victory in marawi .
retaliation and vengeance are not far-fetched , duterte said .
may i just remind you to be vigilant and always be aware that extremism is the problem of the planet today .
philippine military chief general eduardo ano said on monday islamist militants who attacked marawi on may 23 had received some $ 1.5 million from islamic state leader abu bakr al-baghdadi in january .
( $ 1 = 52 pesos )