washington ( reuters ) - the feud between republican presidential contenders donald trump and ted cruz over their spouses heated up on thursday , with cruz calling the party front-runner “ a sniveling coward ” for threatening his wife on twitter .
the senator from texas also sharpened his attacks on trump ’ s conservative credentials , linking the brash billionaire to disgraced new york politicians eliot spitzer and anthony weiner .
cruz continued bashing trump for making cruz ’ s wife , heidi , a target of social-media barbs .
“ i have to say , seeing him go deeper and deeper into the gutter , it ’ s not easy to tick me off , ” cruz said at a news conference while campaigning in dane , wisconsin .
“ but you mess with my wife , you mess with my kids , it ’ ll do it every time .
“ donald , you ’ re a sniveling coward , ” cruz said .
“ leave heidi the hell alone. ” cruz ’ s remarks were the latest burst of hostility between the two camps , which earlier this week erupted into full view when trump accused cruz of posting a nude photo of melania trump on twitter .
trump responded by threatening to “ spill the beans ” on cruz ’ s wife , heidi .
cruz denied having anything to do with the image , which was part of an attack by an anti-trump super pac , make america awesome .
“ donald , real men don ’ t attack women .
your wife is lovely , and heidi is the love of my life , ” cruz said in a post on twitter earlier on thursday .
cruz ’ s tweet followed one moments earlier by trump in which he retweeted an image featuring a less-than-flattering picture of heidi cruz juxtaposed with a glamorous photo of melania .
the back-and-forth was too much for senator lindsey graham , a former presidential candidate , who blasted both men in an interview on nbc ’ s “ today ” show on thursday .
“ talk about things that people really care about , and knock this crap off because these are serious times , and you ’ re not behaving like you want to be president of the united states , ” he said .
for trump , attacking another candidate ’ s wife may carry some political risk .
half of u.s. women say they have a “ very unfavorable ” view of the billionaire businessman , according to reuters/ipsos polling in march .
cruz fared better , with 24 percent of the 5,000 women surveyed saying they had a “ very unfavorable ” view of him .
the democratic front-runner , hillary clinton , did worse than cruz but better than trump , with 36 percent of women polled saying they had a “ very unfavorable ” view of her .
the poll had a credibility interval of 2 percentage points .
also on thursday , cruz began to press trump on his history of supporting democratic politicians in new york , which holds its republican primary on april 19 .
and while manhattan is home to trump ’ s business empire , cruz spent time there this week campaigning .
in media releases and social-media postings , cruz highlighted trump ’ s history of donating not only to spitzer , new york ’ s former governor who resigned amid a prostitution scandal , and weiner , the former u.s. congressman who quit after tweeting lewd images of himself , but also to other new york liberals such as u.s. representative charles rangel , senator chuck schumer , and new york ’ s current governor , andrew cuomo .
the trump campaign did not respond to a request for comment , but trump posted an instagram video that showed former republican presidential candidates carly fiorina and graham expressing doubts about cruz earlier in the campaign .
both have since endorsed cruz , saying he is in the best position to halt trump ’ s march toward the nomination .
both trump and cruz are trying to garner enough delegates to win the republican nomination ahead of the party ’ s convention this summer .
after tuesday ’ s contests in arizona and utah , trump had 739 of the 1,237 delegates needed to win the nomination , according to the associated press .
cruz had 465 .
polls show trump leading in new york ahead of its primary .
and there were also indications on thursday of trump ’ s strength in california , where many observers believe he could clinch the nomination by winning its primary on june 7 .
a new survey by the public policy institute of california found that among likely republican primary voters , trump led with 38 percent to 27 percent for cruz and 14 percent for ohio governor john kasich .
the next republican contests will be on april 5 in wisconsin and on april 9 in wyoming .