washington ( reuters ) - a vote by iraq s minority kurds for independence is a blow to the united states , which has spent years , billions of dollars and the lives of thousands of troops trying to hold iraq together , former u.s. officials and other policy experts said .
a diplomatic drive to forestall monday s referendum failed to persuade kurdish leaders , some of the united states closest middle eastern allies , in what likely will be seen as fresh proof of diminishing american power , they said .
the kurds , who have ruled over a semi-autonomous region within iraq since the 2003 u.s.-led invasion that toppled saddam hussein , consider the result an historic step in a generations-old quest for a state of their own .
this is a major setback , said james jeffrey , a former u.s. ambassador to iraq and now a senior fellow at the washington institute for near east policy .
it robs us of the argument that only the u.s. can keep iraq united .
as a result , the united states could find it harder to stop predominantly shi ite muslim iran from filling the vacuum left by islamic state s defeat through shi ite militias and other allies in iraq , syria , and elsewhere , they said .
moreover , the vote to give kurdish leaders a mandate to negotiate independence for their region of more than 8.3 million threatens to ignite more strife .
that could hinder u.s.-backed efforts to stabilize iraq , eliminate the remnants of islamic state , or isis , and similar groups .
we see considerable risk , said a u.s. official , who spoke on condition of anonymity .
the gravest danger is a conflict over the disputed oil-rich city of kirkuk and other ethnically mixed kurdish-held areas pitting iraqi troops and iran-backed shi ite militias against the peshmerga , the kurdistan regional government s ( krg ) u.s.-trained paramilitary force .
such bloodletting could foreclose trump administration hopes of promoting negotiations between baghdad and the krg and avert a kurdish declaration of independence .
we say keep your eye on the ball , state department spokeswoman heather nauert said on tuesday .
this kind of division right now could potentially hurt iraq .
a conflict also could halt u.s.-backed operations to return home sunnis displaced by the battles that have reclaimed nearly all the caliphate islamic state declared in 2014 .
we are still hopeful of getting people to talk through this stuff rather than doing something more drastic , said a second u.s. official , who also requested anonymity .
the referendum was condemned by neighboring turkey and iran , which fear it will embolden independence demands by their kurdish populations .
ankara and tehran , trading partners of landlocked iraqi kurdistan , are threatening retaliation , fueling fears they could intervene militarily .
there were expectations that the u.s. , which said it would not recognize the vote , could use its ties to the iraqi kurds to persuade krg president masoud barzani to cancel the referendum in exchange for a guarantee of talks with baghdad .
the u.s. protected the iraqi kurds when they rebelled against hussein after the 1991 gulf war .
the americans are the midwife of iraqi kurdistan , said robert ford , a retired u.s. diplomat now with the middle east institute think tank , who served as deputy ambassador to iraq .
the kurds moving ahead ( with the vote ) is a sign of american credibility being much less than it used to be .
the u.s. bid to stop the referendum failed , experts said , in part because the aging barzani sees fulfilling aspirations for an independent kurdish state as his legacy .
moreover , said peter galbraith , a former u.s. diplomat with ties to kurdish leaders , the trump administration mistakenly thought barzani could weather the backlash from canceling the referendum , which the white house demanded just 10 days before it was held .
this was the most astonishingly inept diplomatic initiative i have ever seen , galbraith said .
former ambassador jeffrey said the administration also failed to account for iran s growing influence .
one thing that pushed the kurds in this direction is the fear that iraq is coming under the domination of iran and the shi ite militias , he said .
the underlying problem in iraq is that the shi ite parties in baghdad do not want to share power with the sunni arabs and the kurds .