washington/ankara ( reuters ) - the pentagon said on monday it was reviewing adjustments in arms for the syrian kurdish forces that have angered turkey , but it stopped short of halting weapons transfers , suggesting such decisions would be based on battlefield requirements .
turkey said on friday u.s. president donald trump told president tayyip erdogan he had issued instructions that weapons should not be provided to the syrian kurdish fighters , which ankara views as threat .
we are reviewing pending adjustments to the military support provided to our kurdish partners in as much as the military requirements of our defeat-isis and stabilization efforts will allow to prevent isis from returning , said pentagon spokesman eric pahon , referring to islamic state , which u.s. and u.s.-backed forces are battling in syria .
earlier on monday turkish deputy prime minister bekir bozdag said friday s call between trump and erdogan was a turning point in strained ties between the two countries , but washington must honor a pledge to stop providing weapons to the syrian kurds .
the we will not give weapons remark from a u.s. president for the first time is important , but it will lose value if it is not implemented .
it would be deceiving the world , bozdag said .
the syrian kurdish ypg spearheads the syrian democratic forces ( sdf ) , an alliance of kurdish and arab militias fighting islamic state with the help of a u.s.-led coalition .
a spokesperson for the coalition said on sunday that it was looking at adjustments to the support it provides to the sdf , ranging from the number of advisers to training and artillery .
weapons provided to syrian ypg have been limited and mission specific , the spokesperson added .
ankara has been infuriated by washington s support for the ypg militia , seen by turkey as an extension of the outlawed kurdistan workers party ( pkk ) , which has fought a decades-long insurgency in turkey and is designated a terrorist group by ankara , the united states and european union .