duesseldorf/duisburg , germany ( reuters ) - the steelworks in duisburg employed 3,000 people when it was closed in 1985 .
today , the disused factory , now a park showcasing the city s industrial heritage , gives work to dozens of curators , artists and athletes .
its fate is a symbol of the ruhr , the mining and heavy industry region that drove west germany s post-world war two economic recovery and whose working class communities provided the backbone of the center-left s social democrats ( spd ) .
martin schulz , the party s leader , has been targeting the ruhr with his campaign to fight inequality , arguing headline figures showing a healthy german economy masks pockets of deep poverty in parts of the country .
but with unemployment at its lowest in decades , that message has gained little traction , and the spd , up to 17 points behind chancellor angela merkel s conservatives in the polls , looks set to be roundly beaten in sunday s elections .
merkel s message , that the economy needs to be rendered fit for the future by investing in digital technologies , appears to resonate more in germany at a time of strong growth .
social democracy was rooted and anchored in the ruhr , but in past decades that has unwound , said stefan marschall , a politics professor at duesseldorf university .
the spd s unexpected loss to the conservatives in a regional election there this year was an early sign that schulz s campaign was faltering .
the city of duisburg remains an sdp stronghold , but in the bellwether state of north rhine-westphalia , home to a quarter of germany s population , the party s vote share has been slipping for decades as industry cedes its place to a service economy .
duesseldorf , the state capital just 30 kilometers ( 19 miles ) away , has been a beneficiary from the transformation , growing richer as the economy shifts toward lighter industry and services .
but duisburg has been a loser in the transition .
on duesseldorf s koenigsallee , lined with expensive boutiques and the offices of private banks and law firms , besuited lunchtime shoppers had doubts about schulz s message that neighboring duisburg needed their solidarity .
it s difficult to talk about social justice , said ruslana jebackers , a young mother who was leaning toward voting for the pro-business free democratic party ( fdp ) , a potential coalition ally for merkel s conservatives .
we pay a lot of taxes , but we don t get much social justice of our own , like support for my family , she added .
for mahmut ozdemir , one of the spd candidates in duisburg , the city needs support to reinvent itself , developing its inland port - now europe s largest - on the rhine .
under the state s new conservative-fdp government , the city will suffer , he says .
people will quickly realize what it means when the spd is not in charge .
nur , a 17-year-old interviewed in a marketplace in the deprived duisburg district of marxloh , liked ozdemir s message .
this guy said he cared , she said , expressing the hope that the lawmaker could help to cut food prices .
schulz s message gets a better reception with older voters .
merkel says we live well and happily in this country , but we don t all live well , said christel link , walking with a friend down the koenigsallee .
all my three children are hard-working , they studied but they have difficulty making ends meet .
it doesn t have to be like that .