the united states government has been living beyond its means , running up an enormous debt that will eventually need to be repaid .
most americans look at the rerun of the greek euro crisis with something between smug amusement and condescending disapproval .
when will those profligate greeks get their economic house in order and stop looking to others to bail them out ?
but , should people living in glass economic houses really throw stones ?
after all , just like greece , the united states government has been living beyond its means , running up an enormous debt that will eventually need to be repaid .
true , our budget deficit this year will be lower than it has been , just $ 486 billion compared to $ 1.4 trillion as recently as 2009 .
but this is just a temporary respite .
within the next couple of years the deficit will start to rise again .
by 2025 , we will again face trillion-dollar shortfalls .
and even a $ 486 billion deficit adds to our ever growing debt .
our national debt currently approaches $ 18.2 trillion , roughly 101 % of gdp .
that s right .
we owe more than the value of all the goods and services produced in this country every year .
it is as if your credit-card bills exceeded your entire pay check .
that s not quite as bad as greece , of course , whose debt exceeds 177 % of their gdp .
but it is worse than countries like france or spain .
and give us time !
like greece , the driving force behind our debt is the growing cost of entitlement programs for health care and retirement .
if one includes future unfunded liabilities for social security and medicare , our real debt exceeds $ 90 trillion .
that s more than five times our gdp .
greece is still in worse shape their unfunded liabilities top 875 % of gdp but we re gaining .
at the heart of greece s problems lies a government grown too big , too intrusive , and too expensive .
the greek government spent nearly half of the country s gdp last year ( 49.3 % ) , and that actually represents a decline from the 51.8 % it averaged since 2006 .
the greek s may complain about austerity , but they ve hardly practiced it .
our government is far smaller than greece s today .
federal spending is just 20.5 % of gdp .
but , according to the congressional budget office s alternative fiscal scenario , that could rise to almost 34 % by mid-century .
factoring in state and local government spending , which already accounts for roughly 14.4 % of gdp , total government expenditure in the us could reach 48 % to 50 % in 2050 , roughly greek levels .
as government grows , the private sector contracts .
greece has one of the most inhospitable business climates in europe , ranking 84th in the world in the most recent economic freedom of the world index .
meanwhile , as the united states continues to increase taxes and regulations , we have fallen from the second highest economic freedom ranking just 15 years ago to 12th place .
of course , the united states has some advantages that the greeks lack .
greece owes a significant share of its debt to foreign governments , while the majority of american debt is domestically held .
the united states also faces low borrowing rates , while greece has been effectively shut out of capital markets .
the us debt may be bad , but in many ways we are the fastest horse in the glue factory .
as long as the euro remains in crisis , we will continue to be able to borrow money at absurdly low interest rates .
the united states also controls its own currency and monetary policy , while greece is hostage to the european central bank , which must balance its interest against those of other countries in the monetary union , many of which are in far different economic positions.the danger for the united states is that spending on entitlements will surge in the coming decades , which means that , absent reform , they take over the economy .
investors would respond to the weaker economic outlook by demanding higher returns in order to continue investing in us bonds , which would further drive up interest costs , making our problems even worse .
and , of course , unlike greece , there aren t other countries or organizations available to bail us out.read more : nyp