she s such an easy target , it s almost like they could do a 4 year mini-series about this ungrateful , over-the-top family on sunday , russian tv host dmitry kiselyov , who enjoys the largest audience among news programs in russia , announced in his prime-time program news of the week the launch of a new documentary , whose goal would be to expose corruption in the u.s. as opposed to the familiar story in russian he s sick and tired of talking about .
this is not fair to forget about american corruption , he declared , about how they get fat on the money of american taxpayers there .
the title of the film emperor obama says it all , but the trailer , lasting more than 10 minutes , was shown anyway.the first victim of attack was the american first lady .
the information on our clients is strictly confidential , says the villa padierna hotel manager to a young and beautiful female reporter .
but i can confirm that michelle obama really stayed in our hotel .
she was our most famous guest .
since then , we named one of our villas after her .
villa obama has three floors , two bedrooms , one swimming pool and a big living room here is villa obama .
on the fourth of august 2010 , the manager continues , as the beautiful young reporter walks around the luxurious and spacious rooms , the u.s. president celebrated his 49th birthday , and the very same day his spouse , michelle obama , arrived for her vacation in spain .
here is her room .
not ceremoniously , the reporter touches the silk sheets and very rare travertine marble .
here are the official numbers : for the week starting august 4 , 131,000 americans were fired , losing their incomes and jobs .
at that moment , michelle obama was on vacation , and the taxpayers were paying $ 6,000 a night for this hotel suit .
then , the first lady is shown walking outside out in the spanish heat .
michelle !
michelle !
thunders the crowd.the reporter continues : michelle obama and her 9-year-old daughter sasha were accompanied by their personnel and secret agents , by 250 specially hired spanish bodyguards and 68 bodyguards brought from the u.s. as the american first lady eats ice cream , the street in spanish granada is totally blocked .
ms. obama flew in on her husband s airplane plane no .
2 , a bowing-747 according to protocol , which transports the american president while plane number one goes through technical maintenance .
at $ 11,000 per hour , michelle s flight from washington , d.c. , to the spanish malaga cost the us $ 150,000 .
the u.s. air force was sued for michelle s unlawful vacation and for the fifth year , the lawsuit drags on without any resolution .
facing the sunset and obviously having had a good time in spain herself , the reporter doesn t want to let the topic of ms. obama s vacations finish too quickly : the 44th american president goes on vacation twice a year in the summer and during christmas .
over the seven years of his presidency , american taxpayers spent between $ 10 million and $ 74 million a year on vacations for the first american family .
to understand how such unbelievable expenses accumulate , the cost for only the plane and the bodyguards when mr. obama flew his family to hawaii , in 2014 , was $ 5,316,000 .
did you hear what happened in flint , mich. ?
an american analyst steps into the video , where the whole town was poisoned ?
kids , pregnant women how much money did he spend on his vacations , you say ?
$ 74 million ?
but he gave flint only $ 5 million $ 5 million to the poisoned people as much as the launch of two military drones !
at this point , the cover of the book by michelle malkin , culture of corruption , is shown to viewers providing an idea as to the development of the story awaiting russian tv viewers on wednesday night .
via : observer