judge napolitano had this to say about the dnc s muslim it worker : he was arrested for some financial crime .
that s the tip of the iceberg .
the real crime against him was that he had contact , he had access to emails of every member of congress and he sold what he found in there .
what did he sell and to whom did he sell it .
that s what the fbi wants to know .
this may be a very , very serious national security investigation .
we ve been reporting this scandal for months but it s just now heating up .
the most of the main stream media has been silent on this serious national security breach within the dnc .
the fbi is investigating who was given top secret information by the dnc it workers who had email access to everyone in congress ! the puzzling part of this entire scandal is that the payment was outrageous !
over $ 4 million was given to this family and associates ! the daily caller reported on this breach of security way back in february when the brothers were fired : three brothers who managed office information technology for members of the house permanent select committee on intelligence and other lawmakers were abruptly relieved of their duties on suspicion that they accessed congressional computers without permission.brothers abid , imran , and jamal awan were barred from computer networks at the house of representatives thursday , the daily caller news foundation investigative group has learned.three members of the intelligence panel and five members of the house committee on foreign affairs were among the dozens of members who employed the suspects on a shared basis .
the two committees deal with many of the nation s most sensitive issues and documents , including those related to the war on terrorism.also among those whose computer systems may have been compromised is rep. debbie wasserman schultz , the florida democrat who was previously the target of a disastrous email hack when she served as chairman of the democratic national committee during the 2016 campaign.the brothers are suspected of serious violations , including accessing members computer networks without their knowledge and stealing equipment from congress.jamal handled it for rep. joaquin castro , a texas democrat who serves on both the intelligence and foreign affairs panels .
as of 2/2 , his employment with our office has been terminated , castro spokeswoman erin hatch told thedcnf friday.jamal also worked for louisiana democrat rep. cedric richmond , who is on the committee on homeland security.imran worked for reps. andre carson , an indiana democrat , and jackie speier , a california democrat .
both are members of the intelligence committee , and their spokesmen did not respond to thedcnf s requests for comment .
imran also worked for the house office of wasserman schultz.then-rep. tammy duckworth , an illinois democrat , employed abid for it work in 2016 .
she was a member of house committees dealing with the armed services , oversight , and benghazi .
duckworth was elected to the senate in november , 2016 .
abid has a prior criminal record and a bankruptcy.read more : daily caller