how very charitable of the lutheran and catholic churches to bring tens of thousands of refugees to america , dump them off , and expect the american taxpayer to fund their existence michigan congresswoman brenda lawrence cheers the news that more money is coming to her district for illegal aliens magically transformed into refugees.what she won t understand until it is too late , is that the arrival of thousands of refugees in michigan will squeeze americans , especially the african americans , at the bottom rung of the pay scale .
michigan is in the top five states receiving refugees and yet they are adding alien children into the mix.but , what the heck , even as states increase poverty , these church groups have to make a living ! from the detroit free press : washington the obama administration has awarded a michigan social services group $ 2.2 million to house unaccompanied immigrant children , u.s. rep. brenda lawrence announced today .
us rep brenda lawrence is happy that the lutherans are flooding michigan with refugees and alien children .
it was not immediately known how many children would receive or had received residential services under the grant to lutheran social services of michigan or whether any other groups were receiving grants in the state as well.no surprise !
no one will return calls ! calls and emails to lutheran social services of michigan and the office of refugee resettlement ( orr ) , part of the u.s. department of health and human services , from the free press seeking more information were not immediately returned.according to data on the orr s website , only 235 unaccompanied immigrant children had been placed in michigan in the last two years , far less than the number placed in neighboring states including ohio .
[ i wonder if the new grant is in anticipation of michigan getting more of the uacs ed ] some 63,000 undocumented children have been placed throughout the u.s. in the last two years , the orr s website said.in announcing the grant , lawrence , d-southfield , said the grant assists unaccompanied minors who seek relief from the violence and poverty that threatens their very existence in their home countries .
they can hardly be described as being faith-based while living off of taxpayer boodle !
doesn t sound like christian charity to me !
lutheran social services truly lives up to their faith-based mission statement to serve the people most in need of help and i am proud to see them receive this substantial federal grant , she said , adding that she believes it also time for congress to address comprehensive immigration reform.lutheran social services of michigan is the largest refugee resettlement agency in the state , lawrence said , providing thousands of families from dozens of countries.so , it is the lutherans resettling most of the muslim refugees to michigan ? other of the nine major contractors are also busy overloading michigan , go here to see the handy list of subcontractors/contractors working in michigan and your state too ! for new readers , for years we have covered the unaccompanied minors ( one of the government s original names for the youths illegally crossing the border ) .
click here for all of our previous posts.the us conference of catholic bishops and lutheran immigration and refugee service were the two big dogs doing the resettlement of the children ( obama s new refugees ) until two other federal contractors eclipsed them .
grant recipients baptist child and family services and southwest key programs are now on the scene devouring federal cash as well .