united nations ( reuters ) - south sudan s president salva kiir has ordered that humanitarian aid convoys be allowed to move freely , unhindered and unimpeded around the country , two weeks after the united states said it had lost trust in his government and threatened to pull support .
the nov. 9 order , seen by reuters , directs that all roadblocks should be removed , all levels of government must assist aid groups , and anyone who obstructs aid or imposes taxes on aid convoys shall be held accountable .
the move came two weeks after u.s .
ambassador to the united nations nikki haley met with kiir in juba .
she was the first member of president donald trump s cabinet to visit south sudan , which spiraled into civil war in late 2013 , two years after gaining independence from sudan .
haley said washington had lost trust in kiir s government for fueling the civil war , and demanded that kiir allow full and consistent humanitarian aid access .
this is a good sign , but we must see actions - more than words from president kiir , haley said in a statement on tuesday , referring to the nov. 9 presidential order .
the true test will be whether humanitarian assistance is actually allowed to get to the south sudanese people in a consistent way .
we will be watching , and we will continue to encourage president kiir to do the right thing , she said .
haley s office said kiir had yet to deliver on further commitments made during a 45-minute , one-on-one meeting with haley in juba .
the war in south sudan , sparked by a feud between kiir and his former deputy riek machar , has plunged parts of the world s youngest nation into famine .
some 4 million people have fled their homes , a third of the country s population .
u.n. humanitarian coordinator for south sudan , alain noudehou , welcomed kiir s nov. 9 order .
we hope that the order will have a positive impact in reducing the many constraints faced by humanitarian partners that delay or prevent the provision of urgently needed help , noudehou said in a statement on monday .
this was not the first time kiir has pledged to improve the humanitarian aid situation .
when u.n. security council ambassadors visited in september 2016 , kiir agreed to eliminate illegal checkpoints and streamline bureaucratic processes and access to people in need .
the following month he set up a high-level humanitarian oversight committee to improve cooperation with aid groups .
yet u.n. sanctions monitors , in a report to the u.n. security council seen by reuters last week , have accused kiir s government of using food as a weapon of war to target civilians by blocking life-saving aid in some areas .
they found that armed forces , groups and militias - particularly those affiliated with kiir and vice president taban deng gai - continued to actively impede both humanitarian and peacekeeping operations .
in his nov. 9 order , kiir directed the high-level humanitarian oversight committee ensure the aid convoys and groups can move freely and that state-level oversight committees be created .