wellington ( reuters ) - new zealand s ruling national party won the largest number of votes in the country s general election on saturday , securing a comfortable margin over the labour party after what had promised to be the most hotly contested race in recent history .
national and labour had been almost neck and neck in opinion polls , with charismatic 37-year old jacinda ardern almost single-handedly dragging labour back into the race after taking over the party s leadership in august .
national took 46 percent of the vote , the electoral commission said , while support for labour was 35.8 percent .
a final tally including overseas votes will be released on oct. 7 .
the results set up the nationalist new zealand first party to hold the balance of power and form the next government with 7.5 percent of the ballot .
veteran new zealand first leader winston peters has been minister under both major parties and has not said which party he would favor as a coalition partner .
previously he has backed the party with the largest number of votes .
all party leaders said they would have conversations over the next few days , with some of them already trying to woo peters on election night .
i want to acknowledge the strong performance of winston peters and new zealand first , bill english said in a speech to his supporters .
the voters of new zealand have given new zealand first a role in forming the next government , he said .
for english , who campaigned heavily on national s economic credentials after taking the party leadership last year , the strong showing was a vindication after national crashed to its worst ever election result in 2002 under his first stint as leader .
opinion polls leading up to the vote had been volatile with two recent ones giving national a near 10 point lead over labour .
national has been in power for nearly a decade .
bill english and national have taken the largest number of votes .
i ve called bill and acknowledged that , ardern told her supporters , adding she was planning conversations with both the green and new zealand first parties .
it s not over yet .
peters sounded buoyant but kept his cards close to his chest .
we have been strong enough and honest enough with our supporters to make it home , he said .
new zealand first had not all the cards but we do have the main cards , he added , saying he would not be rushed into giving any answers immediately .
ardern and english were expected to maintain fiscal prudence , but to differ on monetary policy , trade and immigration .
that would likely have implications for the new zealand dollar , the world s 11th most-traded currency in 2016 .
the new zealand dollar has tended to rise when national rose in the polls .
the thin trading conditions typical of early morning in asia mean a sharp but short-lived move on the nzd is possible on monday , said joseph carpuso , senior currency strategist at cba .
new zealand uses a german-style proportional representation system in which a party , or combination of parties , needs 61 of parliament s 120 members - usually about 48 percent of the vote - to form a government .
the results secured 58 seats for national in parliament , and 45 for labour .
new zealand first has nine seats and greens , which won 5.8 percent of the votes , have seven .
national s 58 seats were higher than labour and greens put together at 52 , but neither combination had enough to govern on their own .
it s all over , bar the special votes - but even they won t change the basic maths .
they won t change any crucial seats and national is extremely unlikely to go up .
so winston peters rules , said bryce edwards , analyst at wellington-based critical politics .
a record 1.2 million ballots were cast before the day of the election , accounting for about a third of the 3.3 million new zealanders enrolled to vote .
special votes , which include ballots from new zealanders overseas and those who vote outside their home constituencies , will be released on oct. 7 .
these are estimated to represent 15 percent of total votes and could have a considerable impact .
i would expect us to get a bit of a lift out of those special votes , said ardern .