yangon/washington ( reuters ) - the european union and the united states are considering targeted sanctions against myanmar military leaders over an offensive that has driven more than 500,000 rohingya muslims out of the country , officials familiar with the discussions say .
interviews with more than a dozen diplomats and government officials based in washington , yangon and europe revealed that punitive measures aimed specifically at top generals were among a range of options being discussed in response to the crisis .
nothing has yet been decided and washington and brussels may decide to hold off for now , the sources said .
there are also discussions about increasing aid for violence-riven rakhine state .
the active discussion of sanctions not even on the table a month ago shows how the dramatic exodus of rohingya muslims from myanmar s northwest is putting pressure on western policymakers to take action .
while much of the outcry overseas has focused on nobel laureate and myanmar s national leader aung san suu kyi , few western diplomats see an alternative to her leadership .
suu kyi does not control the military , which still wields considerable power under myanmar s army-written constitution .
the eu foreign ministers council will discuss myanmar on oct. 16 , although officials do not expect any move on sanctions that soon .
danish minister for development cooperation , ulla tornaes , told reuters that copenhagen had been working to get the crisis on the agenda , with the wish to put further pressure on the military .
two washington-based u.s. officials with knowledge of the trump administration s myanmar deliberations said targeted sanctions against commander-in-chief min aung hlaing and several other generals , as well as leaders of ethnic rakhine buddhist militias accused of torching rohingya villages , were under consideration .
such sanctions - if decided on - would likely entail u.s. asset freezes , bans on travel to the united states , prohibitions against americans doing business with them and other unspecified penalties .
washington was moving cautiously as it consulted with governments in europe , japan and southeast asia , the u.s. officials said .
a senior yangon-based european diplomat also said western countries were coordinating their response to the crisis and were in agreement that it was the military , and specifically the commander-in-chief , who needed to be targeted in any punitive action .
any punishment was likely to be symbolic at first to allow room for further talks , yangon-based diplomats said , giving the example of formally banning the army chief , who over the past year visited brussels , berlin and vienna , from further travel to europe .
western diplomats admit their leverage is limited : compared with china , whose ties with myanmar have warmed since suu kyi took office 18 months ago , u.s. and european investment and military engagement with the country are small .
they are also wary of action that could hurt the wider economy or destabilize already tense ties between suu kyi and the army .
the united nations is pressing for increased humanitarian access to other parts of rakhine , where hundreds of thousands of rohingya remain .
how myanmar responds to calls for increased aid , the investigation of alleged atrocities or repatriation of refugees would be a key consideration in deciding what action to take , u.s. and eu diplomats in myanmar said .
we can pile political pressure , look into financing we have in myanmar .
we have humanitarian aid , as well as development aid ... the european commission won t invest in the development of myanmar if the conditions , including security , are not there , said a brussels-based eu diplomat who follows myanmar .
there is also the arms trade embargo and we discuss regularly whether we should reward the reforms in myanmar and look at gradual easing of that , or the opposite .
eu economic sanctions on myanmar were lifted after the army stepped back from direct rule of the country in 2012 , beginning the democratic transition that brought suu kyi to power last year , but an arms embargo in force since the 1990s remains .
the united states removed most sanctions on myanmar last autumn .
it too has kept an arms embargo in place .
one washington-based u.s. official said that , while there was no firm deadline , washington hoped to have a plan of action on myanmar in place by the time president donald trump travels to asia for a series of summits in the first half of november .
the administration wanted to send a strong message to myanmar s military , but was concerned that too drastic action could allow china to expand its growing diplomatic and economic influence in the country , the official said .
there is little support in the administration for the re-imposition of broader economic sanctions , the official added .
the white house declined comment on internal deliberations on the rohingya crisis .
in another sign of pressure building on myanmar , new york-based diplomats said the organisation of islamic cooperation ( oic ) in the u.n. general assembly was pushing for a human rights resolution on the country .
last year the eu announced that for the first time in 15 years it would not introduce a resolution at the general assembly s third committee , which focuses on human rights , condemning myanmar s record - rewarding it for progress .
the european bloc could revive the resolution in the current session , taking on board the oic draft and broadening it out beyond the rohingya crisis , one diplomat in new york said .
diplomats said some members of the u.n. security council were exploring whether the 15-member body could agree a formal statement , or even a resolution , calling for an end to the violence , full access for aid and the safe return of refugees .
however , myanmar has said it was negotiating with china and russia , which have veto powers in the security council , to protect it from any possible action .
china and russia have both expressed support for the myanmar government .
myanmar s relations with the u.n. have grown increasingly testy since the discovery of world food programme-branded biscuits at a suspected militant camp in july prompted the government to accuse the u.n. agency of supporting the insurgents , forcing it to shut down its operations in rakhine .
myanmar is stalling on accepting a plan by the u.n. to upgrade the u.n. country head to the more powerful rank of assistant secretary-general ( asg ) when its current top official , who is due to be rotated , is replaced .
thaung tun , suu kyi s national security advisor , told reuters that the u.n. must treat us equally .
we ll be fine with anybody if all member states have an asg assigned .
not just us , he said .