the nfl was able to take a stand when it comes to the cowboys attempt to honoring slain police officers in their hometown , but when an nfl player posts an isis type execution of a police officer on social media , they can t seem to find their voice to express their disapproval the nfl has denied the dallas cowboys request to wear the arm-in-arm decal on their helmets for saturday s preseason opener against the los angeles rams.the cowboys had unveiled the decal at an emotional start to their first padded practice of training camp , when they walked arm-in-arm on the field with dallas police officials , including police chief david brown , dallas mayor mike rawlings and the families of the police officers slain in the line of duty last month.the cowboys , who wear the decal on their helmets during training camp , knew they would not be able to wear the decal for the regular season but had hoped to wear it in the preseason .
we certainly understand the position the league takes on this , but it won t diminish our support for that concept of unity and supporting our police force and what they do to make our lives better on a daily basis , coach jason garrett said .
that arm-in-arm image is something that we really believe in .
you heard me talk about it a couple weeks back .
what we re trying to do as a football team is build a team that s close .
we talk a lot about unity and having each other s backs , and certainly they embody that .
cowboys owner jerry jones has this to say about the decal controversy : tight end jason witten spearheaded the idea of the players honoring the police and the families .
while a little disappointed , witten believes the gesture at the start of camp can have a long-lasting impact .
what s really important is what we tried to do , and that s to unite that community , our community , and show that support for those families and really honor the leadership of our city , witten said .
i think that decal not being on the helmet is not going to stop that .
it s going to continue to do that not only now but in the future as we move forward .
as players and an organization that is something we re going to continue to support .
espnwe reported about cleveland brown s player , isaiah crowell s instagram post on july 11 , 2016 .
while cleveland brown s acknowledged his post , the nfl has yet to make a public admonishment or levy a fine against him for making what was akin to a terrorist threat on social media against law enforcement.here is a screen shot of the instagram post that crowell posted and then removed : under the vile picture he posted in ebonics : they give polices all types of weapons and they continuously choose to kill us .
100percentfedup.comcleveland police force was not taking this lightly .
here s how they replied to crowell s vile post : crowell got blasted for posting an illustration last week of a cop getting his throat slashed by a masked person .
he posted it on wednesday after alton sterling and philando castile s deaths , but the day before 5 dallas officers were shot and killed .
the running back deleted the post and the browns demanded he publicly apologize , which he did.but stephen loomis , president of cleveland police patrolmen s association , thinks the store-bought apology isn t enough .
he needs to go to dallas , help the families who lost their loved ones last week , write them a check , look them in the eyes and give a heartfelt apology .
loomis says crowell s post was as offensive as putting a picture of historical african-american men being hung from a tree in the 60s .
he adds that if crowell doesn t go to dallas and make a donation , i will pull cleveland officers , sheriffs , state troopers out of first energy stadium this season if he doesn t make it right .
as for crowell admitting he was wrong and acted out of rage loomis says , you re a grown ass man , and you claim you were too emotional to know it was wrong ?
think we ll accept your apology ?
kiss my ass .
tmz