berlin ( reuters ) - deniz yucel , a german-turkish journalist detained by ankara since february , has accused turkish president tayyip erdogan of subjecting his entire society to a regime of fear and said turkey is drifting toward fascism .
yucel , 44 , a correspondent for the newspaper die welt , made the remarks in a lengthy interview with the german newspaper die tageszeitung to be published on saturday .
turkish authorities arrested yucel , on feb. 14 on charges of propaganda in support of a terrorist organization , during a wave of arrests prompted by a failed coup attempt in july 2016 .
germany is backing a complaint filed by yucel with the european court of human rights , and has repeatedly called for him and other germans being held in turkey to be released .
the detentions have contributed to a sharp deterioration in relations between the two nato allies .
in total , ankara has jailed more than 50,000 people pending trial and suspended or dismissed some 150,000 state workers including teachers , judges and soldiers since the coup , which turkey blames on the movement of u.s-based cleric fethullah gulen .
gulen has denied any role , and condemned the coup .
yucel told the newspaper he remained in solitary confinement at silivri prison , west of istanbul .
solitary confinement is torture , he said .
yucel also said that even his prison guards were afraid of making a wrong move : a regime of fear is not directed solely at its critics , but also affects members of the oppressive apparatus .
he said erdogan himself had the most to fear : he knows what to expect if he loses power , and that is why he is subjecting the whole society to his regime of fear .
yucel said he hoped the european court would act quickly on his case after a nov. 28 deadline for turkey to submit its position , but that he was not sure what to expect .
he said that , like many of erdogan s critics , he was disappointed that the court had rejected cases brought by teachers and government workers affected by the crackdown , which erdogan says is necessary to guarantee turkey s stability .
but i also know the european court of human rights was founded to deal with individual human rights violations , not to stop a whole country drifting into fascism , he said .
the newspaper said the interview had been conducted in writing via yucel s lawyers .