herzliya , israel ( reuters ) - the israeli intelligence minister said on monday that president bashar al-assad was ready to permit iran to set up military bases in syria that would pose a long-term threat to neighboring israel .
while formally neutral on the six-year-old syrian civil war , israel worries that assad s recent gains have given his iranian and lebanese hezbollah allies a foothold on its northern front .
israeli prime minister benjamin netanyahu has lobbied russia , assad s most powerful backer , and the united states to curb the iranian presence in syria as well as hinting that israel could launch preemptive strikes against its arch-foe there .
in july , moscow ratified a deal under which damascus allowed the russian air base in syria s latakia province to remain for almost half a century .
israeli intelligence minister israel katz said iran could soon gain similar rights .
in these very days , assad and iran are nearing the signing of a long-term agreement that would anchor iran s military presence in syria , resembling the agreement that was signed between assad and the russians , katz told a security conference hosted by idc herzliya , a university near tel aviv .
the significance in terms of the danger and the threat against israel - and not just against israel , but also many countries in the region - is of the utmost clarity .
katz did not elaborate on the source of his information or give any further details about the purported negotiations .
the iranian foreign ministry declined to comment and syrian officials could not be reached .
katz said the plan was for an iranian naval port , bases for iran s air and ground forces , and tens of thousands of shiite militiamen being brought in from various countries to fight alongside their iranian and hezbollah co-religionists in syria .
iran s presence in syria , and efforts to bolster hezbollah in lebanon , are expected to feature in netanyahu s address to the united nations general assembly on sept. 19 .