caracas/houston ( reuters ) - venezuela s powerful former oil czar rafael ramirez said on tuesday he resigned from his job as u.n. envoy on orders of the president , a sign of growing rifts in the socialist party once firmly united under late leader hugo chavez .
sources told reuters last week that leftist president nicolas maduro fired ramirez , a political rival who was thought to have presidential ambitions , and summoned him back to caracas from new york .
several close allies of ramirez , as well as a relative , have been arrested in venezuela in recent weeks as part of a purge in the oil sector over graft allegations , sparking questions about whether ramirez would dare return to caracas .
insiders say maduro is feeling empowered after surviving major political protests this year .
he is now moving to strengthen his control of the opec member s crucial energy industry and sideline political rivals ahead of presidential elections in 2018 .
i have been removed for my opinions , said ramirez via twitter , where he posted a four-page resignation letter .
he has for weeks been writing editorials on a left-wing news site that are harshly critical of maduro and the state of the oil industry .
by attacking me personally , you are affecting the unity of the revolutionary forces and the legacy of comandante chavez , he added in the letter addressed to foreign minister jorge arreaza , referring to chavez , who governed venezuela for 14 years before dying of cancer in 2013 .
ramirez , a 54-year-old engineer , did not discuss his next moves in the resignation letter , but a source close to him told reuters on tuesday that had left the united states .
his press representative did not immediately respond to request for comment .
the sacking caps a remarkable downfall for ramirez , who led state oil company pdvsa and the oil ministry for a decade and was one of chavez closest confidants .
he oversaw vast oil nationalizations and urged workers to wear red shirts in support of chavez s socialist movement .
ramirez was disappointed when chavez picked maduro , a former bus driver and union leader , as his successor , according to sources familiar with his thinking .
maduro then narrowly won an election to become president in 2013 and swiftly demoted ramirez the following year , first to the foreign ministry and then to the united nations .
since then , a protracted rivalry between the two men has increased , insiders said .
ramirez has in recent months openly criticized venezuela s economy , which has the world s highest inflation and shortages of basic goods .
he wrote an article that was perceived as an attack on maduro himself , one source said .
the information ministry did not immediately respond to an email seeking comment .
the government said it had appointed samuel moncada , a former foreign minister , as u.n. envoy .
separately , state prosecutor tarek saab on tuesday said venezuela had ordered the arrests of six oil executives for their alleged role in a 2010 drilling contract with inflated prices .
the announcement comes amid a months-long crackdown on alleged graft in the energy industry that has led to the arrest of some 65 former executives , including two prominent officials who used to lead both the oil ministry and pdvsa .
corruption has long plagued venezuela , home to the world s biggest crude reserves , but the socialist government usually blamed smear campaigns for accusations of widespread graft .
maduro has recently changed his tack , blaming thieves and traitors for the country s crisis .
pdvsa has already started an arbitration procedure against petrosaudi , the company that leased the offshore rig in the 2010 contract , to seek damages for what it says was poor performance .
petrosaudi declined to comment .