complaints over lack of wi-fi , no professional cleaning service in their villas and even a refusal to be fingerprinted in greece upon their exit to other european countries .
it s almost as if they re not really grateful for the generosity of the taxpayers who are funding their existence african and middle-eastern migrants in an italian town are protesting insufficient wi-fi at their settlement by dumping their garbage into the streets.according to the local , which cites the italian-language la repubblica , a group of two dozen sub-saharan african migrants in the town of ceranova are outraged that a lack of free wi-fi at the villa they live in is preventing them from using skype to communicate with family members back in africa.the protesters are also angry that the villa doesn t have a professional cleaner to keep things tidy.at first , the protest took the form of migrants marching in the streets and blocking traffic , but now things have escalated and the migrants have begun dumping their trash into the streets to make their point .
the stunt led to a confrontation between townsfolk and the migrants , which may have become violent if not for the intervention of the local mayor along with three police officers .
afterwards , a 24-year-old migrant who led the demonstration was kicked out of the refugee facility.the migrants have been living in ceranova , a small town of about 1,000 people located about 15 miles south of milan , since july .
they are just a small portion of over 120,000 migrants who have arrived in italy this year , mostly by boat from africa.at least one italian is sympathetic to their demands .
obviously it s very important for refugees to have access to the internet and not just so they can stay in touch with their families , refugee center manager barbara spezzi told the local .
the internet helps refugees keep up to date with what s going on at home and in italy which helps them integrate into italian life .
it s also a great learning tool too : we had a case of a girl who was following her university lectures on youtube .
the stunt has become fodder for italian politics , with members of the regionalist , anti-immigration northern league party using it to bolster their arguments against generous refugee policies .
they wan t someone to clean their homes can you believe it ?
said party leader matteo salvani .
he joked that laura boldrini , a socialist and president of the chamber of deputies ( italy s parliament ) , should be sent to do the cleaning.there have been assorted cases of migrants reacting badly to their conditions or to the actions of european authorities .
last week , for instance , eritrean migrants on the italian island of lampedusa ( a hub for migrants arriving from africa ) marched in protest against requirements that they be fingerprinted before being allowed to leave the island .
some have apparently even launched a hunger strike against the requirement.via : daily caller