new york/wellington ( reuters ) - erik duhaime is a passive stock market investor , but he isn ’ t afraid to short donald trump or go long on hillary clinton .
the 28-year-old from cambridge , massachusetts , trades on predictit , an online political stock market that allows users to wager small amounts of money on “ yes ” or “ no ” predictions about whether an event will occur .
that includes who will win the u.s. presidential election in november .
“ this is probably one of the ways i restrain myself from being active in the stock market , ” said duhaime , a phd student at massachusetts institute of technology sloan school of management , who checks the site a few times a week for fun .
predictit , which was launched in 2014 , now has more than 30,000 traders registered , up from 19,000 at the end of 2015 , and has received shout-outs from pundits and presidential campaign advisors alike .
users must be u.s. residents and registered voters .
predictit says it is not like an online gambling site because it mainly exists to supply its data to universities for academic research , one of the main reasons the u.s. commodity futures trading commission allows it to operate legally , according to a letter issued by the regulator in 2014 .
it is jointly run by victoria university in wellington , new zealand , and a washington-based political consulting firm aristotle international inc .
unlike mainstream financial markets , bets are not big : the cftc caps each participant ’ s position at $ 850 per market , and the average deposit when people sign up is just $ 100 .
the regulator hasn ’ t been as friendly to such betting sites in the past .
in 2012 , the cftc filed a civil complaint against the now defunct intrade for violating a ban on off-exchange options trading .
the ireland-based market also allowed people to wager money on “ yes ” or “ no ” questions , but it wasn ’ t tied to an academic institution and didn ’ t have a cap on the maximum amount that could be traded .
predictions markets like predictit and a similar venue run by the university of iowa have emerged as an alternative to polling for election forecasters .
predictit is bigger than the iowa electronic markets , which has only about 2,000 active traders with access to its political markets .
“ polling is very expensive , ” said david rothschild , an economist at microsoft research who runs a predictions-market aggregator called predictwise , which draws heavily from predictit .
“ it ’ s a slow process .
it ’ s not very flexible. ” knowledge of polls does also feed into betting decisions on predictit .
“ predictions markets translate this and other information into probability , ” said rajiv sethi , professor of economics at barnard college .
“ the basic intuition is that it ’ s a ‘ wisdom of crowds ’ effect. ” for example , trump ’ s chances of securing the republican nomination for the presidential election swung dramatically on the site over the past three months as the primary season progressed .
a trump share shot from 30 cents in early february when he lost to rival ted cruz in the iowa primary to 80 cents a month later when trump dominated on super tuesday .
they then lost half their value by early april as cruz appeared to regain momentum with a big win in wisconsin .
with cruz and another rival , john kasich , now out of the race , trump had risen to 94 cents by monday .
for graphic showing trump 's ascendancy on predictit during primary season , see tmsnrt.rs/1wmrq for november ’ s election , though , trump is trailing on predictit with 40 cents against clinton ’ s 59 cents .
while predictit ’ s precision has yet to be closely examined by academics , other predictions markets such as the iowa electronic markets , have proven to be just as accurate as polls , experts who have studied them said .
predictit markets go beyond topics related to u.s. elections .
users also put the probability of a north korea hydrogen bomb test this year at only 29 cents , and a british exit from the european union by 2017 at just 30 cents .
the idea for predictit was first thought up in the mid-1990s by lew evans , professor of economics at the university of victoria .
it took until 2008 , for the market , called “ ipredict ” in new zealand , to get up and running .
early on , it focused primarily on new zealand politics , and research showed ipredict out-performed the majority of polls in predicting the results in two of new zealand ’ s last three general elections .
however , new anti-money laundering laws in new zealand put an end to ipredict last year after the cost of verifying users ’ identities to comply with the rules threatened to blow through ipredict ’ s shoe-string budget .
predictit attracts everyone from campaign volunteers to political junkies .
in mid-april , about 30 predictit traders gathered at a bar in new york to watch the state ’ s primary results roll in .
“ i think it ’ s a good source of collective wisdom , ” said brian hegarty , who was at the event .
hegarty , who worked for kasich ’ s campaign , reads political news , but also relied on picking up information through his campaign experience .
that didn ’ t always translate to a bet in favor of kasich .
he said he put money on republican candidate marco rubio to win the minnesota caucus because he had overheard someone who was working for the florida senator express confidence about rubio ’ s chances .
it turned out to be one of the few states rubio won before dropping out in mid-march .
duhaime , the mit student , said he usually bets against candidates he believes are likely to flame out .
“ for me , trump was one of those people , ” he said .
“ i shorted trump way back in july , and it hasn ’ t been fun watching. ” after trump ’ s win in indiana in early may , duhaime was down nearly $ 1,000 , about a third of the money he put into predictit .
“ i still think it was a one in a hundred thing , ” duhaime , who doesn ’ t identify as a democrat but is a fan of president barack obama , said of the trump phenomenon .
“ obviously i ’ m bummed , but i ’ m sort of more concerned for other reasons. ” ( this version of the story corrects the spelling of lew evans )