washington ( reuters ) - a republican plan to repeal taxes set under obamacare would benefit the wealthiest u.s. households at more than five times the rate for middle-income families , according to the nonpartisan tax policy center .
`` the effects are really very dramatic .
we found that a typical middle-income family would get a tax cut averaging about $ 300 , while people in the top 0.1 percent would get a tax cut of about $ 207,000 , '' howard gleckman , a senior fellow at the nonprofit research group , said on monday .
( tpc.io/2n1mdwi ) the expected benefits equal 2.6 percent of a wealthy family ’ s after-tax income , but only 0.5 percent of the income of a middle-class household making $ 51,600 to $ 89,400 a year , including fringe benefits like employer-provided health insurance , the center estimated .
the top 0.1 percent of u.s. families have income of at least $ 3.9 million .
the proposed changes are part of a plan backed by republican president donald trump to repeal and replace the law officially known as the affordable care act , former democratic president barack obama ’ s signature domestic legislation .
all told , the tax portion would eliminate levies worth $ 600 billion in revenues over a decade .
if adopted , the plan could be the first in a series of tax cuts promised by trump , who has vowed to lower taxes further through separate legislation to overhaul the u.s. tax code .
the congressional budget office , which provides official cost estimates for legislation , on monday said 14 million more people would be uninsured in 2018 and 24 million more in 2026 if the plan being considered in the house of representatives were adopted .
the republican plan would also reduce federal deficits by $ 337 billion between 2017 and 2026 , the office said .
house of representatives speaker paul ryan , the republican healthcare plan ’ s top backer in congress , and house democratic leader nancy pelosi ’ s office had no immediate comment .
trump defended the republican plan on monday , telling a group of obamacare opponents that the replacement would offer more coverage choices at lower costs .
obama raised taxes on the wealthy to fund healthcare benefits for middle- and low-income americans under his healthcare law , which has extended coverage to 20 million previously uninsured people through subsidized private coverage and the medicaid program for the poor .
democrats charge that republicans would now help the rich at the expense of families who depend on obamacare subsidies .
the repeal of just two aca taxes - a 3.8 percent investment tax and a 0.9 percent medicare payroll tax on people earning $ 200,000 or more a year - would return about $ 275 billion to taxpayers over 10 years , the congressional joint committee on taxation , or jct , said in a report last week .
about 60 percent of that sum would go to those with incomes of $ 1 million a year or more , according to a reuters analysis of jct data released only to congress .
in addition to the investment and hospital taxes , the tax policy center also included the effects of repealing obamacare ’ s tax penalties for the uninsured and employers that offer no insurance , and excise taxes on healthcare providers and insurers .
the researchers found that 40 percent of benefits from the proposed tax changes would go to households earning more than $ 772,000 a year in 2022 , when the cuts would be fully effective .