manchester , england ( reuters ) - prime minister theresa may set out her quest to tackle social and racial injustice on tuesday , hoping to shift the focus of her conservative party s annual conference away from rifts over britain s exit from the european union and her leadership .
after a bruising start to the party s annual meeting in the city of manchester , may will try to reset the agenda after remarks on brexit policy by foreign minister boris johnson that deepened divisions in her top team of advisers .
she said an audit will be published on oct. 10 spelling out the uncomfortable truths of life in britain , showing how people of different racial backgrounds are treated in the health , education , employment and the criminal justice system .
her ministers will also announce policies to try to prove critics wrong and show that her government is working , including measures to toughen sentences of people streaming or browsing extremist material , and to increase nurse training .
in doing this ground-breaking work we are holding a mirror up to our society , may said in a statement .
my most fundamental political belief is that how far you go in life should be based on your talent and how hard you work - and nothing else .
but in early morning broadcast interviews , may was repeatedly asked about her relationship with johnson after he set out four personal red lines for the brexit negotiations to unravel more than 40 years of union .
i don t set red lines , may told bbc television , describing her cabinet of top ministers as united over brexit .
leadership is about ensuring that you have a team of people who aren t yes men , but a team of people of different voices around the table so that we can discuss matters , come to an agreement and then put that government view forward , and that is exactly what we ve done .
may promised to build a country that works for everyone , not just the privileged few when she became prime minister just over a year ago after britons voted narrowly to leave the eu and her predecessor david cameron stepped down .
but she has had to shelve many of her domestic policies - such as social care and corporate reforms - since losing the conservatives majority in parliament in a june election .
that setback has undermined the party s confidence in her ability to lead it into the next election , due in 2022 .
the preliminary findings of the audit showed that the unemployment rate for black , asian and minority ethnic people of working age is nearly double that for white groups , while more than nine in 10 headteachers are white , the government said .
the findings , the government says , can help better target training and mentoring programs .
the idea itself is not new , may said .
charles booth s maps of rich and poor areas in victorian london drew attention to hardship that was too often hidden but this focus on how ethnicity affects people s lives will present findings that are uncomfortable .