democrat jon ossoff said tuesday that he believes voters in georgia s sixth congressional district do not care that he does not live in the district he is running to represent , dismissing questions on his residency .
well , he did work for georgia rep. hank johnson for 5 years johnson famously said the island of guam would tip over but was reelected anyway .
details , meh ossoff s residency has been a persistent problem for him during his special election campaign to fill secretary of health and human services tom price s vacant house seat.ossoff said he lives down the street but it took a washington free beacon reporter over 2 hours to walk from ossoff s house to the 6th district headquarters ! the georgia democrat lives a two-hour walk away from the sixth district , so that his fianc e can walk to her medical school classes.the question of where he lives came up again when ossoff appeared on msnbc .
host stephanie ruhle asked why , in such a close race , ossoff has not made a greater effort to address his residency outside of the district .
voters just aren t asking me this question , ossoff responded .
folks here in georgia s sixth district care about how their representation is going to impact their daily lives , he added.https : //www.youtube.com/watch ? v=a9m5h99tq9c i grew up in this community .
as you mentioned , i live a couple of miles down the road to support my fianc e while she finishes medical school , ossoff said .
i m running to serve my home town in congress , and i want to make them proud .
ruhle pushed ossoff on why he would not address the issue in such a tight race .
since the special election , where you were at 48.1 [ percent ] , things have only moved to 48.8 , with 50 million bucks under your belt .
voters care about a lot .
if you look back on this and things are that tight , wouldn t you say to yourself , just get an apartment in the district ?
ruhle asked .
if voters were raising that as a serious concern , steph , maybe i would , ossoff said .
but voters care about how policy and about how representation is going to impact their daily lives , he continued .
they know i grew up in this community .
they know i grew up in the sixth district .
they know why i m a couple of miles south of the line .
it s just not a major issue in the race .
because he lives outside of the district , ossoff can not vote for himself on tuesday in his congressional bid against republican karen handel.via : wfb