.
by gilad atzmonin my recent book being in time a post political manifesto , i pointed out that the west and america in particular have been led into a disastrous identity ( id ) clash .
this week in virginia we saw a glimpse of it.in the book i argue that the transition from traditional left ideology into new left politics can be understood as the aggressive advocacy of sectarian and divisive ideologies .
while the old left made an effort to unite us all : gays , blacks , jews or whites into a political struggle against capital , the new left has managed to divide us into id sectors .
we are trained to speak as a : as a jew , as a black , as a lesbian .
the new left has taught us to identify with our biology , with our gender , sex orientation and our skin colour , as long as it isn t white of course.in being in time , i noted that it was a question of time before white people would also decide to identify with their biology .
and this is exactly what we saw in virginia last weekend.tragically , id politics is a very dangerous political game .
it is designed to pull people apart .
it is there to introduce conflict and division .
id politics doesn t offer a harmonious vision of society as a whole .
quite the opposite , it leads to an increasingly fractured social reality .
take , for instance , the continuous evolution of the lgbt group .
it is constantly expanding to include more and more sectarian sexually oriented social subgroupings ( lgbtq , lgbtqai and even lgbtqiap ) .in the new left social reality , we , the people are shoved into id ghettos that are defined by our biology : skin colour , sexual orientation , the jewish mother , etc.instead of what we need to do : fight together against big money , the bankers , the megacorporations , we fight each other , we learn to hate each other .
we even drive our cars over each other.i am opposed to all forms of id politics , whether it is white , black , jewish , gender or sex oriented .
but , obviously if jews , gays and others are entitled to identify with their biology , white people are entitled to do the same .
i think that universalism is what we used to call it when we still cared about intellectual integrity.the problem created by id politics is extremely grave.id politics doesn t offer a prospect of peace and harmony .
within the context of id politics , we can not envisage a peaceful resolution of the current id clash .
can anyone foresee the lgbt community embracing kkk activists into their notion of diverse society ?
the same can be said about the kkk , are they going to open their gates to cultural marxists ? id politics equals id clash , an irreconcilable conflict with no end , the complete destruction of american and , to a certain extent , western civilisation .
this may explain why george soros and his open society are invested in this battle .
as long as the working people are fighting each other , no one bothers to challenge the root cause of our current dystopia , namely the banks , global capitalism , wall street , mammonism and so on.the remedy is clear .
america and the west must , at once , break away from all forms of id politics .
instead of celebrating that which separates us , we must seek what unites and makes us into one people .
i am advocating a radical spiritual , ideological and metaphysical transition .
whether or not we like to admit it , these moments of unity are often invoked by waves of patriotism , nationalism and religious figures .
but they could also be inspired by the spirit of justice , equality compassion and love .
neither the new left or the alt right offers any of the above .
they are equally invested in identitarian ideologies .
the electoral success of trump , corbyn and even sanders or le pen points at a general human fatigue .
readiness for change is in the air.this article was originally published at gilad atzmon s blog ( an excerpt from being in time a post political manifesto pg .
49 ) the identitarian shift & the primacy of the symptom id politics manifests itself as a set of group identification strategies .
it subdues the i in favour of symbolic identifiers : the ring on the appropriate ear , the nose stud , the type of skullcap , the colour of the scarf and so on.within the id political cosmos , newly emerging tribes ( gays , lesbians , jews , blacks , whites , vegans , etc . )
are marched into the desert , led towards an appealing promised land , where the primacy of the symptom ( gender , sexual orientation , ethnicity , skin colour etc . )
is supposed to evolve into a world in itself .
but this liberal utopia is in practice a sectarian and segregated amalgam of ghettos that are blind to each other .
it has nothing in common with the promised universal , inclusive cosmos .
the personal is political , as the common feminists and liberal preachers have disseminated since the 1960s , is a phrase designed to disguise the obvious ; the personal is actually the antithesis of the political .
it is , in fact , the disparity between the personal and the political that makes humanism into an evolving exchange known as history .
within the identitarian discourse , the so-called personal replaces true and genuine individualism with phony group identification it suppresses all sense of authenticity , rootedness and belonging , in favour of a symbolism and imaginary collectivism that is supported by rituals and empty soundbites.why are we willing to subject ourselves to politics based on biology , and who wrote this new theology found in pamphlets and in the growing numbers of id studies textbooks ?
is there a contemporaneous god ?
and who created the pillar of cloud we are all to follow ? it is clear that elements within the new left , together with jewish progressives and liberal intelligentsia , have been at the heart of the formation of the ideological foundation of id politics .
at least traditionally , both jewish liberals and the left were associated with opposition to any form of exclusive political agenda based on biology or ethnicity .
yet , one may wonder why does the new left espouse such an exclusivist , sectarian and biologically driven agenda ? gilad atzmon s book being in time : a post political manifesto is available now on : amazon.co.uk , amazon.com and gilad.co.uk .
read more alt right news at : 21st century wire alt right filessupport 21wire subscribe & become a member @ 21wire.tv