washington ( reuters ) - president donald trump ’ s promise to balance the federal budget in a decade rests on a sustained rise to 3 percent annual economic growth that he promised in his election campaign and a vague “ feedback ” effect that lowers the annual government deficit by hundreds of billions of dollars .
the projections are a leap of faith that many economists and the federal reserve regard as unlikely in a country where the population is aging and productivity has lagged .
they also hinge on continued low interest rates , low inflation and full employment - a decade free not just of major economic shocks but of the sort of mild recession considered part of a capitalist economy ’ s normal ups and downs .
according to the summary tables released by the administration on monday night , the administration is assuming economic growth reaches 3 percent annually by the end of trump ’ s first term and stays there at least through 2027 .
actual first quarter economic growth was a weak 0.7 percent on an annualized basis , though current fed forecasts expect about 2.1 percent growth for the year .
economic growth is one reason the plan forecasts tax receipts growing by around 5 percent a year even as the president promises tax cuts that “ will spur investment and create jobs. ” inflation is assumed to hit the fed ’ s 2 percent goal and stay there , compared to the fed ’ s current forecast of just below 2 percent for 2016 .
the budget assumes the unemployment rate will rise slightly from its current 4.4 percent rate and stay at a long-term average of 4.8 percent .
without that jump in growth and the steady environment surrounding it , deficits would increase by as much as half a trillion dollars a year - around where they are now - according to administration estimates that include an “ effect of economic feedback ” that reduces the government ’ s annual shortfall by an amount that grows to $ 496 billion by 2027 .
the exact nature of the “ effect of economic feedback ” was not detailed in the initial documents .
president barack obama ’ s last budget assumed 2.6 percent annual growth , and even that is considered optimistic by professional economists and the federal reserve .
central bankers have penciled in trend u.s. growth of around 1.8 percent over the long run .
some wall street analysts , giving credit to some of trump ’ s possible tax cut ideas , forecast economic growth could hit 2.3 percent in 2020 , according to the latest quarterly poll of forecasters by the philadelphia fed .
“ with all due respect , the full fiscal trump magic was never a realistic outlook , ” erik nielsen , chief economist at unicredit , wrote in a note to clients on sunday .
growth since 2000 has averaged 1.9 percent in the united states ; over the course of a decade the difference between that and trump ’ s 3 percent figure compounds to an additional $ 2 trillion annually that would not get spent , invested or taxed .
the administration is also assuming that interest rates remain low , with a 10-year treasury bond rate that rises to 3.8 percent and remains there , a figure critical to projected government borrowing costs .
while the 10-year bond has averaged near that level throughout this century and is currently well below it , periods of faster economic growth generally involve higher rates because of both the likelihood of tighter monetary policy and the likely demand for u.s. securities if the economy does accelerate .