a police officer was shot and killed in tacoma , washington on wednesday , which marks the 200th time that a police officer , or member of law enforcement , has been shot in 2016 .
according to data compiled by everytownresearch.org , more than a quarter of those shootings were fatal a total of 56 officers were killed and 203 were injured in these 200 shootings.the huffington post reported thursday : sixty-nine of these shootings have taken place in states with background-check laws on all handgun sales .
these states employ 337,679 full-time sworn police officers .
in states without these laws , which employ 299,355 officers , there have been 131 shootings of law enforcement officers.twenty-one of the 25 states with the highest number of shooting incidents per police officer don t have background checks on all handgun sales , a huffpost analysis shows.seventy-five percent of the firearms used in this year s police shootings 151 total guns were handguns .
according to statistics compiled by the national law enforcement memorial fund , the total number of officer-related deaths are up from 2014 and have more than doubled from 2015 , with texas being the deadliest state for officers .
in texas alone , 18 officers have been shot and killed , including those who died tragically in the ambush in dallas on july 7th .
day and night , police officers run toward danger to keep the rest of us safe , and this tragic milestone is a sobering reminder of the risks they face , said john feinblatt , everytown s president .
we have to reduce those risks , and data shows that we can by making it harder for criminals to get guns .
it s long past time to close the dangerous loophole in our laws that lets criminals buy guns with no background check and no questions asked .
licensed gun dealers are required by federal law to perform background checks on buyers , however , unlicensed dealers , such as individuals who sell weapons online or at gun shows , are not bound by the same federal law , thus allowing anyone regardless of their mental health or criminal history to purchase firearms , endangering the lives of millions.looking at this further , currently , only 18 states require background checks for handgun purchases and out of those , only 8 require universal background checks for all firearms .
out of those few states that require background checks , everytown data shows that officers in those states are 48 percent less likely to be killed with handguns .
that is astounding ! the data strongly suggests that expanding background checks and enforcing them in all states would save countless lives , yet the nra strongly opposes this insisting that laws don t stop criminals from getting guns .
while there is some logic in this , a large percentage of shootings ( not just officer related ) were committed by licensed gun owners .
a study done of four concealed carry states in 2016 showed that 302 shooting deaths were committed by licensed owners 74 in florida , 51 in texas , 33 in ohio and 19 in washington.the nra refused to comment on these studies , stating that they needed more information about how the research was conducted , but sarah tofte , everytown s research director , said the group is confident in its research methods .
the factors that contribute to these shootings are complicated , and no single policy can explain all of the variation , she told huffpost .
that said , we know from other research that background checks do save lives , and states owe it to their first responders to do everything in their power to protect them .
it s very clear and simple if more states require universal background checks , the chance of police officer shootings will reduce by more than 50 percent .
gun reform needs to happen.featured image via getty/stewart f. house/stringer