brussels ( reuters ) - theresa may looked despondent , with deep rings under her eyes , eu chief executive jean-claude juncker told aides after dining with the british prime minister last week , a german newspaper said on sunday .
the report by a frankfurter allgemeine zeitung correspondent whose leaked account of a juncker-may dinner in april caused upset in london , said juncker thought her marked by battles over brexit with her own conservative ministers as she asked for eu help to create more room for maneuver at home .
no immediate comment was available from juncker s office , which has a policy of not commenting on reports of meetings .
the faz said may , who flew in for a hastily announced dinner in brussels with the european commission president last monday ahead of an eu summit , seemed to juncker anxious , despondent and disheartened , a woman who trusts hardly anyone but is also not ready for a clear-out to free herself .
as she later did over dinner on thursday with fellow eu leaders , may asked for help to overcome british divisions .
she indicated that back home friend and foe are at her back plotting to bring her down , the paper said .
may said she had no room left to maneuver .
the europeans have to create it for her .
may s face and appearance spoke volumes , juncker later told his colleagues , the faz added .
she has deep rings under her eyes .
she looks like someone who can t sleep a wink .
she smiles for the cameras , it went on , but it looks forced , unlike in the past , when she could shake with laughter .
now she needs all her strength not to lose her poise .
as with the april dinner at 10 downing street , when the faz reported that juncker thought may in another galaxy in terms of brexit expectations , both sides issued statements after last week s meeting saying talks were constructive and friendly .
they said they agreed negotiations should be accelerated .
may dismissed the dinner leak six months ago as brussels gossip , though officials on both sides said the report in the faz did little to foster an atmosphere of trust which they agree will be important to reach a deal .
german chancellor angela merkel was also reported to have been irritated by that leak .
although the summit on thursday and friday rejected may s call for an immediate start to talks on the future relationship , leaders made a gesture to speed up the process and voiced hopes of opening a new phase in december .
some said they understood may s difficulties in forging consensus in london .