manila ( reuters ) - a group of philippine lawyers on wednesday filed an injunction with the supreme court to try to stop president rodrigo duterte s bloody war on drugs , calling it as an illegal campaign that lets police kill and circumvent legal procedures .
the government s directive for the fierce 15-month-old crackdown permits police to negate and neutralise targets , effectively granting them a license to kill suspected users and dealers , without gathering evidence or building a case , the lawyers said .
a practice of compiling lists of drug personalities and encouraging citizens to anonymously provide names was tantamount to drawing up a hit list , the petition said .
it called for judicial intervention in thousands of cases where filipinos were killed by police .
the present war on drugs being waged by the government is not going to stop illegal drugs , crime and corruption , jose manuel diokno , chairman of the free legal assistance group ( flag ) , told a news conference .
( it ) will only result in the killing of more and more people especially the poor .
the petition comes as public scrutiny intensifies on duterte s signature campaign , which he insists will not stop , regardless of the bloodshed .
he says he is prepared to go to jail to protect filipinos from crimes fueled by addiction .
duterte rejects criticism that his notoriously bellicose public remarks have been interpreted by some police as veiled instructions to kill drug users , with impunity .
philippine national police ( pnp ) spokesman dionardo carlos said police welcome the filing of the petition before the supreme court .
he did not elaborate .
though filipinos are largely supportive of duterte s iron-fisted approach , recent opinion polls indicate public doubts that his drugs war is above board and effective as the government says .
analysts say unease about the campaign has contributed to duterte s ratings decline .
pnp data shows 3,900 people have been killed in operations in which police say armed suspects violently resisted arrest .
duterte s opponents and activists dispute that and say executions and cover-ups are commonplace , which police deny .
the petition by flag , which is comprised of around 200 pro-bono human rights lawyers , was filed on behalf of three people whose relatives were killed by police .
flag has also represented two men who testified before the senate that they were part of an alleged death squad that killed drug dealers and criminals at duterte s behest when he was davao city mayor , long before his presidency .
duterte dismisses the allegation as nonsense .
the latest petition seeks to compel the pnp and the interior ministry to halt the campaign and wants killings to be examined by the national bureau of investigation ( nbi ) , which would take charge of evidence , including guns that police say were used by victims .
it said house-to-house visits by anti-drugs police followed unverified tip-offs from unknown informants and were not based on evidence .
it argues police had no intent to persuade suspects to surrender and would kill anyone who refused to cooperate or denied involvement .
the government s war on drugs is short-cutting the justice system by dispensing justice from the barrels of guns , the petition said .