it has been sixteen years since the american economy has added as many jobs as it added in 2015 .
economic observers believe , pending the upcoming jobs report that will indicate how many jobs were added in december of 2015 , that last year 2.5 million jobs were added to the u.s. economy .
that is a feat that hasn t been accomplished since 1998-99 , during the clinton boom.under president obama , the economy has completely flipped from its death spiral under the bush recession.even with weakness seen during the summer , job gains in 2015 will top 2.5 million , making it the second-best calendar year for u.s. job growth in this millennium , after last year s 3.1 million .
the last time more jobs were created in a two-year period was at the height of the dot-com boom , in 1998-1999.the december totals should get a shot in the arm from the warm weather , said ted wieseman , an economist at morgan stanley .
he forecasts an overall gain of 215,000.barclays told marketwatch they believe the current unemployment rate of 5.0 % will fall to 4.3 % by the end of 2016 and 3.7 % by the end of 2017.unemployment reached a high of 10 % in the months after president obama took over from george w. bush.the growing economy is one of the strongest factors in favor of democrats retaining the white house , even though it is generally difficult for one party to hold the office for three consecutive terms , a feat last accomplished in 1988 with the transition from ronald reagan to george h. w. bush.it may explain why many of the republican presidential candidates , including donald trump , ted cruz , and marco rubio , are increasing how often they speak about the threat of international terrorism .
those candidates have decided to down play the work of the american military in combating terrorism , even as top isis leaders die via american bombing raids.yet even that may be a failing strategy .
after the tragic terror attacks on paris , polls showed that the candidate most trusted to deal with terrorism is secretary hillary clinton , who is also the candidate most closely affiliated with president obama.on two of the most pressing issues , republicans have the most recent national failures on their ledger .
the economic collapse under bush , and the growth of international terrorism , particularly the worst terrorist attack in american history , under bush.featured image via wikimedia commons