so in other words , parents better allow men to use the same bathrooms and locker rooms as your little girls or the nba is gathering up their balls and running away .
is the nba still a professional sports organization , or have they morphed into a radical social change group ?
if the answer is the latter , you won t see me pay another dime to sit in the stands of another nba game .
i don t think i m alone in that thinking either .
putting social issues before the safety and well-being of women and children is misguided and dangerous .
click here to comment on nba commissioner adam silver s facebook page .
commissioner adam silver believes the nba has been crystal clear that the 2017 all-star game only stays in charlotte if a north carolina law goes.political and business leaders he s spoken with in the state believe it will , so he s holding off for now on setting any deadlines for when the nba might act.silver said last week that the law that limits anti-discrimination protections for lesbian , gay and transgender people was problematic for the league , but he believed dialogue was more useful than ultimatums at this point , so has continued discussions with north carolina officials .
the sense was that if the nba could give us some time , they in the community of north carolina were optimistic they would see a change in the law .
they weren t guaranteeing it and i think which was why my response was the event still is 10 months from now , we don t need to make a decision yet , silver said thursday during a meeting of associated press sports editors .
we ve been , i think , crystal clear that we believe a change in the law is necessary for us to play in the kind of environment that we think is appropriate for a celebratory nba event , but that we did have some time and that if the view of the people who were allied with us in terms of a change , if their view , the people on the ground in north carolina , was that the situation would best be served by us not setting a deadline , we would not set a deadline at this time .
the north carolina law directs transgender people to use public toilets corresponding to the sex listed on their birth certificate .
the law also excludes lgbt people from state anti-discrimination protections , blocks local governments from expanding lgbt protections , and bars all types of workplace discrimination lawsuits from state courts.several entertainment acts have already canceled plans for north carolina but silver said last week he didn t think a warning that the nba could pull the all-star weekend out would send the proper message , particularly because the league still has the charlotte hornets , owned by michael jordan , playing there .
the hornets host playoff games this weekend.all-star weekend is scheduled for february .
silver said there is no urgency to make a decision because the league could very easily find out which arenas would take on the event if necessary.via : ap news