moscow ( reuters ) - ksenia sobchak , a russian tv personality planning to run against vladimir putin in next year s presidential election , attacked his policies on tuesday but said she would not personally insult him in the campaign because he was a family friend .
sobchak , 35 , and the daughter of a former mayor of st petersburg for whom putin once worked , said she does not expect to beat putin , who is a runaway favorite for re-election in march if he chooses to run again .
but she said she wants to provide an alternative choice for russian voters who are frustrated with mainstream politicians .
alexei navalny , a fierce critic of putin , has said he believes sobchak is being used by the kremlin to blunt protests by liberals alienated from the political process , though she has denied doing the kremlin s bidding .
i tell you honestly : i m running against everyone , and this refers to vladimir putin , she said .
but she added : i personally will not insult putin .
for some , he is a tyrant and dictator ... but for me this is a person who , first of all , helped my father in a difficult situation and de facto saved his life , she told a news conference to unveil her campaign team .
she did however state her opposition to putin possibly running for a fourth term in power .
i am against the corrupt system which was built in our country during these years and i am against anyone , including putin , being in power for 18 years .
the fact that the country has no fair elections is the result of those 18 years .
sobchak is the daughter of anatoly sobchak , a reformist petersburg mayor who hired putin as an official in city hall in the 1990s .
sobchak became his mentor .
sobchak lost the mayor s job in a 1996 election .
he later moved to france and became the subject of a criminal investigation in russia for receiving bribes and abuse of office .
he denied wrongdoing , saying the case was politically-motivated .
the case against him was dropped in 1999 , soon after putin became prime minister .
when sobchak died in 2000 , putin attended his funeral .
opinion polls show that putin , 65 , who has dominated russian politics for nearly two decades , will comfortably win re-election if , as most analysts expect , he decides to seek a fourth term in march .
he has so far kept silent about his plans .