obama has a knack for going overseas and disparaging the citizens of the united states .
the hate america mantra .
it s what he knows .
it s how he s wired .
but this time , a real american who genuinely loves his country is fighting back and you re gon na love how he responds to our petulant anti-american president manila , philippines president barack obama lashed out wednesday at republicans who insist on barring syrian refugees from entering the us , deeming their words offensive and insisting it needs to stop .
apparently they re scared of widows and orphans coming into the united states of america , obama said.mocking gop leaders for thinking they re tough , obama said overblown rhetoric from republicans could be a potent recruitment tool for the islamic state group.he insisted that the us process for screening refugees for possible entry into the us was rigorous and said the us didn t make good decisions based on hysteria or exaggerated risk .
we are not well served when in response to a terrorist attack we descend into fear and panic , the president said.obama s comments during a meeting with filipino president benigno aquino marked his harshest condemnation yet of republicans response to the paris attacks blamed on isis that killed 129 people last week.republicans in congress and on the 2016 presidential trail have urged an immediate closing of america s borders to syrian refugees , but the obama administration has shown no sign of backing off its plans to bring an additional 10,000 syrians fleeing civil war into the us.sen .
ted cruz had sharp words for president barack obama over his comments regarding republican rhetoric on syrian refugees , saying his statement is utterly unbefitting of a president .
if you want to insult me , you can do it overseas , you can do it in turkey , you can do it in foreign countries , but i would encourage you , mister president , come back and insult me to my face , the texas senator and republican presidential candidate said this on capitol hill wednesday .
it is utterly unbefitting of the president to be engaging in those kind of personal insults and attacks , cruz said in washington , d.c. , in video captured by nbc news .
he talked about how he was belittling the republican field as scared .
well let me suggest something : mr. president , if you want to insult me , you can do it overseas , you can do it in turkey , you can do it in foreign countries .
but i would encourage you mr. president , come back and insult me to my face , cruz said .
president obama had harsh words for republicans calling for a stop of syrian refugees to the united states , saying such calls are just political posturing .
when individuals say that we should have a religious test and that only christians proven christians should be admitted that s offensive and contrary to american values , president obama said in manila yesterday .
i can not think of a more potent recruitment tool for isil than some of the rhetoric that s been coming out of here during the course of this debate .
another republican presidential candidate , mike huckabee , also had tough words for obama , calling him delusional .
if the president honestly believes that isis is concerned about what we think about them and that they are driven by that than the president is more delusional than i ever imagined when it comes to dealing with this crisis , huckabee said on msnbc wednesday .
it s just astonishing the president would make this all about himself not about the safety and security of the american people .
via : nbc news