london ( reuters ) - queen elizabeth and husband prince philip mark their platinum wedding anniversary with a small family get-together on monday , a far cry from the pomp and celebration which greeted their marriage 70 years ago .
the couple married at london s westminster abbey on nov. 20 , 1947 , just two years after the end of world war two , in a glittering ceremony which attracted statesmen and royalty from around the world and huge crowds of cheering well-wishers .
seventy years on , no public events are planned , although the 91-year-old queen did acknowledge the occasion by appointing philip a knight grand cross of the royal victorian order for his services to the sovereign .
elizabeth and her 96-year-old husband , who retired from active public life in august , will celebrate their milestone with a private party at windsor castle , the monarch s home to the west of london .
that contrasts with their silver , golden and diamond wedding anniversaries when they attended thanksgiving services at the thousand-year-old abbey , where the queen was crowned and where her grandson and his wife , william and kate , were married in 2011 .
however , the abbey itself will mark the occasion with a full peal of its bells involving 5,070 change of sequences , with the 70 reflecting the anniversary , which will last more than three hours .
congratulations to the queen and the duke of edinburgh as they celebrate their platinum wedding anniversary , prime minister theresa may said on twitter .
they have devoted their lives to the service of the uk and the commonwealth - my best wishes to them both on this special occasion .
the wedding of princess elizabeth , as she then was , to the dashing naval officer philip mountbatten was seen as raising the nation s spirits amid an austere background of rationing and shortages that followed the war .
millions will welcome this joyous event as a flash of colour on the hard road we have to travel , said former prime minister winston churchill .
five years later , elizabeth succeeded her father george vi on the throne and has ruled for the following 65 years , more than any other monarch in british history , with philip by her side throughout .
the support he gives to my grandmother is phenomenal , prince harry said in a documentary to mark her 60th year on the throne .
regardless of whether my grandfather seems to be doing his own thing , sort of wandering off like a fish down the river , the fact that he s there - i personally don t think that she could do it without him .
while the couple s marriage has remained strong , three of their four children have seen their unions end in divorce , most notably heir prince charles s ill-fated union with his late first wife princess diana .
he has , quite simply , been my strength and stay all these years , elizabeth said in a speech to mark the couple s 50th wedding anniversary in 1997 .
royal historian hugo vickers said the secret of their long marriage was their mutual support and devotion to duty .
they don t waste a jot of time wondering whether we like them or not - they just get on with the job , he told reuters .
on the occasions when i have been lucky enough to see them together , they always look incredibly comfortable in each other s company .