beijing ( reuters ) - china marked the 80th anniversary of the nanjing massacre on wednesday with a call to work with japan for peace , but president xi jinping kept a low profile and left the main public remarks to another senior official .
china and japan have long sparred over their painful history .
china consistently reminds its people of the 1937 massacre in which it says japanese troops killed 300,000 people in what was then its capital .
a postwar allied tribunal put the death toll in the eastern city of nanjing at 142,000 , but some conservative japanese politicians and scholars deny a massacre took place at all .
ties between china and japan , the world s second- and third-largest economies , have been plagued by a long-running territorial dispute over a cluster of east china sea islets and suspicion in china about efforts by japanese prime minister shinzo abe to amend japan s pacifist constitution .
however the two countries have sought to get relations back on track , and abe and xi met last month on the sidelines of a regional summit in vietnam .
speaking at a memorial in nanjing , yu zhengsheng , who heads a high-profile but largely ceremonial advisory body to china s parliament , said china and japan were neighbours with deep historic ties .
china would deepen relations with all its neighbours , including japan , on the basis of amity , sincerity and friendship , yu said , in comments carried live on state television .
china and japan must act on the basis of both their people s basic interests , correctly grasp the broad direction of peaceful and friendly cooperation , take history as a mirror , face the future and pass on friendship down the generations , yu said .
a sombre xi , wearing a white flower in his lapel to symbolise mourning , stood in the audience but did not speak .
doves to signify peace flew overhead after yu finished speaking .
xi later met massacre survivors , the official xinhua news agency said , telling them , lessons learned from the past can guide one in the future .
south korean president moon jae-in , who arrived in beijing for a four-day visit , offered condolences to the victims in a speech to businessmen , in what his office called the first such public mention of the massacre by a south korean leader .
in tokyo , chief cabinet secretary yoshihide suga spoke of the importance of looking to the future .
the leaders of japan and china have agreed in past meetings to further improve relations and it is important , while cherishing this trend , to together show a future-oriented stance , suga told a regular news conference : it was the second time xi has attended the event since china marked its first national memorial day for the massacre in 2014 .
at that time , he called on china and japan to set aside hatred and not allow the minority who led japan to war to affect relations now .