baghdad ( reuters ) - iraqi prime minister haider al-abadi said on tuesday islamic state had been defeated from a military perspective but he would only declare final victory after is militants were routed in the desert .
iraqi forces on friday captured the border town of rawa , the last remaining town under islamic state control , signaling the collapse of the group s caliphate proclaimed after it overran much of iraq s north and west in 2014 .
securing desert and border areas is what remains in the campaign against islamic state , military commanders say .
from a military perspective , we have ended the presence of daesh in iraq , abadi said while addressing a weekly news conference , referring to islamic state by an arabic acronym .
god willing we will announce very soon after the end of the purification operations victory over daesh in iraq .
abadi s comments came as iranian president hassan rouhani declared the end of islamic state while a senior iranian military commander thanked the thousands of martyrs killed in operations organized by iran to defeat the militant group in syria and iraq .
political disagreements will pave the way for the sunni militant group to carry out attacks , however , abadi said .
he was referring to the central baghdad government s dispute with the semi-autonomous kurdistan regional government over the latter s declaration of independence following a sept. 25 referendum .
any disagreement between political factions will encourage daesh to carry out terrorist attacks , he said .
i call on our kurdish brothers to avoid fighting .
hours before abadi spoke , at least 23 people were killed and 60 wounded when a suicide bomber set off a truck bomb near a crowded marketplace in the northern iraqi town of tuz khurmatu , south of the oil city of kirkuk .
abadi praised a federal court verdict that ruled the kurdish referendum unconstitutional and called on kurds not to resort to violence .
iraq s supreme federal court ruled on monday that the referendum was unconstitutional and the results void , bolstering baghdad s hand in a stand-off with the kurdish region watched closely by neighbouring turkey and iran .
i hail the federal court s decision to void the kurdish region s referendum , he said .
kurds voted overwhelmingly to break away from iraq in the referendum , defying baghdad and alarming neighboring turkey and iran who have their own kurdish minorities .
the iraqi government responded to the referendum by seizing kurdish-held kirkuk and other territory disputed between the kurds and the central government .
it also banned direct flights to kurdistan and demanded control over border crossings .