washington ( reuters ) - he has been attacked over countless issues in partisan washington , but u.s. president barack obama drew the line at this one : the idea that he is responsible for the rise of donald trump and the attendant republican party disarray .
“ i have been blamed by republicans for a lot of things , but being blamed for their primaries and who they ’ re selecting for their party ( nominee ) is novel , ” obama told a news conference on thursday .
“ what i ’ m not going to do is to validate some notion that the republican crack-up that ’ s been taking place is ... a consequence of actions that i ’ ve taken , ” the democratic president said .
obama had been asked how he viewed being identified as the cause of trump ’ s ascent to front-runner in the republican race to pick a presidential candidate for the nov. 8 election .
obama seemed to relish the question , replying with both serious criticism of republicans and some pointed mockery of trump .
the new york billionaire is well ahead in the republican race after the first six weeks of primary nominating contests but his bombastic style and statements on muslims , immigrants and trade have dismayed many in the party establishment .
many party leaders worry trump would lose to the eventual democratic nominee in november ’ s election to replace obama .
obama , whose white house tenure has been marked by steady resistance to most of his policies by republicans in congress , has said previously he regretted not being able to reduce the polarization between the two parties in washington .
but he scoffed on thursday at the suggestion that his presidency had fueled the chaos among the republicans .
conservative news outlets on television , radio and the internet had convinced the republican political base for seven years that cooperation with him was a “ betrayal ” and that “ maximalist absolutist ” positions were advantageous , obama said .
he was holding a joint news conference with visiting canadian prime minister justin trudeau .
in a clear dig at trump , obama said he had not prompted critics to question his u.s. citizenship or birth in hawaii .
before he launched his longshot presidential run last year , trump was a high-profile leader of the so-called “ birther ” movement , which believed obama was born abroad and not eligible to be president , until he produced his hawaii birth certificate to put the issue to rest .
“ what you ’ re seeing within the republican party is , to some degree , all those efforts over a course of time creating an environment where somebody like a donald trump can thrive , ” obama said .
for good measure , he took a swipe at two of trump ’ s rivals for the republican nomination , saying the real estate magnate ’ s position on immigration was not much different from that of u.s .
senators ted cruz and marco rubio .
obama urged conservatives who were troubled by the party ’ s position to “ reflect on what it is about the politics they ’ ve engaged in that allows the circus we ’ ve been seeing to transpire. ” ( additional reporting by eric beech ; editing by frances kerry ) this article was funded in part by sap .
it was independently created by the reuters editorial staff .
sap had no editorial involvement in its creation or production .