how does one reconcile this insane interference by the government over how a legal norwegian family practices their christian faith , while opening their borders to radicalized muslim male refugees ?
a christian family has been reunited with their children after losing an appeal in norway in dec , 2015 , to have their children returned , after the government forcibly removed five children from their home .
the public is reacting with outrage.marius bodnariu , a romanian , and his norwegian wife ruth , former members of the pentecostal church in bucharest , moved to naustdal , norway 10 years ago , where they raised five children .
as reported by marius brother daniel , on november 16 , norway s child welfare services took away the bodnarius two oldest children , showing up at their school and removing them from class without their parents knowledge .
police later that day arrived at the bodnarius home and also forcibly removed the two older boys , leaving ruth with her three-month-old baby , who was taken away the following day by police as well.two days later , child welfare services notified the parents that their children were in the care of two separate foster families and were integrating well .
one of the officials reportedy said to ruth , the kids don t even miss you .
what kind of parents are you ?
marius and ruth were later informed by the government that they were guilty of christian radicalism and indoctrination .
apparently , the children s removal was instigated by the school principal , who complained to child welfare services that the bodnarius were very christian and their belief that god punishes sin creates a disability in the children .
accordingly , the principal believed the parents needed guidance from the government in raising their family .
the principal also cited concerns over discipline in the family home , as occasional corporal punishment is used .
but after physical examination of the children ( the three-month-old was subjected to x-rays and a ct scan ) , no physical abuse was discovered .
child welfare services is claiming , however , that marius is physically abusive , while he and ruth are vehemently denying the claims.a hearing held november 27 dismissed the bodnarius appeal to be reunited with their children .
the court ruled instead that they were to remain in the care of their foster parents , while marius and ruth could visit their three-month-old son twice a week for two hours .
they could see their two older sons as well , but the court refused to grant them visitation rights for their daughters .
the parents are considering further legal action.meanwhile , a petition begun in support of the family has collected nearly 30,000 signatures , and a facebook page has been set up documenting the family s ordeal.on december 2 , romanian senator titus corlatean spoke on the bodnarius behalf to the commission for equality and nondiscrimination of the parliamentary assembly of the european council ( paec ) in paris .
corlatean condemned what he deemed abusive conduct on the part of the norwegian government , and asked that the assembly investigate .
he also noted prior actions on the part of norway s child welfare services that involved splitting children from their parents based on groundless accusations.marius brother writes : i testify , and vehemently vouch , for marius and ruth having given birth to and raised a normal family with christian values .
these parents love their children and have taken every imaginable step in raising their children with loving caring in all aspects of their well-being .
the tearing apart of their family by the barnevernet [ child welfare services ] is a living nightmare for marius and ruth .
their hope is founded , and rests , in god ; he can change any situation and he is always in control !
via : church militant