berlin ( reuters ) - there is a long way to go in talks on forming a new german coalition led by chancellor angela merkel s conservatives , a senior member of the pro-business free democrats ( fdp ) said after meeting the environmentalist greens on thursday .
the three groups are holding exploratory talks this week about forming a new jamaica coalition , so-called because their party colours - black , yellow and green - match those of the jamaican flag .
merkel , weakened by a surging far right in a sept. 24 national election , is trying to make the three-way alliance work as her previous partners , the social democrats , want to rebuild in opposition after suffering their worst result since 1933 .
the fdp and greens meeting on thursday came after they each separately held talks with merkel s conservatives on wednesday .
on friday , all three groups meet for the first time .
the meeting was marked by concentration and mutual respect , fdp general secretary nicola beer said after thursday s talks with the greens .
it was also clear that there is a long way to go on one or more issues but the atmosphere appeared to be focused on finding out what the possibilities are , beer added .
merkel said on tuesday her parliamentary party would have to compromise in the coalition negotiations .
chancellor for 12 years and known as a skilled negotiator , she angered many voters over her open-door migrant policy and her conservatives saw their worst election result since 1949 , bleeding support to the far-right alternative for germany ( afd ) .
on wednesday , the conservative premier of the eastern german state of saxony resigned , saying a younger generation of leaders is needed .
some conservatives are starting to look toward a post-merkel era .
the people have a huge interest in angela merkel leading our country successfully for another four years , daniel guenther , conservative premier of the northern state of schleswig-holstein , told focus magazine .
but they also want to see how things will proceed afterwards , he added .
merkel has said she expects a government to be in place by christmas , but others say january is more likely , pointing to a months-long policy standstill in europe s biggest economy .