mexico city ( reuters ) - mexico has this year registered its highest murder total since modern records began , according to official data , dealing a fresh blow to president enrique pena nieto s pledge to get gang violence under control with presidential elections due in 2018 .
a total of 23,101 murder investigations were opened in the first 11 months of this year , surpassing the 22,409 registered in the whole of 2011 , figures published on friday night by the interior ministry showed .
the figures go back to 1997 .
pena nieto took office in december 2012 pledging to tame the violence that escalated under his predecessor felipe calderon .
he managed to reduce the murder tally during the first two years of his term , but since then it has risen steadily .
at 18.7 per 100,000 inhabitants , the 2017 mexican murder rate is still lower than it was in 2011 , when it reached almost 19.4 per 100,000 , the data showed .
the rate has also held below levels reported in several other latin american countries .
according to u.n. figures used in the world bank s online database , brazil and colombia both had a murder rate of 27 per 100,000 , venezuela 57 , honduras 64 and el salvador 109 in 2015 , the last year for which data are available .
the u.s. rate was 5 per 100,000 .
still , pena nieto s failure to contain the killings has damaged his credibility and hurt his centrist institutional revolutionary party ( pri ) , which faces an uphill struggle to hold onto power in the july 2018 presidential election .
the law bars pena nieto from running again .
the current front-runner in the race , leftist andres manuel lopez obrador , has floated exploring an amnesty with criminal gangs to reduce the violence , without fleshing out the idea .
mexican newspaper reforma said on saturday that after a campaign stop in the central state of hidalgo on friday , lopez obrador again addressed the issue when asked whether talks aimed at stopping the violence could include criminal gangs .
there can be dialogue with everyone .
there needs to be dialogue and there needs to be a push to end the war and guarantee peace .
things can t go on as before , reforma quoted lopez obrador as saying .
such a strategy harbors risks for the former mexico city mayor .
a poll this month showed that two-thirds of mexicans reject offering an amnesty to members of criminal gangs in a bid to curb violence , with less than a quarter in favor .
separately , lopez obrador said on saturday he would get rid of mexico s intelligence agency cisen if he won the july election , calling it an unnecessary expense .
we re not going to monitor anybody , we re not going to spy , we re not going to listen to phone calls , or hack phones to get files and photos , he said in the central town of tezontepec .