( reuters ) - atlantic city ’ s mayor said on tuesday that bankruptcy was “ back on the table ” after new jersey governor chris christie vetoed legislation considered essential to the distressed gambling hub ’ s tax base and cash flow .
“ if the state is not able to come up with the funding we need within the next few weeks , we will have no choice but to declare bankruptcy , ” mayor don guardian said in a statement .
the seaside city ’ s gambling industry , facing increased competition from neighboring u.s. northeastern states , lost four of its 12 casinos in 2015 .
the legislation called for casinos to make fixed payments in lieu of taxes and would have added a measure of stability to the city ’ s rapidly shrinking property tax base .
lawmakers first passed it in june .
nearly five months later , christie vetoed it but said he would consider signing it with certain changes he required .
the democratic-led legislature then amended the measure , which was part of a package of bills , passed it , made yet more changes and passed it again .
christie , a 2016 republican presidential candidate , also declined on tuesday to sign the other bills in the package .
the city ’ s emergency manager , kevin lavin , who was appointed by christie a year ago , said in a report on friday that without the revenues generated in the package , the city ’ s cash flow would run dry by april .
legislative leaders , who have proposed a takeover of the city , will have to reintroduce the bills if they want to keep pushing for them .
democratic assemblyman vince mazzeo , whose district includes atlantic city , said in a statement that christie ’ s vetoes showed a “ brazen disregard ” for atlantic city ’ s fiscal recovery and added he would move forward on measures to restore the region ’ s economic security .
asked why christie vetoed the bills , the governor ’ s office referred to comments he made on saturday when he was campaigning in iowa .
“ if i don ’ t think the total package makes sense , i won ’ t ( sign it ) , ” he said , according to the remarks .
he has been discussing “ some accommodation on this ” with senate president steve sweeney and other legislative leaders .
sweeney , a democrat , originally championed the legislation but is now pushing for a takeover of the city ’ s operations .
“ we can not afford to let atlantic city go bankrupt , ” sweeney said in a statement .
“ the best way out is for the state of new jersey to take control of atlantic city ’ s finances and the best way to do it is to act quickly . ”