dhaka ( reuters ) - bangladesh could start relocating rohingya muslim refugees to a flood-prone island off its coast in the middle of next year , a government official said on thursday , as it pushes ahead with the plan despite criticism from aid agencies and rights groups .
densely populated bangladesh has seen an influx of more than 620,000 rohingya to its southern-most district of cox s bazar , fleeing violence in neighboring myanmar , since august .
this week , it approved a $ 280 million plan to develop the low-lying bhashan char island to temporarily house some of them until they can go home .
the bay of bengal island , also known as thenger char , only emerged from the silt off bangladesh s delta coast about 11 years ago .
two hours by boat from the nearest settlement , the island has no roads or buildings and it regularly floods during the rough seas of the june-september rainy season .
when the sea is calm , pirates roam the waters in the vicinity to kidnap fishermen for ransom .
we can t keep such a large number of people in this small area of cox s bazar where their presence is having a devastating effect on the situation on the ground environmentally , population wise and economically , h.t .
imam , prime minister sheikh hasina s political adviser , told reuters on thursday .
so , as quickly as we can shift at least some of the burden over to bhashan char , that will minimize the problem .
rohingya have fled repression in buddhist-majority myanmar several times since the 1970s , and almost one most million of them live in crowded camps in cox s bazar .
mainly muslim bangladesh has said it aims to move about 100,000 refugees to the island .
some aid officials speculate that by raising the island plan , bangladesh could be trying to put pressure on the international community to find a better solution to the crisis .
but imam , who holds the rank of cabinet minister , has denied any such tactic .
he said the navy had started work on developing the island , money for which will come from the government .
bangladesh , however , would need financial and other help from aid agencies to move the refugees to the island , he said .
there are some organizations which have assured help but i won t specify who they are , imam said .
it s a huge project and includes the development of livestock .
they will be given cattle , they will be given land , they will be given houses .
they will raise their livestock , there will be other vocations that will be created .
humanitarian agencies , however , have criticized the plan since it was first floated in 2015 .
having opened its doors to more than 600,000 rohingya over the past three months , the bangladesh government now risks undermining the protection of the rohingya and squandering the international goodwill it has earned , said biraj patnaik , amnesty international s south asia director , referring to the plan to move people to the island .
in its desperation to see the rohingya leave the camps and ultimately return to myanmar , it is putting their safety and well-being at risk .
myanmar and bangladesh signed an accord last week on terms for the return of hundreds of thousands of rohingya , though rights groups have expressed doubts about myanmar following through on the agreement and have called for independent observers for any repatriation .
there are concerns about protection for rohingya from further violence if and when they go home , and about a path to resolving their legal status - most are stateless - and whether they would be allowed to return to their old homes .
imam said bangladesh was working on those issues but did not give details .
in diplomacy , there are a lot of things that happen but then you don t pronounce them publicly , he said .
a lot of back-door diplomatic work is being done .
people are involved at the highest level .
for a graphic on bangladesh 's rohingya relocation plan , click tmsnrt.rs/2kulcwn