tielt , belgium ( reuters ) - sacked catalan leader carles puigdemont s belgian lawyer pledged on tuesday to fight a spanish state which he said had abused courts for political ends but which he had defeated in previous extradition cases involving basques .
puigdemont , who travelled to belgium after the spanish state ousted him as head of catalonia , said he had come to bring his case for independence to the eu , not to seek asylum .
but he has engaged paul bekaert , a veteran human rights advocate who has represented basques , kurds and others in the past .
i know the spanish reaction very well .
i know their psychology and their mentality , bekaert told reuters at the law office where he met puigdemont on monday .
spain is using the courts in spain and in belgium to make political statements , he said .
you can not use courts in belgium or in spain for politics .
and that s the case in spain .
spain s constitutional court ruled that an independence referendum which puigdemont s regional government organised on oct. 1 was illegal .
madrid has since taken direct control of catalonia and the public prosecutor has accused puigdemont of rebellion and sedition , crimes carrying up to 30 years in jail .
puigdemont was considering seeking asylum but it was not certain , bekaert said .
we have a lot of time to decide , he said , adding that he could also take on as clients other catalan leaders , some of whom were with puigdemont in belgium .
we will see in the coming weeks what we are doing .
while belgium has an unusual track record in refusing to extradite europeans wanted by other eu states , the main reason puigdemont had come was to address a wider audience for catalonia s grievances against madrid , the lawyer said .
he comes to belgium first of all because it is the capital of europe .
he is here completely legally .
he has the right to come here .
he is not hiding , he said .
bekaert said he was not acting out of political sympathy for the catalan cause .
puigdemont sought him out in the small town of tielt in western flanders for of his 40 years of experience in human rights law , not for any connection to the flemish separatist movement which gives belgium a particular interest in spain s struggles with basque and catalan separatists .
since the 1970s , he has travelled as an observer to the basque country , northern ireland and the palestinian territories , as well as defending people seeking leave to remain in belgium .
he said , however , that the increasing use of the european arrest warrant ( eaw ) , first introduced in 2004 , would make it harder to block extraditions of the kind he had fought for basques in the 1990s .
while belgium extradited people suspected of violence and terrorist offences it rejected some cases its judges viewed as political crimes .
but the eaw , which reflects eu assumptions that all member states offer full democratic legal protections , makes the situation today different , bekaert said .
since the european warrant , you can make an extradition for a political crime .
the exception is no more in the law .