berlin ( reuters ) - germany said on friday it had ordered a second vietnamese embassy official to leave the country , after the alleged kidnapping of a vietnamese businessman who had applied for asylum and was facing corruption allegations back home .
germany last month accused vietnam s intelligence agency of kidnapping trinh xuan thanh , who is wanted in the southeast asian country on charges of financial mismanagement that caused losses of around $ 150 million .
officials at vietnam s ministry of foreign affairs were not immediately available for comment on friday .
vietnam last month denied the accusations and said thanh had returned home voluntarily .
we have also declared a second employee of the vietnamese embassy persona non grata , a spokesman for the german foreign ministry said in a statement .
he now has four weeks to leave germany with his family .
the foreign ministry also said german officials had informed the vietnamese ambassador on thursday that germany was temporarily suspending the strategic relationship between the two countries .
it added that vietnam had not complied with demands to make an apology and provide assurances such incidents that broke german and international laws would not happen again .
federal prosecutors in august took over an investigation into the alleged kidnapping , citing new evidence that thanh and a companion were likely taken to the vietnamese embassy in berlin before going back to vietnam .
german media reported last month thanh had been taken from the tiergarten , a large forested park in central berlin , by armed men on july 23 .
foreign minister sigmar gabriel said in august he had been taken out of germany using methods which we believe one sees in thriller films about the cold war .
czech authorities have arrested and extradited to germany a vietnamese intelligence agent suspected of involvement .
berlin and hanoi in 2011 signed a strategic partnership declaration seeking to strengthen economic , political and cultural ties .
germany is vietnam s main trading partner in the european union .