( reuters ) - a proposal to raise california ’ s minimum wage to $ 15 an hour by the year 2021 has qualified to be listed on the upcoming november ballot in the state , officials said on tuesday .
the development comes as a wave of minimum wage increases at the state level sweeps the united states as the federal minimum wage has gone more than six years without an increase from $ 7.25 an hour .
the california secretary of state ’ s office said supporters of the measure , pushed by labor group coalition lift up california , had gathered more than the 400,000 signatures needed to have the fair wage act of 2016 placed on the ballot .
“ california has led the country on environmental , health and civil rights protections and it ’ s only appropriate that we would become the first state to enact a minimum wage that allows millions of families to live in dignity , ” los angeles county supervisor sheila kuehl said in a statement .
she added that the measure would build on the efforts of los angeles lawmakers , who last year passed a law hiking the city ’ s minimum wage to $ 15 by 2020 .
the measure would boost the state ’ s minimum wage to $ 11 an hour in 2017 , and increase it by a dollar an hour every year until reaching $ 15 an hour in 2021 .
after 2021 , the minimum wage would be adjusted annually based on the rate of inflation .
the california chamber of commerce said earlier this month that it would oppose any state-wide ballot initiatives for a $ 15 minimum wage , arguing that it would create new costs for state and local governments as well as businesses .
a field poll published last august showed that about seven out of 10 respondents favored the measure , with nearly half saying they strongly favored it .
fourteen states and several cities began the new year with increases to their minimum wage .
california and massachusetts saw some of the biggest hikes among the states , both increasing from $ 9 to $ 10 an hour , according to an analysis by the national conference of state legislatures .